However, once any act or omission has been found to have been committed by a public servant in the discharge of his duty then a liberal and wide construction can be given to the particular act, so far as its official nature is concerned. For instance, a public servant is not entitled to indulge in criminal activities in the discharge of his duty and to that extent, the section must be construed narrowly and in a restricted manner. However, once it is established that the act or omission was done by the public servant while discharging his duty, then the scope of it being “official” should be interpreted such that the objective of the section is advanced in favor of the public servant. 55. In R. Balakrishna Pillai v. State of Kerala and Another reported in (1996) 1 SCC 478, the appellant who was the then Minister for Electricity for the State of Kerala was alleged to have entered into a criminal conspiracy to sell electricity to an industry in the State of Karnataka without the consent of the Government of Kerala. The Court stressed that the quality of the act must be looked into and there can be no general proposition that whenever there is a charge of criminal conspiracy levelled against a public servant, the protection under Section 197 CrPC would have no application. The question of whether the act complained of had a direct nexus with the discharge of official duties would depend on the facts of each case and it was stated as thus: “6. …The question whether the acts complained of had a direct nexus or relation with the discharge of official duties by the public servant concerned would depend on the facts of each case. There can be no general proposition that whenever there is a charge of criminal conspiracy levelled [2024] 12 S.C.R. 809 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. against a public servant in or out of office the bar of Section 197(1) of the Code would have no application. Such a view would render Section 197(1) of the Code specious. Therefore, the question would have to be examined in the facts of each case. …” (emphasis supplied) 56. In Shambhoo Nath Misra v. State of U.P. and Others reported in (1997) 5 SCC 326, allegations of fabrication of record and misappropriation of public funds were made against the accused public servant. The Court while holding that sanction was not necessary in the facts of the case re-affirmed that the public servant’s act must be in furtherance of the performance of his official duties and only if the act or omission is integral to the performance of the public duty, he would be entitled to protection under Section 197 CrPC. While stating so, the Court elaborated on the objective behind the enactment of the provision and clarified that the protection of sanction is an assurance to an honest and sincere officer so that he can perform his public duty honestly and to the best of his ability.