[2024] 2 S.C.R. 1141 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors December 2023. The controversy that arises before this Court pertains to the recommendations made by the High Court on its administrative side for the appointment of thirteen in-service candidates as Additional District and Sessions Judges. These candidates are seeking recruitment to the post through promotions from the post of Senior Civil Judges against the 65% promotional quota under the Haryana Superior Judicial Service Rules 2007.1 4. The Rules came into force on 10 January 2007 and regulate recruitment and service conditions of persons for appointment to the Haryana Superior Judicial Service. Part III of the Rules provides for the method of recruitment. Rule 2(b) defines “direct recruit” to mean a person who is appointed to the Service from the Bar. Likewise, “promoted officer” is defined under Rule 2(i) to mean a person who is appointed to the service by promotion from Haryana Civil Service (Judicial Branch). Rule 5 provides that recruitment to the Service shall be made by the Governor by: (i) promotion from amongst officers of the Haryana Civil Service (Judicial Branch) in consultation with the High Court; and (ii) direct recruitment from amongst eligible advocates on the recommendations of the High Court on the basis of a written and viva voce test conducted by the High Court. 5. In terms of Rule 62, recruitment to the service is to be made from three sources: 1 “Rules” 2 “6 (1) Recruitment to the Service shall be made,- (a) 65 percent by promotion from amongst the Civil Judges (Senior Division)/Chief Judicial Magistrates/ Additional Civil Judges (Senior Division) on the basis of principle of merit-cum-seniority and passing a suitability test; Provided that no person shall be promoted to the Service who is less than thirty- five years of age; (b) 10 percent by promotion strictly on the basis of merit through limited competitive examination of Civil Judges (Senior Division) having not less than five years qualifying service as Civil Judges (Senior Division)/Chief Judicial Magistrates/Additional Civil Judges (Senior Division); and who are not less than thirty five years of age on the last date fixed for submission of applications for taking up the limited competitive examinations: Provided that if candidates are not available for 10 percent seats, or are not able to qualify in the exami- nation then vacant posts shall to be filled up by regular promotion in accordance with clause (a); and (c) 25 percent of the posts shall be filled by direct recruitment from amongst the eligible advocates on the basis of the written and viva voce test, conducted by the High Court. (2) The first and second post would go to category (a) (by promotion on the basis of merit-cum-senior- ity), third post would go to category (c) (direct recruitment from the bar), and fourth post would go to category (b) (by limited competitive examination) of rule 6, and so on.” 1142 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) 65% by promotion from amongst the Civil Judges (Senior Division)/Chief Judicial Magistrates/Additional Civil Judges (Senior Division) “on the basis of principle of merit-cum-seniority and passing a suitability test”; (ii) 10% by promotion “strictly on the basis of merit” through a limited competitive examination from amongst persons holding the feeder posts; and (iii) 25% on the basis of direct recruitment from amongst eligible advocates on the basis of a written and viva voce test conducted by the High Court.