is prohibited under the ‘Special Terms and Conditions’ of the Contract. The Arbitrator did not even refer to the contractual provisions and the District Court dismissed the objections under Section 34 with a standard phrase as extracted hereinabove. High Court exercising jurisdiction under Section 37 did its duty and we are of the opinion that the conclusions of the High Court are correct and cannot be interfered with. 8. Re claim no. 4: This claim relates to interest on delayed payment of running account bills. 8.1 The Arbitrator held that the Claimant is entitled to receive compensation for any loss and/or damage of capital which arose naturally from breach or which parties knew to be likely to arise from breach. Payments on running account bills is guided by clause 7 of the Contract and there is no prohibition in the contract regarding payment of interest on the ‘blocked capital’. Therefore, holding that the injured party ought to be placed in the same financial position he would have been but for the other party’s fault, the Arbitrator awarded interest on delayed payments at the rate of 12% p.a., which was quantified to Rs. 54,84,024. As indicated above, the District Court upheld the Award. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 625 Pam Developments Private Limited v. The State of West Bengal & Anr. 8.2 The relevant portion of the Award is as follows:- “23.1… As the claimant is entitled to payment of R/A bills when the amount is Rs. 1 crore and above, I accept the statements/calculation made by the claimant vide Statement submitted before the arbitral tribunal for Rs. 82,26,036/-. In compliance of direction issued by MOM no. 21 dated 24.7.2017, based on work value of Rs. one crore. Such statement giving all details covering the criteria of bill value of Rs. 1 crore was served to respondent and there was no comment on such statement whatsoever. Payment of R/A bills is guided only by the provision under clause 7 with amendment thereon. Claimant claimed interest @ 18% p.a. which is not allowed. I restrict rate of interest @ 12% p.a. only and thereby the admissible amount of the claim stands at Rs. 54,84,024/- [Rs. 82,26,036 ÷ 18 X 12] 23.2 The claimant notified loss of interest during the execution period under Interest Act (vide annexure-K, page 109, Annexure-m page-112, annexure-O, page 115, annex.-R1, page-119 & 122 with claimant’s document). Moreover, such payment is out of the written contract for executed quantities. There is no prohibition in the contract for payment of interest on blocked capital. The claimant is otherwise entitled to receive payment on account of interest on blocked capital. Such principle of law is laid down in the case of Secretary, Irrigation Department Government of Orissa Vs. G.C. Ray reported in (1992) 1 SCC 508. The claimant is entitled to receive compensation for any loss or damage and/or blockage of capital which arose naturally from the breach or which the parties knew to be likely to arrive from such breach. The injured party is to be placed in the same financial position, as he would have been in, if the other party had duly carried out the contract, i.e., to place the injured party in the same position if the contract has been performed.