At the same time, the procedure adopted during the contempt proceedings must be fair and just that is to say that the principles governing the Rule of law must be extended to the party against whom contempt proceedings have been initiated. The party must have every opportunity to place 7 For short ‘the Act’ 426 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports its position before the Court. Such a party must not be left unheard under any circumstances. 24. In the above context, we may profitably refer to the observations made in Murray and Company v. Ashok Kr. Newatia and Another8 wherein, this Court stated as follows: “9………The purpose of contempt jurisdiction is to uphold the majesty and dignity of the courts of law since the image of such a majesty in the minds of the people cannot be led to be distorted. The respect and authority commanded by courts of law are the greatest guarantee to an ordinary citizen and the entire democratic fabric of the society will crumble down if the respect for the judiciary is undermined. It is true that the judiciary will be judged by the people for what the judiciary does, but in the event of any indulgence which can even remotely be termed to affect the majesty of law, the society is bound to lose confidence and faith in the judiciary and the law courts thus, would forfeit the trust and confidence of the people in general.” (emphasis added) 25. In Pushpaben and Another v. Narandas Badiani and Another,9 this Court had highlighted the significance of the special jurisdiction under the Act in the following words: “42. The contempt of court is a special jurisdiction to be exercised sparingly and with caution whenever an act adversely affects the administration of justice or which tends to impede its course or tends to shake public confidence in the judicial institutions. This jurisdiction may also be exercised when the act complained of adversely affects the majesty of law or dignity of the courts. The purpose of contempt jurisdiction is to uphold the majesty and dignity of the courts of law. It is an unusual type of jurisdiction combining “the jury, the judge and the hangman” and it is so because 8 [2000] 1 SCR 367 : (2000) 2 SCC 367 9 [1979] 3 SCR 636 : (1979) 2 SCC 394 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 427 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others the court is not adjudicating upon any claim between litigating parties. This jurisdiction is not exercised to protect the dignity of an individual judge but to protect the administration of justice from being maligned. In the general interest of the community it is imperative that the authority of courts should not be imperilled and there should be no unjustifiable interference in the administration of justice. It is a matter between the court and the contemner and third parties cannot intervene.