Having heard the counsel at length, we are of the opinion that the views expressed in Sanjeev Coke’s case required reconsideration keeping in view the importance of the point in issue, namely, the interpretation of Article 39(b) it will appropriate if these cases are heard by a larger Bench of not less than Seven Judges. The papers be laid before the Hon’ble the Chief Justice for appropriate s.” 2.1 Later, on 20.02.2002, a seven-Judge Bench passed an referring the matter to a larger Bench. That is how these cases are before this nine-Judge Bench. For ease of reference the dated 20.02.2002 is extracted as under: “A Bench of five learned Judges has referred to a Bench of seven learned Judges these matters for the reason that it was of the opinion that the view expressed in the case of Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Company vs. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. &Anr. (1983 (1) SCC 147) required consideration. Put shortly, the question is as to the interpretation of Article 39(b) of the Constitution which speaks of the distribution for the public good of the ownership and [2024] 11 S.C.R. 187 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. control of the material resources of the community. In State of Karnataka vs. Ranganatha Reddy &Anr. (1978 (1) SCR 641), two s were delivered. In the delivered by Krishna Iyer, J., speaking for himself and two other judges, the view was taken that material resources of the community covered all resources, natural and man-made, publicly and privately owned. The other , delivered by Untwalia, J., on behalf of himself and three other Judges, did not consider it necessary to express any opinion with regard to Article 39(b); it was, however, made clear in this, the majority that the learned Judges did not subscribe to the view taken in respect of Article 39(b) by Krishna Iyer, J. The view taken by Krishna Iyer, J. in the case of Ranganatha Reddy was affirmed by a Constitution Bench in the case of Sanjeev Coke (aforementioned). Now, in the course of the argument before us, the learned Solicitor General, appearing for the Union of India and the State of Maharashtra, has drawn our attention to the of a Bench of nine learned Judges in the case of Mafatlal Industries Ltd. vs. Union of India (1997 (5) SCC 536). Speaking for himself and four other Judges, Jeevan Reddy, J. said, “That the material resources of the community are not confined to public resources but include all resources, natural and man-made, public and private owned is repeatedly affirmed by this Court.”, and reference was made to the cases of Ranganatha Reddy, Sanjeev Coke and State of Tamil Nadu vs L.Abu Kavur Bai & Ors. (1984 (1) SCC 515). Having given due consideration, we are of the opinion that this interpretation of Article 39(b) requires to be reconsidered by a Bench of nine learned Judges: we have some difficulty in sharing the broad view that material resources of the community under Article 39(b) covers what is privately owned.