509 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr. “35. This is undoubtedly a salutary rule, but it appears to have only a limited operation. It apparently governs the procedure of a smaller Bench when it disagrees with the decision of a larger Bench. If the Bench in the course of hearing of any matter considers that the matter should be dealt with by a larger Bench, it shall refer the matter to the Chief Justice. The Chief Justice shall then constitute a larger Bench for disposal of the matter. This exercise seems to be unnecessary when a larger Bench considers that a decision of a smaller Bench is incorrect unless a constitutional question arises”. 24. In view of the above, we are of the opinion that the decision of the three-judge bench, in case of Indian Medical Association vs. V.P. Shantha (supra) deserves to be revisited and considered by a larger bench. We, therefore refer the matter to Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India for His Lordship’s consideration. 25. This takes us to the next question. Even if, it is held that the CP Act applies to the “Professions” and the “Professionals,” the next question that falls for our consideration is whether the Legal Profession is sui generis or is different from the other Profession, particularly from the Medical Profession because the NCDRC in the impugned has relied upon the decision in case of Indian Medical Association vs. V.P. Shantha (supra) for bringing the Advocates within the purview of the CP Act. 26. As observed in Byram Pestonji Gariwala vs. Union Bank of India and Others7, the Indian legal system is the product of history. It is rooted in our soil; nurtured and nourished by our culture, languages and traditions; fostered and sharpened by our genius and quest for social justice; reinforced by history and heritage. After the attainment of independence and the adoption of the Constitution of India, judicial administration and the constitution of the law courts remained fundamentally unchanged. The concept, structure and organisation of courts, the substantive and procedural laws, the adversarial system of trial and other proceedings and the function of judges and lawyers remained basically unaltered and rooted in the common law traditions 7 [1991] Supp. 1 SCR 187 : (1992) 1 SCC 31 510 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in contradistinction to those prevailing in the civil law or other systems of law. Resultantly, the role, status and capacity of an advocate to represent his client has also remained by and large unaltered. 27. This Court in R. Muthukrishnan vs. Registrar General, High Court of Judicature at Madras8, delineating the unique nature of the legal profession and of the services rendered by the lawyers, observed thus: “16. The legal profession cannot be equated with any other traditional professions. It is not commercial in nature and is a noble one considering the nature of duties to be performed and its impact on the society.