He has to examine the nature of allegations made in the 686 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports complaint and the evidence both oral and documentary in support thereof. It is not that the Magistrate is a silent spectator at the time of recording of preliminary evidence before summoning of the accused. The Magistrate has to carefully scrutinise the evidence brought on record and may even himself put questions to the complainant and his witnesses to elicit answers to find out the truthfulness of the allegations or otherwise and then examine if any offence is prima facie committed by all or any of the accused. [See: Pepsi Foods Ltd. v. Special Judicial Magistrate : (1998) 5 SCC 749] 14. Where a jurisdiction is exercised on a complaint petition filed in terms of Section 156(3) or Section 200 of the CrPC, the Magistrate is required to apply his mind. The Penal Code does not contain any provision for attaching vicarious liability on the part of the appellant Nos. 2 and 3 respectively herein who are none other than office bearers of the appellant No. 1 Company. When the appellant No. 1 is the Company and it is alleged that the company has committed the offence then there is no question of attributing vicarious liability to the office bearers of the Company so far as the offence of cheating or criminal breach of trust is concerned. The office bearers could be arrayed as accused only if direct allegations are levelled against them. In other words, the complainant has to demonstrate that he has been cheated on account of criminal breach of trust or cheating or deception practiced by the office bearers. The Magistrate failed to pose unto himself the correct question viz. as to whether the complaint petition, even if given face value and taken to be correct in its entirety, would lead to the conclusion that the appellant Nos. 2 and 3 herein were personally liable for any offence. The appellant No. 1 is a body corporate. Vicarious liability of the office bearers would arise provided any provision exists in that behalf in the statute. Statutes indisputably must contain provision fixing such vicarious liabilities. Even for the said purpose, it is obligatory on the part of the complainant to make requisite allegations which would attract the provisions constituting vicarious liability. 15. In Legal Remembrancer, West Bengal v. Abani Kumar Banerji reported in AIR 1950 Cal 437, a Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court speaking through Justice K.C. Das Gupta (as he then was) held that a magistrate is not bound to take cognizance of an offence merely because a complaint is filed before him. He is required to [2024] 8 S.C.R. 687 Delhi Race Club (1940) Ltd. & Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. carefully apply his mind to the contents of the complaint before taking cognizance of any offence alleged therein. The relevant observations read as under: - “… As I read s. 190 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the subsequent sections, it seems to me to be clear that a magistrate is not bound to take cognizance of an offence, merely because a petition of complaint is filed before him.