(h) The expression ‘Adjustable Interest Rate’ or “AIR” means the interest rate announced by HDFC from time to time as its retail prime lending rate and applied by HDFC with spread, if any, as may be decided by HDFC, on the loan of the borrower pursuant to this Agreement. 8 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) The expression “Retail Prime Lending Rate” or ‘RPLR’ means the interest rate announced by HDFC from time to time as its retail prime lending rate. 2.2 (a). Until and as varied by HDFC in terms of this Agreement the AIR applicable to the said loan as at the date of execution of this agreement is as stated in the Schedule. is as stated in the Schedule. 3(f). HDFC may vary its retail crime lending rate from time to time in such manner including as to the loan amounts as HDFC may deem fit in its own discretion.” 13. At the threshold, it can be noted that the appellant is not an illiterate person to take the benefit of the precedents relied upon. On the other hand, when it is contended that the appellant had the option of securing loan from other banks and that being misled by the email had entered into the transaction, would by itself indicate that the appellant was worldly wise. In such circumstance when the parties have signed the agreement dated 01.11.2006, the terms agreed therein would bind the parties and the email exchanged between the parties cannot override the policy decisions of the respondent No.1 institution. In to contend that the appellant has been misled or that the earlier representation will constitute unfair trade practice, the appellant ought to have raised such contention when the agreement was to be signed. 14. Having executed the agreement; having agreed to the terms and conditions; having received the loan amount, the appellant cannot raise any objection for the first time when the rate of interest was increased after having acquiesced by signing the agreement. Further, the appellant having repaid the loan amount with interest as per the terms of agreement cannot make out a grievance in hindsight and seek refund of the amount paid. 15. That apart, though it is contended that the appellant had the option of securing financial assistance from other institutions but was lured by respondent No.2 through the email and therefore amounts to unfair trade practice causing loss to the appellant, due to which he is entitled to be compensated, there is no material on record or evidence tendered to establish that the appellant had in fact approached any other financial institution which had agreed to sanction loan or to [2024] 3 S.C.R. 9 Rajesh Monga v. Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited & Ors. demonstrate that it was a better bargain and if taken from such institution the appellant was in a better position. 16. Therefore, if all these aspects of the matter are kept in perspective and the passed by the NCDRC is perused, we are of the view that no error has been committed so as to call for interference.