2 SCR 406 : AIR 1959 SC 781 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 527 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. to the public; Though the heads are not closed and though theoretically it may be permissible to evolve a new head under exceptional circumstances of a changing world, it is advisable in the interest of stability of society not to make any attempt to discover new heads in these days. (Emphasis supplied) 33. In Central Inland Water Transport Corporation v. Brojo Nath Ganguly,22 this Court observed that the expressions ‘public policy’, ‘opposed to public policy’, or ‘contrary to public policy’ are incapable of precise definition. It was observed that public policy is not the policy of a particular government. Rather it connotes some matter which concerns the public good and the public interest. It was observed: “92.……what is for the public good or in the public interest or what would be injurious or harmful to the public good or the public interest has varied from time to time. As new concepts take the place of old, transactions which were once considered against public policy are now being upheld by the courts and, similarly, where there has been a well- recognized head of public policy, the courts have not shirked from extending it to new transactions and changed circumstances and have at times not even flinched from inventing a new head of public policy.” (Emphasis supplied) 34. In Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. v. General Electric Co.,23 a three- Judge Bench of this Court observed that the doctrine of public policy is somewhat open- textured and flexible. By citing earlier decisions, it was observed that there are two conflicting positions which are referred to as the “narrow view” and the “broad view”. According to the narrow view, courts cannot create new heads of public policy whereas the broad view countenances judicial law making in these areas. In the field of private international law, it was pointed out, courts refuse to apply a rule of foreign law or recognize a foreign or a foreign arbitral award if it is found that the same is contrary to the public policy of the country in which it is sought to be invoked 22 [1986] 2 SCR 278 : (1986) 3 SCC 156, paragraph 92 23 [1993] Supp. 3 SCR 22 : 1994 Supp (1) SCC 644 528 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or enforced. However, it was clarified, a distinction is to be drawn while applying the rule of public policy between a matter governed by domestic law and a matter involving conflict of laws. It was observed that the application of the doctrine of public policy in the field of conflict of laws is more limited than that in the domestic law and the courts are slower to invoke public policy in cases involving a foreign element than when a purely municipal legal issue is involved. It was held that contravention of law alone will not attract the bar of public policy, and something more than contravention of law is required.