Whereas suit lands herein and the shop in Raipur fell to the share of defendants.” 21. In paragraph 1-b, thereof it was averred as under:- “1-b. In fact suit lands were always and even today also are in possession of defendants and their father and after the aforesaid partition, defendants and their father and after the aforesaid partition, defendants and their father became absolute and exclusive owners of the suit lands and plaintiff has absolutely no right or interest in the suit lands.” 22. It is true that in paragraphs 9 and 10 of the written statement special objections were taken as under: - “9. Even if it is presumed that defendants are not the owners of the suit lands described in paragraph 1 above, then also defendants have become owner of the suit lands due to their constant and uninterrupted possession thereof since last more than 12 years and which was within the full knowledge of the plaintiff. Therefore suit of the plaintiff is liable to dismissed on this ground alone.” 724 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “10. THAT Suit is beyond the prescribed limitation and as such is liable to be dismissed with costs.” 23. Now, having noted the aforementioned specific averments in the written statement and the positions of law regarding pleadings referred above, we will refer to the oral evidence of original defendant No.1, who was examined as DW-1. The chief examination of DW-1 would reveal that in contradiction to the averment that the defendants’ father late Ramesh Chandra and plaintiffs’ father purchased suit lands on 15.03.1963, Ashok Kumar Gupta deposed that the disputed land were purchased in jointness by his father and his three brothers, namely, Beni Ram Gupta, late Ram Prashad Gupta and late Kailash Gupta and hence, it was a joint family. He would also depose that it was so purchased in the name of Sita Ram Gupta in the year 1963. It is to be noted that while being cross examined, he would depose: - “disputed lands were purchased by my father in the name of Sita Ram. But neither the original nor the copy of that sale deed has been filed. We did not give any application for mutation of our names on the disputed lands in the year 1976 after partition had been arrived at.” 24. We have referred to the pleadings and the evidence adduced by the defendants not for the purpose of re-visiting the findings of the First Appellate Court that the suit schedule property is not a joint family property. We will reveal the raison d’etre therefor, a little later. 25. In view of the non-availability of the contention for the appellants that the suit schedule property is a Joint Hindu Family property. The next question is whether the finding of the High Court that the plaintiff is the owner of the suit schedule property is the correct conclusion on assimilation of facts and appreciation of evidence. We have no hesitation to answer it in the affirmative.