Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) the statements recorded under section 161 of all the persons whom the prosecution proposes to examine as its witnesses. (6) If the police officer is of opinion that any part of any such statement is not relevant to the subject-matter of the proceedings or that its disclosure to the accused is not essential in the interests of justice and is inexpedient in the public interest, he shall indicate that part of the statement and append a note requesting the Magistrate to exclude that part from the copies to be granted to the accused and stating his reasons for making such request. (7) Where the police officer investigating the case finds it convenient so to do, he may furnish to the accused copies of all or any of the documents referred to in sub-section (5). (8) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to preclude further investigation in respect of an offence after a report under sub-section (2) has been forwarded to the Magistrate and, where upon such investigation, the officer in charge of the police station obtains further evidence, oral or documentary, he shall forward to the Magistrate a further report or reports regarding such evidence in the form prescribed; and the provisions of sub-sections (2) to (6) shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to such report or reports as they apply in relation to a report forwarded under sub-section (2)”. 8. Sub-section (2) to Section 173 makes a considered departure from sub-Section (1) to Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 18985. Sub-section (1)(a) to Section 173 of the 1898 Code had stipulated that as soon as the investigation is completed, the officer in-charge of the police station shall forward to the Magistrate, a report in the form prescribed by the local government, sending forth the names of the parties, nature of the information and the names of the people who appear to be acquainted with the circumstances of the case and state whether the accused person has been forwarded in custody or released on a bond. 5 “1898 Code”, for short. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 99 Sharif Ahmed and Another v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another 9. We have referred to Section 173 of the 1898 Code, in view of reliance placed during the course of hearing on the decision of this Court in Tara Singh v. State6 and R.K. Dalmia etc. v. Delhi Administration7, which refer and relate to the 1898 Code. 10. In Tara Singh’s case (supra), the question which had arisen was whether the challan preferred by the police was complete so as to enable the court to take cognisance within the meaning of Section 190(1)(b) of the 1898 Code. It was held that a challan submitted in the said case was complete except for submission of the report of the Imperial Serologist and drawing of the sketch map of the occurrence. In this context, reference was made to Section 173(1) of the 1898 Code and that the report/challan should set forth, viz.