3.2 In for the tax administration to become more efficient, the Committee, inter alia, made other extensive recommendations, in Chapter 2 – Black Money and Tax Evasion and recommended insertion of a statutory provision for compulsory audit of accounts. The Committee noted that mandatory audit, simultaneously with compulsory maintenance of accounts, would ensure that books and records are properly maintained; the taxpayer’s income is faithfully presented, and proper presentation is facilitated before [2024] 6 S.C.R. 789 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others the Assessing Officer. It was further understood that information furnished by the Auditor along with his certificate would enable building up of information for cross-verification leading to prevention of tax evasion and identification of new assessees. At para 2.145, it was interestingly noted that earlier Committees and Working Groups had also deliberated on a provision providing for compulsory audit. In furtherance, it was noted that the Working Group of the Administrative Reforms Commission had favoured compulsory audit by Chartered Accountants of persons with income over Rs.50,000 but it was finally decided that due to limited number of Chartered Accountants at that point in time, it may not be possible for all assesses to secure their services, except at heavy cost and delay. Noting, at para 2.148, that an auditor can devote more time to examination and verification of accounts than an Income-Tax Officer, the Wanchoo Committee recommended insertion of a provision for mandatory presentation of audited accounts and if found necessary, in practice, future evolution of proforma for furnishing of information by auditors. 3.3 It is pertinent to highlight that by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1975, Section 142(2A) was inserted to the IT Act, 1961 conferring special power of audit by a Chartered Accountant in certain cases where so sought by the Assessing Officer. 3.4 Thereby, only a few of the recommendations of the Wanchoo Committee were accepted in the first instance and legislated upon by the Parliament. As per the respondent-Institute, this conspicuously reflects that the Parliament did not favour compulsory tax audit provision of all sizeable cases by Chartered Accountants and as a necessary corollary, the opportunity to conduct tax audits must be seen as a privilege extended by a statute. 3.5 Later, the provision for compulsory audits found favour with the Parliament and was inserted by the Parliament through Finance Act, 1984. The then Finance Minister, while introducing the budget through the Finance Bill, 1984 stated in Parliament as under: “With the reduction in rates and expeditious disposal of assessments, I believe there will now be no excuse 790 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for any leniency to be shown to those who abuse our laws, such cases will necessarily have to be dealt with severely. In to discourage tax avoidance and tax evasion, I am also introducing some further measures. In all cases where the annual turnover exceeds Rs. 20 lakhs or where the gross receipts from a profession exceed Rs. 10 lakhs, I am providing for a compulsory audit of accounts.