The limitation imposed by Entry 23 - List II is a limitation on the legislative competence of the State legislature itself and this position was not in dispute. It was urged that the field covered by the impugned Act was already covered by the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948, (53 of 1948) and in view of the declaration made by Section 2 of the Act, the impugned Act was ultra vires. Section 2 of the said Act contained a declaration as to the expediency and control by the Central Government. This Court opined that if it was held that this Act contained the declaration referred to in Entry 23 - List II, there would be no difficulty in holding that the declaration covered the field of conservation and development of minerals and the said field is indistinguishable from the field covered by the impugned Act. What Entry 23 - List II, provides is that the legislative competence of the State Legislature is 1778 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union, and Entry 54 - List I requires a declaration by Parliament by law that regulation and development of mines should be under the control of the Union in public interest, then it would not be competent of the State legislature to pass an Act in respect of the subject-matter covered by the said declaration. In such a case, the test must be whether the legislative declaration covers the field or not. It was observed that field covered by the impugned Act was covered by the Central Act 53 of 1948. 11.4 Wanchoo, J. (as His Lordship then was) gave a separate opinion in the said case by stating that cess levied on all extracted minerals from any mine in any mining area at a rate not exceeding five per centum of the value of the minerals at the pit’s mouth by the Orissa State legislature under Section 4 of the Act of 1952 (Act 27 of 1952) was a fee properly so called and not a duty of excise. 11.5 The next contention considered by Wanchoo, J. was that if the cess is not justified as a fee, it is a tax under Item 50 of List II. Item 50 List II provides for taxes on mineral rights subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development. The question was as to what are taxes on mineral rights. It was held by Wanchoo, J. that taxes on mineral rights would be confined to taxes on leases of mineral rights and on premium or royalty. Taxes on such premium and royalty would be taxes on mineral rights while taxes on the minerals actually extracted would be duties of excise. Consequently, the writ petition was dismissed. M.A. Tulloch: 12. In M.A. Tulloch, also before a Constitution Bench, the question was with regard to the validity of the imposition of the Orissa Mining Areas Development Fund Act, 1952 (Orissa Act 27 of 1952) and cancellation of the notices of demand issued.