It would be helpful to understand how this Court has elucidated on the effect of such non-compliance in the context of Section 157 Cr.P.C. since the provision is nearly pari materia with Section 102(3). 16. It is now too well settled that delay in registration of FIR is no ground for quashing of the FIR itself.20 It follows as a corollary that if delay in registration of FIR is no ground to quash the FIR, then delay in forwarding such FIR to the Magistrate can also afford no ground for nullification of the FIR. In fact, this Court has gone to the extent of holding that unless serious prejudice is demonstrated to have been suffered as against the accused, mere delay in sending the FIR to the Magistrate by itself will not have any deteriorating effect on the case of the prosecution.21 If prejudice is demonstrated and the prosecution fails to explain the delay, then, at best, the effect of such delay would only be to render the date and time of lodging the FIR suspect and nothing more.22 Drawing from this analogy, the delay in reporting the seizure to the Magistrate may, subject to proof of prejudice, at best, dent the veracity of the prosecution case vis-à-vis the date, time and occasion for seizure of the property. Since the proof of prejudice on part of the accused and the explanation for delay on part of the prosecution can only be demonstrated at trial, the effect of non-compliance becomes an issue to be adjudicated at the time of appreciation of evidence. Moreover, this Court has consistently held that even illegalities in the investigation (including illegality in search and seizures) is no ground for setting aside the investigation in toto23. 17. In the background of the aforesaid discussion, therefore, the line of precedents which have taken the position that ‘seizure s’ 20 Ravinder Kumar & Anr. Vs. State of Punjab (2001) 7 SCC 690 21 Supra, 20. 22 Bhajan Singh and Ors. vs. State of Haryana, 2011/INSC/422 23 HN Rishbud v. State of Delhi (1954) 2 SCC 934 422 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports are vitiated for delay in compliance with the reporting obligation are declared to be manifestly erroneous and are accordingly, overruled. The relevant question to be determined was not whether the duty of the police to report the seizure to the Magistrate is mandatory or directory. Instead, what ought to have been inquired into was whether the exercise of the seizure power was subjected to compliance of reporting obligation, as illustrated in Section 105E Cr.P.C. 18. Merely because we have held that non reporting of the seizure forthwith by the police officer to the jurisdictional court would not vitiate the seizure , it would not mean that there would be no consequence whatsoever as regards the police officer, upon whom the law has enjoined a duty to act in a certain way. Since there is an obligation cast on the officer to report the seizure forthwith, it becomes necessary to understand the meaning of the expression forthwith as used in Section 102(3) CrPC.