19. On these counts, learned counsel for the appellant implored the Court to accept the appeal and set aside the impugned and sought acquittal for the accused appellant. 20. Learned counsel representing the State, vehemently and fervently opposed the submissions advanced by the appellant’s counsel. It was submitted that looking to the gruesome nature of the crime, the entire investigation and trial cannot be held to be vitiated simply on account of irregularity in the procedure of conducting investigation and trial. The Sessions Court which conducted the trial had been designated as a Children’s Court. The trial Court as well as the High Court have given due consideration to the fact that the accused appellant was a juvenile on the date of commission of the crime and accordingly, the sentence which has been awarded to the accused appellant is commensurate with the provisions of the JJ Act. Not only this, the trial Court undertook an exhaustive exercise for mental and psychological assessment of the accused appellant after recording his conviction and only after receiving an individual care plan had quantified the sentences to be awarded to the accused which are strictly within the framework of the JJ Act. 1236 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. In support of his contentions, learned counsel for the State placed reliance on s rendered by this Court in the cases of Karan alias Fatiya v. State of Madhya Pradesh1 and Pawan Kumar v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors2. He contended that the impugned does not warrant any interference by this Court. 22. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at bar and have gone through the s on record. 23. The fact regarding the accused appellant being a CICL on the date of the incident, i.e., 2nd July, 2016 is not in dispute because the date of birth of the accused as entered in the contemporaneous school record is 30th May, 2000. 24. We shall thus first take up the issue whether the trial is vitiated on the account of non-adherence to the mandatory requirements of the JJ Act. 25. At the outset, we may note that the fact regarding the accused appellant being juvenile and thus a CICL on the date of commission of the incident was known to the Investigating Officer(PW-25) right at inception of the proceedings. The Investigating Officer(PW-25) categorically stated in his deposition that after completing the investigation and preparing the final report against the “juvenile in conflict with law”, he took opinion from the Salem TTP, prepared a model charge sheet and filed the same in the trial Court. 26. The trial Court was also cognizant of this important aspect as can be clearly discerned from the opening lines of para 2 of the of the trial Court wherein it is mentioned that “Thirumoorthy’, a 17 year old juvenile in conflict with law, lives with his mother in Telanganaur”. It has also been recorded by the trial Court that on the date of passing of the , i.e., 18th February, 2019, the accused was 19 years and 2 months old and accordingly, he was required to be sent to a place of safety as per Section 20 of the JJ Act.