On the basis of the aforesaid memorandum statements, the police recovered the dead body of the deceased from the pond at Bhatgaon on 3rd December 2011 at about 04:05 pm and the dead body was identified. Thereafter, on the very same day, a First Information Report (‘FIR’ for short) being No. 402 of 2011 was registered at Police Station Mungeli, District Bilaspur wherein it is recorded that the aforesaid offences were committed between the days of 30th November 2011 and 3rd December 2011. According to the Post-Mortem Report (Ext. P-22), the cause of death of the deceased was asphyxia due to strangulation and the nature of death was homicidal. 3.2 The prosecution case stems from the memorandum statements of the appellants wherein the appellants had admitted that Dinesh Chandrakar (accused No.3) had instructed Ravishankar Tandon (accused No.1) and Satyendra Kumar Patre (accused No.4) to murder the deceased in exchange for Rs.90,000/-, which was to be paid upon the execution of the said murder. Upon receiving the aforesaid instruction, Ravishankar Tandon (accused No.1) and Satyendra Kumar Patre (accused No.4) along with Umend Prasad Dhritalhare (accused No.2) hatched a criminal conspiracy to kill the deceased and worked out a plan to execute the same. Accordingly, the aforesaid three accused persons called the deceased to Mungeli on 30th November 2011 under the ruse of purchasing silver. While Umend Prasad Dhritalhare (accused No. 2) and Satyendra Kumar Patre (accused No.4) reached Datgaon which fell 562 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports within the ambit of Police Station Mungeli, on a motorcycle belonging to a relative of Satyendra Kumar Patre (accused No.4), Ravishankar Tandon (accused No.1) and the deceased reached Datgaon by a bus. Thereafter, the three accused persons along with the deceased went to visit the house of the brother-in-law of Satyendra Kumar Patre (accused No.4), namely, Sunil. On that same night, after taking the dinner, they left Sunil’s house on the pretext of returning to their homes. However, when they reached near Bhatgaon, Ravishankar Tandon (accused No.1), Umend Prasad Dhritalhare (accused No.2) and Satyendra Kumar Patre (accused No.4) strangulated the deceased to death and in to screen themselves from the said act of murder, the accused persons tied the dead body of the deceased with his own clothes and stuffed it into a jute sack which had been procured from Sunil’s house. Thereafter, the appellants transported the dead body of the deceased to a pond at Village Bhatgaon, on the motorcycle of Satyendra Kumar Patre (accused No.4), and threw the dead body into the said pond, wherefrom it was subsequently recovered. 3.3 Upon the conclusion of the investigation, a charge-sheet came to be filed before the Court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Mungeli, Chhattisgarh, wherein accused Nos. 1, 2 and 4 had been charged for the offences punishable under Sections 302 read with 34, Sections 120B and 201 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (‘IPC’ for short) whereas accused No.3 had been charged for the offences punishable under Sections 302 read with 34 and 120B of the IPC.