[2024] 1 S.C.R. 831 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others (i) Referring to Gopal Vinayak Godse vs. State of Maharashtra, (1961) 3 SCR 440, it was observed that the said is an authority for the proposition that a sentence of imprisonment for life is one of “imprisonment for the whole of the remaining period of the convicted person’s natural life”, unless the said sentence is committed or remitted by an appropriate authority under the relevant provisions of law. (ii) In Gopal Vinayak Godse, a distinction was drawn between remission, sentence and life sentence. Remission limited a time, helps computation but does not ipso jure operate as release of the prisoner. But, when the sentence awarded by the Judge is for a fixed term, the effect of remissions may be to scale down the term to be endured and reduce it to nil, while leaving the factum and quantum of sentence intact. However, when the sentence is a life sentence, remissions, quantified in time, cannot reach a point of zero. Since Section 433-A deals only with life sentences, remissions cannot entitle a prisoner to release. It was further observed that remission, in the case of life imprisonment, ripens into a reduction of sentence of the entire balance only when a final release is made. If this is not done, the prisoner will continue in custody. The reason is, that life sentence is nothing less than life long imprisonment and remission vests no right to release when the sentence is life imprisonment. Nor is any vested right to remission cancelled by compulsory fourteen years jail life as a life sentence is a sentence for whole life. (iii) Interpreting Section 433-A it was observed that there are three components in it which is in the nature of saving clause. Firstly, the CrPC generally governs matters covered by it. Secondly, if a special or local law exists covering the same area, the latter law will be saved and will prevail, such as short sentencing measures and remission schemes promulgated by various States. The third component is, if there is a specific provision to the contrary then, whether it would override the special or local law. It was held that Section 433-A picks out of a mass of imprisonment cases a specific class of life imprisonment cases and subjects it 832 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports explicitly to a particularized treatment. Therefore, Section 433-A applies in preference to any special or local law. This is because Section 5 of the CrPC expressly declares that specific provision, if any, to the contrary will prevail over any special or local law. Therefore, Section 433-A would prevail and escape exclusion of Section 5. The Constitution Bench concluded that Section 433-A is supreme over the remission rules and short-sentencing statutes made by various States. Section 433-A does not permit parole or other related release within a span of fourteen years. (iv) It was further observed that criminology must include victimology as a major component of its concerns.