In other words, this ground would be available to set aside an arbitral award, if the award conflicts with such elementary/ fundamental principles of justice that it shocks the conscience of the Court. Morality 59. The other ground is of morality. On the question of morality, in Associate Builders (supra), this Court, after referring to the provisions of Section 23 of the Contract Act, 1872; earlier decision of this Court in Gherulal (supra); and Indian Contract Act by Pollock and Mulla, held that judicial precedents have confined morality to sexual morality. And if ‘morality’ were to go beyond sexual morality, it would cover such agreements as are not illegal but would not be enforced given the prevailing mores of the day. The court also clarified that interference on this ground would be only if something shocks the court’s conscience.49 Patent Illegality 60. Sub-section (2-A) of Section 34 of the 1996 Act, which was inserted by 2015 Amendment, provides that an arbitral award not arising out of international commercial arbitrations, may also be set aside by the Court, if the Court finds that the award is visited by patent illegality appearing on the face of the award. The proviso to sub-section (2-A) states that an award shall not be set aside merely on the ground of an erroneous application of the law or by reappreciation of evidence. In Saw Pipes (supra), while dealing with the phrase ‘public policy of India’ as used in Section 34, this court took the view that the concept of public policy connotes some matter which concerns public good and public interest. If the award, on the face of it, patently violates statutory provisions, it cannot be said to be in public interest. Thus, an award could also be set aside if it is patently illegal. It was, however, clarified that illegality must go to the root of 48 most basic notions of justice 49 See paragraph 39 of Associate Builders (supra) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 543 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. the matter and if the illegality is of trivial nature, it cannot be held that award is against public policy. 61. In Associate Builders (supra), this Court held that an award would be patently illegal, if it is contrary to: (a) substantive provisions of law of India; (b) provisions of the 1996 Act; and (c) terms of the contract.50 The Court clarified that if an award is contrary to the substantive provisions of law of India, in effect, it is in contravention of Section 28(1)(a)51 of the 1996 Act. Similarly, violating terms of the contract, in effect, is in contravention of Section 28(3) of the 1996 Act. 62. In Ssangyong (supra) this Court specifically dealt with the 2015 Amendment which inserted sub-section (2-A) in Section 34 of the 1996 Act. It was held that “patent illegality appearing on the face of the award” refers to such illegality as goes to the root of matter, but which does not amount to mere erroneous application of law.