It needs no reiteration that a person charged or accused would generally not be able to prove to the negative, if he/she is not aware of the evidence/material against him/her which leads to the person being labelled suspect. Ipso facto just an allegation/accusation cannot lead to shifting of the burden to the accused, unless he/ she is confronted with the allegation as also the material backing such allegation. Of course, at such stage, the evidentiary value of the material would not be required to be gone into, as the same would be done by the Tribunal in the reference. However, mere allegation, that too, being as vague as to mechanically reproduce simply the words which mirror the text of provisions in the Act cannot be permitted under law. Even for the person to discharge the burden statutorily imposed on him by virtue of Section 9 of the Act, the person has to be intimated of the information and material available against him, such that he/she can contest and defend the proceedings against him. 36. In the present case, it was specifically alleged that the appellant had come to Assam from Village - Dorijahangirpur, Police Station - Torail, District - Mymansingh in Bangladesh while making a reference to the Tribunal. Hence, it was incumbent on the authority making the reference to provide details as to how it had received such information as also its bona fide belief of such factum being true. In other words, the authority had been, as claimed, able to trace the appellant’s place of origin. Surely then, the authority had some material to back its assertion. The record does not show such material was given either to the appellant or the Tribunal by the authority. 37. In the absence of the basic/primary material, it cannot be left to the untrammelled or arbitrary discretion of the authorities to initiate proceedings, which have life-altering and very serious consequences for the person, basis hearsay or bald and vague allegation(s). In neither round of the proceedings before the Tribunal, whether it be the initial ex-parte one, or even after the matter was referred by this Court to the Tribunal to hear the appellant and pass an , has it been revealed as to how and from where such specific allegation, down to the alleged village of origin of the appellant in Bangladesh [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2351 Md. Rahim Ali @ Abdur Rahim v. The State of Assam & Ors. was brought to or came to the knowledge of the authorities. Nor do we locate any supporting material. 38. In the present case, clearly the authorities concerned have gravely faulted by construing the words ‘a copy of the main grounds on which he is alleged to be a foreigner’ in Para 3(1) of the 1964 to mean the allegations levelled against the person. This error at the very inception stage is enough to render a fatal blow to the entire exercise undertaken. The term ‘main grounds’ is not synonymous or interchangeable with the term ‘allegation(s)’.