13. We are at a loss to understand as to how, such an opportunity could have been utilised by the first respondent in defiance to the specific directions of this Court under Annexure P-18 and to file a written submission of such a nature. Under Annexure P-18 , this Court declared that the first respondent had forfeited its right to file a written statement and then permitted, rather, directed to proceed further without the written statement of the first respondent-builder. True that even then its right to participate in the proceedings was protected, presumably, taking into account the position of law in that regard. We will deal with the scope of such permitted participation as also the consequence of the act of defiance of Annexure P-18 depending on its degree of defiance and its impact. In doing so, we will have to keep reminded of the principle of law that what cannot be done directly, cannot be done indirectly. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 831 Kaushik Narsinhbhai Patel & Ors. v. M/s S.J.R. Prime Corporation Private Limited 14. The discussion as above, would take us to the next question as to what is the impact of forfeiture of opportunity to file written statement? We are fully aware of the fact that all the provisions in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, (for short ‘the CPC’) are not proprio vigore applicable to proceedings before Consumer Forums created under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, except to the extent it is provided under Section 38 (9) of the Consumer Protection Act. Be that as it may, in the absence of specific provisions dealing with the consequence of forfeiture of the right to file a written statement, it is only appropriate to refer to the provisions and positions dealing with such situations in the CPC to know the general law on this question. In this context, it is worthy to refer to a decision of this Court in Nanda Dulal Pradhan & Anr. v. Dibakar Pradhan & Anr.1 It was held therein thus: - “……as observed and held by this Court in the case of Sangram Singh (supra) on setting aside the ex parte decree and on restoration of the suit the parties to the suit shall be put to the same position as they were at the time when the ex parte and decree was passed and the defendants may not be permitted to file the written statement as no written statement was filed. However, at the same time they can be permitted to participate in the suit proceedings and cross examine the witnesses. In that view of the matter the impugned and passed by the High Court is unsustainable. Still, on setting aside the ex parte and decree, though the defendants who had not filed the written statement, can be permitted to participate in the suit and cross examine the witnesses. Therefore, the High Court is not right in observing that as no written statement was filed by the defendants, the reopening of the suit by setting aside ex parte and decree will become futile.