Treating The Reference To Be Valid 48. Since the issue of correctness of the decision in Azeez Basha (supra) has been argued before us and carries immense significance for the future, I deem it proper to give due consideration to it treating the reference to be valid and legal. The minority character of AMU as well as the contours of rights under Article 30(1), assuming the same to be under a cloud of uncertainty, needs to be cleared. Hence, in my own way, I seek to bring clarity and finality to the issue through this opinion. 49. The majority opinion has sought to lay down the indicia and left it for an appropriate bench to be constituted by the Chief Justice of India for deciding whether AMU is a minority or not. Hon’ble Surya Kant and Hon’ble Satish Chandra Sharma, JJ. also seem to have proceeded to dispense with the factual inquiry of whether or not AMU is a minority educational institution and focussed on the indicia to determine the applicability of Article 30(1). 50. Respectfully, I cannot bring myself to traverse the same path. After almost 9 (nine) months the came to be reserved, it pricks my conscience to send the matter back once again to an appropriate bench; more so, after both sides have exhaustively addressed us on the very issue as to whether AMU answers the characteristics of a minority institution. In present times, when there is a lot of emphasis on pendency of cases and expeditious disposal thereof, precious judicial time would be wasted if the same issue has to be agitated yet again when such time could be well utilised in answering other pressing questions of law. I feel the urge to decide here and now, based on whatever indicia we identify or formulate, as well as the circumstances - antecedent, attending and surrounding – of the 1880 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports relevant time, as to whether AMU is a minority educational institution or not. I feel equipped to do so on account of extensive evidence having already been led by both sides. The Indicia 51. In the majority opinion, the indicia for treating an educational institution as a minority educational institution are these: I. Ideation of establishment: The brain behind the establishment of the institution, as gauged from, inter alia, correspondence and government resolutions, should be a member of the minority community. II. Purpose: The institution should have been established predominantly for the benefit of the minority community, as opposed to solely for their benefit. III. Implementation: The implementation of the idea to establish the institution, with respect to raising of funds, acquisition of land, etc. has to be examined. State aid in the same, would not adversely affect the minority status of the institution. IV. Administration: The right to administer flows as a consequence of the institution having been established by the minority. Thus, it is not required that the institution be administered by the minority, but what is essential is that the administrative structure reflects the minority character of the institution.