2/appellant is not a bona fide purchaser. The High Court noted that the suit was filed on 24.12.1992 and the next date before the Trial Court was fixed on 12.01.1993. However, the sale deed was executed by defendant no. 1 in favour of defendant no. 2 on 08.01.1993. Both defendant no. 1 and defendant no. 2 being the residents of same village, it is unbelievable that he was not having the knowledge of the agreement, for, the sale deed in favour of defendant no. 2 was for a lesser amount than the subject agreement. The agreement was for a sale consideration of Rs. 7,94,000/- whereas the sale deed was for Rs. 6,45,937.50. It is also held that mere relationship between the plaintiff and defendant no. 1 would not be a ground to deny the discretionary relief and moreover, when both the courts below have found that the plaintiff was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract. 8. Mr. Hrin P. Raval, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant argued that the High Court ought not to have disturbed the concurrent and passed by the Trial Court and the Appellate Court. On the other hand, Mr. Manoj Swarup, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents argued that the and passed by the Trial Court and the Appellate Court being based on perverse findings and reasoning, the High Court has rightly set aside the same for decreeing the plaintiff’s suit in respect of specific performance. According to him, the High Court has rightly applied the doctrine of lis pendens. 9. Before proceeding to deal with the applicability of doctrine of lis pendens, it is significant to note that Issue no. 5 framed by the Trial Court was to the effect as to whether the agreement dated 17.08.1990 is a result of fraud and collusion, therefore, not binding on defendant no. 1. This issue was decided against the defendant. When the plaintiff preferred first appeal, the defendant did not move any cross-appeal or cross-objections, yet the first Appellate Court entered into this aspect of the matter to hold that the subject agreement was collusive 906 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports between the plaintiff and defendant no. 1. This is not permissible in view of the law laid down by this Court in Banarsi vs. Ram Phal1 wherein this Court held thus in paras 10 & 11: “10. The CPC amendment of 1976 has not materially or substantially altered the law except for a marginal difference. Even under the amended 41 Rule 22 sub-rule (1) a party in whose favour the decree stands in its entirety is neither entitled nor obliged to prefer any cross-objection. However, the insertion made in the text of sub-rule (1) makes it permissible to file a cross-objection against a finding. The difference which has resulted we will shortly state. A respondent may defend himself without filing any cross-objection to the extent to which decree is in his favour; however, if he proposes to attack any part of the decree, he must take cross-objection.