However, there need not necessarily be a deadlock between development on the one hand and the environment on the other. The objective of all laws on environment should be to create harmony between the two since neither one can be sacrificed at the altar of the other…..” 33 [2004] 1 SCR 808 : (2004) 2 SCC 392 : 2004 INSC 40 1034 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 116. Emphasizing the need for sustainable development by balancing between the environmental protection and developmental activities, this Court, in the case of N.D. Jayal and Another v. Union of India and Others34, observed thus: “22. Before adverting to other issues, certain aspects pertaining to the preservation of ecology and development have to be noticed. In Vellore Citizens’ Welfare Forum v. Union of India [(1996) 5 SCC 647] and in M.C. Mehta v. Union of India [(2002) 4 SCC 356] it was observed that the balance between environmental protection and developmental activities could only be maintained by strictly following the principle of “sustainable development”. This is a development strategy that caters to the needs of the present without negotiating the ability of upcoming generations to satisfy their needs. The strict observance of sustainable development will put us on a path that ensures development while protecting the environment, a path that works for all peoples and for all generations. It is a guarantee to the present and a bequeath to the future. All environment-related developmental activities should benefit more people while maintaining the environmental balance. This could be ensured only by strict adherence to sustainable development without which life of the coming generations will be in jeopardy.” 117. Again, in the said case, stressing on the right to clean environment to be a right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution and also noting that the right to development also is a component of Article 21 of the Constitution, this Court observed thus: “24. The right to development cannot be treated as a mere right to economic betterment or cannot be limited as a misnomer to simple construction activities. The right to development encompasses much more than economic well-being, and includes within its definition the guarantee of fundamental human rights. The “development” is not related only to the growth of GNP. In the classic work, Development As Freedom, the Nobel prize winner Amartya 34 [2003] 3 Suppl. SCR 152 : (2004) 9 SCC 362 : 2003 INSC 438 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1035 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another Sen pointed out that “the issue of development cannot be separated from the conceptual framework of human right”. This idea is also part of the UN Declaration on the Right to Development. The right to development includes the whole spectrum of civil, cultural, economic, political and social process, for the improvement of peoples’ well-being and realization of their full potential. It is an integral part of human rights. Of course, construction of a dam or a mega project is definitely an attempt to achieve the goal of wholesome development.