PW6/B) also corroborated the version of PW-1. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 789 Sonu Choudary v. State of NCT Delhi However, as per the opinion of PW7 – Dr. Biswajit Singh, the said injuries were found to be simple in nature. 6. Having regard to the afore discussed evidence, we are of the opinion that the prosecution had proved the guilt of the appellant so far as the offence under Section 324, i.e., “voluntarily causing hurt” to the injured was concerned and was rightly convicted and sentenced for the offence under Section 324 IPC. 7. However, so far as the offence under Section 452 is concerned, both the Courts below have failed to consider the ingredients of the said provision. Section 452 reads as under:- “452. House-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint.—Whoever commits house-trespass, having made preparation for causing hurt to any person or for assaulting any person, or for wrongfully restraining any person, or for putting any person in fear of hurt, or of assault, or of wrongful restraint, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.” 8. The definitions of criminal trespass and house trespass as contained in Sections 441 and 442 read as under:- “441. Criminal trespass.—Whoever enters into or upon property in the possession of another with intent to commit an offence or to intimidate, insult or annoy any person in possession of such property, or having lawfully entered into or upon such property, unlawfully remains there with intent thereby to intimidate, insult or annoy any such person, or with intent to commit an offence, is said to commit “criminal trespass”. 442. House-trespass.—Whoever commits criminal trespass by entering into or remaining in any building, tent or vessel used as a human dwelling or any building used as a place for worship, or as a place for the custody of property, is said to commit “house-trespass”.” 9. Having regard to the said provisions contained in Sections 441, 442 read with 452, it appears that in to convict a person for the offence under Section 452, it has to be proved beyond reasonable 790 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports doubt that the accused had committed a house trespass within the meaning of Section 442, on he having made preparation for causing hurt to any person, or putting him under fear etc. The “house trespass” being an essential ingredient for convicting a person under Section 452, it has to be proved by the prosecution that the accused committed the house trespass and criminal trespass by entering into or unlawfully remaining in any building, tent or vessel used as a human dwelling or any building used as a place for worship, or as a place for the custody of property, as contemplated in Section 442 IPC. 10. So far as the facts of the present case are concerned, admittedly, the incident had taken place in a restaurant run by the injured PW-1, Rajat, which cannot be said to be either a place used for human dwelling or for worship or for the custody of the property.