Yet, it would be difficult to dispute that many of the problems which contemporary societies face would not have been present to the minds of the most perspicacious draftsmen. No generation, including 130 S.R. Chaudhuri v. State of Punjab (2001) 7 SCC 126 : 2001 INSC 373 131 [2017] 10 SCR 569 : (2017) 10 SCC 1 [476] : 2017 INSC 1235 150 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the present, can have a monopoly over solutions or the confidence in its ability to foresee the future. As society evolves, so must constitutional doctrine. … ” (emphasis supplied) 169. Secondly, when the framers of the Constitution debated on the scope of Article 39(b) and other Directive Principles, the safe harbour provision under Article 31C did not exist. As discussed earlier in this judgement, Article 31-C was only introduced over twenty years later in 1971, by the twenty-fifth amendment to the Constitution. Therefore, the discussion in the Constituent Assembly on the scope of Article 39(b) was limited to viewing the provision as akin to any other Directive Principle –as an aspirational principle for future governments. Dr Ambedkar noted in his speech on 4 November 1948 that Directive Principles including Article 39(b) were instructions to the executive and legislature on “how they should exercise their powers”. At the time of these discussions, the framers of our Constitution could not have contemplated that legislation which bears a nexus with the principles of Article 39(b) would be protected from a challenge under Part III rights contained in Articles 14, 19 and the erstwhile Article 31 of the Constitution. Therefore, while interpreting Article 39(b) in the context of the present-day Constitution which contains Article 31C, we must be cautious in drawing overbroad conclusions from the discussions in the Constituent Assembly. 170. With these two caveats in mind, the following inferences may be made from the discussions in the Constituent Assembly about the nature of the Directive Principles: a. Dr Ambedkar’s landmark speech on 4 November 1948 evinces that Directive Principles, including the present-day Article 39(b) were understood to be guiding principles or ‘instructions’ to the executive and legislature. While they would not be enforceable under law, it was believed that the values enshrined in them would assume importance at the time of elections and the electorate would hold future governments accountable. This purpose attributed to Article 39(b) in the Constituent Assembly is substantially different from the current roles that it serves in our constitutional structure – both as a pre-condition to Article 31C and often as a tool to interpret rights contained in Part III of the Constitution; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 151 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. b. The discussions in the Constituent Assembly indicate the objection of Dr Ambedkar to any proposals to expressly lay down a particular form of social structure or economic policy for future governments in the Constitution.He noted that the Constitution, including in the Directive Principles, did not intend to prioritise one form of government or economic structure over the other but instead only laid down the ideal of ‘economic democracy’; c. Dr Ambedkar did not intend to locate the idea of ‘economic democracy’ within a single economic or political school of thought.