The words of the section are explicit. The HSA, 1956, cannot apply to scheduled tribes. This position of law is well settled. We may reproduce with profit the observations made in certain s of this Court. 6.1 In Madhu Kishwar v. State of Bihar,9 MM Punchhi, J as his Lordship then was, noted the application of Section 2(2) of HSA as follows: “4. …Sub-section (2) of Section 2 of the Hindu Succession Act significantly provides that nothing contained in the Act shall apply to the members of any Scheduled Tribe within the meaning of clause (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution unless otherwise directed by the Central Government by means of a notification in the Official Gazette. Section 3(2) further provides that in the Act, unless the context otherwise requires, words importing the masculine gender shall not be taken to include females. (emphasis supplied) General rule of legislative practice is that unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, words importing the masculine gender used in statutes are to be taken to include females. Attention be drawn to Section 13 of the General Clauses Act. But in matters of succession the general rule of plurality would have to be applied with circumspection. The afore provision thus appears to have been inserted ex abundanti cautela. Even under Section 9 (1996) 5 SCC 125 674 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 3 of the Indian Succession Act the State Government is empowered to exempt any race, sect or tribe from the operation of the Act and the tribes of Mundas, Oraons, Santhals etc. in the State of Bihar, who are included in our concern, have been so exempted. Thus, neither the Hindu Succession Act, nor the Indian Succession Act, nor even the Shariat law is applicable to the custom-governed tribals. And custom, as is well recognized, varies from people to people and region to region.” The aforesaid position was reiterated by a Bench of three learned judges in Ahmedabad Women Action Group (AWAG) v. Union of India.10 6.2 We find that the aforesaid position has been consistently adopted by the High Courts as well. Reference may be made to Bhuri v. Maroti,11 Bhagwati v. Cheduram,12 and Bini B. (Dr.) v. Jayan P.R.13. Here only we may clarify that this reference to s of the High Courts shall not be construed as a comment upon their merits. 7. Therefore, the Courts below clearly erred on this count, and the High Court took the correct view. Having observed this, the High Court then proceeded to grant a portion as property to Mardan’s daughters and their descendants on the grounds of justice, equity and good conscience, apparently but without explicit mention, taking cue from the dissenting Madhu Kishwar (supra) by Ramaswamy, J., wherein he held as under: “38. Law is the manifestation of principles of justice, equity and good conscience. Rule of law should establish a uniform pattern for harmonious existence in a society where every individual would exercise his rights to his best advantage to achieve excellence, subject to protective discrimination.