This answer reads as follows: “(4) Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect.” 51. The committee formed at IIT, Delhi has unequivocally clarified the correct answer, confirming that option (4) is indeed accurate. This option was initially identified by the NTA as the correct answer. Moreover, options (2) and (4) are mutually exclusive, meaning they cannot both be correct simultaneously. 52. The team of experts from IIT Delhi has unequivocally opined that the fourth option (noted above) is the one and only correct answer to the question. NTA did not dispute this during the hearing. We accept the report of IIT, Delhi. The contention based on the NTA Information Bulletin is fallacious. The question itself was not incorrect. Nor was it the case that none of the options were correct. Further, this is not a case where there were two correct answers. Only one of the answers was correct. The issue arose due to the discrepancy in an outdated version of the textbook, not due to an inherent flaw in the 9 [1984] 1 SCR 73 : 1983 4 SCC 309. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 73 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India & Ors. question or the absence of correct options. NTA’s decision to award marks for both options was not justified. The validity of the question is upheld, and NTA must treat only option (4) as the correct answer. 53. This is crucial to ensure the integrity and fairness of the examination process. The recalibration of ranks is necessary to reflect the true merit of the candidates, correcting any distortions caused by the earlier inclusion of an incorrect answer. This action will restore confidence in the examination system, ensuring that all candidates are evaluated on an equal and just basis. It also addresses the grievances of those who may have been unfairly disadvantaged, thus upholding the principles of equity and transparency in competitive examinations. iii. There is no conflict of interest with the Director of IIT, Madras analysing the data in this case 54. In response to the query of this Court as to whether it was possible to use data analytics to identify suspicious cases or suspicious trends in the results of the NEET, the Union of India filed an affidavit answering the question. Pursuant to the of the Court, the Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education made a request to the Director, IIT Madras to undertake comprehensive data analytics of the results of all candidates who appeared in the exam this year. A set of parameters was also requested to be devised. 55. IIT, Madras then analysed the data. The affidavit states that this was done with the help of Python for data processing, PostgreSQL for data storage and Metabase for analysis after receiving the relevant data and information from NTA. The executive summary of the report prepared by IIT Madras is as follows: “̌Executive Summary a. The marks distribution follows the bell-shaped curve that is witnessed in any large-scale examination indicating no abnormality. b.