Application of mind is best demonstrated by disclosure of mind on the satisfaction………..To be called to appear before criminal court as an accused is serious matter affecting one’s dignity, self respect and image in society. Hence, the process of criminal court shall not be made a weapon of harassment.” 13. A close scrutiny of the position of law revealed from the aforesaid decisions, which are constantly and consistently being followed by this Court, would reveal that issuance of summons is a serious matter and, therefore, shall not be done mechanically and it shall be done only upon satisfaction on the ground for proceeding further in the matter against a person concerned based on the materials collected during the inquiry. 14. In the aforesaid circumstances, the next question to be considered is whether a summons issued by a Magistrate can be interfered with in exercise of the power under Section 482, Cr.PC. In the decisions in Bhushan Kumar & Anr. v. State (NCT of Delhi) & Anr.6 and M/s Pepsi Foods Ltd.’s case (supra) this Court held that a petition filed under Section 482, Cr.PC, for quashing an summoning the accused is maintainable. There cannot be any doubt that once it is held that sine qua non for exercise of the power to issue summons is 6 [2012] 2 SCR 696 : (2012) 5 SCC 424 1232 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the subjective satisfaction “on the ground for proceeding further” while exercising the power to consider the legality of a summons issued by a Magistrate, certainly it is the duty of the Court to look into the question as to whether the learned Magistrate had applied his mind to form an opinion as to the existence of sufficient ground for proceeding further and in that regard to issue summons to face the trial for the offence concerned. In this context, we think it appropriate to state that one should understand that ‘taking cognizance’, empowered under Section 190, Cr.PC, and ‘issuing process’, empowered under Section 204, Cr.PC, are different and distinct. (See the decision in Sunil Bharti Mittal v. C.B.I.7). 15. In Sunil Bharti Mittal’s case (supra), this Court interpreted the expression “sufficient grounds for proceeding” and held that there should be sufficiency of materials against the accused concerned before proceeding under Section 204, Cr.PC. It was held thus:- “53. However, the words “sufficient ground for proceeding” appearing in Section 204 are of immense importance. It is these words which amply suggest that an opinion is to be formed only after due application of mind that there is sufficient basis for proceeding against the said accused and formation of such an opinion is to be stated in the itself. The is liable to be set aside if no reason is given therein while coming to the conclusion that there is prima facie case against the accused, though the need not contain detailed reasons. A fortiori, the would be bad in law if the reason given turns out to be ex facie incorrect.” 16.