22. This writ petition also challenged the manner in which the cardamom was sourced. We cannot lose sight of the fact that the appellant- Board initially tried to purchase cardamom by issuing tenders and calling for bids, not just once, but twice over. However, these tenders were cancelled since none of the bidder’s supplied cardamom of appropriate quality. It is in these compelling circumstances, considering the impending festive season and the imminent need to prepare a humungous quantity of Aravana Prasadam, that the appellant-Board invoked the urgency clause in its regulations and authorised the Chief Executive Officer of the Sabarimala Temple to procure cardamom from local sources. Thus, it cannot be said that the decision is arbitrary, irrational or unreasonable. There is neither arbitrariness nor malice in the decision of the appellant-Board as all the prospective bidders were given a fair chance as the notice to purchase cardamom was published on the notice board. The cardamom samples submitted by the bidders were then tested in a nearby lab, which was also established by the Commissioner of Food Safety as per an of the High Court. Thereafter, price negotiations were conducted, and respondent no. 2 was given supply s after quoting the lowest rates. We are of the opinion that the decision of the appellant-Board is legal, fair and transparent. For the above reasons, we are of the view that the High Court committed an error in entertaining the writ petition filed by respondent no. 1. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 375 The Travancore Devaswom Board v. Ayyappa Spices & Ors. 23. In view of the above discussion we are of the opinion that the High Court should have dismissed the Writ Petition on the question of maintainability itself. In this view of the matter, issue no. 2 relating to applicability of the Act to the appellant Board does not arise for consideration in this case. 24. After hearing the parties and at the time of reserving the on 03.11.2023, we passed the following :- “… At this stage, the learned senior counsel for the petitioner(s) would submit that the stock of Aravanam Prasadam, which was to be distributed earlier, but prevented pursuant to the interim and final s of the High Court, is still lying in the premises but the petitioner-Board is not intending of using the same. In that regard, we take note of the report filed on behalf of the Food Safety and Standard Authority of India (FSSAI) which would indicate that Aravanam Prasadam is fit for human consumption. However, as the petitioner-Board itself has taken a decision that the Aravanam Prasadam will not be distributed, the stock presently existing will have to be destroyed as per the appropriate procedure as indicated by the State Government. Under these circumstances, we direct the State Government to destroy/dispose of the existing stock of Aravanam Prasadam in an appropriate manner by following the necessary procedure. For this purpose, we also direct the Travancore Devaswom Board to extend complete co- operation and ensure that the stock is destroyed/disposed as it is stated that the next season for opening of the temple is due and fresh Aravanam Prasadam will have to be stored.