67 (1962) 1 S.C.P 383 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1721 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. institution, it may lose the concomitant right of administration in certain circumstances. The relevant observations are extracted below: “We should also like to refer to the observations in The Durgah Committee, Ajmer v. Syed Hussain Ali. In that case this Court observed while dealing with Art. 26(a) and (d) of the Constitution that even if it be assumed that a certain religious institution was established by a minority community it may lose the right to administer it in certain circumstances. We may in this connection refer to the following observations at p. 414 for they apply equally to Art. 30(1): “If the right to administer the properties never vested in the denomination or had been validly surrendered by it or had otherwise been effectively and irretrievably lost to it, Art. 26 cannot be successfully invoked.” 74. In Azeez Basha (supra), in addition to determining if AMU was established by a Muslim minority, this Court also determined whether it was ever administered by them or if the administration was validly surrendered by them, on the basis of the above observations. 75. The context of the above observations in Durgah Committee (supra) and its application to the interpretation of Article 30(1) needs to be clarified. In that case, the constitutional validity of the Durgah Khwaja Saheb Act 195568 was challenged by the Khadims of the tomb for violation of Article 26(c) and Article 26(d) of the Constitution. To offer a brief background, Khwaja Saheb was a saint who came to India at the end of the 12th Century AD and settled in Ajmer. A tomb in the form of a kutcha structure was built immediately after his death. However, there were no endowments at this time. Akbar, the Mughal emperor, took interest in the tomb and rebuilt it. Documents also indicate that eighteen villages were endowed to the Durgah. During this period, a descendant of the Saint functioned as the Sajhadanashin and Mutawalli. During the rule of Shahjahan, the office of Sajhadanashin and Mutawalli were separated. The Mutawalli was solely made responsible for the management of the properties 68 “Durgah Act” 1722 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports of the Durgah and was appointed by the Ruler. Over the years, this model was not altered. The Mutawalli was always appointed by the Government in power. 76. Section 4(1) of the Durgah Act dealt with the appointment of a Committee in which the administration, control and management of the Durgah Endowment would vest. The members of the Committee would be appointed by the Central Government. These two provisions were challenged on the ground they were ultra vires Article 26(c) and Article 26(d). In this context, the Constitution Bench observed that the denomination will not have a right to administer the property if it never had the right to administer it; if it had been surrendered; or if it had been irretrievably lost: “37. […] In other words, if the denomination never had the right to manage the properties endowed in favour of a denominational institution as for instance by reason of the terms on which the endowment was created, it cannot be heard to say that it has acquired the said rights as a result of Article 26(c) and (d)…If the right to administer the properties never vested in the denomination or had been validly surrendered by it or has otherwise been effectively and irretrievably lost to it Article 26 cannot be successfully invoked.