]” 113. Section 3 of the 1993 Act provides for the liability of the buyer to make payment to the small-scale industries whereas Section 4 and 5 respectively of the said Act pertain to the date from which and the rate at which interest is payable. Section 5 of the 1993 Act also stipulates that the buyer shall be liable to pay compound interest. Sections 3, 4 and 5 respectively of the 1993 Act, as existing at the time when the dispute between the parties arose, are reproduced thus: - “3. Liability of buyer to make payment - Where any supplier supplies any goods or renders any services to any buyer, the buyer shall make payment therefor on or [2024] 5 S.C.R. 385 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited before the date agreed upon between him and the supplier in writing or, where there is no agreement in this behalf, before the appointed day. 4. Date from which and rate at which interest is payable - Where any buyer fails to make payment of the amount to the supplier, as required under section 3, the buyer shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement between the buyer and the supplier or in any law for the time being in force, be liable to pay interest to the supplier on that amount from the appointed day or, as the case may be, from the date immediately following the date agreed upon, at such rate, which is five per cent points above the floor rate for comparable lending. Explanation: For the purposes of this section, “floor rate for comparable lending” means the highest of the minimum lending rates charged by scheduled banks (not being co- operative banks) on credit limits in accordance with the directions given or issued to banking companies generally by the Reserve Bank of India under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949). 5. Liability of buyer to pay compound interest - Notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement between a supplier and a buyer or in any law for the time being in force, the buyer shall be liable to pay compound interest (with monthly interest) at the rate mentioned in section 4 on the amount due to the supplier.” 114. On a perusal of Section 3 of the 1993 Act, we find that where any supplier supplies any goods, the buyer shall make payment on or before the date agreed upon between him and the supplier in writing or, where there is no agreement in this behalf, before the appointed day. In the instant case, as per the terms of the NIT, payment was to be made within 20 days from the receipt of the goods. 115. As discussed in the preceding paragraphs of this , the High Court has awarded 24% compound interest on the amounts due to the original plaintiff from the date the amounts were determined to have become due till the date of their realisation by the original plaintiff.