[2024] 11 S.C.R. 2173 : 2024 INSC 857 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company (Civil Appeal No(s). 9486-9487 of 2019) 08 November 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud,* CJI, Hrishikesh Roy,* Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha,* J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration a) Whether an appointment process which allows a party who has an interest in the dispute to unilaterally appoint a sole arbitrator, or curate a panel of arbitrators and mandate that the other party select their arbitrator from the panel is valid in law; b) Whether the principle of equal treatment of parties applies at the stage of the appointment of arbitrators; and c) Whether an appointment process in a public-private contract which allows a government entity to unilaterally appoint a sole arbitrator or majority of the arbitrators of the arbitral tribunal is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. Headnotes† Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Unilateral appointment clauses in a public-private contract: Held: [Per Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI for himself and J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] The possibility of bias is real in situations where an arbitration clause allows a government company to unilaterally appoint a sole arbitrator or control the majority of the arbitrators – Since the government has control over the arbitral tribunal, it can chart the course of the arbitration proceedings to the prejudice of the other party – Resultantly, unilateral appointment clauses fail to provide an effective substitute for judicial proceedings in India – Further, a unilateral appointment clause is inherently exclusionary and violates the principle of equal treatment of parties and procedural equality – Unilateral appointment clauses in a public-private contract fail to provide the minimum level of integrity required in authorities performing quasi-judicial functions such as arbitral tribunals – Therefore, a * Author 2174 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports unilateral appointment clause is against the principle of arbitration, that is, impartial resolution of disputes between parties – It also violates the nemo judex rule which constitutes the public policy of India in the context of arbitration – Therefore, unilateral appointment clauses in public-private contracts are violative of Article 14 of the Constitution for being arbitrary in addition to being violative of the equality principle under the Arbitration Act. [Paras 162, 163] – [Per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J. (dissenting)] One cannot, as an advance ruling, give a declaration that all arbitration clauses enabling unilateral appointments are null and void at this stage – A priori declaration that arbitration agreements that prescribe unilateral appointment procedures are invalid can lead to many problems in the day-to-day working of arbitral remedies – Particularly for institutions involving multiple transactions such as insurance claims, credit card defaults, etc. involving large number of cases but each claim may be of small sum – Our declaration of law substantially covers domestic arbitration, it will not be confined to high and international commercial arbitration – There could also be situations where the unilateral constitution of the panel of arbitrators could have credible members with respect to which no one can have an objection – Rather than declaring that all such agreements are void, it would be better to strengthen the remedial mechanisms available under the Act.