The Union of India, all States and Union Territories were directed to file their compliance affidavits, and the case was re-listed after three months. Most of the States and Union Territories did not provide the required information and failed to file their compliance affidavits within the period of three months. 4. This Court issued several s directing the States and Union Territories to provide the requisite information with details of the status of completion and compliance reports. On 25 July 2018, this Court noted that while the Union of India had filed its affidavit, the response was not in accord with the directions in the 2017 judgement and “lacked material particulars”. This Court stipulated a format in which affidavits were to be filed by the Union of India, the States and the Union Territories. 5. On 15 January 2019, when the case was placed before a bench comprising Justice AK Sikri and Justice Abdul Nazeer, all the States and Union Territories had filed their affidavits. However, this Court noted that many States and Union Territories had not filed their affidavits in the stipulated format or provided incomplete information about all the targets; and in cases where information was provided, it was not complete as target dates were not mentioned. The Court took strong exception to this and opined: “More than a year has passed since the was delivered The indifferent attitude of the States and the Union Territories shows that they are not serious in complying with the directions contained in the . It may be recapitulated that the directions which were given in the dated 25.07.2018 are simply to the effect that provisions contained in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as “the said Act”) by providing necessary facilities to the persons suffering from different disabilities, should be provided with. The said Act specifically makes provisions for these facilities. The said Act also sets down the timelines within which these are to be provided. It is in the consonance with the aforesaid provisions that directions were given [2024] 11 S.C.R. 979 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. in the and dated 15.12.2017 whereas the Parliament has passed an enactment which entitles the persons suffering from different disabilities to get the said facilities as a matter of right and the States and the Union Territories cannot shy away from giving these facilities to such persons.” (Emphasis Supplied) 6. Accordingly, the States and Union Territories were granted a final opportunity to submit the complete information in the stipulated format within three weeks. This Court directed that the Chief Secretaries of States and Union Territories which do not comply with these instructions to be personally present on the next date of hearing. This Court also noted that the Union of India had failed to submit a proper affidavit and granted an additional three weeks to comply, failing which the Secretary of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disability) was directed to be personally present.