1389 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 95. The learned Judge also construed the phrase “preference” in the Office Memorandum to mean “equitable apportionment” such that preference does not exclude the benefit to the less backward of the socially and educationally backward class. 96. With respect to the sub-classification of the backward classes, Justice Sawant observed that both the sub-categories must be substantially (and not comparatively) backward when compared to the forward class and there must be a substantial difference in backwardness between the sub-categories themselves. The learned Judge notes that if these two criteria are fulfilled, then it is not only advisable but imperative to sub-classify. Echoing the opinion of Justice Jeevan Reddy, Justice Sawant observed that sub-classification would lead to the exclusion of classes if the preference model is followed instead of the model whereby a percentage of seats are allotted to the most backward.148 97. The observations in Indra Sawhney (supra), elucidate the following three principles with respect to sub-classification: a. Sub-categorization within a class is a constitutional requirement to secure substantive equality in the event that there is a distinction between two sections of a class; b. Sub-classification must not lead to the exclusion of one of the categories in the class. A model that provides sufficient opportunities to all categories of the class must be adopted; and c. Sub-classification among a class must be on a reasonable basis. Justice Sawant held that the distinction between the 148 “524. […] To give an instance, the Mandal Commission has, on the basis of social, educational and economic indicators evolved 22 points by giving different values to each of the three factors, viz., social, educational and economic. Those social groups which secured 22 points or above have been listed there as “socially and educationally backward” and the rest as “advanced”. Now, between 11 and 22 points some may secure, say, 11 to 15 points while others may secure all 22 points. The difference in their backwardness is, therefore, substantial. Yet another illustration which may be given is from Karnataka State Government dated October 13, 1986 on reservations issued after the decision in Vasanth Kumar [(1985) Supp. SCC 714 : [1985] Supp 1 SCR 352] where the backward classes are grouped into five categories, viz., A, B, C, D and E. In category A, fall such castes or communities as that of Bairagi, Banjari and Lambadi which are nomadic tribes, and Bedaru, Ramoshi which were formerly stigmatised as criminal tribes whereas in category D fall such castes as Kshatriya and Rajput. To lump both together would be to deny totally the benefit of special provisions to the former, the latter taking away the entire benefits. On the other hand, to deny the status of backwardness to the latter and ask them to compete with the advanced classes, would leave the latter without any seat or post. In such circumstances, the sub-classification of the backward classes into backward and more or most backward is not only desirable but essential.” 1390 [2024] 8 S.C.R.