She raised an alarm shouting ‘killed killed’ (‘maar ditta maar ditta’), on which her sons Goldy and Sonu woke up. None of these three persons could identify the other assailant. Both the assailants fled away by opening the main gate, in between the two shops. Sharan Kaur (PW-5) went upstairs to have a look at her husband and found him lying severely injured on the cot with blood oozing out of his mouth and head. Blood pooled on the ground below. He was unable to speak. She called her two sons and sent them to call her brother-in-law Gurnam Singh with a vehicle. Sharan Kaur (PW-5) and Balwinder Singh were taken to the Civil Hospital, Tanda but on the way to the hospital, Balwinder Singh expired. First aid was provided to Sharan Kaur (PW-5), thereafter, she as well as the dead body of Balwinder Singh (deceased) was brought back to their home in the same vehicle and by that time the police had arrived. The prosecution alleges that the motive behind the occurrence was that the appellant and his associate were bearing jealousy on account of the roaring business being done at the halwai shop of Balwinder Singh (deceased), which was doing much better as compared to the halwai shop run by the accused appellant. Swaran Dass(PW-9), SHO, Police Station Dasuya recorded the statement of Sharan Kaur (PW-5) wherein, the above allegations were incorporated and based thereupon, FIR No.126 of [2024] 4 S.C.R. 711 Kirpal Singh v. State of Punjab 1997 dated 13th November, 1997 came to be registered at Police Station, Dasuya, District Hoshiarpur for the offences punishable under Sections 302, 307 IPC read with Section 34 of IPC. The said FIR was marked as Exhibit-PG/2, during the course of trial. The Investigating Officer prepared inquest report on the dead body of Balwinder Singh(deceased) and forwarded the dead body to the Civil Hospital, Dasuya for post mortem examination; rough site plan of the crime scene was prepared; bloodstained earth was collected from the spot and was sealed into a parcel. A spade lying at the crime scene was seized, the blade whereof was bloodstained. A ladder was also seized from the crime scene. 3. The dead body of Balwinder Singh was subjected to autopsy at the hands of Dr. Naresh Kumar (PW-4), Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, Dasuya on 13th November, 1997, who examined the same and took note of the following injuries on the body of the deceased:- "i. Lacerated wound 1.5 cm bone deep on left side of forehead. Placed transversely 2 cm above and lateral to outer end of left eyebrow medical to this wound these was red coloured contusion with depressed surface 3 x 4 cm in size 1.5 cm above and parallel to left eye brow. On dissection there was subaponeurotic hematoma in both front regions. The frontal bone was found fractured into multiple pieces were impacted into the underlying brain tissue, semi clotted blood was present between membrane between and brain tissue and within the brain tissue.