However, neither Wing Tai or Neptune fall within the definition of “affiliate” of the award holder as per the IBA Guidelines. It was therefore concluded that no reasonable third person would conclude that justifiable doubts arise about impartiality or independence of Mr. Lau. Thus, there exists no identity or conflict of interest between Mr. Lau and the award holder, or any of its affiliates including its holding company i.e. HSBC PLC (UK). 35.2. While the award debtors’ suggest their case implies a need for disclosure beyond the ‘Red’ or ‘Orange’ lists, and the inapplicability of the ‘Green list, the ‘reasonable third person’ test is the measure for assessing conflict of interest. The High Court concluded that the award debtors have not established that an impartial observer, aware of all facts, would doubt Mr. Lau’s impartiality or independence and consequently, the likelihood of bias of the arbitrator is not discernible. 35.3. The award holder provided ample evidence countering the award debtors’ claims about its affiliate’s roles as book-runners 990 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and underwriters with Wing Tai and Neptune, by showing joint participation of various other banks. The allegation of a significant shareholding by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the award holder’s affiliate in Wing Tai and Neptune was found unsupported by evidence. The affiliate was one amongst many in the fund-raising and held the shares in trust during the course of business. 35.4. Even upon applying the subjective approach for disclosure, wherein the disclosure requirement is viewed from the Award Debtors’ point of view, certain limitations apply, as per the Green list of the IBA Guidelines. Placing reliance upon Clauses, 4.5 and 4.53 of the Green list, the learned Judge of the High Court found no conflict of interest between the arbitrator and the award holder or its affiliates. In case, the circumstances alleged fall under the green list, no duty of disclosure is owed by the arbitrator. 36. The above discussion in the impugned in our assessment correctly suggests that Mr. Christopher Lau neither had a duty to disclose nor did he fail to discharge his legal duty of disclosure in accepting the assignment as the Presiding Arbitrator. In the circumstances here, we cannot infer bias or likelihood of bias of the Presiding Arbitrator. Award Debtors therefore cannot claim that there is any violation of the public policy, which would render the foreign award unenforceable in India. 37. Nevertheless, it would also be appropriate to address one specific contention raised by the Award Debtors on the communication addressed by Mr. Christopher Lau to an enquiry made on 03.02.2016, by one Ms. Pauline. In his response, Mr. Lau refused to accept the suggested assignment stating that there is conflict of interest in his taking action against HSBC. The circumstances under which the above communication was addressed by Mr. Lau are explained in detail in Mr. Lau’s letter dated 26.04.2016. A reading of the response would show the reason for the response to Ms. Pauline. It would also additionally confirm that Mr. Christopher Lau during the phase when he acted as the Presiding Arbitrator between the appellants and the respondent, was not subject to any conflict of interest.