Even I also understand this fact that during my lifetime, duties of both the Districts will not be discharged and I will continuously grinding in between two Officers equally. So, for avoiding from the torture of Shri Prabhat Mishra and Shri Shashidhar Dwivedi, Chief Development Officer, I am sacrificing my life, so that, I, while visiting Kannauj, may not be compelled to be harassed till now, I have not been insulted and harassed by any learned District Magistrate/ Chief Development Officer, in this manner and all the Officers have appreciated my duties and work. With touching feet with respect, please forgive me. With best regards.” 9. It is not in dispute that the aforesaid suicide note is the only foundation of the charge-sheet filed against the accused appellant. The accused appellant approached the High Court by filing an application under Section 482 CrPC for quashing of the chargesheet and proceedings of the criminal case registered against him. The said application was rejected vide dated 26th July 2022 which is challenged in this appeal. 10. Mr. Pallav Shishodia, learned senior counsel appearing for the accused appellant contended that even if the allegations as set out in the suicide note are taken to be true on their face value, the same do not constitute the necessary ingredients of the offences alleged and hence, it is a fit case wherein the charge-sheet deserves to be quashed. 162 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. Learned senior counsel contended that from the admitted allegations as set out in the aforesaid suicide note (supra), no inference can be drawn that the appellant in any manner, instigated or abetted the deceased to commit suicide. At best, what can be inferred from the suicide note (supra) is that the deceased was frustrated and bothered by the style of functioning of the appellant herein and of Shashidhar Dwivedi, CDO, and thus he felt that he was left with no option but to end his life. He also seems to have been bothered by the pressure of working in two districts and took the extreme step of ending his life being unable to withstand the pressure. 12. Learned senior counsel further urged that all proceedings sought to be taken against the appellant as a consequence of the charge sheet, deserve to be quashed as the same amount to an abuse of process of the Court. 13. Per contra, Mr. Ankit Goel, learned standing counsel for the State of Uttar Pradesh has opposed the submissions advanced by the learned senior counsel representing the accused appellant. 14. Learned counsel for the State urged that the appellant and Shashidar Dwivedi, CDO being the superior officers of the deceased, harassed and humiliated him to such an extent that he was left with no option but to end his life. The allegations set out in the suicide note constitute the necessary ingredients of abetment to commit suicide. Thus, it is not a fit case warranting interference in the well-reasoned passed by the High Court refusing to interfere and quash the proceedings of the criminal case registered against the appellant.