The reference therefore acknowledges this legal position and in clear terms accepts that ‘the rules of the game’ cannot be changed after commencement of the recruitment process insofar as the eligibility criteria is concerned. 8 Shankar K. Mandal v. State of Bihar (2003) 9 SCC 519 9 Mohd. Sohrab Khan v. Aligarh Muslim University and others (2009) 4 SCC 555 42 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 8. However, in regard to changing the rules of the game qua method or procedure for selection, the three-Judge Bench in the reference doubted the correctness of the decision in K. Manjusree (supra) inter alia on the ground that it failed to notice an earlier decision in Subash Chander Marwaha (supra). Accordingly, the reference seeks an authoritative pronouncement in that regard from a larger Bench of this Court. The scope of the reference is therefore limited to (a) whether K. Manjusree (supra) lays down the correct law; and (b) whether the rules of the game qua method and manner of making selection can be changed or altered after commencement of the recruitment process. SUBMISSIONS 9. We have heard a battery of counsels both in support as well as against the strict applicability of the doctrine. During their arguments, they have either questioned or supported the decision of the High Court. For an effective analysis of their submissions and to properly adjudicate upon the issues which would arise while addressing the reference, we deem it appropriate to segregate their submissions into two parts. One which propounds that after commencement of the recruitment process, the stipulated procedure (i.e., rules of the game) for selection cannot be changed mid-way, or after the game is played, and the other which propounds that it is permissible to change / alter the stipulated procedure or method for selection to ensure that the most meritorious person, who is suitable for the post, gets appointed. SUBMISSIONS AGAINST CHANGE 10. Submissions propounding that ‘rules of the game’ qua the procedure for selection must not be changed in the midst of the game, or after the game is played, are summarised below: (a) Equality of opportunity in matters of public employment and fairness in State action are guaranteed by Articles 16 and 14, respectively, of the Constitution which proscribe a change in the rules of the game qua selection criteria, once the game has begun. These rights would be infringed if candidates, otherwise eligible, are excluded from the zone of consideration based on a post facto change in the selection criteria. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 43 Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. (b) Candidates have a right to know, before the selection process commences, the standards/ criteria on which they will be assessed/ evaluated so that they could modulate their level of preparedness accordingly. (c) A change in the advertised cut off marks for eligibility to be placed in the select list, after the game is played, may seriously prejudice a candidate on two counts. First, the candidate may not put in effort more than required for achieving the advertised cut off marks.