Therefore, this Court found that such a condition was completely redundant. Thereafter, this Court held that imposing any bail condition which enables the police/investigating agency to track every movement of the accused released on bail by use of technology or otherwise would undoubtedly violate the right to privacy of the accused guaranteed under Article 21. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1069 Sheikh Javed Iqbal @ Ashfaq Ansari @ Javed Ansari v. State of Uttar Pradesh 30.3. Distinguishing the decision of this Court in Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee (Representing Undertrial Prisoners) (supra), this Court observed that an accused-undertrial has no control over the Embassy or High Commission of his country. On failure of the Embassy or High Commission to issue a certificate that the accused-undertrial would not flee from the country and would attend the trial proceedings regularly, he cannot be continued to be kept in detention despite a bail . Instead of the same, other practical and pragmatic conditions may be imposed. This Court clarified that it is not necessary that in every case where bail is granted to the accused in an NDPS case who is a foreign national, the condition of obtaining a certificate of assurance from the Embassy or the High Commission should be incorporated. Consequently, in Frank Vitus (supra), this Court while confirming the bail granted to the appellant, set aside the two impugned conditions. 31. In Gurwinder Singh (supra) on which reliance has been placed by the respondent, a two Judge Bench of this Court distinguished K.A. Najeeb (supra) holding that the appellant in K.A. Najeeb (supra) was in custody for five years and that the trial of the appellant in that case was severed from the other co-accused whose trial had concluded whereupon they were sentenced to imprisonment of eight years; but in Gurwinder Singh, the trial was already underway and that twenty two witnesses including the protected witnesses have been examined. It was in that context, the two Judge Bench of this Court in Gurwinder Singh observed that mere delay in trial pertaining to grave offences cannot be used as a ground to grant bail. 32. This Court has, time and again, emphasized that right to life and personal liberty enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India is overarching and sacrosanct. A constitutional court cannot be restrained from granting bail to an accused on account of restrictive statutory provisions in a penal statute if it finds that the right of the accused-undertrial under Article 21 of the Constitution of India has been infringed. In that event, such statutory restrictions would not come in the way. Even in the case of interpretation of a penal statute, howsoever stringent it may be, a constitutional court has to lean in favour of constitutionalism and the rule of law of which liberty is an intrinsic part. In the given facts of a particular case, a constitutional court may decline to grant bail. But it would be very wrong to say 1070 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that under a particular statute, bail cannot be granted.