6. After remand, the trial Court vide dated 29.04.2014, rejected the application filed by the appellants under VII Rule 11(d) of CPC, observing inter alia that the issue of limitation is a mixed question of law and facts, for which, the parties will have to lead evidence. Challenging the same, the appellants preferred Civil Revision Application No. 904 of 2014, which was dismissed by the High Court, by dated 26.04.2016 impugned in this appeal. 7. The learned counsel for the appellants, at the outset, submitted that on a bare perusal of the averments made in the plaint disclosed that the reliefs sought in the plaint were barred by limitation. However, the High Court erroneously dismissed the Civil Revision Application on the ground that the question of whether the suit is barred by limitation is for the trial Court to independently decide considering the evidence led before it by the parties as the limitation is a mixed question of law and facts which cannot be decided based on the pleadings alone. Adding further, it is submitted that the High Court could have examined the maintainability and sustainability of the revision proceedings initiated by the appellants under VII Rule 11 (d) of CPC. 7.1. Elaborating further, on facts, the learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the Defendant No.1 – Trust had 1450 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports purchased 3/4th share of the suit lands mentioned in the Schedule in an auction sale conducted by the Civil Court, Pune, in the year 1938 from the previous Inamdar Gosavis family and the same was duly registered; and they had also purchased the remaining 1/4th share in the suit lands in the year 1952 by another registered sale deed. Till then, the subject lands were in possession of the Government. Thereafter, the Defendant No.1 Trust became entitled to the suit lands in pursuance of the compromise decree dated 05.01.1990 passed in Civil Suit No.1622 of 1988, and they entered into several agreements with third parties, who constructed buildings in the suit lands. While so, without any right, title and interest, the Respondent No.1 preferred Special Civil Suit No.133 of 2009 claiming declaration and possession over the suit lands. According to the learned counsel, the Respondent No.1 by filing the said suit, has attempted to question the correctness of various s passed by several Courts including the passed by this Court. These s date back to the year 1953. Further, this exercise is done with an oblique motive to set at naught the s which have attained finality decades ago and the respondent No.1/Plaintiff and its predecessors having slept over the s which conclusively affirmed the title and ownership of the appellant Trust over the suit lands, cannot now suddenly come up with a suit to overturn the effect of the s in the guise of there being a fresh cause of action. 7.2. Drawing our attention to paragraphs 34 and 53 of the plaint filed by the Respondent No.1, the learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the Respondent No.1 attempted to create an illusion of a cause of action by erroneously stating that the cause of action to file the suit arose on 02.03.2007 when he came to know that his rights over the suit properties have been affected by the proceedings between the defendants and another.