The Article in our opinion clearly shows that the minority will have the right to administer educational institutions of their choice provided they have established them, but not otherwise. The Article cannot be read to mean that even if the educational institution has been established by somebody else, any religious minority would have the right to administer it because, for some reason or other, it might have been administering it before the Constitution came into force. The words “establish and administer” in the Article must be read conjunctively and so read it gives the right to the minority to administer an educational institution provided it has been established by it. … We are of opinion that nothing in that case justifies the contention raised on behalf of the petitioners that the minorities would have the right to administer an educational institution even though the institution may not have been established by them. The two words in Art. 30(1) must be read together and so read the Article gives the right to the minority to administer institutions established by it.” (emphasis supplied) The Constitution Bench in St. Stephen’s (supra) reiterated this interpretation of the phrases ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ in Article 30(1).62 67. Let us refer to Article 19(1)(a) to understand what it means to conjunctively read two words in a provision. Article 19 guarantees the fundamental right to free speech and expression. The guarantee of the freedom of expression is, however, not dependent on the freedom of speech. They are two separate rights. However, the situation 62 St Stephen’s [28] “It should be borne in mind that the words “establish” and “administer” used in Article 30(1) are to be read conjunctively. The right claimed by a minority community to administer the educational institution depends upon the proof of establishment of the institution. The proof of establishment of the institution, is thus a condition precedent for claiming the right to administer the institute.” 1718 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports differs with regard to the rights to establish and administer outlined in Article 30. It is settled that the rights to establish and administer must be read conjunctively and not disjunctively. This Court has not doubted this interpretation in any of the s subsequent to Azeez Basha (supra).63 68. The question is whether the conjunctive reading of the words “establish” and “administer” would also mean that for an educational institution to be a minority institution, it should have been both established and administered by a minority. In Azeez Basha (supra), the Constitution Bench held that the institution must be both established and administered by the minority. The Constitution Bench framed the following three questions to determine if AMU was a minority educational institution: a. Whether on the reading of the AMU Act, the University was established by the Muslim minority; b. Whether the right to administer the University ever vested in the minority; and c. If (b) is affirmative, whether the right to administer the University was surrendered when AMU was established.