which was taken into possession vide memo Ex.PW1/B. Sanjiv Jain owner of the above said shop produced one page of the letter pad to the police who seized the same vide memo Ex.PW1/H and I signed the same.” 35. The statement of Ashok Kumar Pathak (reproduced supra) gives positive and unwavering proof of the following circumstances: - (i) The accused appellant Sukhpal was married to Usha (deceased). (ii) There was an ongoing marital strife between the spouses owing to the suspected infidelity of Usha and on this ground, they 332 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports used to quarrel with each other. The accused appellant left his wife Usha and his three children and started living in village Khatta, U.P. The accused suspected infidelity of Usha imputes a strong motive to the accused for her murder. (iii) Ashok Kumar Pathak had facilitated a job for the accused appellant in M/s. R.P. Associates. (iv) Inspite of the strife and acrimonious relationship, the accused appellant often used to visit his wife Usha and would stay with her. He had come and stayed with Usha four days before the incident and at that time, Sudha, sister of Usha was also present. Sukhpal quarrelled with Usha in presence of her sister and then went away. (v) A day prior to the incident also, accused appellant had come to House No. J-387, Gali No. 4, Kartar Nagar, Delhi where the alleged incident took place and stayed with Usha. (vi) The witness Ashok Kumar Pathak saw the accused appellant parking his cycle in the courtyard of the house. He also saw the accused appellant (Sukhpal) and wife (Usha) talking to each other while sitting on a cot in the courtyard. Then it started raining whereupon, both were seen going into the house from the courtyard. On the next morning, neither the accused appellant nor Usha were anywhere to be seen. (vii) The witness went to Usha’s house in the evening and saw her dead body lying on cot with large number of injuries whereas the accused appellant was missing. The cycle of the accused appellant was still parked in the courtyard of the house. (viii) A handwritten note (Exhibit PW-12/E) confessing to the murder was found lying underneath the cot on which the dead body was lying. The witness categorically stated that this note was written in the handwriting of the accused appellant which the witness was able to identify on account of both having worked together in the same concern (M/s. R.P. Associates) for a significant period of time. 36. Thus, the circumstances of motive, last seen, confession and abscondence from the crime scene after committing the crime are all spoken to by the witness Ashok Kumar Pathak (PW-1) in his statement dated 17th July, 1991 (reproduced supra) recorded on sworn [2024] 6 S.C.R. 333 Sukhpal Singh v. NCT of Delhi affirmation during the proceedings under Section 299 CrPC. It may be stated here that Ashok Kumar Pathak had no motive whatsoever to falsely implicate the accused appellant for the murder of Usha.