On its perusal, we are of the opinion that factors like nature of the offence held to have committed, the manner of their commission, the gravity of the offence, and also the desirability of releasing the convict on bail are to be considered objectively and such consideration should reflect in the consequential passed under Section 389, Cr.PC. It is also relevant to state that the mere factum of sufferance of incarceration for a particular period, in a case where life imprisonment is imposed, cannot be a reason for invocation of power under Section 389 Cr.PC without referring to the relevant factors. We say so because there cannot be any 5 [2004] Supp. 3 SCR 132 : (2004) 6 SCC 175 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 43 Shivani Tyagi v. State of U.P. & Anr. doubt with respect to the position that disposal of appeals against conviction, (especially in cases where life imprisonment is imposed for serious offences), within a short span of time may not be possible in view of the number of pending cases. In such circumstances if it is said that disregarding the other relevant factors and parameters for the exercise of power under Section 389, Cr. PC, likelihood of delay and incarceration for a particular period can be taken as a ground for suspension of sentence and to enlarge a convict on bail, then, in almost every such case, favourable invocation of said power would become inevitable. That certainly cannot be the legislative intention as can be seen from the phraseology in Section 389 Cr.PC. Such an interpretation would also go against public interest and social security. In such cases giving preference over appeals where sentence is suspended, in the matter of hearing or adopting such other methods making an early hearing possible could be resorted. We shall not be understood to have held that irrespective of inordinate delay in consideration of appeal and long incarceration undergone the power under the said provision cannot be invoked. In short, we are of the view that each case has to be examined on its own merits and based on the parameters, to find out whether the sentence imposed on the appellant(s) concerned should be suspended during the pendency of the appeal and the appellant(s) should be released on bail. 10. Having observed and held as above, we are deeply peeved on perusing the impugned , for the same reflects only non- application of mind and non-consideration of the relevant factors despite the fact that the case involved an acid attack on a young woman resulting into permanent disfiguration. In the case on hand, a scanning of the impugned would reveal that what mainly weighed with the Court is the offer made on behalf of the convicts that they would give a payment of Rs. 25 lakhs through demand drafts, taking into account the evidence that the victim had incurred an amount of Rs. 21 lakhs for her treatment. Paragraph 10 of the impugned would reveal that taking note of the said offer besides the period of incarceration and also the delay likely to occur in the consideration of appeal, sentence imposed was suspended and the private respondents were enlarged on bail.