34. The next contention is that the Gala’s have acquired easementary right under the Sale Deed dated 17.09.1994 and that it would not stand extinguished even if the necessity has ceased to exist. To buttress the above submission reliance has been placed upon Dr. S. Kumar & Ors. vs. S. Ramalingam5. In the above case, the right of easement claimed was expressly granted under the sale deed to the buyer and therefore it was held that the right so granted cannot be defeated or extinguished merely for the reason that easement of necessity has come to an end. 35. The situation in the present case is quite different. The property owned and possessed by the Gala’s was originally the property of Ramchandra Borkar which was acquired by the government. It was purchased by Woler Francis in public auction from the government on 25.04.1969. Thereafter, it devolved upon his legal heir Joki Woler Ruzer who sold it to the predecessor-in-interest of the Gala’s vide Sale Deed dated 17.09.1994. There is no evidence whatsoever on record to establish that the government ever transferred any easementary right over the rasta in question to Francis Woler or that his legal heir Joki Woler Rozer ever acquired or perfected any easementary right over it. Therefore, the right which was not possessed by them could not have been transferred to the Gala’s under the Sale Deed dated 17.09.1994. 36. The said Sale Deed dated 17.09.1994 in original has not been produced in evidence. It was only the photocopy of the same which was brought on record. The photocopy of a document is inadmissible in evidence. Moreover, the said sale deed was executed by predecessor-in-interest i.e. Joki Woler Ruzer in favour of predecessor- in-interest of the present Gala’s. The said sale deed would not bind the third parties who are not signatories or parties to the said sale deed. No evidence has been adduced to prove that Joki Woler Ruzer, 5 [2019] 10 SCR 531 : (2020) 16 SCC 553 370 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports predecessor-in-interest of the Gala’s, had perfected easementary rights over the disputed rasta and thus was legally entitled to transfer the same. He himself has not come before the Court that he had actually acquired any easementary right in the disputed rasta. It is not the case of Gala’s that their predecessor-in-interest had acquired or purchased the said property from government auction with any easementary right over the rasta in dispute. Thus, the Gala’s have failed to prove that they have acquired any easementary right under the sale deed. In view of the above discussion, reliance upon Dr. S. Kumar & Ors. (supra) is completely misplaced and the submission in this regard has no merit. 37. Lastly, a frail submission was advanced that one Dharmadhikari, owner of Survey No. 57 House No. 13A/2 is enjoying easementary right over the said rasta and, therefore, Gala’s cannot be denied the same benefit. The submission has been noted to be rejected for the simple reason that in the Sale Deed Exh.