1055 Bharti Arora v. The State of Haryana arraying the appellant as additional accused. It is submitted that the procedure adopted by the learned Special Judge was contrary to the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Sukhpal Singh Khaira v. State of Punjab.8 11. Shri Nadkarni further submitted that the learned Special Judge could not have taken cognizance for the offence punishable under Section 58 of the NDPS Act against the appellant in the absence of a valid sanction under Section 197 of the Cr.P.C. 12. Shri Nadkarni further submitted that the appellant is a highly meritorious officer, and she has received outstanding grading in her CRs and is also a recipient of the Presidential Medal. 13. The State has also supported the stand taken by the appellant. The State has also reiterated that the appellant was required to attend to an urgent law and situation on account of the bomb blasts in Samjhauta Express and also the agitation. It further submitted that, though there were voluminous evidence against the accused persons Surjeet Singh, Angrej Singh and Mehar Deen, the learned Special Judge had acquitted them. It is submitted that the State had preferred an appeal challenging the acquittal of the said 3 accused persons which is pending before the High Court. It is stated that Ran Singh who was convicted has also filed an appeal challenging his conviction before the High Court. 14. With the assistance of the parties, we have examined the material placed on record. IV. CONSIDERATION: 15. The only finding against the appellant in the and of conviction/acquittal dated 22nd/24th February 2007 is thus: “50. The powers under section 42, 43 and 44 of the Act have been given to the police officers with regard to seizure, search and arrest. As per provisions under section 58 of the Act, any person empowered under sections 42, 43 and 44 of the Act who vexatiously and unnecessarily detains, searches or arrests any person or wilfully and 8 2022 INSC 1250 : [2022] 10 SCR 156 : (2023) 1 SCC 289 1056 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports maliciously give false information causing an arrest, shall be liable for punishment. In the foregoing paragraphs, it has been observed that the recovery of commercial quantity of opium was effected from the conscious possession of accused Ran Singh. After three days of his arrest, at the behest of then Superintendent of Police Smt. Bharti Arora and with the help of Ram Phal the then DSP and Ram Kumar, investigating officer, the prosecution case was formulated that the commercial quantity of opium was planted by accused Surjit Singh with the help of accused Angrej Singh and Mehardeen in the heap of dung cakes outside the house of accused Ran Singh. The story made up by the senior police officers has been found to be false and concocted which makes Smt. Bharti Arora the then Superintendent of Police, Ram Phal the then DSP and Ram Kumar Inspector liable for prosecution under section 58 of the Act.