That day he had called his younger daughter about 2-3 times, in to remind her to receive her tiffin but she did not answer his call. He had then made up his mind to return to his house early. When he was climbing the stairs of his house at about 07:15 p.m., after parking his scooter, he saw a person aged about 25 years, walking down the stairs. This man had a helmet in his hand, which he immediately wore on seeing the complainant. He found the door of his house open and his daughter was bleeding profusely from her neck. Meanwhile, neighbors had gathered on hearing his cries and they informed him that two persons had come to his house who had brutally killed his daughter. The deceased was still alive was rushed to the hospital where she was declared dead. 4. The post mortem was conducted on the body of the deceased by Dr. K. Gokularamanan (PW-14) at 10:30 a.m. next day on 14.11.2014 and the following antemortem injuries were found on the deceased – “1. A well extended broad cut injury on the front side of neck and on both sides extending up to the upper side of Thyroid ligament bone measuring a depth of 14 x 6 up to the depth of the bone and the neck spinal bone present in the underside of injury, Adams apple, muscles and blood vessels were seen on the edges of the injury and blood outflow was seen in the surrounding areas. 2. On the right hand side of the aforesaid injury a cut injury on the lower and outer side was seen which extended up to the backside of neck measuring 12 x 4 depths in the muscles and blood outflow was seen in the surrounding areas. No other injuries were seen on the external parts of the body.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 91 P. Sasikumar v. The State Rep. by the Inspector of Police According to the postmortem report, the cause of death was shock due to the antemortem injuries on the neck and profuse bleeding and the time of death was 12-18 hours prior to the post mortem. 5. Meanwhile the FIR was registered as Case Crime No.408/2014. The two accused were apprehended by the Police on 15.11.2014, at about 10 p.m. 6. Recoveries were made during the investigation on their pointing out which is as follows :- From the pointing out of accused No. 1 :- A black colour Pulsar Vehicle without registration number, a black colour helmet, a black colour cell phone with broken glass, a knife with a maroon handle and a checkered blood-stained shirt were recovered. From pointing out of accused No. 2 i.e. present appellant :- A dark green monkey cap, a Samsung Galaxy Pro Cell Phone, a blood-stained elephant-coloured jeans and a white/green shirt were recovered. 7. At this juncture, we must also record that although there are two accused in the case and, both were charged for the above offences and faced the trial and were convicted by the Trial Court under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC apart from other offences such as 449, 404 and 201 r/w 302 IPC, yet there is no record, before this Court of any appeal being filed before the High Court by accused no.