The following passage from the is relevant here:- “41. Now, it is true that certain recommendations of the Shetty Commission in regard to the improvement of the pay scales of the judicial officers were accepted by this Court in the decision of this Court in All India Judges’ Association (supra). However, there was no specific finding in paragraphs 27 and 28 of the All India Judges’ Association (supra) in regard to whether a cut-off should be imposed for recruitment by way of regular promotion. The Court had merely remarked that “there should be an objective method of testing the suitability of the subordinate judiciary”, without making any observation about the desirability or otherwise of minimum cutoffs for viva voce generally.” [emphasis supplied] 35. Also in the aforementioned , the bench noted that the High Court cannot be precluded from framing Rules prescribing a minimum cut-off based on the exigencies of the Service in the State. 36. In the present case, the writ petitioners additionally argued that by virtue of paragraph 37 in All India Judges (2002), the Court accepted even those recommendations which were not otherwise discussed in the . The said paragraph reads as under: “37. Subject to the various modifications in this , all other recommendations of the Shetty Commission are accepted.” 37. The above paragraph cannot persuade us to conclude that this Court accepted the recommendation of the Shetty Commission to do away with minimum marks for the interview. This is simply because in the preceding paragraphs, the Court listed various recommendations of the Shetty Commission. Dispensing with minimum marks for interview however finds no mention in the said list. Without such specific mention, it would be logical to say that the in All India Judges (2002) is sub-silentio, on the aspect of minimum marks for interview. Therefore, this cannot be considered 560 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports as having authoritatively pronounced on doing away with minimum cut-off marks in the interview segment. 38. Let us now turn to the other cases where this Court had the occasion to interpret the recommendations of the Shetty Commission in situations where the recruitment rules were inconsistent with the recommendations: i) In Syed T.A. Naqshbandi v. State of J&K13, while giving primacy to the Rules framed by the High Court vis-a-vis policy decisions and Full Court Resolutions, the Supreme Court made the following pertinent observations: “8. Reliance placed upon the recommendations of Justice Jagannatha Shetty Commission or the decision reported in All India Judges’ Assn. v. Union of India [(2002) 4 SCC 247 : 2002 SCC (L&S) 508] or even the resolution of the Full Court of the High Court dated 27-4-2002 is not only inappropriate but a misplaced one and the grievances espoused based on this assumption deserve a mere mention only to be rejected. The conditions of service of members of any service for that matter are governed by statutory rules and s, lawfully made in the absence of rules to cover the area which has not been specifically covered by such rules, and so long as they are not replaced or amended in the manner known to law, it would be futile for anyone to claim for those existing rules/ s being ignored yielding place to certain policy decisions taken even to alter, amend or modify them.” ii) In Rakhi Ray v. High Court of Delhi14, the Supreme Court concluded that the recommendations of the Commission even if accepted by this Court were required to be incorporated in the statutory Rules governing the service conditions of the Judicial Officers.