Since the self-same section, read as a whole, reveals that ‘may’ has been used twice and ‘shall’ thrice, it must be presumed that the legislature was well and truly aware of the words used which form the skin of the language. Reading and understanding the words used by the legislature in the literal sense does not also result in manifest absurdity and hence tinkering with the same ought to be avoided at all costs. We would, therefore, read ‘may’ as ‘may’ and ‘shall’ as ‘shall’, wherever they are used in Section 148. This is because, the words mean what they say. 28. In such view of the matter and for the foregoing reasons, we are unhesitatingly of the view that the impugned of the High Court declining to entertain the subsequent petition under Section 482, Cr. PC of the appellants is unsustainable in law. However, we do not consider the need to remit the matter to the High Court for consideration of the subsequent petition under Section 482, Cr. PC; instead, in our view, justice would be sufficiently served if the Sessions Court re-examines the issue of deposit being required to be made by the appellants in the light of the law laid down in Jamboo Bhandari (supra) and the observations made hereinabove. 1286 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 29. Consequently, the impugned of the High Court dated 18th May, 2024 and the Sessions Court’s dated 17th October, 2022, stand set aside. The matter is remitted to the Sessions Court to re-examine the issue of ing deposit. Whether sufficient ground has been made out by the appellants to persuade the Sessions Court not to any deposit is left entirely to its discretion and satisfaction. We do not express any opinion on the plea that the appellants have sought to advance before us, lest any party seeks to derive any advantage. All points are left open. 30. Subject to its convenience, we expect the Sessions Court to pass an appropriate bearing in mind the facts and circumstances presented before it as early as possible. 31. In the result, the appeal stands allowed to the extent as mentioned above. 32. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain