In this regard, we may make profitable reference to the decision in Tedhi Singh v Narayan Dass Mahant (2022) 6 SCC 735: ‘10. The trial court and the first appellate court have noted that in the case under Section 138 of the NI Act the complainant need not show in the first instance that he had the capacity. The proceedings under Section 138 of the NI Act is not a civil suit. At the time, when the complainant gives his evidence, unless a case is set up in the reply notice to the statutory notice sent, that the complainant did not have the wherewithal, it cannot be expected of the complainant to initially lead evidence to show that he had the financial capacity. To that extent, the courts in our view were right in holding on those lines. However, the accused has the right to demonstrate that the complainant in a particular case did not have the capacity and therefore, the case of the accused is acceptable which he can do by producing independent materials, namely, by examining his witnesses and producing documents. It is also open to him to establish the very same aspect by pointing to the materials produced by the complainant himself. He can further, more importantly, achieve this result through the cross-examination of the witnesses of the complainant. Ultimately, it becomes the duty of the courts to consider carefully and appreciate the totality of the evidence and then come to a conclusion whether in the given case, the accused has shown that the case of the complainant is [2025] 4 S.C.R. 2255 State (NCT) of Delhi v. Rajeev Sharma in peril for the reason that the accused has established a probable defence.’ (emphasis supplied) 9. The High Court has also rightly noted that the petitioners have not denied receipt of the sum of Rs.41,28,000/- (Rupees Forty-One Lakhs Twenty-Eight Thousand) but have taken the defence that it was given in the course of jointly producing a film with the complainant. Even then, the liability has to be discharged by the person(s) concerned and that would be a legally enforceable debt repayable, under the purview of Section 138 of the Act. 10. Moreover, as per the defence proffered by the petitioners themselves, the money was given to the accused in the course of producing a film jointly by the complainant. The accused urge that since the film failed, the cheques and receipts given by the accused were misused by the complainant. Thus, arguendo, if the same is correct, and the accused and respondent-complainant were indeed jointly producing a film, no reason/occasion to issue the cheques and receipts to the complainant is forthcoming, inasmuch as, if the amount(s) were by way of investments in a film being jointly produced, the need per se to issue cheques, including interest would not have arisen at all. This crucial aspect has not been explained by the petitioners at all. 11. Further, the High Court has also rightly observed that even assuming the petitioners and the complainant engaged together in film production and were in the course of jointly producing a film, the fact that the transaction occurred as a joint investment has not been substantiated by the petitioners before the Courts.