20. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the impugned and passed by the High Court and the directions issued (reproduced hereinabove) directing to legalise the unauthorised occupation and possession made by the original writ petitioners on the land, which is earmarked for school premises/playground is unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside and is accordingly quashed and set aside. However, the original writ petitioners are granted 12 months’ time to vacate the land, which is occupied by them unauthorisedly and if within one year from today, they do not vacate the lands in question, the appropriate authority is directed to remove their unauthorised and illegal occupation and possession.” (viii) Finally, in a recent decision in Re: Directions in the matter of demolition of structures19, while determining a question whether the executive should be permitted to take away the shelter of a family or families as a measure for infliction of penalty on 19 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3291 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1347 Rajendra Kumar Barjatya and Another v. U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad & Ors. a person, who is accused in a crime under our constitutional scheme, this Court has extensively analysed all the aspects and issued certain directions to the authorities. The penultimate paragraphs read as under: “IX. DIRECTIONS 90. In to allay the fears in the minds of the citizens with regard to arbitrary exercise of power by the officers/officials of the State, we find it necessary to issue certain directions in exercise of our power under Article 142 of the Constitution. We are also of the view that even after s of demolition are passed, the affected party needs to be given some time so as to challenge the of demolition before an appropriate forum. We are further of the view that even in cases of persons who do not wish to contest the demolition , sufficient time needs to be given to them to vacate and arrange their affairs. It is not a happy sight to see women, children and aged persons dragged to the streets overnight. Heavens would not fall on the authorities if they hold their hands for some period. 91. At the outset, we clarify that these directions will not be applicable if there is an unauthorized structure in any public place such as road, street, footpath, abutting railway line or any river body or water bodies and also to cases where there is an for demolition made by a Court of law. A. NOTICE i. No demolition should be carried out without a prior show cause notice returnable either in accordance with the time provided by the local municipal laws or within 15 days’ time from the date of service of such notice, whichever is later. ii. The notice shall be served upon the owner/occupier by a registered post A.D. Additionally, the notice shall also be affixed conspicuously on the outer portion of the structure in question. 1348 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports iii.