These committees have approved and did not find any fault with the EVMs. The M3 EVMs currently in use are designed by engineers of BHEL and ECIL. These designs are vetted by the technical experts committee. 63. Our attention was drawn to the query of the Parliamentary Committee on Government Assurances regarding the data on discrepancy 23 The above figures are updated on the basis of the response given by the ECI to the queries raised by the Court on 16.04.2024. The figures given in the counter affidavit filed by the ECI are as follows: 38,156 randomly selected VVPATs have been physically counted and they have tallied with the electronic count of their control unit. Not even a single case of mismatch or transfer of vote meant for candidate A to candidate B has been detected. Counting of VVPAT slips under Rule 56D has been allowed in 61 cases but there is not even a single case of mismatch. 24 The said discrepancy was duly rectified in terms of the protocol laid down in the Manual on EVM and VVPAT. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 443 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another between the EVM and VVPAT counts in 2019 Lok Sabha Elections. Reliance is placed on a news report published in The Wire to submit that the ECI failed to submit the requisite information and revert back to the parliamentary committee despite multiple reminders. The ECI has explained that a reply regarding the said query was sent to the Parliamentary Committee on 05.07.2019. 64. Reliance was placed on a news report of The Quint to contend that there were discrepancies in 2019 Lok Sabha Elections, viz. the electronic votes recorded in the control unit and the total votes polled/ voter turnout. The ECI has explained that the report referred to in the Quint is with reference to the live voter turnout data uploaded on the website of the ECI during 2019 Lok Sabha Elections. The voter turnout data is dynamic in nature and is uploaded by the ECI on real time approximation by taking inputs from the presiding officers of the polling stations. Inaccuracies were found in the real-time inputs given by the presiding officers. However, there was no mismatch of the data of votes recorded in the EVMs and the data of total votes recorded in Form 17C. The data in the EVM and Form 17C matched and accordingly the results were declared in Form 20. 65. On a question being put by the Court, it was stated that a minimum of 50% of the polling stations are equipped with CCTV cameras. Data from the CCTV cameras is stored and retained at least for a period of 45 days from the date of announcement of the polling results. Similarly, the EVMs are retained in the strong room along with seals etc. as affixed after counting of the votes. The candidates have the right to challenge the poll result by filing an election petition within 45 days from the date of election of the returned candidate.