3.4. This Court vide an dated 29.03.2017, transferred the custody petition filed by the Appellant before the Learned Principal Jude, Family Court, Bikaner, Rajasthan to the Family Court in Delhi. Thereafter, vide an dated 16.10.2017, the Family Court granted interim custody of the Minor Children to the Respondent (the “Interim Custody ”). Aggrieved, the Respondent preferred an Appeal before the High Court. Vide an dated 06.12.2017, the High Court initially stayed the operation of the Interim Custody ; thereafter vide an dated 19.04.2018 granted the Respondent custody of the Minor Children on alternative weekends; and finally vide an dated 01.10.2019, dismissed the appeal and vacated the interim (s) observing inter alia that the appeal was not maintainable. 264 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3.5. Aggrieved, the Appellant preferred a writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India before the High Court challenging the correctness of the Interim Custody (the “Writ Petition”). Vide an dated 29.04.2020, the High Court formulated an interim custody arrangement between the parties after interacting with the Minor Children. Pertinently, although an SLP was preferred against the aforesaid , this Court did not interfere with the passed by the High Court; and only directed the Family Court to decide the custody petition within a period of 1 (one) month. 3.6. In the aforesaid context, the custody petition came to be disposed of by the Family Court vide the Underlying as under: “16.1 In view of the aforesaid discussion, it is directed that the permanent custody of minor children SSU and SSH shall remain with the respondent. However, the petitioner shall be entitled to have interaction with the minor children daily through audio-video call for half an hour, between 7:00 PM to 8:00 PM. The respondent shall facilitate the said call. She shall also be entitled to visit the minor children and take them out with her from 10:00 AM to 5:00 PM, on every second and fourth Sunday, at the station, where the minor children are staying, subject to their school/educational commitments. She can pick up the children from their residence at 10:00 AM and drop them back at 5:00 PM. If it is not possible to have visitation on any such day, it shall be compensated on the next Sunday i.e. third or fifth/first Sunday. Further, during the summer vacations and the winter vacations in the school(s) of the minor children, the petitioner shall be entitled to have the custody of the minor children for ten days and five days respectively. Such days can be mutually decided by the parties. Accordingly, the petition filed by the petitioner for seeking custody of the minor children SSU and SSH is dismissed, subject to contact/visitation/custody rights of the petitioner as aforesaid.” [2024] 6 S.C.R. 265 Col. Ramneesh Pal Singh v. Sugandhi Aggarwal 3.7. Aggrieved by the Underlying , the Respondent preferred an appeal under Section 19 of Family Courts Act, 1984 before the High Court. During the pendency of the appeal, certain interim (s) came to be passed from time to time, subsequently, vide the Impugned , the High Court granted the parties shared custody of the Minor Children as under: “34.