The first round of mediation was held between the representatives of the AMP and JRS Groups on 19.01.2022. However, the discussions on the issues did not lead to any conclusion. While the minutes of the same were shared with Mr. Kalpesh Parmar, he denied its contents and stated that the draft minutes do not correctly record the events which occurred at the meeting. 18. For the purpose of initiating the second round of mediation, an email dated 06.05.2022 was sent by the JRS Group to the AMP Group invoking Clause 7.1.2 and they nominated Mr. Anuj Trivedi or Mr. Kalpesh Parmar to act as their representatives. In response to the same, on 23.05.2022, the AMP Group nominated Mr. Keyur Gandhi and/or Mr. Upen Shah and/or Mr. Nihar Mehta as their representatives. The first mediation meeting was convened on 13.06.2022. The second mediation meeting was convened on 23.07.2022 wherein it was stated by the petitioners that the AMP and JRS Groups were agreeable to hold a joint meeting with SRG for the purpose of resolving the major issues pertaining to Millenium and Deegee. 19. In the midst of mediation, on 17.10.2022, the JRS Group sent a WhatsApp message to the AMP Group stating that (a) the JRS Group had a meeting with the SRG Group, (b) SRG and Millenium were ready to purchase the stake of AMP Group in Millenium at the price agreed in the FAA, (c) SRG would exit from Deegee subject to a payment of Rs. 25 crore as compensation considering its contribution to the growth of Deegee. The contents of the message are reproduced hereinbelow: “Dear Keyurbhai. My clients had a meeting with SRG and the following points have been suggested by SRG: [2024] 9 S.C.R. 913 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. (1) Millennium: (a) SRG and Millennium would be ready to purchase the stake of AMP in Millennium at the price already agreed AMP and JRS. (b) The said purchase would be made from the compensation that SRG receives from AMP for handling, taking care of and making Deegee prosperous over the last 20 years. The said compensation would be used for purchasing 11% of the 36% stake of AMP in Millennium. (c) The balance 25% would be “buy back” by Millennium of AMP shares. This would be subject to the receipt of loan and interest by Millennium & SRG from Degee (2) Amendment to AoA: Millennium and SRG are of the opinion that AoA does not need to be amended (3) Aurosagar Lease Deed: the lease of Millennium and Aurosagar is as per the plans sanctioned by the Municipal Corporation. The draft lease deed provided is in contradiction to the said sanctioned plans. (4) Aurosagar Special Power of Attorney: Millennium and SRG are of the opinion that there is no required of a Special Power of Attorney. (5) Deegee (a) SRG will exit from Deegee, however, the same has been formed and promoted by SRG, SRG has also given its name in to avoid the conflict of interest of AMP with Firmenich.