The Courts must not, therefore, travel beyond the four corners of the which is alleged to have been flouted or enter into questions that have not been dealt with or decided in the or the violation of which is alleged. Only such directions which are explicit in a or or are plainly self-evident ought to be taken into account for the purpose of consideration as to whether there has been any disobedience or willful violation of the same. Decided issues cannot be reopened; nor can the plea of equities be considered. The Courts must also ensure that while considering a contempt plea the power available to the Court in other corrective jurisdictions like review or appeal is not trenched upon. No or direction supplemental to what has been already expressed should be issued by the Court while exercising jurisdiction in the domain of the contempt law; such an exercise is more appropriate in other jurisdictions vested in the Court, as noticed above…..” 14. However, in Baranagore Jute Factory PLC. Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) vs. Baranagore Jute Factory PLC.2, considering the aforestated precedent, a 2-Judge Bench of this Court noted that the 3-Judge Bench had clarified therein that directions which are explicit in the or ‘are plainly self-evident’ can be taken into account for the purpose of considering whether there is any disobedience or willful violation. The Bench further held that the Court has a duty to issue appropriate directions for remedying or rectifying the things done in violation of the Court and in that regard, the Court may even take restitutive measures at any stage of the proceedings. 2 [2017] 4 SCR 700 : (2017) 5 SCC 506 1098 [2024] 1 S.C.R. SUPREME COURT REPORT: DIGITAL 15. Significantly, the 2-Judge Bench had merely echoed the affirmation of the legal position by another 2-Judge Bench of this Court in Delhi Development Authority vs. Skipper Construction Co. (P) Ltd.3. The principle that a contemnor ought not to be permitted to enjoy and/ or keep the fruits of his contempt was reiterated therein. Reference was made by the Bench to Mohammad Idris vs. Rustam Jehangir Babuji4, wherein it was held that undergoing punishment for contempt would not mean that the Court is not entitled to give appropriate directions for remedying and rectifying the things done in violation of its s. Therefore, the principle that stands crystallized by these s is that, in addition to punishing a contemnor for disobeying its s, the Court can also ensure that such a contemnor does not continue to enjoy the benefits of his disobedience by merely suffering the punishment meted out to him. 16. This being the settled legal position, we find that the fact situation in the present case is such, that vacating of the stay in the appeal by the High Court in exercise of contempt jurisdiction did not assume either a restitutive or a remedying character. Violation of the status quo condition in the stay stood complete, even as per the High Court, and vacating of the stay did not have the effect of restoring the parties to their original position or deny the contemnor the benefit of the disobedience which already stood concluded.