The case of Javid Rasool Bhat (supra) is based on a written and oral test wherein the member of the selection committee for oral test was unaware of the marks obtained by the candidate in the written examination. The father of the candidate who was on the interview panel had left the premise at the time of 180 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports interview. Thus, the Court found that there was no bias. While in the present case, as per the procedure prescribed and discussed, the members of selection committee were aware, how many marks have been obtained by individual candidates in qualifying exam and also in experience category and by shortage of how many marks they may be out from the merit list of selection. The members were aware that their relatives would appear for interview, therefore, they themselves passed a resolution on 01.08.2003 prior to starting the process of selection and decided to abstain from the interview of those particular candidates. Having knowledge of the fact that their relatives are appearing and even without intimating the same to the higher authorities for change of selection committee, they had participated in the process of selection and about 5% relatives got selected and appointed by such an act. Therefore, in my opinion the of Javid Rasool Bhat (supra) is disqualifiable on facts and is of no help to the appellants. 34. As ascertained from the discussion above, whether in a particular case, principles of natural justice have been contravened or not is a matter for the courts to decide from case to case. However, even with all its vagueness and flexibility, its two elements have generally been accepted, viz, (i) that the body in question should be free from bias, and (ii) that it should hear the person affected before it decides the matter. The first principle denotes that the adjudicator should be disinterested and unbiased; the prosecutor himself should not be a judge; the judge should be a neutral and disinterested person; a person should not be a judge in his own cause; a person interested in one of the parties to the dispute should not, even formally, take part in the adjudicatory proceedings. The basis of this principle is that justice should not only be done, but should manifestly and undoubtedly be seen to be done. According to Lannon (Supra), the actual existence of bias is not necessary. The test is “reasonable likelihood of bias”, if a reasonable man would think on the basis of the existing circumstances that he is likely to be prejudiced, that is sufficient to quash the decision. Mere apprehension of bias is not enough and there must be cogent evidence available on record to come to the conclusion. In my view the said Doctrine has been adopted in pith and substance by Indian Courts. 35. As per the of Ridge Vs. Baldwin; 1964 AC 40, it is said that the doctrine of natural justice is not only to secure justice but [2024] 4 S.C.R.