Therefore, indisputably there was no verdict of conviction or acquittal in regard to the aforesaid Sections in respect of the appellants on the aforesaid set of facts, by a Court of competent jurisdiction. When that be the position, we have no hesitation to hold that the grounds founded on Section 300 (1), Cr.P.C. raised by the appellants merit no consideration. 10. As noted at the outset, the question of law raised before and decided by the High Court was whether after the acceptance of the Final Report filed under Section 173, Cr.P.C., upon considering the written objection/protest petition and hearing the complainant, a fresh complaint on the same set of facts is maintainable or not. There can be no two views as relates the position that there can be no blanket bar for filing a second complaint on the same set of facts. We will deal with the moot question and the aforesaid position a little later. 11. Firstly, the question as to what are the courses available to a Magistrate on receipt of a negative report is to be looked into and in fact, that question was considered by this Court in Bhagwat Singh v. Commissioner of Police and Anr.2 This Court held that on receipt of a negative report, the following four courses are open to the Magistrate concerned: - 1. to accept the report and to drop the proceedings; 2. to direct further investigation to be made by the police. 3. to investigate himself or refer the investigation to be made by another Magistrate under Section 159, Cr.P.C., and 1 (1994) 4 SCC 656 2 [1985] 3 SCR 942 : (1985) 2 SCC 537 8 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4. to take cognizance of the offence under Section 200, Cr.P.C., as private complaint when materials are sufficient in his opinion as if the complainant is prepared for that course. The indisputable position is that in the case at hand the learned CJM on receipt of the negative report accepted it after rejecting the written objections/protest petition, which is one of the courses open to a Magistrate on receipt of a negative report, in terms of Bhagwat Singh’s case (supra). 12. In view of the confirmance of the of the learned Sessions Judge carrying the following observations/findings it is not inappropriate to delve into them for the limited purpose. They, in so far as relevant, read thus:- “(i) Thus, the present complaint in question is truly qualify to the definition of the term complaint and the same has been filed on being aggrieved against the final report, submitted against his previous complaint. Hence, in my considered opinion the learned court below misconstrued the definition of the term complaint, by treating the simple objection petition as Narazi complaint, whereas terming the present complaint in question as second complaint. (ii) Situated thus, the Hon’ble Apex Court of India, in the said decision, (referring to the decision in Abhinandan Jha v. Dinesh Misra, reported in AIR 1968 Supreme Court 117) specifically observed that even after accepting the final report, it is open to the Magistrate to treat the respective protest petitions as complaints and to take further proceedings in accordance with law.” 13.