That has to be taken as the essence of the amendments brought in by the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (3 of 2016) and recognised by the decision of this Court in TRF Ltd.” (emphasis supplied) 10. In Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. ECI-SPIC- SMO-MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company,14 the arbitration was to be held following Clause 64(3)(b) of the General Conditions of Contract. The clause reads thus: “64. (3)(b) Appointment of arbitrator where applicability of Section 12(5) of the A&C Act has not been waived off 13 Perkins (supra) [16] 14 [2019] 16 SCR 1234 [“CORE”] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2199 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of a panel of three retired railway officers retired not below the rank of SAO officer, as the arbitrator. For this purpose, the Railways will send a panel of at least four names of retired railway officer(s) empanelled to work as railway arbitrator indicating their retirement date to the contractor within 60 days from the day when a written and valid demand for arbitrators is received by the GM. Contractor will be asked to suggest to General Manager at least two names out of the panel for appointment as contractor’s nominee within 30 days from the date of dispatch of the request by the Railways. The General Manager shall appoint at least one out of them as the contractor’s nominee and will, also simultaneously appoint the balance number of arbitrators either from the panel or from outside the panel, duly indicating the “presiding arbitrator” from amongst the three arbitrators so appointed. The GM shall complete this exercise of appointing the Arbitral Tribunal within 30 days from the receipt of the names of contract’s nominees. While nominating the arbitrators, it will be necessary to ensure that one of them has served in the Accounts Department.” 11. The first relevant issue before the Bench of three Judges was whether the appointment of retired railway officers as arbitrators was valid, given Section 12(5) read with the Seventh Schedule. The Court relied on Voestalpine (supra) to observe that Section 12(5) does not bar former employees of parties from being appointed as arbitrator. The other issue was whether the General Manager could appoint arbitrators. The Court held that the law laid down in TRF (supra) and Perkins (supra) was not applicable because “the right of the General Manager in formation of Arbitral Tribunal is counter- balanced by respondent’s power to choose any two from out of the four names and the General Manager shall appoint at least one out of them as the contractor’s nominee.” The Court upheld the validity of the arbitration clause and directed the constitution of the arbitral tribunal in terms of the agreement. 2200 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports ii. The reference 12. In Union of India v. Tantia Constructions Limited,15 a three Judge Bench prima facie disagreed with CORE (supra), observing: "1. … on the facts of this case, the of the High Court cannot be faulted with (sic).