Even the CoC is not permitted to approve multiple resolution plans or solicit EoIs after submission of a resolution plan to the adjudicating authority, which would possibly be in contemplation if the resolution applicant was permitted to withdraw from, or modify, the plan after acceptance by the CoC. Regulation 36-B(4-A) requires the furnishing of a performance security which [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2131 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. will be forfeited if a resolution applicant fails to implement the plan. This is collected before the adjudicating authority approves the plan. Notably, the Regulations also direct forfeiture of the performance security in case the resolution applicant “contributes to the failure of implementation”, which could potentially include any attempts at withdrawal of the plan. xxx xxx xxx 172. Based on the plain terms of the statute, the adjudicating authority lacks the authority to allow the withdrawal or modification of the resolution plan by a successful resolution applicant or to give effect to any such clauses in the resolution plan. Unlike Section 18(3)(b) of the erstwhile SICA which vested the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction with the power to make modifications to a draft scheme for sick industrial companies, the adjudicating authority under Section 31(2) IBC can only examine the validity of the plan on the anvil of the grounds stipulated in Section 30(2) and either approve or reject the plan. The adjudicating authority cannot compel a CoC to negotiate further with a successful resolution applicant. A rejection by the adjudicating authority is followed by a direction of mandatory liquidation under Section 33. Section 30(2) does not envisage setting aside of the resolution plan because the resolution applicant is unwilling to execute it, based on terms of its own resolution plan. xxx xxx xxx 222. If the legislature in its wisdom, were to recognise the concept of withdrawals or modifications to a resolution plan after it has been submitted to the adjudicating authority, it must specifically provide for a tether under IBC and/or the Regulations. This tether must be coupled with directions on narrowly defined grounds on which such actions are permissible and procedural directions, which may include the timelines in which they can be proposed, voting requirements and threshold for approval by the CoC (as the case may be). They must also contemplate at which stage the corporate debtor may be sent into liquidation 2132 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports by the adjudicating authority or otherwise, in the event of a failed negotiation for modification and/or withdrawal. These are matters for legislative policy. 223. In the present framework, even if an impermissible understanding of equity is imported through the route of residual powers or the terms of the resolution plan are interpreted in a manner that enables the appellants› desired course of action, it is wholly unclear on whether a withdrawal of a CoC-approved resolution plan at a later stage of the process would result in the adjudicating authority directing mandatory liquidation of the corporate debtor.