Sundararamier (supra)? d. What is the scope of Entry 49 of List II and whether it covers a tax which involves a measure based on the value of the produce of land? Would the constitutional position be any different qua mining land on account of Entry 50 of List II read with Entry 54 of List I? e. Whether Entry 50 of List II is a specific entry in relation to Entry 49 of List II, and would consequently subtract mining land from the scope of Entry 49 of List II?” 7. As the learned Chief Justice has recorded the submissions of the respective parties in detail, I need not be repetitive except highlighting the fact that the learned senior counsel and counsel for the appellants have contended that “royalty is not a tax” while the learned senior counsel and counsel for the respondents including the Attorney General and Solicitor General for the Union of India have submitted that “royalty is a tax or an exaction” and therefore, the States are denuded of their power to levy any other levy, impost, tax or cess on royalty. Therefore, the question which arises is, whether, payment made for exercise of mineral rights being royalty, is a tax or an exaction. Constitutional Framework: 8. Article 265 of the Constitution mandates that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law. Article 366 is a definition clause and it states that in the Constitution, unless the context otherwise requires, the expressions mentioned therein have the meanings thereby respectively assigned to them. For the purpose of this case, Article 366(28) is relevant and the same reads as under: “(28) “taxation” includes the imposition of any tax or impost, whether general or local or special and “tax” shall be construed accordingly.” The aforesaid definition of ‘taxation’ is not exhaustive but inclusive in nature to include not only any tax in the usual understanding of the said expression or tax stricto senso but also any levy akin to a tax. There can be no cavil to the proposition that before any tax 1754 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or impost could be levied or collected, it must have the authority of law vide Article 265. 8.1 Article 246 of the Constitution deals with distribution of legislative powers between the Parliament and State Legislatures. It reads as under: “246. Subject-matter of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of States.— (1) Notwithstanding anything in clauses (2) and (3), Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List 1 in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the “Union List”). (2) Notwithstanding anything in clause (3), Parliament and subject to clause (1), the Legislature of any State also, have power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the “Concurrent List”). (3) Subject to clauses (1) and (2), the Legislature of any State has exclusive power to make laws for such State or any part thereof with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the ‘State List’).