Many States designate officials holding other substantial roles, such as Child Development Project (g) to discharge such other functions and duties as may be assigned to him by the State Government. (3) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, subject to such conditions and limitations, invest the Child Marriage Prohibition Officer with such powers of a police officer as may be specified in the notification and the Child Marriage Prohibition Officer shall exercise such powers subject to such conditions and limitations, as may be specified in the notification. (4) The Child Marriage Prohibition Officer shall have the power to move the Court for an under sections 4, 5 and 13 and along with the child under section 3.” 19 HAQ Centre for Child Rights (n.d.). Child Marriage in India: Achievements, Gaps and Challenges, Response to Questions for OHCHR Report on Preventing Child, Early and Forced Marriages for Twenty- sixth Session of the Human Rights Council. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1533 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Officers20 or District Welfare Officers as the CMPO. This leads to CMPOs prioritising their duties in the discharge of other roles – defeating the purpose of appointing CMPOs - as they would not have the time, monetary and human resources to carry out the responsibilities enumerated in the Act. For instance, Section 3(1) of the Mizoram Gazette mandates that the District Social Welfare Officer or, in their absence, the CDPO acts as the CMPO; (iii) Responses to various requests under the Right to Information Act 200521 by all States and UTs reveal significant disparities in the appointment and functionality of CMPOs. Of the 36 States and UTs, only 23 responded, and only 14 provided substantive data. Most of the responses indicated the transfer of the RTI to other departments without concrete answers. Notably, only Haryana and Sikkim reported having exclusively appointed CMPOs. In contrast, other States and UTs assign these duties to already overburdened officers, such as District Magistrates or CDPOs, undermining the effectiveness of CMPOs; (iv) There is a discrepancy between data from the National Crime Records Bureau22 and information obtained from various State departments in response to RTIs. For example, in Rajasthan, the Department of Women and Child Development reported 573 and 567 incidents of child marriage in 2015-16 and 2016-17, respectively, despite only 576 cases being formally recognized by authorities in 2016-17; and (v) Analysis of data further reveals not only a low number of child marriage cases reported to the police compared to NFHS-4 data but also an exceptionally low conviction rate. 10. Therefore, the Petitioner prays for directives to authorities at multiple levels to prevent and address child marriages, particularly during mass events, ensure accountability for officials who fail in this duty, and appointment of CMPOs with exclusive powers. They also seek collaboration with NGOs, inclusion of child marriage awareness in 20 ‘CDPOs’ 21 ‘RTI’ 22 ‘NCRB’ 1534 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports school curriculums, and comprehensive government support for affected child brides.