Supreme Court Reports “An Act to establish and incorporate a Teaching, Research and Extension University with a view to upgrade and reconstitute the existing Sam Higginbottom Institute of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences (Deemed-to-be- University), Allahabad, established and administered by the Ecumenical Minority Christian Society namely the Sam Higginbottom Educational and Charitable Society, Higginbottom House, 4- Agricultural Institute, Allahabad-211007, Registered under the Society Registration Act, 1860 in the State of Uttar Pradesh, and to provide for natters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” 74. Secondly, the preamble of Era University, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Act, 2016, unambiguously recognises the minority character of the institution by stating that: “Preamble An Act to establish and incorporate a teaching University sponsored by Era Educational Trust duly established and administered by the members of Muslim Minority community, *** 2. Definitions—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires *** (t) ‘Trust’ means the Era Educational Trust, established and administered by the members of Muslim Minority community, in the year 1995 for imparting education, having its office at 88, Victoria Street (Tulsi Das Marg), Lucknow a ‘not for profit’ Trust registered in the office of Sub-Registrar-I Lucknow under the Indian Trust Act, 1882.” (emphasis supplied) 75. Thus, these enactments are in stark contrast to the AMU Act, insofar as they categorically recognise the factum of establishment and administration of the universities by the respective minority community. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1889 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 76. Proceeding further, section 7 of the AMU Act states that: “The University shall invest and keep invested in securities in which trust funds may be invested in accordance with the law for the time being in force relating to trusts in British India a sum of thirty lakhs of rupees as a permanent endowment to meet the recurring charges of the University other than charges in respect of Fellowships, Scholarships, Prizes and rewards…” (emphasis supplied) Therefore, the sum of Rs 30,00,000/- (Rupees Thirty lakh only) collected by donations across the country was not spent in the establishment of AMU; rather, it was to be used as a fund to meet recurring expenditure. The appellants have repeatedly underscored the contribution made by the Muslim community, motivated to do the same by a systematic and sustained effort on the part of Sir Syed, in the setting up of AMU. The impact of such a monetary contribution cannot be gainsaid, but can the same be equated to establishment of AMU? I think not. The efforts of the Muslim community in leading to the establishment of AMU were no doubt monumental in spearheading the movement, and perhaps without such efforts AMU would never have become a reality, but this cannot by any stretch of imagination mean that the community itself established AMU. 77. There is no contest that MAO College was a minority institution, but AMU would not be endowed with the same characteristic solely on account of tracing its lineage from MAO College. The same is evidenced by section 4 of the AMU Act, which is reproduced hereinbelow: “4.