The facts of the case in hand are identical. In the instant case as well the balance amount to be deposited by the appellant was not specified in the decree. The deficiency was only ₹ 14/-. The appellants had already deposited ₹ 9,200/- including the preemption amount [2024] 5 S.C.R. 895 Kanihya @ Kanhi (Dead) Through LRS. v. Sukhi Ram &Ors. already deposited. When the application was filed seeking permission to deposit the amount along with the Treasury Challan, the error was not noticed by the Court. At the very first stage, in response to the application filed by the respondents to pass appropriate on account of deficiency by the appellants to deposit the amount as directed by the court, the appellants stated that in case there is any deficiency, they are ready to make it good. The court could have considered the same and passed appropriate s. However, the matter remained pending for this. 17. It is the pleaded case of the appellants in the application filed for permission to deposit the deficit balance of ₹ 14/- dated 05.03.1991, that the applicant (late Kanihya, predecessor in-interest of the appellants) is in possession of the property and mutation has already been entered in his name in the revenue record. 18. In view of the aforesaid discussions, the present appeal deserves to be allowed. ed accordingly. The impugned passed by the High Court and the court below are set aside. The appellants are permitted to deposit a sum of ₹ 14/- to the court below on or before 20.05.2024. The respondents shall be entitled to withdraw the entire amount deposited in court, if not already done. 19. Though, we are allowing the appeal but on account of error on part of the appellants, the respondents were made to litigate for decades together upto this Court. We deem it appropriate to compensate them. Hence, we direct the appellants to pay a cost of ₹ 1,00,000/- to the respondents. The amount shall be deposited in the Trial Court within the time granted above, with liberty to the respondents to withdraw the same. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankitesh Ojha, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Abhinav Mukerji, Sr. Adv.)