The was a composite one, when read in the sense we have explained, and is quite legal. Therefore, we reach the conclusion that the appellant is entitled to win and the High Court was in error.” 8.2. The Act must always be read as a whole. Once the liability of confiscation is withdrawn after the option to pay fine is exercised and the goods are redeemed, it is natural for the goods to be subjected to duty. The power and the machinery provisions for imposition and collection of duty liability exist only under Section 12 and/or Section 28 and not under Section 125. The essence of the in Security Finance case is in the following [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1195 M/s Navayuga Engineering Co. Ltd. v. Union of India & Anr. sentence: “The import duty has been made a condition for the clearance of the goods. This is right and it is impossible to say that the said payment is not justified by Section 20”. 8.3. The scope of enquiry in this judgement was limited to answering whether there is a liability to pay customs duty in confiscation proceedings when goods are redeemed upon payment of fine. This is not concerned with instances like in the present case where goods are imported without payment of duty under an exemption notification. 8.4. The above referred judicial interpretation has attained statutory recognition in 1985 when the Parliament introduced subsection (2) to Section 125 to clarify and declare that the owner of goods, in addition to payment of fine, shall also be liable to pay duty and other charges upon exercising the option to pay fine to redeem goods. Thus, the owner of goods has a liability to pay customs duty, even after confiscated goods are redeemed after payment of fine and other charges under Section 125 of the Act. This is the first principle. 8.5. In our view, this position gleaned from Security Finance case has remained consistent with amendments introduced to Section 125 in the year 1985. The customs duty obligation on once exempted goods, liable to be confiscated for violation of conditions, arises only after the option to redeem them is exercised under Section 125. Once the option is exercised, the acceptance is subject to the conditions specified in Section 125. The primary condition is payment of fine in lieu of confiscation. Thus, this duty obligation is inextricably connected to the option to redeem the confiscated goods. In other words, it is a precondition for redemption. 8.6. The decision of this court in Fortis Hospital Ltd v. Commr. of Customs, Import 11 affirms this position. In Fortis Hospital case, the owner of the confiscated goods chose not to exercise the option under Section 125. However, the revenue sought to recover the duty payable under Section 28 of the Act. Holding that this is impermissible, the court held that: 11 [2015] 4 SCR 456 : (2015) 12 SCC 715, hereinafter referred to as Fortis Hospital case. 1196 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “9…… It may be seen from the bare reading of the aforesaid Section that under Section 125(1) of the Act, option is given to the importer whose goods are confiscated, to pay the fine in lieu of confiscation and redeem the confiscated goods.