8. Challenging the above referred reasoning and conclusions of the National Commission, the appellant filed the present appeals. We have heard Mr. Avinash Sharma, Ld. Counsel appearing for the appellant and Mr. Abhishek Kumar, Ld. Counsel appearing for the respondent. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1113 Rajesh Kumar v. National Insurance Co. Ltd. 9. Mr. Sharma submitted that the National Commission went beyond the scope of its revisional jurisdiction and relied on the precedents in Momna Gauri v. Scooter India Ltd.,4 and Rubi Chandra Dutta v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd.5 He further submitted that in cases of insurance pertaining to motor vehicle accidents, the liability of the insurer must be interpreted strictly. 10. On the other hand, Mr. Abhishek Kumar, Ld.Counsel appearing for the respondent submitted that the National Commission had correctly exercised its revisional jurisdiction in the present case. He submitted that the courts below disregarded the survey report, which is patently erroneous. As for whether the National Commission’s was justified in interfering with the concurrent findings, he submitted that the District Commission also found that the vehicle was left unattended by the appellant however,the State Commission did not answer the question as to why the vehicle was left exposed to further damage for a period of three days. He would therefore submit that interference in the revisional jurisdiction against the concurrent findings is fully justified. He also argued that the National Commission correctly applied Condition No. 4 of the policy in excluding the damage caused by the short-circuiting. 11. Analysis: We have given the matter our anxious consideration and considered the submissions of both the sides carefully. Section 21(b)6 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 vests the National Commission with revisionary jurisdiction. It allows the National Commission to invoke the same if the State Commission has exercised a jurisdiction not given to it by law, or has failed to exercise it at all, or has exercised the same but with illegally or with material irregularity. 4 (2014) 13 SCC 307 5 [2011] 3 SCR 977 : (2011) 11 SCC 269 6 “21. Jurisdiction of the National Commission.— Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the National Commission shall have jurisdiction— (a) to entertain— (i) complaints where the value of the goods or services and compensation, if any, claimed exceeds rupees one crore; and (ii) appeals against the s of any State Commission; and (b) to call for the records and pass appropriate s in any consumer dispute which is pending before or has been decided by any State Commission where it appears to the National Commission that such State Commission has exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law, or has failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested, or has acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.” 1114 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 12. On a careful scrutiny of the records of the case, it is seen that both the District and State Commissions had reached a concurrent finding about whether the delay in intimation to the respondent was justified.