Consequently, they argued that the Petitioners are barred from challenging Section 6A. 37. The Petitioners, on the other hand, contended that Section 6A merely being a provision of the statute, it does not fall beyond the purview of judicial review. It is, thus, important for us to discuss and demarcate the principles and scope of judicial review in the instant case. (a) Concept of judicial review 38. The principle of judicial review finds its roots in common law. It can effectively be traced back to Chief Justice Coke’s ruling in Thomas Bonham v. College of Physicians,36 wherein it was asserted that common law had the authority to oversee Acts of Parliament and empowered the courts to invalidate an enactment conflicting with common right and reason. This principle entails subjecting all laws to scrutiny against a higher law, typically embodied in a constitution. 39. This principle originated in the Supreme Court of the United States during the landmark case of Marbury v. Madison.37 In that decision, the Court asserted its authority by deeming the concerned legislation unconstitutional, thereby constraining the powers of Congress. The Court therein held that: "Thus, the particular phraseology of the Constitution of the United States confirms and strengthens the principle, supposed to be essential to all written Constitutions, that a law repugnant to the Constitution is void, and that courts, as well as other departments, are bound by that instrument.” [Emphasis supplied] 36 Thomas Bonham v. College of Physicians [1610], 8 Co. Rep. 107 77 Eng. Rep. 638. 37 Marbury v. Madison [1803], 5 U.S. 137 (1803). 1038 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 40. The essence of our constitutional system is rooted in the concepts of constitutionalism and judicial review, which comprise three essential elements: first, the presence of a written Constitution establishing and constraining government organs; second, the Constitution serving as a superior law or standard by which the conduct of all organs is assessed; and third, the provision for sanctions to prevent, restrain, and if necessary, annul any violation of superior law. The third element, which seeks to safeguard superior law, is through judicial review. Despite the expansive powers granted to legislatures, they operate within the confines set by the Constitution. In a democratic nation governed by a written constitution, supremacy and sovereignty reside in the Constitution. However, the duty of protecting the rights given under the Constitution falls to courts through judicial review, making them, in the process, the ultimate arbiter of constitutional interpretation.38 41. Constitutional courts, equipped with the powers of judicial review, function as custodians of justice, ensuring effective safeguard of citizens’ rights. Embedded in Article 13 of our Constitution, judicial review is recognized as a basic feature of our constitutional framework.39 It gives the Court the authority to scrutinize any violation of constitutional mandates by state organs. As articulated by Lord Steyn, the justification for judicial review arises from a combination of principles, such as the separation of powers, the rule of law, and the principle of constitutionality.40 42.