to protect legislatures in the discharge of their legislative and deliberative functions. A court recognizing a parliamentary privilege entails that the court cannot review its exercise. Therefore, a purposive approach must be adopted to ensure that it is only as broad as necessary to perform the assembly’s constitutional role. In the factual context, the Court held that the necessity of a parliamentary privilege over the management of the security guards could not be established. The management of guards could be dealt with under ordinary law without impeding the security of the assembly or its ability to deliberate on issues. IV. Australia 164. The position of law in Australia has been consistent since 1875. The courts have held that an attempt to bribe a member of the legislature to influence their votes constitutes a criminal offence under common law. The decision of the Supreme Court of New South Wales in R v. Edward White79 was a landmark in this regard. Sir James Martin (CJ) observed: “The point now for the consideration of the Court, whether or not the objection so taken is a valid one, or in other words, whether an attempt to bribe a member of the Legislative assembly is a criminal offence. I am clearly of the opinion that such an attempt is a misdemeanor at common law. Although no case can be found on an information or indictment against a person for attempting to bribe a member of the Legislature, there are several cases which show that such an attempt is an offence. 79 13 SCR (NSW) 332 568 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports … The injury to the public is more direct and is certainly greater in tampering with the person actually elected than with the persons who elect him. A person sent into the Legislature by means of votes corruptly obtained may be an able and conscientious member; but a legislator who suffers his vote to be influenced by a bribe does that which is calculated to sap the utility of representative institutions at their foundation. It would be a reproach to the common law if the offer to, or the acceptance of, a bribe by such a person were not an offence.” (emphasis supplied) Similarly, Justice Hargrave also observed as follows: “These numerous modern authorities clearly establish that the old common law prohibition against bribery has been long since extended beyond mere judicial officers acting under oaths of office, to all persons whatever holding offices of public trust and confidence; and it seems impossible to understand why members of our Legislative Assembly and Legislative council, who are entrusted with the public duty of enacting our laws, should not be at least equally protected from bribery and corruption as any Judge or constable who has to carry out the law.” (emphasis supplied) 165. Subsequently, the decision in White (supra) was also followed by the High Court of Australia in R v. Boston.80 This was a case where certain private parties entered into an agreement to bribe members of the legislative assembly such that they would use their official position to secure the acquisition of certain estates.