She stated that there was no external injury on the person of the prosecutrix, specially on her neck, chick, chest, abdomen and thigh. She also did not find any injuries on the outer part of the genital part of the prosecutrix. She has found the hymen was ruptured recently and there was bleeding. The injury was ordinary in nature. She further stated that the same could have been possibly be caused by hard and blunt object as well. The evidence has established that a minor child was violated by the accused. However, there was no other injury inflicted him either on the other parts of the body and also on the private part. Thus the manner in which the offence is committed is not barbaric and brutal. We have given our anxious consideration to the material on record and find that though the offence is condemnable, reprehensible, vicious and a deplorable act of violence but the same does not fall within the aggravating 2 [2001] 4 Suppl. SCR 298 : (2001) 9 SCC 615 3 [2006] 8 Suppl. SCR 889 : (2006) 12 SCC 79 4 [2011] 1 SCR 829 : (2011) 2 SCC 764 116 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports circumstances namely extreme depravity and the barbaric manner in which the crime was committed. Taking into consideration the totality of the facts, nature, motive and the manner of the offence and further that nothing has been brought on record by the prosecution that the accused was having any criminal antecedent and the possibility of being rehabilitation and reformation has abo not been ruled out. Nothing is available on record to suggest that he cannot be useful for the society. In our considered opinion, it is not a ease in which the alternative punishment would not be sufficient to the facts of the case.” 9. Now, we will refer to the rival contentions. The contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner is that at the time of commission of offence, the petitioner was aged only 40 years. The High Court after taking note of the manner in which the alleged offence was committed observed that it was not barbaric and brutal and further that owing to the absence of anything on record to suggest that the convict is having criminal antecedents the possibility of rehabilitation and chances for his reformation could not be ruled out and opined that the case is not one where the alternative punishment would not be sufficient. The alternative punishment provided under Section 376 AB, IPC viz., sentence of rigorous imprisonment not less than 20 years and with fine alone may be imposed after altering the life imprisonment for the conviction under Section 376 AB, IPC and no separate sentence be awarded for the conviction under the other offences mentioned above. According to the learned counsel, rigorous imprisonment for 20 years with a minimal fine will be the comeuppance. Per contra, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent State would submit that the question as to what extent the capital sentence could be commuted, in the facts and circumstances of the case was considered in detail with reference to the decisions mentioned in the impugned by the High Court and no case has been made out by the petitioner for further interference qua the quantum of sentence imposed on the petitioner.