The Chief Minister shall be entitled to recommend the shortlisted names in of preference for appointment as Vice-Chancellors. 19. The learned Chancellor on the receipt of record from the Chief Minister of the State, shall appoint the Vice-Chancellors out of the empaneled names, in the same of preference as recommended by the Chief Minister of the State. In case the learned Chancellor has any reservation against the empaneled names and/or the remarks made by the Chief Minister of the State against any short-listed candidate, the learned Chancellor shall be entitled to put up his own opinion on file, duly supported with reasons and relevant material. 20. The learned Chancellor shall accord his approval (save and except when there is a difference of opinion) within two weeks of receipt of file from the Chief Minister of the State. The Department of Higher Education, Government of West Bengal or any other concerned Department of the State Government are hereby directed to notify 86 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the appointment within one week from the date of receipt of approval from the learned Chancellor of the University. 21. In the case(s) where the Chief Minister of the State has objected to the inclusion of any name in the panel and such objection is not acceptable to the Chancellor or where the Chancellor has an objection against empanelment of any particular name for which he has assigned his own reasons, all such files shall be put up before this Court. We make it clear that a final decision in this regard shall be taken by this Court after giving reasonable opportunity of being heard to the objectors. 22. The State of West Bengal shall file the Status Report in respect to compliance of the directions issued here-in-above before the next date of hearing. We make it clear that since the constitution and composition of Search-cum-Selection Committee is at the instance and with the consent of the parties, we will not entertain any objection from any side for non-compliance. Result of the case: Directions issued. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain