[2024] 8 S.C.R. 540 : 2024 INSC 607 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. (Civil Appeal No. 4056-4064 of 1999) 14 August 2024 [Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud,* CJI, Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S. Oka, J.B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the 9-judge bench in Mineral Area Development Authority v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc 2024 INSC 554 be given prospective effect? Headnotes† Constitution of the United States – Evolution of Doctrine of Prospective Overruling – Objectives and Purpose – Factors to be considered for its applicability – Discussed: Held: The doctrine of prospective overruling is applied when a constitutional court overrules a well-established precedent by declaring a new rule but limits its application to future situations – The underlying objective is to avert injustice or hardships, per Great Northern Railway Co. v. Sunburst Oil and Refining Co., 287 US 358 (1932) – Relied on Linkletter v. Walker, 381 US 618 (1965) to hold that the doctrine was applied by the courts in the US on the basis that the US Constitution “neither prohibits nor requires retroactive effect.” – US Supreme Court identified three separate factors to be considered while deciding the applicability of prospective overruling in Chevron Oil Company v. Huson 404 US 97 (1971): (i) the decision to be applied prospectively must establish a new principle of law, either by overruling clear past precedent on which litigants may have relied, or by deciding an issue of first impression whose resolution was not foreshadowed; (ii) the court must weigh the merits and demerits in each case by looking to the prior history of the rule in question,its purpose and effect, and whether retrospective operation will further or retard the operation of the rule; and (iii) whether the application of nonretroactivity avoids substantial inequitable results, injustice or hardships. [Paras 5, 6] * Author [2024] 8 S.C.R. 541 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. Constitution of India – Article 142 – Application of the Doctrine of Prospective Overruling in India – Explained: Held: Relying on Golak Nath v. State of Punjab [1967] 2 SCR 762, held that the doctrine of prospective overruling can be invoked only in matters arising under the Constitution and that it can be applied only by the Supreme Court as it has the constitutional jurisdiction to declare law binding on all the courts in India – The scope of the retroactive operation of the law is left to the discretion of the Supreme Court to be moulded in accordance with the justice of the cause or matter before it – The power of the Supreme Court to mould the relief claimed to meet the justice of the case is derived from Article 142 – It is applied by the Supreme Court while overruling its earlier decision, which was otherwise final – It has also been applied when deciding on an issue for the first time.