This was in violation of Section 22 of the UGC Act as well as the Schedule; e. These universities were offering professional courses without obtaining permission or approval from regulatory bodies such as the All India Council of Technical Education, Medical Council of India and Dental Council of India; and f. These universities conferred degrees without obtaining the requisite permission from statutory bodies. These degrees would not be recognised by professional organisations or other employers. The students who were awarded such degrees would therefore not only suffer financially but would also have lost the time spent completing these courses. 151. In response, the State of Chhattisgarh submitted that it was competent to enact the statute under challenge in view of Entry 32 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.131 It argued that the universities were established on the basis of the representations made by the sponsoring body as set out in the project reports. However, it admitted that some of these universities did not meet the minimum standards expected of educational institutions, giving rise to serious concerns about the academic interest of the students. It stated that it therefore amended the Chhattisgarh Act in 2004. After the amendments, a large number of universities were de-notified because they failed to comply with the amended statute. Finally, it argued that the writ petitions ought to be dismissed because the concerns raised in them no longer subsisted after the amendments in 2004 and the consequent denotification of many universities. 152. This Court analysed the relevant entries in the Lists of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution as well as the UGC Act and held that Sections 5 and 6 of Chhattisgarh Act were ultra vires the Constitution and liable to be struck down for the following reasons: 131 “32. Incorporation, regulation and winding up of corporations, other than those specified in List I, and universities; unincorporated trading, literary, scientific, religious and other societies and associations; co-operative societies.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1757 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. a. The term “university” occurring in the three Lists of the Seventh Schedule must mean an institution with adequate facilities and resources for advanced learning and research. The standard of teaching and education must be such as would befit a university. The power conferred on state legislatures with respect to the incorporation of universities must be exercised only with respect to institutions which would in substance amount to universities. The Chhattisgarh Act did not provide for the establishment of universities in the true sense. Rather, it conferred the legal status of a university to mere institutions or project reports and permitted them to issue degrees. In doing so, it clothed an institute which is not a university and cannot amount to a university (because of a lack of infrastructure and resources) with the juristic personality of a university. This is not contemplated either by Entry 32 of List II or Entry 25 of List III. Sections 5 and 6 of the Chhattisgarh Act were a fraud on the Constitution; b.