Article 14 and 21 and more particularly Article 23 prohibits forced labour. Hence, the condition as is being read by the plaintiffs where not only the donees but their successors were to continue giving services to the plaintiffs, that too indefinitely, is nothing short of reading forced labour, as a condition. But will this make the gift itself void? Our answer would be no. In this case, the validity of gift was never ever questioned, either by the plaintiffs or by the defendants. Therefore, a meaningful and purposive interpretation is required here. The only possible way therefore where the donees and their successors have continued to be in peaceful possession of the property for more than 45 years, is that there was never such a condition of rendering continuous services in the gift deed and services here meant only the “past services” rendered by the donees to the donor, or at best it may include services to be rendered by the donees to the original donor Rai Bahadur Randhir Singh, who passed away in the late 1950s. This is the only way it can be construed. In other words, the gift had no condition of continuation of these services till perpetuity as the plaintiffs would like us to read. 17. We must also remember that Section 127 of TPA, which permits onerous gifts, was not in force in present day Haryana which was earlier part of Punjab, as TPA was not applicable there. Nor can we say that such a condition being based on equity, justice & good conscience can be read into the gift deed as a valid condition. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 707 Smt. Naresh Kumari & Ors. v. Smt. Chameli & Ors. The stipulated condition of “services” and the continuation of the rendering of such services has to be read in the context when the deed was executed. Thus, services shall be understood only as ‘past services’ rendered, or at most, the services which had to be rendered by the original donees to the original donor during his lifetime. 18. Under such facts and circumstances, we have no doubt in our mind that the plaintiffs had absolutely no case. Hence, the impugned calls for no interference by us. We accordingly dismiss this appeal. 19. Interim (s), if any, shall stand vacated. 20. Pending applications, if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain