Gandhi was dishonoured. (ii) During the course of the said complaint case, the accused Mr. Sharma agreed to pay the sum of Rs.20,000/- for the dishonoured cheque besides Rs.5,000/- as the expenses incurred by the complainant. It was alleged by the respondent (complainant) that though the appellant had received from the accused Mr. Sharma the DD/pay for Rs.20,000/- and the crossed cheque of Rs.5,000/- on behalf of the respondent, the appellant did not deliver the same to the respondent and instead demanded Rs.5,000/- in cash from the respondent. The appellant also filed a suit for recovery of Rs.5,000/- in the court of Small Causes, Delhi raising a plea that the sum was due to him as his fees. Subsequently, the appellant gave the DD/pay for Rs.20,000/- and cheque for Rs.5,000/- to the respondent, however, the payment of cheque for Rs.5,000/- was stopped by the accused Mr. Sharma at the instance of the appellant. The respondent therefore filed a complaint before the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Delhi seeking compensation of Rs. 15,000/- in addition to the amount of cheque of Rs.5,000/-, as also Rs.10,000/- for the mental agony and harassment along with the cost. The appellant resisted the said complaint by filing a reply on 03.03.1998 raising a preliminary objection to the effect that the District Consumer Forum had no jurisdiction to adjudicate the dispute raised in the complaint as the Advocates were not covered under the provisions contained in the CP Act. (iii) The District Forum, however, rejected the said preliminary objection, holding that it had the jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the dispute between the parties and further decided the complaint in favour of the respondent. The appellant being aggrieved by the said had filed an appeal before the State Commission, which by the dated 10.03.2006 allowed the [2024] 6 S.C.R. 495 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr. same holding that the services of lawyers/advocates did not fall within the ambit of “service” defined under section 2(1)(o) of the CP Act, 1986. The NCDRC, however in the Revision Application preferred by the respondent passed the impugned as stated hereinabove. (iv) Being aggrieved by the said impugned passed by the NCDRC, the present set of appeals has been filed by the Bar of Indian Lawyers, Delhi High Court Bar Association, Bar Council of India, and by the appellant M. Mathias. SUBMISSIONS 4. Since the issues involved in this batch of Appeals pertain to the Advocates practising in the various courts/tribunals and other legal forums of the country, a wide range of arguments were advanced before us. Having regard to the significance and sensitivity of the issues involved, we had appointed the learned Senior Advocate, Mr. V. Giri as an Amicus Curiae to assist the Court. 5. The broad submissions made by the learned Senior Counsels Mr. Narender Hooda, Mr. Guru Krishna Kumar, Mr. Manoj Swarup, Mr. Manan Mishra, Mr. Jaideep Gupta, Mr. Shekhar Naphade, Mr. Vikas Singh and learned counsel, Mr. D.K.