878 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. Learned counsel contended that since the Ministry of Finance, Government of India, had also endorsed the views expressed in the circulars dated 11th March, 2002 and 29th March, 2003 issued by the Government of Karnataka, the learned Division Bench of the High Court fell in error while denying relief to the appellants and in refusing to protect their services by granting them the benefits of these circulars. He also asserted that the subsequent communication via Office Memorandum issued by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment on 8th July, 2013 relied upon by the respondents cannot be read and employed to the detriment of the appellants because the same does not have retrospective application. 17. Learned counsel further submitted that the Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court erred in denying relief to the appellants by relying upon the in the case of Chairman and Managing Director Food Corporation of India and Others v. Jagadish Balaram Bahira and Others 2 because the ratio of the said is based on the interpretation of the “Maharashtra Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, De-notified Tribes (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes, and Special Backward Category (Regulation of Issuance and Verification of) Caste Certificate Act, 2000”, which was a special enactment specific to the State of Maharashtra. No such enactment exists in the State of Karnataka, which, in contrast, had issued circulars dated 11th March, 2002 and 29th March, 2003, protecting those individuals who had obtained Caste Certificates on the basis of pre-existing circulars issued by the State by referring to the synonymous castes. 18. On these grounds, learned counsel for the appellants implored the Court to accept the appeals; set aside the impugned s; and command the respondents to protect the services of the appellants. Submissions on behalf of the respondents:- 19. E-converso, learned counsel representing the respondents, vehemently and fervently opposed the contentions advanced on behalf of the appellants. They urged that the appellants had procured employment against the reserved category seats based on false Caste Certificates and thus, they are not entitled to protect their services. It was submitted that the Government circulars dated 11th March, 2 [2017] 11 SCR 271 : (2017) 8 SCC 670 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 879 K. Nirmala & Ors. v. Canara Bank & Anr. 2002 and 29th March, 2003 issued by the Government of Karnataka provided protection only to the individuals employed in the State services and thus, the said circulars could not have enured to the benefit of individuals akin to the appellants who procured employment with the Central Government/Government of India Undertakings/ Autonomous Institutions over which the Government of India has deep and pervasive control. 20. Learned counsel for the respondents stressed upon the Office Memorandum dated 8th July, 2013 issued by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India referring to the Government of Karnataka circular dated 11th March, 2002 and urged that the synonymous castes, Kotegara, Kotekshathriya, Koteyava, Koteyar, Ramakshathriya, Sherugara, and Sarvegara, etc.