Digital Supreme Court Reports Cheque and Bill passing register were marked through him, as Exs.P18 to P20 and P23. 17.5. P.W.5 – Shankreppa, who is the Chief Accounts Officer of STO, Afzalpur, deposed in his evidence that on 05.08.2009 at about 02.15 p.m., two persons came and took the respondent out of their office; thereafter, nearly 6 to 7 persons came along with the respondent, made him to sit in his seat; two persons were holding his hands, among them one person introduced himself as the Police Inspector of Lokayukta and informed that they have trapped the respondent, while he was receiving the bribe amount of Rs.2,000/- from the complainant; both hands of the respondent were dipped in sodium carbonate solution and the same turned into light pink colour; the respondent handed over the amount from his pant pocket to the Police; the pant of the respondent was also dipped in sodium carbonate solution, which turned into light pink colour; and the solution was collected in a separate bottles and was sealed. Thus, P.W.4 and P.W.5 consistently deposed in respect of trap laid by the Lokayukta Police on the respondent and seizure of tainted currency notes from the possession of the respondent. 17.6. P.W.6 – Dattatreya who is the owner of the Hotel, deposed that on 05.08.2009 the respondent came to his Hotel and drank tea. 17.7. P.W.7 – Mahantappa, who is the watchman working in Mahanteshwar High School of Chinamgera Village, deposed that the complainant prepared the surrender leave salary bill pertaining to himself and others through Block Education Officer, who presented the said bill to the S.T.O, Afzalpur for encashment. He further deposed that the complainant informed him that only after payment of Rs.500/- each, the bill will be passed from the Treasury office and hence, all of them contributed the amount and handed over the same to the complainant. Thus, P.W.7 being a circumstantial witness, categorically deposed about the demand of bribe by the respondent and contribution of Rs.500/- each and handing over the same to the complainant to make payment of bribe amount to the respondent. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1487 The State of Karnataka v. Chandrasha 17.8. P.W.8 – Subbaraya who is the Headmaster of Mahanteshwar High School of Mahantpur deposed that the complainant was working in the said School. In the year 2009-2010, they prepared a bill for encashment of surrender leave salary pertaining to the complainant and other staff members and submitted for the signature of the Block Education Officer through complainant; subsequently, he came to know that the official in the Sub Treasury Officer demanded bribe amount of Rs.2,000/-; and thereafter, about trap of the respondent by the Lokayukta Police. 17.9. P.W.9 – Rajshekhar who is the Assistant Engineer, stated in his evidence that on 11.08.2009, the Lokayukta Police requested him to prepare the sketch of the scene of occurrence; and accordingly, on 02.09.2009, he went to the spot, which was shown by one Basawaraj, and prepared the sketch of the scene of occurrence (Ex.P.24) and Ex.P.24 (a) is his signature.