According to the plaintiff, Samiullah son of Asad Ullah Kazmi, defendant no. 1 has been impleaded as defendant no. 1 (sic, defendant no. 2) as he was also threatening to encroach the right of the plaintiff in the disputed property. He appeared through counsel and moved application and has also filed affidavits 50-C & 57-C but he failed to file any written statement. It is clear that so many date has been given for written statement and lastly it was 29.4.91, which was fixed for written statement and for issues, but the defendant has (sic, not) filed written statement and on this ground the plaintiff has moved the above application 68-C. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 533 Asma Lateef & Anr. v. Shabbir Ahmad & Ors. The learned counsel for the plaintiff has argued that he has appeared through counsel and enough time has been given to him calling upon him to file the written statement, but he failed to file written statement. The case is covered by -8 Rule 10 C.P.C. The defendant no. 2 remained absent. In view of the above, I am of the opinion that it is fit case to proceed under -8 Rule 10 C.P.C. Accordingly, the suit of the plaintiffs is decreed under -8 Rule 10 C.P.C. with cost against defendant no. 2. The defendant no. 2 is restrained not to interfere in the peaceful right and enjoyment of the plaintiff in respect of the disputed building, trees and other properties. Fix 9.9.1991 for Issues.” 20. In the present case, Kazmi had indeed filed his written statement dealing with the appellants’ plaint before the dated 5th August, 1991 was made. There, not only had Kazmi denied the assertions made in the plaint but he had also specifically objected to the maintainability of the suit itself before the Trial Court on the ground noted above. The Trial Court is presumed to be aware of the fact that the written statement of Kazmi was on record or else it would not have fixed the next date for settling ‘issues’. In a situation where maintainability of the suit was in question and despite Samiullah not having filed his written statement, it was not a case where the Trial Court could simply pronounce without even recording a satisfaction that it had the jurisdiction to try the suit and adjudicate the contentious issue(s), not to speak of pronouncing its verdict against Samiullah without assigning a single reason by treating the averments in the plaint to be admitted. The High Court rightly observed that even on pronouncement of against Samiullah, the lis remained alive as against Kazmi and decision on the objection as to maintainability could have resulted in a contrary decision. 21. No tribunal, far less a civil court, in exercise of judicial power ought to play ducks and drakes with the rights of the parties. We are left to wonder what would have been the status of the rival claims if Kazmi had not passed away and accepting his objection, the Suit were dismissed on the ground of maintainability.