This Court in its decision in BGS SGS SOMA JV v. NHPC LTD., reported in (2020) 4 SCC 234 held that wherever in the arbitration agreement there is designation of a place of arbitration as ‘venue’ of the ‘arbitral proceedings’, then such place effectively is the ‘seat’ of arbitration. This is because, the expression ‘arbitral proceedings’ does not refer to individual hearings but rather the whole arbitration [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1217 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze process including the making of the award. It further held that where the parties have anchored the arbitral proceedings to one fixed location or place, it would indicate that the parties intended such place to be the seat of arbitration. It held that where the place designated as venue in the arbitration agreement is coupled with there being no other significant contrary indicia that such place is merely a venue, then such place would be construed as the ‘seat’ of the arbitral proceedings. This Court also added that the international context where a supranational body of rules is to govern the arbitration in or in the national context the laws of a particular country then this would further be an indicia that the ‘venue’ designated in the arbitration agreement is really the seat of arbitration. The relevant observations read as under: - "82. On a conspectus of the aforesaid s, it may be concluded that whenever there is the designation of a place of arbitration in an arbitration clause as being the “venue” of the arbitration proceedings, the expression “arbitration proceedings” would make it clear that the “venue” is really the “seat” of the arbitral proceedings, as the aforesaid expression does not include just one or more individual or particular hearing, but the arbitration proceedings as a whole, including the making of an award at that place. This language has to be contrasted with language such as “tribunals are to meet or have witnesses, experts or the parties” where only hearings are to take place in the “venue”, which may lead to the conclusion, other things being equal, that the venue so stated is not the “seat” of arbitral proceedings, but only a convenient place of meeting. Further, the fact that the arbitral proceedings “shall be held” at a particular venue would also indicate that the parties intended to anchor arbitral proceedings to a particular place, signifying thereby, that that place is the seat of the arbitral proceedings. This, coupled with there being no other significant contrary indicia that the stated venue is merely a “venue” and not the “seat” of the arbitral proceedings, would then conclusively show that such a clause designates a “seat” of the arbitral proceedings. In an international context, if a supranational 1218 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports body of rules is to govern the arbitration, this would further be an indicia that “the venue”, so stated, would be the seat of the arbitral proceedings. In a national context, this would be replaced by the Arbitration Act, 1996 as applying to the “stated venue”, which then becomes the “seat” for the purposes of arbitration.” (Emphasis supplied) 53.