16. Resultantly, the writ petition is allowed. The dated 12.03.2019 passed by the Executing Court is set aside and the Executing court is directed to issue a warrant of possession of the suit property in favour of plaintiff - decree holder. 17. In view of the passed in the main petition, the stay application and pending application/s, if any, also stand disposed of.” 10. The petitioners – herein who claim to be the subsequent purchasers of the suit property seek to challenge the of the High Court in this petition. 11. We have heard Mr. Jasbir Singh, the learned counsel appearing for the petitioners and Mr. Ashish Kumar Upadhyay, the learned counsel appearing for the respondents. 12. The short question that falls for our consideration is whether the relief of possession may be granted by the executing court in a case where the suit has been decreed for specific performance simpliciter and no express relief for the transfer of possession of the suit property has been granted. 13. The position of law on the issue has been settled by this Court in the case of Babu Lal v. Hazari Lal Kishori Lal reported in (1982) 1 SCC 525 wherein the Court while elaborating on Section 22 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 laid down the law for the following two situations that may arise: a. First, in cases where the possession of the suit property is exclusively with the contracting party, then a decree for specific 488 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports performance simpliciter, without specifically providing for delivery of possession, may give complete relief to the decree holder. This, the Court held, was in consonance with Section 55(1) of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, which binds the seller, on being so required, to transfer to the buyer or such other person as he directs, such possession of the property as its nature admits. b. Secondly, in cases where the relief of possession cannot be effectively granted to the decree-holder without specifically claiming relief for possession, for instance, in cases where the property agreed to be conveyed is jointly held by the defendant with other persons, or cases where after the contract the property has passed in possession of a third person, then the plaintiff, in to obtain complete and effective relief, must claim the relief of transfer of possession over the property defendant along with the relief of partition, etc., if required. 14. For the second category of cases, the Court observed that Section 22, which was introduced by the legislature to avoid multiplicity of proceedings, allows the plaintiff to amend the plaint to include a claim for the relief of possession, partition, etc. at any stage of the proceeding. The Court further held that the expression “any stage of the proceeding” includes the stage of execution of the decree by the executing court. The relevant paragraphs from the said decision are reproduced hereinbelow: “13. The expression in sub-section (1) of Section 22 “in an appropriate case” is very significant.