The extreme position that every law which imposes a tax is to be regarded as a hindrance to trade, commerce and intercourse is unsustainable.” 302 ibid [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1703 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. 248. It cannot be assumed that any tax levied by the State legislature under Entry 50 of List II will be ipso facto against mineral development. It is now a well-established principle that an increase in the rate of tax on a particular commodity cannot per se be said to impede free trade and commerce in that commodity.303 In his dissenting opinion in Kesoram (supra), Justice Sinha observed that a tax on minerals rights, which is over and beyond what is provided under the MMDR Act, will lead to an increase in the price of the mineral commodity making it unremunerative. The learned Judge observed that this defeats the purpose of the MMDR Act. The Union of India in its affidavit submitted: “A non-harmonized fiscal regime, with varied levies across States, would result in a scenario where industries located in States with lesser mineral deposits would be forced to procure mineral raw materials at higher prices from States endowed with rich mineral deposits, placing the latter category of States at a significant economic advantage that would come at the cost of the national interest in maximizing economic development from the nation’s mineral wealth […] Therefore a uniform levy of royalty prescribed by the Govt. of India under the MMDRA levels the playing field, thereby promoting the domestic industry across the nation in a manner which is equitable, while at the same time ensuring revenue generation for the States.” It is true that uniformity of prices of mineral commodities ensures the objective of mineral development as envisaged under the MMDR Act. Levy of a tax on mineral rights by the State legislatures may lead to an increase in the prices of the mineral commodity in India. There may arise a situation where a state having the highest reserves of a particular mineral decides to levy a high rate of tax on mineral rights. This may not only distort the market for that particular mineral, but have a cascading effect on allied industries. It is exactly to counteract any adverse impact on the development of minerals in India that the Constitution has empowered Parliament under Entry 50 of List II to impose limitations on the basis of which the State legislature 303 Vrajilal Manilal & Co. v. State of M P (1986) Supp SCC 201 [20]; State of Kerala v. A B Abdul Kadir (1969) 2 SCC 363 [9]; Jindal Stainless Steel (supra) [634] 1704 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports can tax mineral rights. If this is the constitutional intendment, it is Parliament which has the responsibility to ensure that there is no adverse effect on development of mineral rights. The legislative powers granted to the State legislatures cannot be whittled down impliedly based on the presumption that all taxes on mineral rights imposed by the State will have adverse economic consequences on mineral development.