[Paras 34, 35] Gender Identities – Ambit of pregnancy – Enlargement of – Usage of term ‘pregnant person’ instead of term ‘pregnant woman’: Held: Term ‘pregnant person’ used and recognized that in addition to cisgender women, pregnancy can also be experienced by some non-binary people and transgender men among other gender identities. [Para 21] Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 – s. 3(1) – When pregnancies may be terminated by registered medical practitioners – Protection u/s. 3(1): Held: s. 3(1) protects the registered medical practitioner from penal provisions against abortion, under IPC, if it is carried out as per the MTP Act – Moreover, no penalty may be attracted to a RMP merely for forming an opinion, in good faith, on whether a pregnancy may be terminated – This is because the MTP Act requires and empowers the RMP to form such an opinion – Its bona fide assured, no aspersions may be cast on the RMP – Same applies to medical [2024] 5 S.C.R. 473 A (Mother of X) v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. boards constituted u/s. 3(2-C) and 3(2-D) – Opinion of the RMP or the medical board, is indispensable under the scheme of the MTP Act – This inadvertently gives the power to the RMP or the medical board to stand in the way of a pregnant person exercising their choice to terminate the pregnancy – When there is fear or apprehension in the mind of the RMP or the medical board it directly jeopardises the fundamental freedoms of pregnant persons guaranteed under the Constitution – However, the scheme of the MTP Act and the steady line of application of the law by the courts has made it clear that the RMP or the medical board cannot be prosecuted for any act done under the MTP Act in good faith – Opinion of the RMP and the medical board must balance the legislative mandate of the MTP Act and the fundamental right of the pregnant person seeking a termination of the pregnancy. [Paras 22, 23, 25] Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 – s. 3(1) – Permission to terminate the pregnancy – Powers vested in the Courts: Held: Fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution can be enforced – The courts apply their mind to the case and make a decision to protect the physical and mental health of the pregnant person – In doing so the court relies on the opinion of the medical board constituted under the MTP Act for their medical expertise – Court would thereafter apply their judicial mind to the opinion of the medical board – Thus, the medical board cannot merely state that the grounds u/s. 3(2-B) are not met – Exercise of the jurisdiction of the courts would be affected if they did not have the advantage of the medical opinion of the board as to the risk involved to the physical and mental health of the pregnant person – Thus, a medical board must examine the pregnant person and opine on the aspect of the risk to their physical and mental health.