The High Court of Karnataka has notified the Karnataka Rules on Live Streaming and Recording of Court Proceedings 2021 with effect from 1 January 2022. The report of the Registrar General states that live streaming of the court proceedings is conducted in accordance with the Rules and is transmitted through the official YouTube channel of the High Court of Karnataka. As of date, it has a subscription of 1,38,000 subscribers. The High Court of Karnataka has also notified Rules for Video Conferencing for Courts 2020 with effect from 25 June 2020 to regulate the conduct of court proceedings through the video conferencing mode. Video recordings in relation to the court proceedings on 6 June 2024 and 28 August 2024 are a part of the video recordings officially maintained by the High Court of Karnataka. 8. The Court presided over by Justice V Srishananda assembled on 21 September 2024 after this Court had taken suo motu notice of 674 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the above events on 20 September 2024,. During the course of the post-lunch session, Justice Srishananda proceeded to read out an address in the presence of the members of the Bar, including the President, Secretary and other office bearers of the Bengaluru Advocates Association. 9. The report of the Registrar General reproduced the text of what was stated by the Judge in the course of the proceedings on 21 September 2024, thus: “Sir, this is through the Bar Association to all in general. Few observations made by the court during the course of judicial proceedings are being quoted out of context in social media. Those observations of this Court are totally unintentional and not to hurt the feelings of any sections of the society at large or any individual in particular. However, if any of the section of the society or individual has been directly or indirectly hurt by the observations of this Court, with all sincerity I regret the same. Convey it to the concerned.” 10. As in the case of the earlier two proceedings, the video clip containing the above part forms a part of the official video recordings maintained by the High Court of Karnataka. The video recordings have been submitted to this Court in a pen drive. 11. The proceedings which took place before the Court of Justice V Srishananda on 21 September 2024 indicate that the Judge has indicated that: (i) Certain observations made by him have been quoted out of context in social media; (ii) The observations made by him in the course of court proceedings were unintentional and were not intended to hurt the feelings of any section of society or any individual, in particular; and (iii) An apology was tendered by him, if any section of society or any individual “has been directly or indirectly hurt by the observations” (made on 6 June 2024 and 28 August 2024). 12. We have consciously desisted from issuing notice to the Judge of the High Court of Karnataka in the interest of maintaining the institutional dignity of the High Courts and the Judges who occupy those offices.