observed that the equality of opportunity for unequals can only mean aggravation of inequality; equality of opportunity admits discrimination with reason and prohibits discrimination without reason; and discrimination with reasons means rational classification for differential treatment having nexus to the constitutionally permissible object. It is observed that preferential representation for the Backward Classes in services 1562 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with due regard to administrative efficiency is permissible object and Backward Classes are a rational classification recognized by the Constitution. He therefore held that the differential treatment in standards of selection is within the concept of equality. 208. Mathew, J. in paragraph 54, refers to the principle of proportional equality and held that it can be attained only when equals are treated equally and unequals unequally. He held that differential treatment would be allowed if there is significant difference among the persons who are treated differentially. 209. In paragraph 73, the Learned Judge observed that the State should adopt a standard of proportional equality which takes account of the differing conditions and circumstances of a class of citizens whenever those conditions and circumstances stand in the way of their equal access to the enjoyment of basic rights or claims. 210. In paragraph 75, the Learned Judge observed that such sort of preferential treatment would be permissible under Article 16(1) as such a preferential treatment alone would put the backward class people on a parity with the forward communities. The Learned Judge observed that whether there is equality of opportunity can be gauged only by the equality attained in the result. He states that formal equality of opportunity simply enables people with more education and intelligence to capture all the posts and to win over the less fortunate in education and talent even when the competition is fair. It is observed that the equality of result is the test of equality of opportunity. 211. Krishna Iyer, J. in paragraph 119 refers to the concept of ‘social engineering’. He quotes from a book that “One law for the Lion and Ox is oppression”. 212. In paragraph 129, after considering the constitutional scheme, the Learned Judge observed that the Constitution itself demarcates harijans from others. That this is based on the stark backwardness of this bottom layer of the community. It is observed that the differentiation has been made to cover specifically the area of appointments to posts under the State. He further held that the twin objects, blended into one, are the claims of harijans to be considered in such posts and the maintenance of administrative efficiency. The Learned Judge observed that the State has been obligated to promote the economic interests of harijans and like backward classes. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1563 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 213. In paragraph 142, the Learned Judge observed that the genius of Articles 14 to 16 consists not in literal equality but in progressive elimination of pronounced inequality. He observed that to treat sharply dissimilar persons equally is subtle injustice.