In this regard, the identification of ‘alienating behaviour’ should be the court’s focus, rather than any quest to determine whether the label ‘parental alienation’ can be applied.” 22. We find ourselves in agreement with the aforesaid position. Courts ought not to prematurely and without identification of individual instances of ‘alienating behaviour’, label any parent as propagator and / or potential promoter of such behaviour. The aforesaid label has far-reaching implications which must not be imputed or attributed to an individual parent routinely. 23. Accordingly, it is our considered opinion that Courts must endeavour to identify individual instances of ‘alienating behaviour’ in to invoke the principle of parental alienation so as to overcome the preference indicated by the minor children.5 5 Recognised by this Court in Vivek Singh (Supra). 278 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 24. In the instant appeal, the Family Court has categorically recorded that there was nothing on record to suggest that the interests and welfare of the Minor Children were in any manner affected during their stay with the Appellant. Additionally, the Learned Single Judge of the High Court interacted with the Minor Children on 24.02.2020 i.e., a period of close to 4.5 (four and a half) years after the alleged incident on 08.08.2015, and categorically recorded that the Minor Children expressed no overt preference amongst their parents – the aforesaid observation by the Learned Single Judge, is crucial as it underscores that while the relationship between the parties may have been strained; the Minor Children could not be said to have exhibited any indication of ‘parental alienation’ i.e., there was no overt preference expressed by the Minor Children between the parents and thus, the foundation for any claim of parental alienation was clearly absent. The aforesaid position is also supported by materials on record to suggest that (i) the Minor Children are cognisant and aware of the blame game being played inter se the parties; and (ii) that the Minor Children did not foster unbridled and prejudiced emotions towards the Respondent. Accordingly, we find that the Appellant could not have been said to have engaged or propagated ‘alienating behaviour’ as alleged by the Respondent. 25. Therefore, in our considered opinion, the High Court failed to appreciate the aforesaid nuance and proceeded on an unsubstantiated assumption i.e., that allegations of parental alienation could not be ruled out, despite the stark absence of any instances of ‘alienating behaviour’ having been identified by any Court. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we find that the reliance placed on Vivek Singh (Supra) by the Respondent is misdirected and the High Court erred in law and in fact whilst relying on the said decision. 26. Accordingly, on an overall consideration, we are convinced that the High Court was neither correct nor justified in interfering with the well-considered and reasoned passed by the Family Court granting custody of the Minor Children to the Appellant for the reasons recorded above. Directions & Conclusions 27. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we consider it just and appropriate that the custody of the Minor Children is retained by the Appellant, [2024] 6 S.C.R.