Digital Supreme Court Reports impugned of detention dated 28-10-2021 holding that seeking shelter under preventive detention law was not the proper remedy.” 47. We hope that the State of Telangana takes what has fallen from this Court very seriously and sees to it that the s of preventive detention are not passed in a routine manner without any application of mind. 48. We hope that the State of Telangana does not give any good reason once again to this Court to observe anything further. iv. Role of the Advisory Board 49. At this stage, it is also apposite to mention that in such scenarios as discussed above, where s of preventive detention are being passed by the Detaining Authority in a routine and mechanical manner, the role and duty of the Advisory Board(s) becomes all the more imperative to put a check on such capricious exercise of powers and ensure that a bright-line is drawn whereby such illegal detentions are nipped in the bud and the detenu released forthwith. 50. Advisory Board(s) under preventive detention legislations, are not a superficial creation but one of the primary constitutional safeguards available to the detenu against an of detention. Article 22(4) mandates that, any law pertaining to preventive detention must provide for constitution of an Advisory Board consisting of persons who have been or qualified to be appointed as judges of the High Court. It further vests the Advisory Board with the pivotal role of reviewing an of detention within three-months by forming an opinion as to whether there is a sufficient cause for such detention or not, after consideration of all the material on record including representation if any, of the detenu. 51. In Telangana also, under the Act, 1986, Section 9 gives expression to this constitutional requirement, and provides for the constitution and composition of an Advisory Board for the purposes of the Act, the relevant provision reads as under: - “9. Constitution of Advisory Boards. (1) The Government shall, whenever necessary, constitute one or more Advisory Boards for the purposes of this Act. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1223 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. (2) Every such Board shall consist of a Chairman and two other members, who are, or have been Judges or are qualified to be appointed as Judges of a High Court.” 52. Section 10 of the Act, 1986 provides for the reference and review of an of detention passed under the Act by the Advisory Board. It states that any of detention that has been made under the Act shall be placed before an Advisory Board thereunder within three-weeks from the date of its passing, along with the grounds on which such an was made, the representation of the detenu if any, and the report of the officer empowered under the Act. The relevant provision reads as under: - “10. Reference to Advisory Boards. In every case where a detention has been made under this Act, the Government shall within three weeks from the date of detention of a person under the , place before the Advisory Board constituted by them under section 9, the grounds on which the has been made and the representation, if any, made by the person affected by the , and in the case where the has been made by an officer, also the report by such officer under sub-section (3) of section 3.” 53.