6), being FIR No. 11210068230266 for allegations which ex facie disclose a civil dispute plain and simple, reflects their mala fide and biased approach. On these grounds, the learned senior counsel implored the Court to prosecute and suitably punish the respondents while holding them guilty of wilful disobedience/gross contempt of this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023. He also prayed that the interim protection granted to the petitioner vide dated 8th December, 2023 passed in SLP(Crl.) No. 14489 of 2023 may be made absolute. Submissions on behalf of the respondents: - 19. Shri R. Basant, learned senior counsel appearing for the freshly impleaded respondent, the High Court of Gujarat (respondent No. 8) advanced the following submissions: - 19.1 The contention of learned counsel for the petitioner that the Investigating Officer could not have sought remand of the petitioner is misplaced since, the relied upon by the petitioner i.e. Siddhram Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) wherein, it was held that tenure of anticipatory bail cannot be limited has been explicitly overruled by a larger Bench of this Court in the case of Sushila Aggarwal v. State(NCT of Delhi).3 He placed reliance on the following paras from the above in support of this contention:- “92.6- An of anticipatory bail should not be “blanket” in the sense that it should not enable the accused to commit further offences and claim relief of indefinite protection from arrest. It should be confined to the offence or incident, for which apprehension of 3 [2020] 2 SCR 1 : (2020) 5 SCC 1 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 259 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. arrest is sought, in relation to a specific incident. It cannot operate in respect of a future incident that involves commission of an offence. 92.7- An of anticipatory bail does not in any manner limit or restrict the rights or duties of the police or investigating agency, to investigate into the charges against the person who seeks and is granted pre-arrest bail.” 19.2 He submitted that the Courts in Gujarat based on the view taken by the Division Bench of High Court of Gujarat in the case of Sunilbhai Sudhirbhai Kothari v. State of Gujarat,4 have been following a consistent practice of incorporating a condition in the s granting anticipatory bail that the Investigating Officer would be entitled to seek police custody remand of the accused as and when required. In Sunilbhai Sudhirbhai Kothari(surpa), the reference was made to the Division Bench to answer the following question of law: - “Whether the Investigating Agency has power to get police custody under Section 167 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, when an accused is already granted bail under the provision of Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.” The Division Bench answered the reference in affirmative and thus, there was no impediment for the Investigating Officer to have sought police custody remand of the petitioner and that the learned Magistrate was also acting well within the jurisdiction conferred upon her by CrPC while granting police remand of the petitioner.