31.4 Further, in India Cement, reliance was placed by State of Tamil Nadu on the of this Court on HRS Murthy wherein it was observed that land cess paid on royalty has a direct relation to the land and only a remote relation with mining. This was held to be an incorrect approach in the matter by the seven-judge Bench in India Cement. In paragraph 30 of India Cement, it was further clarified that in HRS Murthy, attention of this Court was not invited to the provisions of Section 9 of the MMDR Act. It was also observed that Section 9(3) of the MMDR Act, 1957 in terms states that royalties payable under the Second Schedule of the said Act shall not be enhanced more than once during a period of three years. Therefore, this created a clear bar on the State Legislatures taxing royalty in any manner so as to in effect amend Second Schedule of the MMDR Act as additional taxes on royalty imposed by the States would vary the tax structure from State to State leading to variance in the price of a particular mineral in the country which is not in the interest of mineral development. Therefore, it was observed that tax on royalty cannot be a tax on land. This is ultra vires the State legislative power particularly in view of Section 9(3) of the MMDR Act, 1957. It was also observed in India Cement that under Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957 the field was fully covered by the Central legislation and that royalty is directly relatable only to the minerals extracted. Hence, royalty was found relatable only to Entry 50 - List II and not Entry 49 - List II. As the field is covered by the MMDR Act, 1957, Entries 23 and 50 - List II will be subject to the declaration made under Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957 which has been enacted as per Entry 54 - List I. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1829 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. 32. In view of the above, the reasoning in the proposed of the learned Chief Justice of India, in paragraph 339 that “though Parliament can limit the taxing field entrusted to the State under Entry 50 - List II through a law relating to mineral development, the limitation operates on the field of taxing mineral rights. Such a limitation cannot operate on Entry 49 - List II because there is no specific stipulation under the Constitution to that effect. The nature of taxes under both the Entries, that is Entries 49 and 50 - List II, are distinct. The Constitution envisages the imposition of limitations by Parliament on the legislative field of the state of taxes on mineral rights, and not taxes on lands … Therefore, we are of the opinion that the doctrine of generalia specialibus non derogant has no application in the instant case because Entries 49 and 50 of List operate in different fields” in my view is contrary to what has been reasoned by the seven-judge Bench in India Cement and also the scheme of Entry 54 - List I and Entries 23 and 50 - List II as well as the object, intent and scheme of Parliament in making a declaration under Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957.