There will be no Negative marking system. The subject would be as under: Sr. No Subject Marks 1. Legal Knowledge [Detailed Syllabus 50 attached herewith at Annexure-‘A’] 2. Administrative Knowledge [GCS Rules 25 2002, Civil Manual, Criminal Manual, etc.] 3. General Knowledge & Aptitude Test [Test 25 of Reasoning, Numerical & Mental Ability & Psychological Test, etc.] (ii) The Written Test (Objective Type - MCQs) shall be conducted on OMR Sheet* or by any other mode that would be decided by the High Court later on. *The OMR Sheets of the Written Test (Objective Type - MCQs) will be assessed/evaluated by the Computer as per entries made on OMR Sheet. As the evaluation is being done on the Computer by Scanning, there is no human intervention and hence, queries relating to rechecking of the OMR Sheets, subsequent to the Written Test (Objective Type - MCQs), will not be entertained by the High Court (iii) The Language of the Question Paper will be English. (iv) Out of the abovementioned Four Components of Suitability Test, the Written Test (Objective Type - MCQs) will be conducted first. Nonetheless mere passing of Written Test (Objective Type - MCQs) by the Judicial Officers would not give him/her right of having secured the position in the Select List. It will be subject to passing of other 03 (Three) components as well. (v) ACR, Disposal and s of only those Judicial Officers who will secure minimum 40% Marks in Written Test (Objective Type - MCQs), will be called for after the declaration of the result of Written Test (Objective Type - MCQs). 1088 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4. ELIGIBILITY FOR PROMOTION : The Judicial Officer, who obtains minimum 40% Marks in each Component and minimum 50% Marks in aggregate in the Grand Total of all Four Components, shall be eligible for being included in the Select List for promotion. 5. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS : (i) The date and venue of the Written Test (Objective Type - MCQs) will be declared by the High Court in due course. (ii) The eligible Judicial Officers may download their E-call letter from the High Court websites viz. www. gujarathighcourt.nic.in and https://hc-ojas.gujarat.gov.in, as and when the same is made available by the High Court on the aforesaid websites. (iii) The Judicial Officer attending the Written Test (Objective Type - MCQs) may be treated as on duty and may be admissible for TA/DA as applicable. (iv) Result of the Written Test (Objective Type - MCQs) will be made available on the High Court websites and/or by any other mode that may be decided by the High Court. (v) The Marks of Written Test (Objective Type - MCQs) would be communicated to all the Judicial Officers, whereas, the Marks of other 03 Components along-with the Total Marks obtained by the concerned, would be provided to only those who qualify in the Written Test (Objective Type - MCQs). Such Marks shall be communicated by providing a link to a webpage on the HC-OJAS Portal with individual password (OTP – One Time Password) via SMS on his/her Registered Mobile Number, after the conclusion of the Selection Process High Court of Gujarat, Sola, Ahmedabad - 380 060.