Other methods of valuation are resorted to if the evidence of sale of similar lands is not available.” 64. In this case, when we have two exemplars, one between two independent parties and the other between two admittedly related parties and both transactions have taken place without much of a time gap. 65. Insofar as the where the exemplar is a small extent of land is concerned, it is now clear that even in these lands in Survey No. 1 where the permission is not yet obtained, except to the extent of those lands falling within the 15 meters from the defined boundary of the water course, they were also ripe for use for building purposes and hence to adopt the same value as was done in the case of sale deed dated 12.02.1999 @ Rs. 100/- per sq. ft. is justified. There is evidence on record to the effect that the area was plotted to the extent of 7948 sq. mtrs. and there were 43 plots. It is also in evidence given by them that roads were constructed. Though this is disputed in the evidence of the acquiring body, the evidence [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2275 Kazi Akiloddin v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. led by them is to the effect that the land is of agricultural use, barren and there is no development. There is no specific denial that there were no demarcated plots. It is also true that on the date of the acquisition there was no non-agricultural permission though the case of the appellant is he had taken preparatory steps and deposited the fees. 66. In Administrator General of West Bengal (Supra) dealing with the aspect of valuing large tracts of land based on the price fetched for smaller plots, this Court held as under: “12. It is trite proposition that prices fetched for small plots cannot form safe bases for valuation of large tracts of land as the two are not comparable properties. (See Collector of Lakhimpur v. B.C. Dutta [(1972) 4 SCC 236] ; Mirza Nausherwan Khan v. Collector (Land Acquisition), Hyderabad [(1975) 1 SCC 238] ; Padma Uppal v. State of Punjab [(1977) 1 SCC 330] ; Smt Kaushalya Devi Bogra v. Land Acquisition Officer, Aurangabad [(1984) 2 SCC 324] The principle that evidence of market value of sales of small, developed plots is not a safe guide in valuing large extents of land has to be understood in its proper perspective. The principle requires that prices fetched for small developed plots cannot directly be adopted in valuing large extents. However, if it is shown that the large extent to be valued does not admit of and is ripe for use for building purposes; that building lots that could be laid out on the land would be good selling propositions and that valuation on the basis of the method of hypothetical lay out could with justification be adopted, then in valuing such small, laid out sites the valuation indicated by sale of comparable small sites in the area at or about the time of the notification would be relevant.