Further, it noted that there were twists in about 80 girders and gaps between the shear key and the girders which were not cured by DMRC in the cure period. Taken together, these defects were considered to have compromised the integrity of the structure. This, the Tribunal held, amounted to a breach of DMRC’s obligations under the 2008 agreement resulting in a material adverse effect on the concessionaire. 20. The Tribunal framed the legal issues that arose for its consideration. The issue about the validity of the termination agreement was framed in the following terms: [2024] 4 S.C.R. 483 Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. v. Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt. Ltd. “D. Was DAMEPL entitled to or justified in termination of the CA, since the cost of repairs of the alleged defects was only approximately Rs.14 crores as compared to the total costs of the project of approximately Rs. 5700 crores?” 21. The issue pertaining to the CMRS certificate was framed as follows: “H. Did the issuance of certificate by CMRS show that the defects were duly cured?” 22. Both these issues were answered in the negative by the Tribunal. On Issue ‘D’ about the validity of the termination, it was held that since the Tribunal had found that there were defects in the civil structure, which remained uncured during the cure period, the amount incurred by DMRC in repairs compared to the overall cost of the project was irrelevant.15 On issue ‘H’, about the CMRS certificate, the tribunal found that the CMRS sanction mandated rigorous monitoring of operations of the line and imposed a speed restriction. Since the purpose of the line was to serve as a high-speed line, the tribunal found that the speed restrictions meant that this purpose was not served and therefore, the CMRS certificate or the subsequent operation of the line were not relevant in deciding the issues before it.16 C. Decisions of the High Court 23. The Single Judge of the High Court17, deciding the Section 34 application, upheld the award, observing that so long as the award was reasonable and plausible, considering the material before the Tribunal no interference was warranted, even if an alternate view was possible. It was held that the Tribunal, in this case, had analysed material and evidence in great detail, and arrived at a plausible conclusion. 24. The Division Bench of the High Court18 partly set aside the award as perverse and patently illegal, for the following reasons: 24.1. On the validity of the termination, ex-facie, the termination which was effective immediately from the date of termination 15 The Award, para 93. 16 ibid, paras 105-108. 17 “Single Judge”. 18 “Division Bench”. 484 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was invalid. There was some ambiguity on the relevant date of termination. The award did not interpret clause 29.5.1(i) of the concession agreement regarding the duration of the cure period; 24.2. The speed restrictions were not stated as the reason for termination in the cure or termination notices and there was no deliberation on this being a justification for termination before the Tribunal.