In the present matter, it is nobody’s case that Manki had got possession of the 1/4th share in lieu of maintenance or in arrears of maintenance. It was also not their case that there was a partition of the property and that in such partition, she had been given the property. A mere right of maintenance without actual acquisition in any manner is not sufficient to attract Section 14.” (emphasis supplied) 23. Further, in the case of M. Sivadasan (Dead) through Lrs. and Others v. A. Soudamini (Dead) through Lrs. and Others4, this Court held as under: - “4. This argument of the plaintiff was rejected by the Trial Court and the same was upheld by the First Appellate 4 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1078 312 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court as well as by the Second Appellate Court on the reasoning that after the death of Sami Vaidyar, his son Sukumaran succeeded in the property in year 1942 itself. Thereafter, Sukumaran and later the children succeeding Sukumaran had the right over the property which undisputedly remained in their possession. Section 14 sub- Section (1) had no application in this case. The essential ingredient of Section 14 sub-Section (1) is possession over the property. Admittedly the plaintiff was never in possession of the property. The possession was always that of the defendant and therefore Section 14 sub-Section (1) would not be applicable. In Ram Vishal (dead) by lrs. v. Jagan Nath. reported in (2004) 9 SCC 302 the position of possession being a pre-requisite to sustain a claim under sub-section (1) of Section 14 of the 1956 Act was confirmed in Para 16 which is quoted below: ‘16. In our view, the authority in Raghubar Singh case [(1998) 6 SCC 314] can be of no assistance to the respondent. As has been held by this Court, a pre-existing right is a sine qua non for conferment of a full ownership under Section 14 of the Hindu Succession Act. The Hindu female must not only be possessed of the property but she must have acquired the property. Such acquisition must be either by way of inheritance or devise, or at a partition or “in lieu of maintenance or arrears of maintenance” or by gift or by her own skill or exertion, or by purchase or by prescription…’ 5. As per the law as it existed at their relevant time the property which was an agricultural property would devolve upon the male child and daughters would get only a limited right to maintenance till, they were married and the widow would be entitled to maintenance from the income from the property till her death or remarriage. As per the family Settlement Deed dated 12.03.1938 which was relied upon by both the parties, the property in dispute was specifically allotted to Sami Vaidyar and his only son Sukumaran. Therefore, the widow of Sami Vaidyar i.e., [2024] 6 S.C.R. 313 Mukatlal v. Kailash Chand (D) Through Lrs. and Ors. Choyichi will not have any right over the property.