Wilfulness signifies deliberate action done with evil intent and bad motive and purpose. It should not be an act, which requires and is dependent upon, either wholly or partly, any act or omission by a third party for compliance. 185. Hence, the expression or word “wilful” means act or omission which is done voluntarily or intentionally and with the specific intent to do something which the law forbids or with the specific intent to fail to do something the law requires to be done, that is to say with bad purpose either to disobey or to disregard the law. It signifies a deliberate action done with evil intent or with a bad motive or purpose. 186. Article 129 of the Constitution declares this Court as a “a court of record” and states that it shall have all the powers of such a court including the power to punish for contempt of itself. The provisions of the Act, 1971 and the Rules framed thereunder form a part of a special statutory jurisdiction that is vested in courts to punish an offending party for its contemptuous conduct. It needs no emphasis that the power of contempt ought to be exercised sparingly with great care and caution. The contemptuous act complained of must be such that would result in obstruction of justice, adversely affect the majesty of law and impact the dignity of the courts of law. 187. It must also be understood that contempt proceedings are sui generis inasmuch as the Law of Evidence and the Code of Criminal [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1723 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. Procedure, 1973 are not to be strictly applied. At the same time, the procedure adopted during the contempt proceedings must be fair and just that is to say the principles governing the Rule of law must be extended to the party against whom contempt proceedings have been initiated. The party must have every opportunity to place its position before the Court. Such a party must not be left unheard under any circumstances. 188. In Ram Kishan v. Tarun Bajaj & Ors. reported in (2014) 16 SCC 204 it was held that the contempt jurisdiction conferred on to the law courts power to punish an offender not only for his wilful disobedience but also for contumacious conduct or obstruction to the majesty of law. It further observed that such power has been conferred for the simple reason that the respect and authority commanded by the courts of law are the greatest guarantee to an ordinary citizen that his rights shall be protected and the entire democratic fabric of the society will crumble down if the respect of the judiciary is undermined. The relevant observations read as under: - “11. The contempt jurisdiction conferred on to the law courts power to punish an offender for his wilful disobedience/ contumacious conduct or obstruction to the majesty of law, for the reason that respect and authority commanded by the courts of law are the greatest guarantee to an ordinary citizen that his rights shall be protected and the entire democratic fabric of the society will crumble down if the respect of the judiciary is undermined.