In the cross-examination by the learned public prosecutor, he denied having made such a statement before the police. In the cross-examination by the learned public prosecutor, the witness was confronted with his prior statement recorded by the police. The relevant part of the cross-examination reads thus: 48 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “Such has not happened and been dictated by me in my statement before police that, ‘Therefore, when I was coming downstairs, I saw Lal Mohammad, staying with Mohammad Akhtar, running on the road towards Limbayat Police Station. …Therefore, I called rickshaw and landlord Alimuddin Shaikh and I took Mohammad Akhtar for treatment in the rickshaw and at that time, I saw Mohammad Akhtar had sustained injuries on throat and head and it was bleeding continuously. At that time, I asked Mohammad Akhtar and he told me, I had an altercation and quarrel with Lal Mohammad, staying with me, regarding playing a tape rec and therefore, Lal Mohammad caused injuries to me using a knife and ran away.” …………………………………………………………..” Thus, the witness stated that he did not dictate to the police the statement with which he was confronted. In the cross-examination by the advocate for the appellant, he admitted that when he informed Limbayat Police Station, a policeman came in an auto-rickshaw. The policeman, along with two or three other persons, brought the deceased down and put him in the auto-rickshaw. The police personnel and the other two to three persons were not examined as witnesses. He stated that the deceased was unconscious at that time. So, when the deceased was put in the auto-rickshaw, he was not in a position to speak. 10. At this stage, we may also refer to the testimony of PW-3, who was the complainant and landlord of the appellant. He stated that when he went to the place where the deceased was lying in a heavily bleeding condition, the deceased did not disclose anything to him, and there was no conversation when the deceased was taken by him by an auto- rickshaw to the hospital. Therefore, the prosecution story regarding the dying declaration made to PW-24 does not inspire confidence at all. 11. Now, we turn to the evidence of the eyewitnesses who were declared hostile. PW-3, according to the prosecution, was the witness before whom the deceased made a dying declaration while he was being carried in an auto-rickshaw. PW-3 did not support the prosecution on this aspect, and PW-24 claimed that when the deceased was [2024] 7 S.C.R. 49 Lal Mohammad Manjur Ansari v. The State of Gujrat put in an auto-rickshaw, he was not conscious. PW-3 stated that he heard a quarrel between the appellant and the deceased. When the witness was confronted with his police statement in the cross- examination, he denied having made such a statement. PW-4 was declared as hostile. When he was confronted with relevant part of his police statement, he denied to have made the statement. 12. The High Court has relied upon the testimony of PW-7, who was again declared hostile.