The accused persons intentionally promoted enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, intentionally planting a perceived threat in the minds of impressionable Muslim youth that they were imperilled by Kaffirs/non-believers and the Government and the Indian constitution were scheming against Muslims thereby instigating and inducing gullible Muslim youth to commit offence against the people belonging other religions/faith and to commit offence against the State thereby creating enmity against people of other religions. Further, the accused persons intended and caused alarm to the general public/section of the public by publishing statements in writing thereby inducing to commit offences against the State/general public tranquility. They recruited new cadres and organized weapons training including throwing petrol bombs to the new recruits to strike terror against India and among a section of people in India. Further, the PFI and its office bearers including an accused person; A-6 had professed and invited support to the ideologies of Islamic State and Lashkar-e—Taiba, both proscribed organizations as per the First Schedule under UA (P) Act, 1967, in the classes conducted by the PFI to its cadres.” 15. As stated earlier, the chargesheet has been filed against the respondents-accused for the offences under Sections 120B, 121A, 12, 153A, 505(1) (b), (c), (2) of IPC and Sections 13, 18, 18A, 18B of UAPA, except the Accused-6, S. Khaja Maideen, who has been additionally implicated under Section 38 and 39 of UAPA. It may be noted that out of the alleged offences under UAPA, the offences under Sections 18, 18A and 18B would fall under Chapter-IV, whereas the offences under Section 38 and 39 would fall under Chapter-VI of the Act. From the statements of witnesses and the incriminating documents collected during the course of 1032 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports investigation, as referred to in the charge-sheet, it is discernible that the PW-A, PW-C, PW-D, PW-E, and witnesses Syed Abutaheer and Mohammed Satik have stated about the activities of PFI like radicalizing youth for recruitment, Arms training (knife, sword and use of petrol bombs/inflammable substances) and preparatory act for commissioning of terrorist activities. Similarly, PW-F has stated about the PFI’s ideal of an Islamic State and about providing support to ISIS. The PW-A, PW-B, PW-C, PW-D, PW-H and PW-I have stated about the conspiracy hatched by the members of the PFI and particularly the role of A-8 Yasar Arafat for creating an Islamic State by the year 2047 through an armed struggle against the Government of India. From the relevant extracts of the statements of the protected witnesses and of the listed witnesses, the role of each of the respondents-accused has been sought to be made out, which can be tabulated as under: Accused Name Relevant statements of protected and listed No. witnesses A-1 A.M. Idris @ The role and involvement of A-1 Ahamed Ahamed Idris Idris is sought to be culled out from the statements of LW-68, LW-69, LW-89/PW-C, LW-93/PW-D, LW-92/PW-F and PW-114/ PW-G. A-3 Mohammed The role and involvement of A-3 Mohammed Abuthahir Abuthahir is sought to be culled out from the statements of LW-62, LW-89/PW-C, LW-93/ PW-D, LW-92/PW-F and LW-114/PW-G. A-4 Khalid The role and involvement of A-4 Khalid Mohammed Mohammed is sought to be made out from the statements of LW-68, LW-69, LW-86/ PW-B, LW-89/PW-C, LW-93/PW-D and LW-92/PW-F. A-5 Syed Ishaaq The role ad involvement of A-5 Syed Ishaaq is sought to be made out from the statements of LW-89/PW-C, LW-93/PW-D, LW-108/PW- E, LW-92/PW-F and LW-114/PW-G. A-6 S. Khaja The role ad involvement of A-6 S. Khaja Maideen Maideen is sought to be made out from the statements of LW-89/PW-C, LW-93/PW-D and LW-92/PW-F. [2024] 5 S.C.R.