He also stated that he had appeared before the High Court in the Recall Application No. 3/2020 filed on behalf of Ms. Rinki, daughter of Bhagwan Singh and wife of Sukhpal Singh, for recalling of the dated 16.12.2019 (which is impugned herein), and since the Sukhpal Singh wanted to file the Special Leave Petition before the Supreme Court, he (Karan Singh) had asked Sukhpal Singh to get the ‘Vakalatnama’ with the signature of either Rinki or Bhagwan Singh. Thereafter the said Sukhpal Singh gave him the papers along with the ‘Vakalatnama’ signed in the name of Bhagwan Singh, which he had handed over to the Advocate Mr. R.P.S. Yadav, practicing in the Supreme Court. It may be noted that the said Bhagwan Singh who was also present in the Court on 09.08.2024 stated that his daughter Rinki had eloped and married with Sukhpal Singh in 2013 and since then he had not met either Sukhpal Singh or his daughter Rinki, and therefore he could not have signed the ‘Vakalatnama’ or the papers of the SLP. At this juncture Mr. R.P.S. Yadav, learned advocate stated that he had prepared the Memo of SLP and got it attested through the Notary Mr. A.N. Singh and at that time the appellant-Bhagwan Singh was not present; and that he had identified the signature of Bhagwan Singh before the Notary, and thereafter handed over the papers to the AOR Mr. Anubhav for presenting in the Supreme Court. The learned AOR Mr. Anubhav Yashwant Yadav also stated that Mr. R.P.S. Yadav having prepared the SLP Memo and got the papers ready, he had put his signature as an AOR on the Memo of SLP and also on the ‘Vakalatnama’ stating that he had attested and identified the signature of appellant – Bhagwan Singh. In 782 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports view of the said statements, the Court had directed the Notary Mr. A. N. Singh to remain present before the Court on the next date of hearing. Ms. Rinki, the daughter of the appellant and her husband Mr. Sukhpal Singh were also directed to remain present before the Court on the next date of hearing i.e. 23.08.2024. 11. The dated 09.08.2024 reads as under: “1. Pursuant to the dated 31-07-2024 passed by this Court, Mr. Karan Singh Yadav, Advocate practicing at Allahabad High Court is present in the Court and states that he received the papers of the case along with signed `Vakalatnama’ i.e., with the signature of the petitioner – Bhagwan Singh from his client Sukhpal Singh, son of Rishi Pal, resident of Raisinghnagar, Post – Kadar Chowk, District Budaun, U.P., who happens to be the son-in-law of Bhagwan Singh. Mr. Karan Singh also states that he had appeared before the High Court in the Recall Application No.3/2020 filed on behalf of Ms. Rinki, daughter of Bhagwan Singh and wife of Sukhpal Singh, in which it was prayed to recall the dated 16-12-2019 passed in the Application under Section 482 No.41533/2019. However, the said application was dismissed by the High Court vide the impugned dated 02-04-2024.