During the treatment, the wife succumbed to her illness. The minor child continued to be in the custody of the sister of the wife and her husband. Since the father was denied the custody of the minor child, he approached the High Court by way of writ petition seeking writ of habeas corpus. The High Court allowed the petition and directed the custody of the minor child to be handed over to the husband. Being aggrieved thereby, the sister of the wife and her husband approached this Court. Before this Court, an objection was taken to the very tenability of the petition of habeas corpus filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Rejecting the said argument, this Court observed thus: 2 (1981) 3 SCC 92 3 2024 SCC OnLine 758 : 2024 INSC 370 4 [2010] 1 SCR 49 : (2010) 2 SCC 654 : 2010 INSC 7 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 457 Gautam Kumar Das v. NCT of Delhi and Others “21. In the present case, the appellants are the sisters and brother of the mother Zelam who do not have any authority of law to have the custody of the minor child. Whereas as per Section 6 of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, the first respondent father is a natural guardian of the minor child and is having the legal right to claim the custody of the child. The entitlement of father to the custody of child is not disputed and the child being a minor aged 1½ years cannot express its intelligent preferences. Hence, in our considered view, in the facts and circumstances of this case, the father, being the natural guardian, was justified in invoking the extraordinary remedy seeking custody of the child under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.” 10. In the said case, after considering the earlier pronouncements, this Court further observed thus: “34. As observed in Rosy Jacob [Rosy Jacob v. Jacob A. Chakramakkal (1973) 1 SCC 840] earlier, the father’s fitness has to be considered, determined and weighed predominantly in terms of the welfare of his minor children in the context of all the relevant circumstances. The welfare of the child shall include various factors like ethical upbringing, economic well being of the guardian, child’s ordinary comfort, contentment, health, education, etc. The child Shikha lost her mother when she was just fourteen months and is now being deprived from the love of her father for no valid reason. As pointed out by the High Court, the father is a highly educated person and is working in a reputed position. His economic condition is stable. 35. The welfare of the child has to be determined owing to the facts and circumstances of each case and the Court cannot take a pedantic approach. In the present case, the first respondent has neither abandoned the child nor has deprived the child of a right to his love and affection. The circumstances were such that due to illness of the parents, the appellants had to take care of the child for some time.