22 “Model Law” 23 Article 2A, Arbitration Act. [It reads: “Article 2A International origin and general principles (1) In the interpretation of this Law, regard is to be had to its international origin and to the need to promote uniformity in its application and the observance of good faith. (2) Questions concerning matters governed by this Law which are not expressly settled in it are to be settled in conformity with the general principles on which this Law is based.”] 2206 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 20. The principles of interpretation suggested by the Model Law require courts to assume a global perspective consistent with the prevailing practice in courts of other jurisdictions and arbitral tribunals.24 The Model Law encourages resort to “general principles” to fill the gaps in the national arbitration laws.25 The term “general principles” is intended to refer to principles widely accepted by legal systems.26 The above principles of interpretation will also apply when interpreting the provisions of the Arbitration Act. i. Party autonomy 21. Section 7 defines an arbitration agreement to mean an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not. The arbitration agreement records the consent of the parties to submit their disputes to arbitration.27 Arbitration is premised on a consensual agreement to submit disputes to (a) a decision-maker chosen by or for the parties; (b) to render a binding resolution of the dispute following adjudicatory procedures which afford the parties an opportunity to be heard. The right to arbitrate is a private right of the parties to adjudicate in personam disputes. 22. The basis of any arbitration is the freedom of the parties to agree to submit their disputes to an individual or to a panel of individuals whose they are prepared to trust and obey. Party autonomy is fundamental to international commercial arbitration because it allows the parties to design the arbitration proceedings to suit their needs and commercial reality. Party autonomy has been described by this Court as the “brooding and guiding spirit”28 and “backbone”29 of arbitrations. The principle of minimum judicial interference supplements the autonomy of parties by prohibiting courts from 24 Ilias Bantekas, ‘International Origin and General Principles’ in UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration: A Commentary (Cambridge University Press, 2020) 44. 25 Ibid, at 48 26 Gary Born (supra) 2971; Emmanuel Gaillard, Legal Theory of International Arbitration’ (Brill, 2010) 55 27 Cox and Kings Ltd v. SAP India Pvt Ltd, 2023 INSC 1051 [60] 28 Bharat Aluminium Co. v. Kaiser Aluminium Technical Services Inc. (2016) 4 SCC 126 [5] 29 Centrotrade Minerals & Metals Inc v. Hindustan Copper Ltd. (2017) 2 SCC 228 [38] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2207 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company interfering in arbitral proceedings unless mandated by the law.30 This principle respects the autonomy of the parties to mutually chart the course of the arbitral proceedings.