In terms of RFP, the bidders were required to quote the Capacity Charge (i.e. capital cost component) and Station Heat Rate (i.e. amount of heat required by the plant to generate one unit of electrical energy/ efficiency of the plant) to convert the heat energy for the project and based on these components, a levelized tariff for each bidder was to be worked out. The bidder with the lowest levelized tariff was to be selected for the development of the project. 6. The term- “Successful Bidder or Selected Bidder” was to mean that the bidder selected pursuant to the RFP to set up the project and supply electrical output therefrom to the Procurer through the Seller as per the terms of the power purchase agreement (PPA) and other RFP project documents. Under Clause 2.7.2.1 and 2.7.2.2, the bidder was to make an independent enquiry and satisfy itself with respect [2024] 11 S.C.R. 455 Nabha Power Limited & Anr. v. Punjab State Power Coroporation Limited & Anr. to all the required information, inputs, conditions and circumstances and factors that may have any effect on the bid. Under the said clauses, it was deemed that while submitting the bid, the bidder was to have inspected and examined the site conditions, the laws and regulations in force. The bidder was to acknowledge that on being selected as the successful bidder and on acquisition of the special purpose vehicle (the seller) the seller shall not be relieved from any of its obligations under the RFP project documents nor shall the seller be entitled for any extension of time or financial compensation by reason of the unsuitability of the site. Clauses 2.7.2.1 and 2.7.2.2 read as under. “2.7.2.1 The Bidder shall make independent enquiry and satisfy itself with respect to all the required information, inputs, conditions and circumstances and factors that may have any effect on his Bid. While submitting the Bid the Bidder shall be deemed to have inspected and examined the site conditions (including but not limited to its surroundings, its geological condition, the adequacy of the road and rail links to the Site and the availability of adequate supplies of water), examined the laws and regulations in force in India, the transportation facilities available in India, the grid conditions, the conditions of roads, bridges, ports, etc. for unloading and/or transporting heavy pieces of material and has based fts design, equipment size and fixed its price taking into account all such relevant conditions and also the risks, contingencies and other circumstances which may influence or affect the supply of power. Accordingly, the Bidder acknowledges that, on being selected as Successful Bidder and on acquisition of the Seller, the Seller shall not be relieved from any of its obligations under the RFP Project Documents nor shall the Seller be entitled to any extension of time or financial compensation by reason of the unsuitability of the Site for whatever reason. 2.7.2.2 In their own interest, the Bidders are requested to familiarize themselves with the Electricity Act, 2003, the Income Tax Act 1961, the Companies Act, 1956, the Customs Act, the Foreign Exchange Management Act, IEGC, the regulations framed by regulatory commissions 456 [2024] 11 S.C.R.