In 1925 Kuttiperavan assigned his one half share to Chiurtheyi and her son Sankaran. Thus Chirutheyi acquired 3/4 share and Sankaran acquired 1/4 share in the property. Sankaran died in 1956 and his 1 /4 share was inherited by the defendants and the mother Chirutheyi, thus Chirutheyi acquiring 16/12 shares and the defendants acquiring 4/20 shares. Chirutheyi died in 1926 and half of her 16/20 shares would go to the plaintiff and the only remaining son, and the remaining 8/20 shares would go to the defendants, being the heirs of the other son Sankaran. Thus the shares are fixed as follows: The plaintiff 8/20. The defendants 3/20 shares each. The plaint alleges that the property never belonged to Madhavan ad alleged by the defendants in the notice.” 7. The Trial Court sustained the claim for partition and decreed in favour of the plaintiff therein whose interest is now represented before us by the respondents. The First Appellate Court by a delivered on 24th June 1996, set aside the decree and dismissed the suit. The main issue before the Court, which is before us as well, is as to whether Chiruthey had any title over 388 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the subject-property which the plaintiff claimed through the series of transactions, particulars of which we have narrated in the preceding paragraphs. The plaintiff claimed title over the property through Chiruthey who was his mother, and he was born from her second husband. The foundation of Chiruthey’s title was claimed to be the registered lease deed bearing No. 2329/10 (Exhibit A-1). Kuttiperavan, who was the second lessee in “Exhibit A-1” had later released his right in the subject-property in favour of Chiruthey and Sankaran, the latter being the son of Chiruthey through her first marriage. That deed was executed on 22nd July 1925. The First Appellate Court relying on the mortgage deed dated 07th May 1900 found that it was Madhavan and his mother Nangeli who were holders of jenm right and that they were in possession of the subject-property even after execution of the mortgage deed. 8. The First Appellate Court disbelieved that the deed of 22nd July 1925 was in discharge of liability under the mortgage deed. It was also found by the First Appellate Court that Chiruthey had no authority to create a lease and such a transaction by which she sought to lease out the subject-property was not permissible in law. 9. As regards Chiruthey’s right or title, it was held that she would not derive title to her deceased husband’s property when she got married again to Neelakandan. The First Appellate Court has referred to Section 2 of the Hindu Widow’s Remarriage Act, 1856 (“1856 Act”) which prevailed at the material point of time, when she contracted her second marriage. Section 2 of the 1856 Act reads:- “2. Rights of widow in deceased husband’s property to cease on remarriage:- All right and interest which any widow may have in her deceased husband’s property by way of maintenance, or by inheritance to her husband or to his lineal successors, or by virtue of any will or testamentary disposition conferring upon her, without express permission to remarry, only a limited interest in such property, with no power of alienating the same, shall upon her remarriage cease and determine as if she had then died: and the next heirs of her deceased husband , or other persons entitled to the property on her death, shall thereupon succeed to the same.” [2024] 4 S.C.R.