But it could not be in the manner as seen by PW-1 and PW-2 (who had seen the two accused strangulating the 86 years old woman by pulling both ends of the rope) as the ligature mark extended only from one angle of the mandible to the other and no such mark was seen at the back of the neck. Had the strangulation been in the manner as described by PW-1 and PW-2, the ligature marks would have been different. 14. The aspect which perhaps weighed heavily in the mind of the Trial Court which had acquitted the two accused was the fact that the first complaint, inquest report, the ‘autopsy report’ and the ocular evidence of PW-1 (also of PW-2) did not match. Having regard to the positioning of the bed on which the deceased was allegedly strangulated, the trial court has given a finding that it would be highly improbable for two persons to strangulate the deceased by pulling the two ends of the rope of cloth from behind, since the cot was touching the northern and western walls. Moreover, the fact that Dr. K.B Shetty, (who was the first doctor to examine the deceased within 10 minutes of the incident), was never examined by the prosecution. The absence of any reasonable explanation as to how PW-1 reached her house in a short span of time of 21/2 hours, after leaving home at 10:00 AM1, creates doubt on the prosecution story. Trial Court also expressed its doubt as to the involvement of the present appellant (Accused No.2), as no TIP was conducted. This aspect was argued at length before this Court as well, since it goes to the very root of any criminal trial. Admittedly, no TIP was conducted in the present case. This Court in Mulla v. State of U.P., (2010) 3 SCC 508 had emphasized the scope and object of TIP as follows: “55. The identification parades are not primarily meant for the court. They are meant for investigation purposes. The object of conducting a test identification parade is twofold. First is to enable the witnesses to satisfy themselves that the accused whom they suspect is really the one who was 1 The complaint (Ex.P1) given by PW-1 to the PSI on the spot, mentions that she left her house at around 10.00 am, whereas in her deposition before the Trial Court, she mentions the time as 9.30 am. 58 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports seen by them in connection with the commission of the crime. Second is to satisfy the investigating authorities that the suspect is the real person whom the witnesses had seen in connection with the said occurrence.” 15. This Court in Malkhansingh v. State of M.P (2003) 5 SCC 746 2 has held that: “The evidence of mere identification of the accused person at the trial for the first time is from its very nature inherently of a weak character. The purpose of a prior test identification, therefore, is to test and strengthen the trustworthiness of that evidence.