Such positioning of the minority community would, in fact, enable the community to exercise its “choice” as the said choice is a function of the decision making of the minority community. If the minority community is not the decision maker in offices of prominence in the institution, the offices which hold the keys to giving character to the institution, the claim of administration or establishment by the minority community would fall flat. It is in this [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2015 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. light that the AMU act, 1920 [and as it stood post the Constitution coming into force], would have to be examined. 212. The AMU act, 1920, as enacted, is an interesting piece of legislative drafting. The Act had 40 sections and created a unique machinery, to administer the AMU. As discussed above, the establishment of the university and the question thereof is also a function of nature of the university established through the Act and the real controlling authorities – both at executive level and staff level. The parties doubting the in Azeez Basha [supra], sought to highlight some aspects of the 1920 Act in to further their points. 213. It was pointed out that the Statement of Objects and Reasons and preamble of the Act explicitly articulates its purpose to establish and incorporate a teaching and residential Muslim University while dissolving the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College, Aligarh, and the Muslim University Association, transferring all their properties and rights to the new university. It was pointed out that all assets, rights, powers, and privileges of MAO College and its affiliate bodies were fully transferred and vested in AMU. It was pointed out that any references to MAO College or its affiliate bodies in previous enactments or documents are construed as references to AMU. It was pointed out that all employees and staff of MAO College were automatically deemed as employees of AMU with the same tenure, terms, rights, and privileges. It was pointed out that donations received from the Muslim community, totaling thirty lakh rupees, were allocated as the Reserve Fund to be managed by AMU. 214. It was pointed out that all students of MAO College became the responsibility of AMU upon commencement, including the provision of instruction as per the prospectus of Allahabad University. It was pointed out that the First Statutes mandated that the Register of registered graduates include those who had been educated for at least two years at MAO College. Additionally, the Central Legislature incorporated provisions in the AMU Act specifically benefiting the Muslim community, such as the promotion of Oriental and Islamic studies, instruction in Muslim theology and religion, and furtherance of arts, science, and other branches of learning. 215. It was pointed out that the Act allowed for the establishment of intermediate colleges and schools within the vicinity of MAO College to provide instruction in Muslim religion and theology. It was pointed 2016 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports out that regarding administration, the Muslim community had both de jure and de facto control over the management of AMU.