ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 19. Having considered the matter, the Court finds that grave miscarriage of justice has occasioned in the instant case. We may note that Section 8 of the Act reads as follows: “8. Determination of nationality.—(1) When a foreigner is recognised as a national by the law of more than one foreign country or where for any reason it is uncertain what nationality if any is to be ascribed to a foreigner, that foreigner may be treated as the national of the country with which he appears to the prescribed authority to be most closely connected for the time being in interest or sympathy or if he is of uncertain nationality, of the country with which he was last so connected: Provided that where a foreigner acquired a nationality by birth, he shall, except where the Central Government so 2338 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports directs either generally or in a particular case, be deemed to retain that nationality unless he proves to the satisfaction of the said authority that he has subsequently acquired by naturalization or otherwise some other nationality and still recognized as entitled to protection by the Government of the country whose nationality he has so acquired. (2) A decision as to nationality given under sub-section (1) shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court: Provided that the Central Government, either of its own motion or on an application by the foreigner concerned, may revise any such decision.” 20. Undisputedly, the appellant is not a foreigner3 recognised as a national by the law of more than one foreign country. Thus, the appellant’s case would not fall under Section 8 of the Act. That being the position as regards Section 8 of the Act, we venture forward. 21. There is judicial clarity as regards the scope and nature of proceedings before the Tribunal under the Act, as delineated by the s in Abdul Kuddus (supra) and Sarbananda Sonowal I (supra). For the purposes of proper appreciation, it is worthwhile to reproduce Section 9 of the Act which reads as under: “9. Burden of proof – If in any case not falling under section 8 any question arises with reference to this Act or any made or direction given thereunder, whether any person is or is not a foreigner of a particular class or description the onus of proving that such person is not a foreigner or is not a foreigner of such particular class or description, as the case may be, shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), lie upon such person.” 22. In Abdul Kuddus (supra), it has been explained that after the preparation and publication of NRC for the State of Assam, as set out in Paragraphs 2 to 8 of the Schedule to the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003 made 3 A ‘foreigner’ under Section 2(a) of the Act means “a person who is not a citizen of India”.