It was further held that the land was used for the common needs and benefits of the estate or estates concerned. This Court held that a fraction of each proprietor’s land was taken and formed into a common pool so that the whole may be used for the common needs and benefits of the estate as mentioned above. It has been held that the proprietors naturally would also be entitled to a share in the benefits along with others. In the facts of the said case, this Court held that all such lands, which had been specifically earmarked in the Consolidation Scheme for the purposes mentioned therein and were used for the 4 [1967] 2 SCR 143: AIR 1967 SC 856 5 2003 SCC OnLine P&H 409 904 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports purposes therein for the benefit of the proprietors among others, would not amount to acquisition, but a ‘modification’ of the rights. It was held that, by such ‘modification’, the beneficiary was not the State and as such, would not be hit by the second proviso to Article 31-A of the Constitution of India. 7. Shri Hooda further submits that even in Ranjit Singh, the Consolidation Scheme earmarked lands reserved under Section 18(c) of the Consolidation Act for various common purposes. The Constitution Bench of this Court held that the provisions for the assignment of lands to village Panchayat for the use of the general community, or for hospitals, schools, manure pits, tanning grounds etc. enures for the benefit of rural population and it must be considered to be an essential part of the redistribution of holdings and open lands. 8. Shri Hooda further submitted that in a catena of s, this Court has held that the lands, though reserved but not earmarked and put for any common purpose under the Consolidation Scheme prepared under Section 14 of the Consolidation Act read with Rules 5 and 7 of the Consolidation Rules and entered in the column of ownership as ‘Jumla Mustarka Malkan Wa Digar Haqdaran Hasab Rasad Arazi Khewat’ and in the column of possession with the proprietors, also known as Bachat lands, would not vest in the Gram Panchayat or the State Government. Shri Hooda submits that based on such s, thousands of transactions have been entered into between the parties. It is submitted that, though invoking the doctrine of stare decisis was not necessary, this Court in the JUR has not even touched that aspect of the matter. All the s which have been holding the field for decades and thousands of transactions which have been entered into between the parties, have been set at naught at the stroke of a pen by the JUR. 9. Shri Hooda further submits that in view of the JUR, the rights of the parties which were crystalized by the s of the High Court and which was affirmed by this Court by dated 27th August, 20016 have also been adversely affected without such parties having been heard.