We need to just examine the existence of an arbitration agreement. The context is clearly delineated in paras 110-111 and 114 of the which are extracted below for ready reference. “110. The scope of examination under Section 11(6-A) is confined to the existence of an arbitration agreement on the basis of Section 7. The examination of validity of the arbitration agreement is also limited to the requirement of formal validity such as the requirement that the agreement should be in writing. 111. The use of the term ‘examination’ under Section 11(6-A) as distinguished from the use of the term ‘rule’ under Section 16 implies that the scope of enquiry under section 11(6-A) is limited to a prima facie scrutiny of the existence of the arbitration agreement, and does not include a contested or laborious enquiry, which is left for the arbitral tribunal to ‘rule’ under Section 16. The prima facie view on existence of the arbitration agreement taken by the referral court does not bind either the arbitral tribunal or the court enforcing the arbitral award. […] 114. In view of the observations made by this Court in In Re : Interplay (supra), it is clear that the scope of enquiry at the stage of appointment of arbitrator is limited 1756 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the scrutiny of prima facie existence of the arbitration agreement, and nothing else. […]” (emphasis supplied) 15. For the reasons stated above, we have no hesitation in rejecting the petition and we further hold that the appellant must bear the costs for this unnecessary litigation which we quantify at Rs. 50,000/-. 16. As the arbitration proceedings were stayed due to the pendency of this appeal by the dated 01.04.2022, while dismissing this appeal we direct that the arbitral tribunal shall resume the proceedings and endeavour to deliver the award as expeditiously as possible. 17. The appeal is dismissed in terms of the above . Result of the case: Appeal dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Adeeba Mujahid, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Abhinav Mukerji, Sr. Adv.)