Consequently, based on the s of the High Court thereon, F.I.R. No.107/2005 was registered at Alhaganj Police Station under Section 306, IPC. The final report filed under Section 173(2), Cr.PC, would reveal that after the investigation, virtually, a closure report was filed by the investigating agency. The learned Magistrate did not accept the closure report. In the protest petition filed by the appellant herein the learned Magistrate made an inquiry as contemplated under Section 202, Cr.PC, and based on all the materials collected issued summons to respondent No.2 herein as per dated 05.04.2012 and it is the challenge against the same that culminated in the impugned . 4. Compendiously stated, the case of the appellant is that respondent No.2 committed abetment of suicide inasmuch as his father Shri Brijesh Chandra, committed suicide, by consuming poison, in the office of Sub-Mandi, Alhaganj, where he was working, after leaving a suicide note attributing responsibility for the same on respondent No.2. The appellant’s father was earlier working in Mandi Samiti, Puwaya as Security Guard and the respondent No.2 was the then Secretary of the Mandi Samiti. The complaint is to the effect that the salary of the deceased from March, 2004 to August, 2004 and September, 2004 onwards was not paid by Mandi Samiti, Jalalabad and on 12.10.2004, when he requested for its release, respondent No.2 told: - 1228 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “I will see that how will you get your salary and who will help you in getting your salary, I will bring out your military- man-ship and either you die or your children, but I do not care, get out of here, why you do not take poison”. 5. According to the appellant, the deceased was a retired military man and subsequent to the events on 12.10.2004 he returned home in moony mood and on 23.10.2004 at around 10.00 a.m. went to attend duty at Sub-Mandi, Alhaganj from Warikhas and committed suicide thereafter leaving a suicide note noting down such incident as well. 6. We have given our anxious consideration to the rival contentions and also have gone through the detailed discussion made by the High Court to come to the conclusion to invoke the power under Section 482, Cr.PC, to quash the dated 05.04.2012. The bifold contentions of the appellant raised, based on law, against the impugned are as under :- (i) The High Court has committed grave error in law in quashing the summons issued against respondent No.2; (ii) The High Court has stepped beyond the settled guidelines and parameters ordained by this Court in catena of decisions with respect to exercise of power under Section 482, Cr.PC, and in view of such guidelines and parameters, the High Court was not justified in interfering with the summons issued by the Trial Court. 7. Per contra, the learned counsel appearing for respondent No.2 would submit that though the Magistrate is having the power to issue summons despite the fact that the Final Report filed under Section 173 (2), Cr.PC, is a closure report in the case on hand, it was issued against the respondent No.2 without satisfying on the ground for proceeding further in the manner required under law.