This Court noted that various criminal cases were pending against the accused but stated that it cannot be used as an aggravating factor as the accused wasn’t convicted in those cases. While commuting the death penalty, this Court imposed a sentence of rigorous imprisonment for a period of 20 (twenty) years over and above the period undergone without remission, since he would be a menace to the society if given any lenient sentence. 42. In Tattu Lodhi v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2016) 9 SCC 675 this Court was dealing with an appeal preferred by the accused who was sentenced to death after he was found guilty of committing murder of a minor girl and for kidnapping and attempt to rape after destruction of evidence. This Court reduced the sentence from death to life imprisonment for a minimum 25 (twenty five) years as it noted that there exists a possibility of the accused committing similar offence if freed after fourteen years. This Court also opined that the special category sentence developed in Swamy Shradhanand (supra) serves a laudable purpose which takes care of genuine concerns of the society and helps the accused get rid of death penalty. 43. Vijay Kumar v. State of Jammu & Kashmir, (2019) 12 SCC 791 was a case where the accused was found guilty of murder of three minor children of the sister-in-law of the accused. This Court, taking note of the fact that the accused was not a previous convict or a professional killer and the motive for which the offence was committed, [2024] 3 S.C.R. 941 Navas @ Mulanavas v. State of Kerala namely, the grievance that the sister-in-law’s family was not doing enough to solve the matrimonial problem of the accused, imposed a sentence of life imprisonment till natural death of the accused without remission. 44. In Parsuram v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2019) 8 SCC 382, the accused had raped and murdered his own student. The Trial Court sentenced the accused to death which was affirmed by the High Court. This Court took into consideration the mitigating factors i.e., that the accused was twenty two years old when he committed the act and the fact that there exists a possibility of reformation and the aggravating factors i.e., that the accused abused the trust of the family of the victim. After complete consideration and reference to some precedents, this Court imposed a sentence of thirty years without any remission. 45. In Nand Kishore v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2019) 16 SCC 278, the accused was sentenced to death by the Trial Court and the High Court for committing rape and murder of minor girl aged about eight years old. This Court noted the mitigating factors i.e., age of the accused at the time of committing the act [50 years] and possibility of reformation and imposed a sentence of imprisonment for a period of 25 (twenty five) years without remission. 46. Swapan Kumar Jha v. State of Jharkhand and Another, (2019) 13 SCC 579 was a case relating to abduction of deceased for ransom and thereafter murder by the accused.