[6.8]. Now, so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Rakesh (Supra) by the learned advocate appearing on behalf of the accused is concerned, it is required to be noted that in the present case there is recovery of knife/s at the instance of original accused No. 2 and original accused Nos. 3 and 5 and that there is discovery of clothes of original accused Nos. 3 and 4 with blood stains which are not explained by the original accused Nos. 2, 3 and 5. Similarly, in the case before the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Kanhaiyalal (Supra), except last seen together, there was no other evidence connecting the accused. Under the circumstances, none of the aforesaid decisions shall be applicable to the facts of the case on hand and/or shall be of any assistance to the accused. [7.0]. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, Criminal Appeal No. 1012/1993 preferred by the original accused against their conviction for the offence punishable under section 392 of the IPC is hereby dismissed.” 26. On going through the record, we find that the prosecution relied upon the circumstantial evidence comprising of disclosures, recoveries and discoveries for bringing home the guilt of the accused. 27. The most important recovery is alleged to be of the jeep bearing registration No.GJ-08-114. 28. We may note that the said recovery is attributed to A1, who was allegedly apprehended by PSI J.N. Chaudhary (PW-22) on 02nd March, 1990. He forwarded a report/communication (Exhibit-96) 1192 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports dated 2nd March, 1990 to the officer in-charge of the Sardarnagar Police Station wherein, the confession made by the A1 implicating himself and the other accused is recorded. 29. It is trite that confession of an accused in custody recorded by a police officer is inadmissible in evidence as the same would be hit by Section 25 of the Evidence Act. Thus, that part of the statement of A1 as recorded in the report/communication (Exhibit-96), wherein he allegedly confessed to the crime of murder of the jeep driver and looting the jeep and named the other accused persons as particeps criminis is totally inadmissible and cannot be read in evidence except to the extent provided under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. 30. After A1 had been apprehended, PSI J.N. Chaudhary (PW-22) prepared two panchnamas i.e. Exhibit-88 and Exhibit-89. The panchnama (Exhibit-89) was prepared at 08:30 hours on 2nd March, 1990 wherein, there is no mention that A1 had disclosed the names of the other accused. This omission is very striking and goes to the root of the matter. It creates a grave doubt on the truthfulness of the evidence of PSI J.N. Choudhary (PW-22). As a consequence, the so called disclosure statement made by A1(Exhibit-96) on which the prosecution banked upon and the High Court relied upon by treating it to be an incriminating circumstance against the accused persons is totally inadmissible and unworthy of reliance.