[Paras 69-74] Auction – Auction sale – Conduct of, by the court in the execution proceedings initiated by the decree holder under the provisions of the CPC, and by the State through its revenue authorities like Tahsildar, etc. under the provisions of different enactments like Land Revenue Code etc. – Difference between: Held: There is a fine distinction between the two – Whole object behind Ord. XXI r. 90 CPC appears to be to discourage the debtors from filing frivolous application complaining about the irregularity or fraud in the conduct of the auction sale – Lot of sanctity is attached to the auction sale conducted by the executing court under the provisions of the CPC compared to the auction sale conducted by the State through its authorities – Execution is the enforcement by the process of the court of its s and decrees – This is in furtherance of the inherent power of the court to carry out its s or decrees – XXI CPC deals with the elaborate procedure pertaining to the execution of s and decrees – Sale is one of the methods employed for execution – r. 89 of Ord. XXI CPC is the only means by which a -debtor can escape from a sale that has been validly carried out – Object of the rule is to provide a last opportunity to put an end to the dispute at the instance of the debtor before the sale is confirmed by the court and also to save his property from dispossession. [Para 38] Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Ord. XXI r. 90 – Nature and scope of: Held: R. 90 of Ord. XXI deals with cases of setting aside auction- sale on the ground of material irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting such sale and the applicant proves substantial injury by reason of such irregularity or fraud – Explanation to r. 90 clarifies that mere absence of or defect in, attachment of property sold would be no ground for setting aside sale – Ord. XXI is exhaustive and in the nature of a complete code as to how the execution proceedings should take place – This is the second stage after the success of the party in the civil proceedings – Another legal battle, more prolonged, starts in execution proceedings defeating the right of the party which has succeeded in establishing its [2024] 7 S.C.R. 479 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. claim in civil proceedings – This is the reason why Ord. XXI r. 90 provides that both the conditions enumerated therein should be fulfilled. [Paras 36, 37] Public functionaries – Role of – Conduct of auction sale – Requirement of fairness and non-arbitrariness by the State: Held: State action must be informed by reason and the action uninformed by reason is per se arbitrary – Basic requirement of Art. 14 is fairness in action by the State and non-arbitrariness in essence and substance is the heartbeat of fair play – These actions are amenable to the judicial review not only to the extent that the State must act validly for a discernible reason and not whimsically for any ulterior purpose – Public authorities are governed by the “rule of law” – Such authorities are constitutionally obliged in law to maintain absolute fairness and transparency during the conduct of the auction sale right from the initiation of the same till its completion – Judicial audit and scrutiny play a key role in ensuring that the public authorities do not act in an unreasonable manner.