Except that they are all mentioned in one list, each one of them stands on a separate level of competence as compared with another. That is why Rule 10(ii), Part C speaks of “selection for appointment”. Even as there is no constraint on the State Government in respect of the number of appointments to be made, there is no constraint on the Government fixing a higher score of marks for the purpose of selection. In a case where appointments are made by selection from a number of eligible candidates it is open to the Government with a view to maintain high standards of competence to fix a score which is much higher than the one required for more eligibility. As shown in the letter of the Chief Secretary already referred to, they fixed a minimum of 55% for selection as they had done on a previous occasion. There is nothing arbitrary in fixing the score of 55% for the purpose of selection, because that was the view of the High Court also previously intimated to the Punjab Government on which the Haryana Government thought fit to act. That the Punjab Government later on fixed a lower score is no reason for the Haryana Government to change their mind. This is essentially a matter of administrative policy and if the Haryana State Government think that in the interest of judicial competence persons securing less than 55% of marks in the competitive examination should not be selected for appointment, those who got less than 55% have no right to claim that the selections be made of also those candidates who obtained less than the minimum fixed by the State Government. In our view the High Court was in error in thinking that the State Government had somehow contravened Rule 8 of Part C.” 18. Mr. Gupta has also cited the case of Ram Sharan Maurya and Ors. Vs. State of U.P. and Ors. [(2021) 15 SCC 401]. It has been held in this :- “72. In terms of Rule 2(1)(x) of the 1981 Rules, qualifying marks of ATRE are such minimum marks as may be determined “from time to time” by the Government. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 235 Sushil Kumar Pandey & Ors. v. The High Court of Jharkhand & Anr. Clause (c) of Rule 14 of the 1981 Rules lays down that a candidate must have “passed Assistant Teacher Recruitment Examination conducted by the Government”. Thus, one of the basic requirements for being considered to be appointed as an Assistant Teacher under the 1981 Rules is passing of ATRE with such minimum marks as may be determined by the Government. Unlike para 7 of the Guidelines for ATRE 2018 which had spelt out that a candidate must secure minimum of 45% or 40% marks (for “General” and “Reserved” categories respectively) for passing ATRE 2018, no such stipulation was available in G.O. dated 1-12-2018 notifying ATRE 2019. Though, the minimum qualifying marks were set out in the Guidelines for ATRE 2018, it is not the requirement of the 1981 Rules that such stipulation must be part of the instrument notifying ATRE.