[2024] 12 S.C.R. 803 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. 8. …In our , even when the charge is one of misappropriation by a public servant, whether sanction is required under Section 197(1) will depend upon the facts of each case. If the acts complained of are so integrally connected with the duties attaching to the office as to be inseparable from them, then sanction under Section 197(1) would be necessary; but if there was no necessary connection between them and the performance of those duties, the official status furnishing only the occasion or opportunity for the acts, then no sanction would be required. xxx xxx xxx 11. …The result then is that whether sanction is necessary to prosecute a public servant on a charge of criminal misappropriation, will depend on whether the acts complained of hinge on his duties as a public servant. If they do, then sanction is requisite. But if they are unconnected with such duties, then no sanction is necessary. (emphasis supplied) 49. A five-Judge Bench of this Court in Matajog Dobey v. H.C. Bhari reported in AIR 1956 SC 44 acknowledged that slightly differing tests had been laid down under Section 197 CrPC but the difference in those tests were only in language and not in substance. The Court laid down a more refined test that there must be a reasonable connection between the act done and the discharge of the official duty and the act must bear such relation to the duty that the accused could lay a reasonable, but not a pretended or fanciful claim, that he did it in the course of the performance of his duty. Therefore, what one must ascertain is whether the act and the official duty are so interrelated such that it can be reasonably postulated that it was done in the performance of the official duty, though possibly in excess of the needs and requirements of the situation. The relevant observations are as follows: “17. Slightly differing tests have been laid down in the decided cases to ascertain the scope and the meaning of the relevant words occurring in Section 197 of the Code; “any offence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official 804 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports duty”. But the difference is only in language and not in substance. The offence alleged to have been committed must have something to do, or must be related in some manner with the discharge of official duty. No question of sanction can arise under Section 197, unless the act complained of is an offence; the only point to determine is whether it was committed in the discharge of official duty. There must be a reasonable connection between the act and the official duty. It does not matter even if the act exceeds what is strictly necessary for the discharge of the duty, as this question will arise only at a later stage when the trial proceeds on the merits.