Before the issuance of Section 4 notification on 28.09.2013, a survey was conducted by the Revenue Department to identify ‘abadi’ land. The State has not acquired most of the land identified as ‘abadi’ in the survey, except such parcels where unauthorized and illegal constructions had been raised as per the Collector’s report. C. Contentions on behalf of the Respondents 12. Per contra, respondent-landowners, represented by Mr. Dhruv Mehta, learned senior counsel along with learned Counsels S/Shri Dr. Rajeev Sharma, Jasbir Singh Malik, Smarhar Singh, Rahul Sharma and Ms. Jaikriti S. Jadeja, attempted to rebuff the submissions made on behalf of the appellant(s) in the following terms: On maintainability of challenge against the acquisition proceedings a) Acceptance of compensation does not preclude the respondents from challenging the acquisition proceedings. Respondent No. 1 asserts that the compensation was received in good faith, based on a mutual agreement with NOIDA. Under this settlement, Respondent No. 1 agreed to relinquish 0.5671 hectares of his land in favour of NOIDA in lieu of the release of remainder of his ‘abadi’ land. The compensation was taken to safeguard Respondent No. 1’s land from demolition. However, after accepting the compensation, NOIDA failed to honor the settlement and proceeded to acquire his remaining ‘abadi’ land as well. Respondent No. 1 thus alleges mala fide intentions of NOIDA authorities behind initiating the acquisition process. b) Reference was made to the Full Bench decision of the High Court in Gajraj v. State of U.P.,3 which was subsequently upheld by this Court in Savitri Devi v. State of U.P.,4 emphasising 3 2011 SCC OnLine All 1711. 4 [2015] 7 SCR 512 : (2015) 7 SCC 21 1012 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that accepting compensation does not amount to acquiescence to the acquisition if such proceedings are otherwise wrongful and illegal. On the effectiveness of hearing under Section 5A c) Citing Babu Ram v. State of Haryana,5 Mr. Dhruv Mehta, Learned Senior Counsel, emphatically argued that Section 5A of the 1894 Act is far more than a statutory edict, embodying Fundamental Rights enshrined in Articles 14 and 19 of the Indian Constitution. Hence, objections filed by the landowners were required to be considered in a quasi-judicial manner, and as the provision expressly confers the right to hearing, the Collector was obligated to accord such an opportunity to the affected landowners. d) Learned Senior Counsel further submitted that the record of proceedings conducted by the Collector leaves no room to doubt that: i) the respondents were not served with notices for hearings; ii) personal hearings were not granted; and iii) there was a complete non-application of mind in addressing Section 5A objections. The personal hearing was crucial in the present case since the objections varied from owner to owner. The failure to provide such hearing amounts to gross violation of Section 5A, justifying the quashing of acquisition process. In this regard, he relied upon Shri Farid Ahmed Abdul Samad v. Municipal Corporation.6 e) It was also pointed out that the Collector manipulated the official record of adjudication of the objections.