The High Court held that Entry 91 of List I (Union List) empowers the Parliament to enact a law relating to rate of stamp duty in respect of various instruments, including policies of insurance. Entry 44 of List III (Concurrent List) empowers both the Parliament and state legislatures to enact laws with respect to “stamp duties other than duties or fees collected by means of judicial stamps, but not including rates of stamp duty”. 4.1 The High Court held that the 1952 Act has been enacted under Entry 44, List III and has received Presidential assent. It does not occupy the field covered by Entry 91 of List I as it does not fix or prescribe the rate of duty for insurance stamps but only provides for the collection of stamp duty. The High Court 6 Impugned , p. 15 7 ibid. 8 ibid, p.17 9 ibid. 10 ibid. 250 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports hence rejected the submission by the appellant that the state government does not have the power to demand payment for insurance stamps as they fall under the Union List. 4.2 It also rejected the appellant’s reliance on this Court’s in VVS Rama Sharma v. State of Uttar Pradesh11 by differentiating it as in that case, there was no state law that had received Presidential assent and instead the consideration was under Rule 115A of the UP Stamp Rules, 1942.12 Since the 1952 Act had received Presidential assent, it was held to be a special law that has overriding effect, which was not the case in VVS Rama Sharma (supra) where the Indian Stamp Act read with rules framed by the state of UP was applicable.13 It also differentiated the case on facts as VVS Rama Sharma (supra) pertained to the commission of criminal offences under the Indian Penal Code and the Indian Stamp Act, 1899.14 5. Submissions by the appellant: The learned ASG, Mr. N. Venkataraman, appeared on behalf of the appellant and has made two primary arguments. The gist of his submission is: First, that on the basis of Entry 91 of List I, Entry 63 of List II, and Entry 44 of List III, the state of Rajasthan does not have the legislative competence to impose and collect stamp duty on insurance policies as the same falls under the Union List. Second, that the show-cause notice and the proceedings are under the 1998 Act, which does not provide for imposition of stamp duty by the state on policies of insurance. Alternatively, even if the 1952 Act applies, the appellant had no option but to purchase the stamps from Maharashtra due to their admitted unavailability and in view of Section 3A(4) of the 1952 Act. The detailed arguments are as follows: 5.1 Learned ASG has relied on Entry 47 of List I on insurance and Entry 91 of List I that empowers the Parliament to prescribe the rate of stamp duty in respect of bills of exchange, cheques, promissory notes, bills of lading, letters of credit, policies of insurance, transfer of shares, debentures, proxies and receipts.