passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court on August 27, 2001, reads thus:- “Leave granted. Mr. Harsh N. Salve, learned Solicitor General, submitted that the State of Punjab takes objection only in regard to the following observations made in the impugned :- [2024] 6 S.C.R. 931 Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. “This exercise, it appears, has not been done throughout the State of Punjab and Haryana and villages forming part of Union Territory, Chandigarh, even though there is a specific provision for doing that. This exercise be done as expeditiously as possible and preferably within six months proceedings for repartition must commence. Liberty to apply in the event of non-compliance of directions referred to above.” Learned counsel for the Respondent submits that they had no objection in deleting the aforesaid portions from the impugned . We allow these appeals to be extent of deleting of the above said passage from the impugned . These appeals are disposed of accordingly.” 60. It is thus clear that the Full Bench of the High Court has referred to the of the Division Bench of the said Court in the case of Gurjant Singh. 61. It is pertinent to note that in the case of Gurjant Singh, the Division Bench of the High Court had noted a series of s delivered by the said High Court relying on the law laid down by the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bhagat Ram. All these decisions had held that the land which remains unutilized after utilizing the land for the common purposes so provided under the consolidation scheme vests with the proprietors and not with the Gram Panchayat. It was further held that the unutilized land i.e., the Bachat land, left after utilizing the land earmarked for the common purposes, has to be redistributed amongst the proprietors according to the share in which they had contributed the land belonging to them for common purposes. 62. It is to be noted that the JUR referred to the in the case of Gurjant Singh and the passed by this Court in Civil Appeal Nos.5709-5714 of 2001, wherein the State had objected only with regard to the observations wherein the time limit was provided for effecting redistribution of the Bachat land amongst the proprietors according to their share. 932 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 63. It is thus clear that the State itself did not press the appeals with regard to the directions for redistribution of the Bachat land amongst the proprietors according to their share. Its only grievance was with regard to the directions to do it within a specified period of time. However, this Court in the JUR held that the doctrine of merger would not be applicable. However, we do not wish to go into the correctness of that finding since we are sitting in review jurisdiction. 64. The JUR referred to various s of the Punjab & Haryana High Court which took the view that the Bachat lands are entitled for redistribution.