[2024] 5 S.C.R. 281 Commissioner of Central Excise Belapur v. Jindal Drugs Ltd. 12. The Central Excise Act which has since got subsumed in the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 was enacted to provide for levy of central duties of excise on goods manufactured or produced in India and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. 12.1. Section 2 is the definition clause. ‘Manufacture’ is defined in Section 2(f) which reads as follows: “manufacture” includes any process,- (i) incidental or ancillary to the completion of a manufactured product; (ii) which is specified in relation to any goods in the Section or Chapter notes of the First Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act (5 of 1986) as amounting to manufacture; or (iii) which, in relation to the goods specified in the Third Schedule, involves packing or repacking of such goods in a unit container or labelling or re-labelling of containers including the declaration or alteration of retail sale price on it or adoption of any other treatment on the goods to render the product marketable to the consumer, and the word “manufacturer” shall be construed accordingly and shall include not only a person who employs hired labour in the production or manufacture of excisable goods, but also any person who engages in their production or manufacture on his own account; 12.2. Therefore, the word ‘manufacture’ includes any process which is incidental or ancillary to the completion of a manufacture product; any process which is specified in relation to any goods in the Section or Chapter notes of the First Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act as amounting to manufacture; or any process which in relation to the goods specified in the Third Schedule involves packing or repacking of such goods in a unit container or labelling or re-labelling of containers including the declaration or alteration of retail sale price on it or adoption of any other treatment on the goods to render the product marketable to the consumer. 282 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. Chapter 18 of the Central Excise Tariff Act deals with cocoa and cocoa preparations. Note 3 to Chapter 18 has undergone amendment with effect from 01.03.2008. Prior to the amendment, Note 3 to Chapter 18 read as under: In relation to products of this Chapter, labelling or re-labelling of containers and repacking from bulk packs to retail packs or the adoption of any other treatment to render the product marketable to the consumer, shall amount to ‘manufacture’. 13.1. Post 01.03.2008, Note 3 now reads as follows: In relation to products of this Chapter, labelling or re-labelling of containers or repacking from bulk packs to retail packs or the adoption of any other treatment to render the product marketable to the consumer, shall amount to ‘manufacture’. 13.2. Thus by way of the amendment, the word ‘and’ has been replaced by the word ‘or’ between the expressions ‘labelling or re-labelling of containers’ and ‘repacking from bulk packs to retail packs’. Prior to 01.03.2008, the legislative intent was quite clear.