[2024] 9 S.C.R. 668 : 2024 INSC 758 In Re: Remarks By High Court Judge During Court Proceedings (Suo Motu Writ (Civil) No. 9 of 2024) 25 September 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud,* CJI, Sanjiv Khanna, B.R. Gavai, Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Certain misogynistic remarks as well as comments prejudicial to a particular community were made by a Judge of the High Court of Karnataka in the course of the judicial proceedings. Suo motu case taken up by the Supreme Court. Headnotes† Judicial Discipline – Misogynistic comments to a woman lawyer and casual observations against a particular community at large made by the Judge during judicial proceedings – Suo motu proceedings taken up by the Supreme Court however, notice was not issued to the Judge to maintain the institutional dignity of the High Courts and the Judges: Held: The report submitted by the Registrar General of the High Court of Karnataka showed that the observations made were unrelated to the course of the proceedings – They should have been eschewed – Serious concern expressed about the reference to gender and to a segment of the community, deprecated – Accepting the apology tendered by the Judge in the open court proceedings, in the interest of preserving the dignity of the institution, proceedings not pursued further. [Paras 17, 13] Administration of Justice – Access to justice – Live reporting of court proceedings – Casual observations, impact – Responsibility of judges, lawyers and other stake holders, discussed. List of Acts Karnataka Rules on Live Streaming and Recording of Court Proceedings 2021; Rules for Video Conferencing for Courts 2020 by High Court of Karnataka. * Author [2024] 9 S.C.R. 669 In Re: Remarks By High Court Judge During Court Proceedings List of Keywords Remarks by High Court Judge; Casual observations during judicial proceedings; Misogynistic comments; Comments prejudicial to a segment of the society; Judicial discipline; Judicial conduct; Suo motu proceedings; Administration of Justice; Live reporting of court proceedings; Apology by the Judge. Case Arising From CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Suo Motu Writ (Civil) No. 9 of 2024 (Under Article 32 of The Constitution of India) Appearances for Parties By Courts Motion. Mr. R. Venkataramani, Attorney General, Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General, Advs. for the Respondent. / of the Supreme Court Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI 1. The Court was apprised of reports circulating in the media pertaining to comments attributed to Justice V Srishananda, a Judge of the High Court of Karnataka, during the conduct of judicial proceedings. 2. In this backdrop, a suo motu proceeding has been registered. 3. On 20 September 2024, the Registrar General of the High Court of Karnataka was requested to submit a report after seeking administrative directions of the Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka in regard to the subject matter of the suo motu proceedings. 4. A report dated 23 September 2024 has been submitted by Mr K S Bharath Kumar, Registrar General of the High Court of Karnataka, in pursuance of the above directions.