This included supply of goods to projects financed by multilateral or bilateral agencies or any other agency that may be notified by the Central Government, such as, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development under international competitive bidding or under limited tender system in accordance with the procedures of those agencies. 31.2. Section 122 clarifies that deemed export would be eligible for benefits under the Duty Drawback Scheme in respect of manufacture and supply of goods by treating those as deemed export. 32. That apart, as already mentioned in the earlier part of the judgement, the Explanation below sub-section (1) of Section 27 of the Customs Act clarifies that the expression ‘the date of payment of duty or interest’ in relation to a person other than an importer shall be construed as ‘the date of purchase of goods’ by such person. 33. Therefore, on a conjoint and careful reading of the relevant provisions of the Exim Policy, 1992-1997 in conjunction with the Central Excise Act and the Customs Act, it is evident that supply of goods to the project in question by the respondent was a case of ‘deemed export’ and thus entitled to the benefit under the Duty Drawback Scheme. The language employed in the policy made this very clear and there was no ambiguity in respect of such entitlement. 34. Even if there was any doubt, the same was fully explained by the 1995 Rules. In fact, under the definition clause of the 1995 Rules, duty drawback, in relation to any goods manufactured in India and exported has been defined to mean the rebate of duty or tax chargeable on any imported materials or excisable materials used [2024] 2 S.C.R. 109 Union of India and Ors. v. M/S. B.T. Patil and Sons Belgaum (Construction) Pvt. Ltd. or taxable services used in the manufacture of such goods. In the preceding paragraphs, we have noted the meaning of the expressions ‘excisable materials’ and ‘manufacture’. 34.1. Rule 3 of the 1995 Rules makes it abundantly clear that a drawback may be allowed on the export of goods at such amount or at such rates as may be determined by the Central Government. Further, Rule 14 provides for payment of drawback and interest. 35. It was, therefore, not correct on the part of the appellants to contend that there was no provision for payment of interest on delayed refund of duty drawback. That apart, it is wholly untenable for the appellants to contend that refund of duty drawback was granted to the respondent as a concession, not to be treated as a precedent. As we have seen, respondent is entitled to refund of duty drawback as a deemed export under the Duty Drawback Scheme. The applications for refund were made in 1996. Decision to grant refund of duty drawback was taken belatedly on 07.10.2002 whereafter the payments were made by way of cheques on 31.03.2003 and 20.05.2003. Admittedly, there was considerable delay in refund of duty drawback. 36. As we have already examined, under sub-section (1) of Section 75A of the Customs Act, where duty drawback is not paid within a period of three months from the date of filing of claim, the claimant would be entitled to interest in addition to the amount of drawback.