07. Hence, I find that a judicial process should not be an instrument of oppression, or, needless harassment. The Apex Court has in several cases warned that Authorities should be circumspect and judicious in exercising [2024] 4 S.C.R. 377 The State of Madhya Pradesh v. Shilpa Jain & Ors. discretion and should take all relevant facts and circumstances into consideration before issuing process; otherwise the process would become a mere instrument in the hands of the private complainant to seek vendetta and short circuit a procedure of law. Especially, in the present case the civil matters are still pending consideration and placing reliance on Suneet Gupta Vs. Anil Triloknath Sharma and others 2008 (11) SC 670 I find that the FIR needs to be quashed primarily on the ground that the dispute is purely civil in nature and the complaint amounts to an abuse the process of law. The impugned FIR stands hereby quashed. The petitions are, therefore, allowed.” 2.5 Aggrieved by the aforesaid Impugned , the present appeal came to be preferred by the Appellant. 2.6 It would also be apposite to mention that during the pendency of the present appeal, certain proceeding(s) ensued before the Revenue Court i.e., eviction proceedings under Section 248 of the Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code, 1959 (the “Code”) came to be instituted by the Tehsildar, Khategaon against certain Respondents. The aforesaid proceedings were decided against the Respondents by (i) the Tehsildar, Khategaon; (ii) the Sub- Divisional Commissioner; and (iii) the Additional Commissioner. Thereafter a revision petition i.e., revision no. 3140/2019/ Devas/L.R,was preferred before the Board of Revenue, Madhya Pradesh. Accordingly, vide an dated 26.10.2018, the aforesaid proceedings came to be decided in favour of the Respondents (the “Revenue Board ”). Subsequently, a rectification dated 02.09.2020 came to be passed by the Ld. Sub-Divisional Office, Khategaon, Dewas, Madhya Pradesh whereunder the Suit Property was directed to be recorded as ‘abadi land’ as against ‘nazul government land’ in the relevant revenue records (the “SDO ”) (hereinafter (i) the Revenue Board ; and (ii) the SDO shall collectively be referred to as the “Revenue Proceedings”). 378 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Contentions 3. Mr. Padmesh Mishra, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant i.e., the State of Madhya Pradesh, urged the following: 3.1 The High Court proceeded on an erroneous premise i.e., that the State of Madhya Pradesh was unable to prove its title qua the Suit Property in the Civil Suit; and consequently, on the aforesaid flawed premise, the High Court proceeded to quash the FIR and the proceedings emanating thereof by labelling the same as vexatious. Whereas, on the contrary, the Underlying Decree passed in the Civil Suit categorically recorded that the Suit Property vested in the State of Madhya Pradesh. 3.2 The allegations levelled against the accused persons in the FIR, prima facie reveal the commission of a cognizable offence - which ought not to have been scuttled by the High Court exercising its jurisdiction under 482 of the CrPC in view of the seriousness of the allegation(s).