8. In our opinion, the contention raised by Arcadia has no merit. The transactions are intrinsically intertwined and cannot be compartmentalized into watertight silos. The shipment of goods was linked and connected with the sale of goods by Bhushan Steel through, inter alia, the Bill of Lading. A Bill of Lading essentially serves a tri-fold purpose: (a) it is receipt of the goods shipped and the terms on which they have been received; (b) it is evidence for the contract of carriage of goods; and (c) it is a document of title for the goods specified therein. Consequently, the release of goods by the shipper, Arcadia, hinged upon the presentation of the Bill of Lading by the receiver, TYO Trading at the point of receipt. However, the Bill of Lading necessitated proper endorsement by the Bank of Ethiopia since they were the issuers of the Letter of Credit. Bhushan Steel remained the owner of the goods. In this manner, the actions of Arcadia and the transactions were interconnected with each other. Upon reading paragraphs 22, 29 and 30 of the plaint referred to above and after perusing the facts of the case, it is clear to us that a part of the cause of action had arisen in Delhi. 9. It would be opportune to refer to the provisions of the Code. 10. Section 20(c) of the Code accords dominus litis to the plaintiff to institute a suit within local limits of whose jurisdiction the cause of action, wholly or in part arises.10 Every suit is based upon the cause of action, and the situs of the cause of action, even in part, will confer territorial jurisdiction on the court. The expression ‘cause of action’ can be given either a restrictive or wide meaning. However, it is judicially read to mean - every fact that the plaintiff should prove to support their right to the . 11. I Rule 3 of the Code states that the plaintiff may join as a defendant in one suit, all persons against whom, the plaintiff claims the right to relief in respect of, or arising out of, the same act or 10 “20. Other suits to be instituted where defendants reside or cause of action arises.—Subject to the limitations aforesaid, every suit shall be instituted in a Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction— xxx xxx xxx (c) the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 413 Arcadia Shipping Ltd. v. Tata Steel Limited and Others transaction or series of transactions.11 The claim viz. the defendants can be joint, several or in the alternative. Thus, it is permissible to file one civil suit, even when, separate suits can be brought against such persons, when common questions of law and fact arise. 12. I Rule 7 of the Code permits a plaintiff who is in doubt as to the person from whom they are entitled to obtain redress, to join two or more defendants in that the question as to which of the defendants is liable, and to what extent, can be decided in one suit.12 13.