The Full Court also resolved that in to settle the issue in a comprehensive manner the necessity, if any, to amend the Rules should be examined by the Committee overseeing the Superior Judicial Service and the Rule Committee. 13. Following the above resolution, the two committees convened on 11 February 2022. The Minutes of the Meeting of the two committees reflect the following decision: “Re:- Consideration of matter qua amendment in Rule 8 of Punjab Superior Judicial Service Rules, 2007 and Rule 8 of Haryana Superior Judicial Service Rules, 2007 in view of the report dated 11.11.2021 of the Hon’ble Recruitment and Promotion Committee (Superior Judicial Service) as well as modification in para no. (iii) of the ‘Benchmark of the ACRs as per Rule 8’, by the Hon’ble Full Court. Meeting note perused. After deliberating upon the matter at length, this Committee recommends that the word ‘and’ be inserted at the end of sub-rule (I) and before sub-rule (ii) of Rule 8 of Haryana Superior Judicial Service Rules 2007. This Committee also recommends that existing proviso 1146 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to Rule 8 of Punjab Superior Judicial Service Rules 2007 as well as to Rule 8 of Haryana Superior Judicial Service Rules 2007 be substituted as under:- “Provided that an officer with an entry of integrity doubtful in any year shall not be eligible to be considered for promotion.” This Committee has also perused Rule 9 of Punjab Superior Judicial Service Rules 2007 and Rule 9 of Haryana Superior Judicial Service Rules 2007 and recommends that existing second proviso to Rule 9 of Punjab Superior Judicial Service Rules 2007 and to Rule 9 of Haryana Superior Judicial Services Rules 2007 be substituted as under:- “Provided further that an officer with an entry of Integrity doubtful in any year shall not be eligible to appear in the said examination.’’ The matter be referred to the Hon’ble Full Court for approval.” 14. On 24 August 2022, the process of filling up vacancies for the post of Additional District and Sessions Judges from amongst Civil Judges (Senior Division)/Chief Judicial Magistrates/Additional Civil Judges (Senior Division) was initiated and a communication was accordingly addressed to thirty-nine candidates. The High Court conducted a written test which was followed by a viva voce. On 23 February 2023, the Registrar (Judicial) addressed a communication to the State Government recommending the names of thirteen judicial officers for appointment by way of promotion as Additional District and Sessions Judges. 15. On 2 March 2023, a communication was addressed by the Chief Secretary to the Government of Haryana to the Registrar (Judicial) seeking a “justification/clarification” in regard to certain judicial officers of the 2007, 2009 and 2010 batches on the ground that they appeared to be senior than the last of the thirteen recommended officers. The communication noted that in spite of seniority, these judicial officers were not recommended for promotions. The High Court was also called upon to clarify “the criteria of merit and suitability test, on the basis of which principle of merit-cum-seniority has been affected (sic) and names of officers senior to the recommended officers have not been recommended”.