Thereafter, a search party was constituted to find him and in response to information received at 11.30 p.m. on 07.06.2002, S.I. Ratna Raju (A2) along with three constables (A4 to A6) rushed and stopped their jeep at the Deaf and Dumb School in Gunadala. The police officials put their torches and found two persons taking liquor in the nearby fields. When the police party enquired about the identity about the said persons, one of them took to heels but the other person attacked the S.I. (A2) with an 8-inch knife and began to run away. The S.I. alerted the constables to go back and fired two rounds at the fleeing person, while also searching for the first person who had fled the scene. The person who fell on the ground after [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1699 Basamsetti Rama Devi v. The State of A.P. & Ors. such firing was later identified by the police officials as V. Durga Prasad (the deceased). 5.15 As such, it has been submitted by the accused-respondents that the High Court has rightly passed the impugned as the dispute pertaining to the death of the deceased was well settled by the reports of the two investigating agencies by holding the case of self-defence. It was further submitted that the complaint was filed by the appellant only six months after the death of the deceased and that there was no proper explanation for such inordinate delay. 5.16 The main contention of the respondents hinged on the submission that A2 opened the fire in to protect himself as he had already suffered injuries at the hands of the deceased and he was left with no other alternative except to execute the right of private defence. It was claimed that it was only later that the accused-respondents identified the deceased as the accused who fled away from the police station, thereby establishing that there was no motive or intention of the accused persons to kill the deceased. 6. Having culled out the facts of both the cases in sufficient detail, it is clear that the instant appellants herein are aggrieved by the setting aside of committal against the respondents and discharge of the accused-respondents in the respective cases by the High Court and thereby, effectively letting the accused-respondents go scot-free without even being put through a trial, let alone a fair one. 7. The facts of the cases clearly reflect how the accused-respondents have attempted to avail every opportunity to seek discharge and the said plea was heeded to by the High Court in the revision petitions. 8. The High Court, while passing the impugned , has wholly and solely relied on the reports of the investigating agencies and concluded that the complainant has only been able to establish to the extent that the deceased was taken away by the accused-police officials in connection with a crime committed by him. Further, the High Court opined that the dispute regarding the factum of the death of the deceased at the hands of the accused persons was sought to be settled in the light of investigation reports of CID and CBI and plainly held that the occurrence took place in exercise of right of self-defence.