The Secretary, Department of Environment is the Member Secretary of the Committee. The Committee may co-opt other members/experts as necessary. (vi) District Level Committee (DLC): The DLC has a major role in monitoring the safety regulations in installations engaged in the use of GMOs/ hazardous micro- organisms and its application in the environment. This Committee is constituted in the districts to monitor the safety regulations in installations engaged in the use of GMOs/hazardous micro-organisms and its applications in the environment. This Committee is chaired by the District Collector. The Chief Medical Officer (District Health Officer) is the Member (Convenor). The Members of the Committee include Factory Inspector, a representative from Pollution Control Board, District Agricultural Officer, a representative of the Public Health Engineering Department, District Microbiologists, Pathologist (Technical expert), and Commissioner of Municipal Corporation. The Committee may co-opt other members/ experts as necessary. 26.2 According to learned Attorney General, the 1989 Rules are implemented by the aforesaid competent authorities through a series of biosafety guidelines issued from time to time. The Guidelines applicable to GE plants are: (i) Guidelines and SOP for Conduct of Confined Field Trials of Regulated GE Plants, 2008. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2071 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (ii) Revised Guidelines for Research in Transgenic Plants, 1998; (iii) Regulations and Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research and Biocontainment, 2017. (iv) Guidelines for Safety Assessment of Foods Derived from GE Plants, 2008 (updated in 2012) (v) Protocols for Food and Feed Safety Assessment of GE Crops, 2008. (vi) Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) of GE Plants: A Guide for Stakeholders, 2016. (vii) Risk Analysis Framework, 2016. (viii) Guidelines for the Environmental Risk Assessment of GE Plants, 2016. 26.3 The research and development (R&D) with respect to GE plants has to be conducted in accordance with the Revised Guidelines for Research in Transgenic Plants, 1998. As per these Guidelines, the experiments conducted on research of transgenic plants are broadly categorized into three categories based on the risk involved, namely, Category I that involves routine rDNA experiments, Category II involving evaluation of transgenic plants in green house/net house, and Category III that pertains to high-risk experiments. These experiments have to be regulated by the IBSC and/or the RCGM, as prescribed in the Guidelines. 26.4 Subsequent to the above experiments conducted under the contained conditions, the confined field trials have to be conducted as prescribed under the Guidelines and SOP for the Conduct of Confined Field Trials of Regulated GE Plants, 2008. 26.5 The initial assessment of an application for a confined field trial begins at the institutional level itself. Based on information generated by the applicant in the laboratory and the greenhouse, an application is made to the IBSC for permission to conduct a confined field trial. The IBSC evaluates the proposal for conducting a field trial and further recommends 2072 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports it to the other Regulatory Authorities. The confined field trials are categorized as under: (i) Biosafety Research Level-I (BRL-I) Trials: These trials are limited in size to no more than 1 acre (0.4 ha) per trial site location and a maximum cumulative total of 20 acres (8.1 ha) for all locations for each plant species/construct combination (e.g., one or more events originating from transformation of a plant species with the same genetic construct), per applicant, per crop season.