This power cannot be used to “supplant” substantive law applicable to the case or cause under consideration of the Court. Article 142, even with the width of its amplitude, cannot be used to build a new edifice where none existed earlier, by ignoring express statutory provisions dealing with a subject and thereby to achieve something indirectly which cannot be achieved directly. Punishing a contemner advocate, while dealing with a contempt of court case by suspending his licence to practice, a power otherwise statutorily available only to the Bar Council of India, on the ground that the contemner is also an advocate, is, therefore, not permissible in exercise of the jurisdiction under Article 142. The construction of Article 142 must be functionally informed by the salutary purposes of the article, viz., to do complete justice between the parties. It cannot be otherwise. As already noticed in a case of contempt of court, the contemner and the court cannot be said to be litigating parties.” 78. The action of the State though well-intentioned and affirmative in nature, if violates the specific provision of the Constitution, cannot be validated by the Supreme Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 142. The removal of inequalities or remedy to remove inequalities cannot be permitted at the cost of violation of the specific provision of the Constitution. When the wordings of the provision of the statutes, in the instant case of Article 341 of the Constitution are clear, as also the intention of the draftsmen of the Constitution, the Court cannot add or subtract words from such provision to give it a meaning which the Court feels would achieve the goal of social transformation. Sometimes the affirmative action and the Constitution intersect with each other in complex ways, as the affirmative action policies are framed by the States to promote diversity and to address historical inequalities, while the legal frameworks have to ensure that these policies are implemented within the bounds of the Constitution. The implementation of the affirmative action policies must align with the Constitutional and legal principles, particularly those related to [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1643 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. equality and non-discrimination. In short, the affirmative action and the legal frameworks, though both do aim at more equitable society, they must navigate complex legal principles to ensure fairness and Constitutionality. 79. The upshot of the above discussion may be summarised as under: - (i) When the law was settled by the Constitution Bench in E.V. Chinnaiah after considering all the previous s including Indra Sawhney and after investing substantial judicial time and resources, the same should not have been doubted and referred to the larger bench by the Three-Judge Bench in Davinder Singh, and that too without assigning any reason much less cogent reason for their disagreement disregarding the well settled doctrines of Precedents and Stare decisis. (ii) While giving a broad and generous construction to the Constitutional provisions, the rule of “plain meaning”, or “literal” interpretation, which is the “primary rule” has to be kept in mind.