If so judged it passes the test of reasonableness, possibility of the powers conferred being improperly used is no ground for pronouncing the law itself invalid and similarly if the law properly interpreted and tested in the light of the requirements set out in Part III of the Constitution does not pass the test it cannot be pronounced valid merely because it is administered in a manner which might not conflict with the constitutional requirements.” (at page 825)” [Emphasis supplied] 153. We were apprised by the learned Additional Solicitor General during the course of the hearing that the Customs department has been following the protocol suggested in Mangali Impex (supra) since 1999. Further, no substantial empirical evidence of the misuse of Section 28(11) which was enacted over a decade ago, was presented by the parties. Therefore, we are inclined to accept the policy of the Customs department that once a show cause notice is issued, the jurisdiction of other empowered proper officers shall be excluded for such notice. We find that such policy acts as a sufficient safeguard against the apprehension of chaos or confusion or misuse. 154. Thus, we are of the considered view that the enactment of sub-section (11) of Section 28 cures the defect pointed out in Sayed Ali (supra) and the in Mangali Impex (supra) deserves to be set aside. 155. It follows from the above discussion that sub-section (11) of Section 28 is constitutionally valid, and its application is not limited to the period between 08.04.2011 and 16.09.2011. 156. For the reasons in the foregoing paragraphs, we hold that the Bombay High Court in Sunil Gupta (supra) lays down the correct position of law, whereas the Delhi High Court decision in Mangali Impex (supra) is incorrect and is consequently set aside. xi. Amendments made by the Finance Act, 2022 157. The third cluster of the present batch of cases relates to the challenge to the constitutional validity of Sections 86, 87, 88, 94 and 97 of the 318 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Finance Act, 2022 respectively. We take this opportunity to consider this issue as the constitutional validity of the said provisions has been challenged with specific reference to the findings made in Canon India (supra), which is the under review herein. 158. The validation amendment vide Section 97 has been challenged before this Court specifically in WP (C) 526 of 2022 titled Daikin Air Conditioning India Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India. The respondent herein has canvassed the following grounds for declaring the provision unconstitutional on the touchstone of Article 14 of the Constitution: (i) The Finance Act, 2022 does not cure the defect pointed out in Canon India (supra) and no notification or amendment of law deeming DRI officers to be the proper officers would cure the defect of ouster of jurisdiction of DRI once the original act of assessment has been undertaken by a different group of officers. The Finance Act, 2022 is manifestly arbitrary as no attempt has been made to cure the defect highlighted in Canon India (supra).