As the in Sitaram Sugar (supra) notes, “judicial decisions are made according to law while administrative decisions emanate from administrative policy.”95 As held above, the factors to be considered by AERA in terms of Section 13(1)(a) are purely ‘policy’ factors. Further, the function of AERA to determine tariff must be read in the context of the role of the Authority as a ‘regulator’ as has been highlighted above. Modern constitutional governance requires that legislation is not general but context specific. Over-emphasising the distinction between general and specific provisions to determine if a function is regulatory or adjudicatory would be to completely ignore the jurisprudential developments governing both the regulatory domain and Article 14. 60. The second provision that the respondents relied on was Section 13(4) of the AERA Act which requires AERA to follow certain principles of natural justice to ensure transparency in discharging its functions. There is no doubt that Section 13(4) incorporates some of the principles of natural justice. It requires holding consultations and allowing stakeholders to make submissions, and reasoned decisions to obviate the influence of bias in them. However, as explained above, that in itself is not sufficient to conclude that the AERA’s determination of tariffs for aeronautical services is an adjudicatory function. In the previous section, we have in detail explained that principles of natural justice are not just a requirement for ‘judicial’ actions. They are required to be complied with even in the exercise of administrative actions. Thus, the requirement of the principles of natural justice does not render the determination, an adjudication. 95 [1990] 1 SCR 909 : (1990) 3 SCC 223 [32] [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1445 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. vii. Interpretation of Sections 18 and 31 of the AERA Act 61. The respondents made the following submissions based on Section 18 to argue that AERA cannot be impleaded as a party to the proceedings before TDSAT: a. Section 18 of the AERA Act does not expressly provide that TDSAT must hear AERA before passing any . Clause (4) of Section 18 provides that TDSAT may pass an “after giving the parties to the dispute or appeal” an opportunity of being heard; and b. Section 18(5) expressly excludes AERA as a party in the appeal before TDSAT because it provides that a copy of every of TDSAT must be provided “to the parties to the dispute or appeal and to the Authority, as the case may be”. There is disagreement over whether the expression “as the case may be” takes after “dispute or appeal” or “Authority”. If the expression takes after the former, it means that Authority is not subsumed within “parties to dispute or appeal”. If the expression takes after the latter, it could mean that a copy of the must be given to AERA if it is not a party to the dispute or the appeal. 62. We have already, in the previous section of this after an analysis of the precedent, concluded that the Authority can be impleaded as a respondent in an appeal against its even if the provisions of the statute do not provide for it.