Postponement of sale.─The sale may from time to time be postponed for any sufficient reason: Provided that, when the sale is postponed for a period longer than thirty days a fresh proclamation and notice shall be issued unless the defaulter consents to waive it.” 58. Various illegalities were committed even in confirming the sale. In a process of sale, first the sale is to be conducted, then the proceeds are required to be received. It is only after the receipt of the proceeds that sale confirmation is required to be made by the collector and thereafter sale certificate and possession is to be handed over. In the present case, the sale was conducted and concluded on the same day i.e., 03.12.2008. The sale certificate was issued on the same day and that too without the confirmation from the collector and the possession was also handed over on the very next day. 524 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 59. From a bare perusal of Section 212 of the Revenue Code, it is evident that the purchaser can be put into possession only after confirmation of sale and the sale certificate being handed over to the purchaser. However, in the present case, the appellant was put in possession on 04.12.2008 and the sale of property was confirmed on 15.01.2009 by the Additional Collector, which is per se illegal in nature. Again at the cost of repetition, Section 212 of the Revenue Code is reproduced hereunder:- “Section 212. On confirmation of sale, purchaser to be put in possession. Certificate of purchase.— After a sale of any occupancy or alienated holding has been confirmed in the manner aforesaid, the Collector shall put the person declared to be the purchaser into possession of the land and shall cause his name to be entered in the land records as occupant or holder in lieu of that of the defaulter and shall grant him a certificate to the effect that he has purchased the land to which the certificate refers.” 60. Indisputably, although a specific objection was raised by the IFCI on 10.12.2008, as recorded by the Tahsildar in its letter dated 19.12.2008, yet the objection was suppressed from the Additional Collector. 61. On 07.01.2009, the Additional Collector, Head Office Jawar directed the respondent no. 4 to submit a detailed report on whether it had fulfilled all the conditions as stipulated under Section 208 of the Revenue Code. At the cost of repetition, Section 208 of the Revenue Code is reproduced hereunder:- “Section 208: confirming or setting aside sale.— On the expiration of thirty days or, as the case may be, one hundred and eighty days from the date of the sale, if no such application as is mentioned in section 207 has been made, or if such application has been made and rejected, the Collector shall make an confirming the sale:” 62. However, respondent no. 4, vide its letter dated 12.01.2009 addressed to the Additional Collector, Head Office Jawar, misinformed that except for the writ petition pending before the High Court of Bombay, no other objection was received and thereby all requirements under Section 208 of the Revenue Code had been fulfilled, despite IFCI raising its objections.