While by the very nature of the task mathematical exactitude is an impossibility, that will not deter the Court from imposing a period of sentence which will constitute “a just dessert” for the convict. Precedents can be good pointers as advised in V. Sriharan (supra). A survey of the previously decided 938 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cases applying the Swamy Shraddananda (supra) principle would be a safe and legitimate guide. It is in pursuance of that mandate that we have made a survey of some of the cases to see how Swamy Shraddananda (supra) had come to be applied in the course of the last decade and a half. 28. In Swamy Shraddananda (supra) itself, on facts, after finding that it was a murder of the wife in a systematic preplanned manner coupled with the fact that it was a murder for gain, this Court directed that the appellant therein be not released from prison for the rest of his life. 29. In Haru Ghosh v. State of West Bengal, (2009) 15 SCC 551 which involved the murder of two individuals and the attempt to murder the third by the accused who was out on bail in another case, after conviction, this Court while commuting the death penalty after taking into account the aggravating and mitigating circumstances imposed a sentence of 35 (thirty five) years of actual jail sentence without remission. It was noted that commission of the offence was not premeditated since he did not come armed and that the accused was the only bread earner for his family which included two minor children. 30. In Mulla & Another v. State of U.P., (2010) 3 SCC 508 the accused/appellant, along with other co-accused, was found guilty of murdering five persons, including one woman. This Court confirmed the conviction but modified the sentence. This Court stressed on the fact that socio-economic factors also constitute a mitigating factor and must be taken into consideration as in the case the appellants belonged to extremely poor background which prompted them to commit the act. The sentence was reduced from death to life imprisonment for full life, subject to any remission by the Government for good reasons. 31. In Ramraj v. State of Chhattisgarh, (2010) 1 SCC 573 which involved the murder of his wife, this Court imposed a sentence of 20 (twenty) years including remissions. 32. In Ramnaresh and Others vs. State of Chhattisgarh., (2012) 4 SCC 257 the convicts were sentenced to death by the lower court, with the High Court confirming the sentence, on finding them guilty of raping and murdering an innocent woman while she was alone in her house. This Court confirmed the conviction but found the case did not fall under the ‘rarest of rare’ category for awarding death [2024] 3 S.C.R. 939 Navas @ Mulanavas v. State of Kerala sentence. Ultimately, after setting out the well-established principles and on consideration of the aggravating and mitigating circumstances, this Court, while commuting the sentence from death imposed a sentence of life imprisonment of 21 (twenty one) years.