The total votes displayed by pressing the ‘TOTAL’ button on the control unit is also tallied with the total votes polled as per Form 17C. 440 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 52. The counting is done in the presence of the polling agents/candidates by pressing the ‘RESULT’ button on the control unit. The total votes polled and the total votes polled by each candidate is thereupon displayed on the display panel. 53. In terms of the directions issued by this Court in N. Chandrababu Naidu (supra), the VVPAT slips of five polling stations per assembly constituency/assembly segment of the parliamentary constituency, are randomly selected and counted. The results are then tallied with the electronic results of the control unit. 54. It may be relevant here to also refer to Rule 56D of the 1961 Rules, which reads as under: “56-D. Scrutiny of paper trail.—(1) Where printer for paper trail is used, after the entries made in the result sheet are announced, any candidate, or in his absence, his election agent or any of his counting agents may apply in writing to the returning officer to count the printed paper slips in the drop box of the printer in respect of any polling station or polling stations. (2) On such application being made, the returning officer shall, subject to such general or special guidelines, as may be issued by the Election Commission, decide the matter and may allow the application in whole or in part or may reject in whole, if it appears to him to be frivolous or unreasonable. (3) Every decision of the returning officer under sub-rule (2) shall be in writing and shall contain the reasons therefor. (4) If the returning officer decides under sub-rule (2) to allow counting of the paper slips either wholly or in part or parts, he shall— (a) do the counting in the manner as may be directed by the Election Commission; (b) if there is discrepancy between the votes displayed on the control unit and the counting of the paper slips, amend the result sheet in Form 20 as per the paper slips count; [2024] 5 S.C.R. 441 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another (c) announce the amendments so made by him; and (d) complete and sign the result sheet.” 55. Any candidate, or in his absence an election agent or counting agent, as per the said Rule, can apply in writing to the returning officer to count the printed paper slips in the drop box in respect of any polling station(s). The returning officer, subject to any general or special guidelines issued by the ECI, has to decide the matter and can allow the application in whole or in part, or may reject the application in full if it appears to be frivolous or unreasonable. Every decision of the returning officer is to be in writing and has to contain reasons. If the returning officer decides to allow counting of paper slips, either wholly or in part, he has to do so in the manner prescribed in sub- rule (4) to Rule 56D of the 1961 Rules.