But the legal effect of the terms of a document is a question of law. Construction of a document involving the application of any principle of law, is also a question of law. Therefore, when there is misconstruction of a document or wrong application of a principle of law in construing a document, it gives rise to a question of law. (ii) The High Court should be satisfied that the case involves a substantial question of law, and not a mere question of law. A question of law having a material bearing on the decision of the case (that is, a question, answer to which affects the rights of parties to the suit) will be a substantial question of law, if it is not covered by any specific provisions of law or settled legal principle emerging from binding precedents and involves a debatable legal issue. A substantial question of law will also arise in a contrary situation, where the legal position is clear, either on account of express provisions of law or binding precedents, but the court below has decided the matter, either ignoring or acting contrary to such legal principle. In the second type of cases, the substantial question of law arises not because the law is still debatable, but because the decision rendered on a material question, violates the settled position of law. (iii) The general rule is that the High Court will not interfere with findings of facts arrived at by the courts below. But it is not an absolute rule. Some of the well-recognised exceptions are where (i) the courts below have ignored material evidence or acted on no evidence; (ii) the courts have drawn wrong inferences from proved facts by applying the law erroneously; or (iii) the courts have wrongly cast the burden of proof. When we refer to “decision based on no evidence”, it not only refers to cases where there is a total dearth of evidence, but also refers to any case, where the evidence, taken as a whole, is not reasonably capable of supporting the finding.” (emphasis supplied) 2110 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports This Court recapitulated that a substantial question of law would also arise in a situation where the legal position is clear, either on account of express provisions of law or binding precedents, but the Court below has ignored or acted contrary to such legal principles while deciding the matter. In such circumstance, the decision rendered by the Court below would violate a settled position of law and therefore, constitute a substantial question law. Furthermore, it was observed therein that it is not an absolute rule that the Court in a second appeal will not interfere with findings of fact. One of the well-recognized exceptions is where the Courts below have drawn wrong inferences from proved facts, by applying the law erroneously. 88. In Maria Colaco and Another v. Alba Flora Herminda D’souza and Others reported in (2008) 5 SCC 268, it was held that in the second appeal under Section 100 CPC, the High Court should not interfere on the questions of fact.