(3) …” (emphasis supplied) A perusal of Section 94 of the Companies Act shows that a company is empowered to increase its share capital, by such amount as it thinks expedient, by passing a resolution in a general meeting. It is pertinent to note that no approval or confirmation by the Court is required to exercise this power. 348 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Once a resolution for authorising increase in share capital has been passed in terms of Section 94 of the Companies Act, a notice is required to be sent by the company in Form No.5 to the Registrar, pursuant to Section 97 of the Companies Act. The provision is reproduced below: “97. Notice of increase of share capital or of members.— (1) Where a company having a share capital, whether its shares have or have not been converted into stock, has increased its share capital beyond the authorised capital, and where a company, not being a company limited by shares, has increased the number of its members beyond the registered number, it shall file with the Registrar, notice of the increase of capital or of members within thirty days after the passing of the resolution authorising the increase; and the Registrar shall record the increase and also make any alterations which may be necessary in the company’s memorandum or articles or both. (2) … (3) …” (emphasis supplied) A perusal of the provisions referred above shows that it is the Registrar who is the custodian of the articles of a company and not the company. Thus, when a company has to alter the same or modify its share capital as recorded therein, it has to pass a resolution and file its Form No. 5. The relevant portion of Form No.5 is reproduced below: “Notice is hereby given – 1… 2. In accordance with Section 97 of the Companies Act, 1956, that by ordinary resolution / special resolution of the company dated the day of ______ (i) the authorised share capital of the company has been increased by the addition thereto of the sum of Rs. ______ beyond the present authorised capital of Rs. ______. (ii)... 3… 4…” [2024] 4 S.C.R. 349 State of Maharashtra & Anr. v. National Organic Chemical Industries Ltd. 8. The appellants have relied on Hindustan Lever v. State of Maharashtra, (2004) 9 SCC 438, and would submit that Form No.5 is an instrument. In this case, the question whether an passed by the Court (under Section 394 read with Section 391 of the Companies Act), sanctioning a scheme of amalgamation of two companies is an instrument within the meaning of Section 2(l) of the Stamp Act, was answered in the affirmative. It was observed that the Court passes the of sanction based on the arrangement arrived at between the parties and thereby affects transfer of assets and liabilities between them, which binds all. This is what was said: “32. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we hold that the passed by the Court under Section 394 of the Companies Act is based upon the compromise between two or more companies.