6541 of 2017 and 6543 of 2017 which came to be dismissed by the High Court vide the dated 21.08.2019. The High Court in the said had elaborately dealt with all these issues and while dismissing the said writ petitions held as under: “30. There are eight companies whose shares were purchased by the two petitioners, whose names have been included in the list. Admittedly, in respect of the shares in ADPL, proceedings under section 24(4) of the Prohibition of Benami Property Transaction Act, 1988 have been initiated. The petitioners have themselves enclosed a copy of the dated May 24, 2017 passed in respect of the “Benamidar”, i.e., ADPL, which inter-alia notes that the cash that was routed through accommodation entries in the garb of share capital/premium in fact belonged to Mr. Satyender Kumar Jain and that it was at his direction that the entire transaction was orchestrated. It was noted that neither of these two petitioners was either a director or shareholder in the said company. It was noted that the declarants had not provided the name of the “Benamidar” through whom the investment had been routed and that these facts were all completely within the knowledge of the two petitioners. These conclusions of the Principal Commissioner of Income-tax have not been convincingly countered by either of the petitioners. In the circumstances, [2024] 3 S.C.R. 809 Satyendar Kumar Jain v. Directorate of Enforcement the Principal Commissioner of Income-tax was right in concluding that neither of the petitioners had made a full and true disclosure of all material facts.” 27. The said of the High Court was challenged by the appellants- Ankush Jain and Vaibhav Jain before the Supreme Court by filing Special Leave Petitions being SLP(C)Nos. 27522 of 2019 and 27610 of 2019, however they came to be dismissed vide the dated 29.11.2019. 28. From the above stated facts there remains no shadow of doubt that the appellant- Satyendar Kumar Jain had conceptualized idea of accommodation entries against cash and was responsible for the accommodation entries totalling to Rs. 4.81 crores (approx.) received through the Kolkata based entry operators in the bank accounts of the four companies i.e. M/s. Akinchan Developers Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Paryas Infosolution Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Indo Metalimpex Pvt. Ltd. and M/s. Mangalayatan Projects Pvt. Ltd., by paying cash and the said companies were controlled and owned by him and his family. Though it is true that a company is a separate legal entity from its shareholders and directors, the lifting of corporate veil is permissible when such corporate structures have been used for committing fraud or economic offences or have been used as a facade or a sham for carrying out illegal activities. 29. It has also been found that the appellants - Ankush Jain and Vaibhav Jain had assisted the appellant-Satyendar Kumar Jain by making false declarations under the IDS each of them declaring alleged undisclosed income of Rs.8.26 crores in to protect Satyendar Kumar Jain. Though it was sought to be submitted by the learned counsel for the appellants that the said declarations under IDS having been held to be “void” in terms of Section 193 of FA, 2016 by the income tax authorities, the same could not be looked into in the present proceedings, the said submission cannot be accepted.