That an Indian citizen is excluded from the definition of an “enemy” or “enemy subject” under Section 2(b) of the Act. That on the death of the enemy subject, his successors and legal heirs being Indian citizens were entitled to succeed to the subject property as it ceased to be an enemy property. That even though a decision was taken to release only 25% of the property to the respondent therein, the same was also not implemented, for over three decades. Therefore, the direction was issued to the appellant-Union of India therein to get the buildings (residence or offices) vacated from such officers and hand over the possession to the respondent therein within eight weeks. The appeal of the Union of India was dismissed with costs of Rs.5 lakhs. This decision was rendered on 21.10.2005. 22.4 Thereafter, on 08.09.2006 in the case of Kohli Brothers vs. Amir Mohammad Khan, (2012) 12 SCC 625 (“Kohli Brothers”), this Court disposed of certain Special Leave Petitions with the clarification that persons who were inducted/ allotted properties by the Custodian or who came in possession after 1965 i.e. on or after declaring the property of the Raja of Mahmudabad as enemy property and appointment of the Custodian, had to vacate the properties in their possession. But persons claiming possession prior to the appointment of the Custodian declaring the property of Raja of Mahmudabad, father of the respondent therein, as enemy property, based on duly authenticated tenancy created by the then Raja of Mahmudabad or his general power of attorney was not to be covered by this Court’s passed in Amir Mohammad Khan. 932 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports In this regard, it would be useful to reiterate the statement and objects of the Act wherein it has been stated that immovable property, cash balances and firms belonging to Chinese nationals in India were vested in the Custodian of Enemy Property for India appointed under the Defence of India Rules, 1962. Similarly, upon the aggression by Pakistan in 1965, enemy properties were vested in the Custodian of Enemy Property under the power derived from the Defence of India Rules, 1962. That the properties vested in the Custodian of Enemy Property in India has to continue as it has not been possible for the Government of India so far to arrive at a settlement with the respective Governments of those countries. On a perusal of the impugned , it is noted that the learned counsel appearing for the appellant-Lucknow Nagar Nigam had submitted before the High Court that the Nagar Nigam may not charge in respect of property of Central Government but may demand fee, if any, with respect to services provided like water charge or sewerage charge. The present case relates to house tax and water tax. The High Court construed the said submission as an admission of the fact that the subject property is the Central Government’s property and therefore, quashed the recovery sought to be made by the appellant-Nagar Nigam. In fact, the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant-Nagar Nigam has to be construed in the context of the provisions of the Act as well as the relevant provisions of the Constitution which we have now interpreted.