This Article broadly corresponds to Section 155 of the Government of India Act, 1935 but has certain other conditions thereto. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 919 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others Articles 285 and 289 provide for the immunity of the property of the Union and the State from mutual taxation on the basis of the Federal principle. NDMC is a decision of nine-Judge Bench which dealt with a question whether the properties owned and occupied by various States within the National Capital Territory of Delhi are entitled to be exempted from the levy of taxes under the provision of Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 and New Delhi Municipal Council Act, 1994 by virtue of the provisions of Article 289(1) of the Constitution. The pertinent question was, whether, by virtue of Article 289(1), the States are entitled to exemption from the levy of taxes imposed by laws made by Parliament under Article 246(4) upon their properties situated within Union Territories. The Delhi High Court had taken the view that the properties of the States situated in the Union Territory of Delhi are exempt from property taxes levied under the municipal enactments in force in the Union Territory of Delhi. The said view was challenged in the appeals preferred by the New Delhi Municipal Council and the Delhi Municipal Corporation which are functioning under the respective parliamentary enactments. While considering Article 285 as well as the Article 289 of the Constitution which deal with exemption of property of the Union from State taxation and exemption of property and income of State from Union taxation, respectively, by a 5:4 majority speaking through B.P. Jeevan Reddy, J., it was observed that in a federation there are two coalescing units, namely, the Federal Government or the Centre and the States or the Provinces. Articles 285 and 289 deal with the concept of doctrine of immunity from taxation. While the immunity created in favour of the Union is absolute, the immunity created in favour of the States is a qualified one. Article 285 provides a complete and absolute ban on all taxes that could be imposed by a State on Union property. There is no way in which a State Legislature can levy a tax upon the property of the Union but Article 289 is distinct. Although, the property and income of a State is exempt from Union taxation, the same is qualified inasmuch as the aforesaid ban imposed by clause (1) of Article 289 would not prevent the Union from imposition or from imposing or authorising the imposition of, any tax to such extent, if any, as Parliament may by law provide in respect of - (a) a trade or business of any kind carried on by, or on behalf of, the Government of a State, or (b) any 920 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports operations connected such trade or business or (c) or any property used or occupied for the purposes of such trade or business, or (d) any income accruing or arising in connection with such trade or business.