x x x Rule 13. Procedure in relation to Children’s Court and Monitoring Authorities.- (1) Upon receipt of preliminary assessment from the Board the Children’s Court may decide whether there is need for trial of the child as an adult or as a child and pass appropriate s. (2) Where an appeal has been filed under sub-section (1) of section 101 of the Act against the of the Board declaring the age of the child, the Children’s Court shall first decide the said appeal. (3) Where an appeal has been filed under sub-section (2) of section 101 of the Act against the finding of the preliminary assessment done by the Board, the Children’s Court shall first decide the appeal. (4) Where the appeal under sub-section (2) of section 101 of the Act is disposed of by the Children’s Court on a finding that there is no need for trial of the child as an adult, it shall dispose of the same as per section 19 of the Act and these rules. (5) Where the appeal under sub-section (2) of section 101 of the Act is disposed of by the Children’s Court on a finding that the child should be tried as an adult the Children’s Court shall call for the file of the case from the Board and dispose of the matter as per the provisions of the Act and these rules. 786 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (6) The Children’s Court shall record its reasons while arriving at a conclusion whether the child is to be treated as an adult or as a child. (7) Where the Children’s Court decides that there is no need for trial of the child as an adult, and that it shall decide the matter itself: (i) It may conduct the inquiry as if it were functioning as a Board and dispose of the matter in accordance with the provisions of the Act and these rules. (ii) The Children’s Court, while conducting the inquiry shall follow the procedure for trial in summons case under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. (iii) The proceedings shall be conducted in camera and in a child friendly atmosphere, and there shall be no joint trial of a child alleged to be in conflict with law, with a person who is not a child. (iv) When witnesses are produced for examination the Children’s Court shall ensure that the inquiry is not conducted in the spirit of strict adversarial proceedings and it shall use the powers conferred by section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872). (v) While examining a child in conflict with law and recording his statement, the Children’s Court shall address the child in a child-friendly manner in to put the child at ease and to encourage him to state the facts and circumstances without any fear, not only in respect of the offence which is alleged against the child, but also in respect of the home and social surroundings and the influence to which the child might have been subjected.