35. At this stage, we are desisting from expressing any opinion on the allegations which are made against the petitioner or, for that matter, the allegations that the petitioner has made against SP, Shimla. The SP Shimla is not present before this Court. It is, therefore, necessary to clarify that the submissions which have been made by the petitioner earlier, as recorded above, have not been commented upon in the course of this . 36. The High Court has directed the State Government to consider constituting an SIT so that an objective and fair investigation can take place. The High Court has directed that the SIT shall consist of IG level officers who will probe all aspects of the matter including the FIRs which gave rise to the proceedings before it. Likewise, the High Court has directed that the State Government should consider granting adequate protection to the complainant and his family. We are not disturbing either of these two findings by the High Court. 37. However, it would be inappropriate to maintain the of the High Court directing that the petitioner be shifted out of the post of DGP in pursuance of the earlier dated 26 December 2023 which stands affirmed by the impugned . The above direction of the High Court directing the shifting out of the petitioner from the post of DGP is set aside. The petitioner shall exercise no control whatsoever in respect of the investigation which is to be carried out by the Special Investigation Team. Instead of and in place of [2024] 1 S.C.R. 453 Sanjay Kundu v. Registrar General, High Court of Himachal Pradesh & Ors the direction of the High Court requiring the State Government to consider constituting an SIT, we issue a direction to the State Government to do so. The SIT shall consist of IG level officers who shall not report to the petitioner for the purpose of the investigation. The State Government is directed to provide adequate security to the complainant and to the members of his family and to continue to do so based on its evaluation of the threat perception. We clarify that since the investigation is to be carried out by the SIT, we are not expressing any opinion on the merits of the allegations which shall be duly investigated in accordance with law. 38. The Special Leave Petitions are accordingly disposed of. 39. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: SLPs disposed of.