Thus, the interest in the retroactive curing of such a defect in the administration of government outweighs the individual’s interest in benefiting from the defect .... The Court has been extremely reluctant to override the legislative as to the necessity for retrospective taxation, not only because of 320 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the paramount governmental interest in obtaining adequate revenues, but also because taxes are not in the nature of a penalty or a contractual obligation but rather a means of apportioning the costs of government among those who benefit from it…” [Emphasis supplied] 162. This Court has laid down the tests for determining whether a validating law is enacted within permissible limits in the case of Indian Aluminium Company Co. vs. State of Kerala reported in (1996) 7 SCC 637 and the relevant observations therein are reproduced below: “56. From a resume of the above decisions the following salient principles would emerge: … (3) In a democracy governed by rule of law, the Legislature exercises the power under Articles 245 and 246 and other companion Articles read with the entries in the respective Lists in the Seventh Schedule to make the law which includes power to amend the law. (4) The Court, therefore, need to carefully scan the law to find out: (a) whether the vice pointed out by the Court and invalidity suffered by previous law is cured complying with the legal and constitutional requirements; (b) whether the Legislature has competence to validate the law; (c) whether such validation is consistent with the rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution. (5) The Court does not have the power to validate an invalid law or to legalise impost of tax illegally made and collected or to remove the norm of invalidation or provide a remedy. These are not judicial functions but the exclusive province of the Legislature. Therefore, they are not an encroachment on judicial power. (6) In exercising legislative power, the Legislature by mere declaration, without anything more, cannot directly overrule, revise or override a judicial decision. It can render judicial decisions ineffective by enacting valid law on the topic within its legislative field, [2024] 12 S.C.R. 321 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. fundamentally altering or changing its character retrospectively. The changed or altered conditions are such that the previous decision would not have been rendered by the Court, if those conditions had existed at the time of declaring the law as including power to amend the law. It is also empowered to give effect to retrospective legislation with a deeming date or with effect from a particular date.” [Emphasis supplied] 163. We shall now proceed to determine whether the enactment of Section 97 of the Finance Act, 2022 fulfils the tests laid down by this Court for a validation Act to be legally sustainable. The first leg of such determination would be to satisfy ourselves as to whether Section 97 cures the defect pointed out by this Court in Canon India (supra).