To safeguard the Great Indian Bustard which is on the verge of extinction and other birds, you are requested to take necessary action so that good quality bird flight diverters are installed which shall be durable and effective for whole life and to be installed by experienced professionals so that these diverters can serve their designated purpose.” 67. The Committee shall be at liberty to assess the efficacy of bird diverters and subject to its own findings on efficacy, to lay down specifications for bird diverters with due regard to the parameters specified by the Central Electricity Authority. It shall also identify the number of bird diverters required for the successful implementation of conservation efforts. In this regard, the Committee may also consider the recommendations of the technical expert committee constituted by the Ministry of Power by OM No 25–7/42/2019 – PG dated 27 May 2022. 68. The injunction which has been imposed in the dated 19 April 2021 in respect of the area described as the priority and potential areas shall accordingly stand recalled subject to the condition that the Expert Committee appointed by this Court may lay down suitable parameters covering both the priority and potential areas. 69. In the event that the Committee considers it appropriate and necessary to do so, it would be at liberty to recommend to this Court any further measures that are required to enhance the protection of the GIB. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1359 M K Ranjitsinh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. This may include identifying and adding suitable areas beyond the designated priority zones outlined above, if deemed crucial for the conservation of the species. Such additional areas could serve as vital habitats, corridors, or breeding grounds for the GIB, contributing significantly to its long-term survival. 70. We request the Committee to complete its task and submit a report to this Court through the Union Government on or before 31 July 2024. 71. In its affidavit, the Union of India has detailed the steps it has taken thus far and has also undertaken to implement a host of measures in the future, which are aimed at conserving the critically endangered GIB. They include: a. The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has implemented the national GIB Project which undertakes ex-situ conservation measures to provide and conserve habitats into which captive bred birds may be released. Insulation breeding centres will be established in range states other than Rajasthan where they do not currently exist. In-situ operations will be implemented in the desert National Park Sanctuary, Rajasthan, Kachch Bustard Sanctuary, Gujarat, Great Indian Bustard Sanctuary, Maharashtra, Rollapadu Sanctuary, Andhra Pradesh, Ranebennur Sanctuary, Karnataka and Ghatigao Sanctuary, Madhya Pradesh; b. Predator-proof enclosures will be developed to prevent the entry of predators including foxes, mongooses, hedgehogs, and monitor lizards. Anthropogenic activities will not take place in these enclosures; c. Local grass seed dissemination will be used to restore degraded grasslands. Water will be supplied to these grasslands; d. Undesirable and invasive species will be eliminated to make the grasslands more friendly to GIBs released from captivity; e. GIB movement shall be monitored using satellite telemetry; f. Ongoing administration and maintenance will include the repair and restoration of water points and historic watch towers as well as the maintenance of existing fences and fire lines; g. ‘National Bustard Day’ will be celebrated to highlight the need for conservation; 1360 [2024] 3 S.C.R.