It further observed that the legal right which is the subject of dispute must arise in the context of the Constitution and the Federalism it sets up. It has been unequivocally held that there can be no doubt that so far as the parties to the dispute are concerned, the framers of the Constitution did intend that they could only be the constituent units of the Union of India and the Government of India itself arrayed on one side or the other, either singly or jointly with another unit or the Government of India. The Court then observed that, under Article 12 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 695 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India of the Constitution, all local or other authorities within the territory of India or under the control of the Government of India are “States” for purposes of Part III of the Constitution which defines and deals with the Fundamental Rights enshrined in the Constitution. It further observed that the expression “the State” has the same meaning as in Part IV of the Constitution under Article 36. It therefore observed that a body like the Hindustan Steel Limited cannot be considered to be “a State” for the purpose of Article 131 of the Constitution. A strong reliance has been placed on these observations by the learned Solicitor General. b. State of Rajasthan v. Union of India: 34. The learned Solicitor General strongly relies on the of this Court in the case of State of Rajasthan and Others v. Union of India and Others (supra). The brief facts of the said case are as under: “In the elections held in March, 1977, the Janata party had secured overwhelming majority in the Lok Sabha. In some of the States, the Congress was continuing in power. In view of the complete and unequivocal rejection of the Congress Party, the Union Home Minister addressed a communication on 18th April 1977 to nine States asking them to advise their respective Governors to dissolve the Assemblies and seek a fresh mandate from the people. Some of the States had filed suits before the Supreme Court praying for a declaration that the letter of the Union Home Minister was illegal and ultra vires of the Constitution of India and not binding on the plaintiffs and prayed for an interim injunction restraining the Central Government from restoring to Article 356 of the Constitution. Preliminary objections were raised on behalf of the defendant – Union of India against the maintainability of the suits under Article 131 of the Constitution of India. The preliminary objections were raised on two grounds. The first was that under Article 131 of the Constitution of India, the ‘State’ and not the ‘State Government’ should be a party. The second was that the present matter did not involve a legal dispute.” 35. It will be apposite to refer to the following paragraphs of the said of Y.V. Chandrachud, J. (as His Lordship then was): 696 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “108.