As above noted, there is no statutory provision prescribing a time limit for furnishing of the stamp paper for engrossing the decree or time limit for engrossment of the decree on [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1369 Renjith K.G. & Others v. Sheeba stamp paper and there is no statutory obligation on the Court passing the decree to direct the parties to furnish the stamp paper for engrossing the decree. In the present case the Court has not passed an directing the parties to furnish the stamp papers for the purpose of engrossing the decree. Merely because there is no direction by the Court to furnish the stamp papers for engrossing of the decree or there is no time limit fixed by law, does not mean that the party can furnish stamp papers at its sweet will and claim that the period of limitation provided under Article 136 of the Act would start only thereafter as and when the decree is engrossed thereupon. The starting of period of limitation for execution of a partition decree cannot be made contingent upon the engrossment of the decree on the stamp paper. The engrossment of the decree on stamp paper would relate back to the date of the decree, namely, 7th August, 1981, in the present case. In this view the execution application filed on 21st March, 1994 was time barred having been filed beyond the period of twelve years prescribed under Article 136 of the Act. The High Court committed illegality in coming to the conclusion that it was not barred by limitation.” 18. The above was relied upon by the Constitutional Bench of this Court while deciding the validity of an unstamped agreement, wherein it was observed as under: Interplay Between Arbitration Agreements under A&C Act, 1996 & Stamp Act, 1899, In re (2024) 6 SCC 1 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1666 “255. In Chiranji Lal v. Hari Das [Chiranji Lal v. Hari Das (2005) 10 SCC 746] , a three-Judge Bench of this Court rejected the contention that an unstamped preliminary decree is not enforceable and, therefore, the period of limitation begins to run when the decree is engrossed on the stamp paper. The Stamp Act is a fiscal measure with the object to secure revenue for the State on certain classes of instruments. The Stamp Act is not enacted to arm the litigant with a weapon of technicality to meet the case of his opponent. As there is no rule which prescribes 1370 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports any time for furnishing of stamp paper or to call upon a person to pay stamp duty on a preliminary decree of partition, the proposition that period of limitation would remain suspended till stamp paper is furnished and decree engrossed thereon was rejected.” 19. Applying the ratio laid down in Chiranjilal case (Supra) to the facts of the present case, the High Court rightly set aside the passed in the Execution Petition and remanded the matter to the trial court for fresh consideration, leaving all the issues including the independent right, title or interest claimed by the respondents in the property in question, to be adjudicated therein.