The construction of the explanation must depend upon its terms, and no theory of its purpose can be entertained unless it is to be inferred from the language used. An ‘explanation’ must [2024] 12 S.C.R. 99 Kirloskar Ferrous Industries Limited & Anr v. Union of India & Ors. be interpreted according to its own tenor. Sometimes an explanation is appended to stress upon a particular thing which ordinarily would not appear clearly from the provisions of the section. The proper function of an explanation is to make plain or elucidate what is enacted in the substantive provision and not to add or subtract from it. Thus, an explanation does not either restrict or extend the enacting part; it does not enlarge or narrow down the scope of the original section that it is supposed to explain. The Explanation must be interpreted according to its own tenor; that it is meant to explain and not vice versa. Explanation added to a statutory provision is not a substantive provision in any sense of the term but as the plain meaning of the word itself shows it is merely meant to explain or clarify certain ambiguities which may have crept in the statutory provision. 66. Merely because the Explanation(s) to Rule 38 of the MCR, 2016 and Rule 45 of the MCDR, 2017 provides that there shall be no deduction of royalty, payments to the District Mineral Foundation and payments to the National Mineral Exploration Trust from the gross amount for the purpose of computing sale value does not in any manner makes the aforesaid Explanation in derogation of the main provision. The aforesaid Explanation(s) are merely clarificatory in nature inasmuch as it explains the ambiguities in the main provisions of Rule 38 of the MCR, 2016 and Rule 45 of the MCDR, 2017, and thus, they cannot be said to exceed the ambit of the main provisions or in contravention of the statutory scheme. ii. Whether the exclusion of royalty, and contributions towards DMF and NMET paid previously for coal but not for other minerals is unreasonable and manifestly arbitrary? 67. In R.K. Garg v. Union of India reported in (1981) 4 SCC 675, this Court observed that laws relating to economic activities should be viewed with greater latitude and the legislature should be allowed some play in the joints, because it has to deal with complex problems which do not admit of solution through any doctrinaire or strait-jacket formula. The relevant observations read as under: - "8. Another rule of equal importance is that laws relating to economic activities should be viewed with greater latitude than laws touching civil rights such as freedom of speech, religion, etc. It has been said by no less a person than 100 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Holmes, J. that the legislature should be allowed some play in the joints, because it has to deal with complex problems which do not admit of solution through any doctrinaire or strait-jacket formula and this is particularly true in case of legislation dealing with economic matters, where, having regard to the nature of the problems required to be dealt with, greater play in the joints has to be allowed to the legislature.