And, therefore, it seems to us, there is manifest need to ensure that there is no breach of fundamental procedure in the original proceeding, and to avoid treating an appeal as an overall substitute for the original proceeding.” 55. L.K. Ratna’s case (supra) was distinguished in United Planters Association of Southern India vs. K.G. Sangameswaran and Another, (1997) 4 SCC 741. That was a case where the jurisdiction of the Appellate Authority to record evidence and to come to its own conclusion on the questions involved was very wide. The appellate provision provided that even if the evidence is recorded in the domestic enquiry and the of dismissal is passed thereafter, it would still be open to the appellate authority to record evidence. In those state of affairs, this Court, in para 18, 27 and 28 of the said , has held as under:- “18. From a perusal of the provisions quoted above, it will be seen that the jurisdiction of the Appellate Authority to record evidence and to come to its own conclusion on the questions involved in the appeal is very wide. Even if the evidence is recorded in the domestic enquiry and the of dismissal is passed thereafter, it will still be open to the Appellate Authority to record, if need be, such evidence as may be produced by the parties. Conversely, also if the domestic enquiry is ex parte or no evidence was recorded during those proceedings, the Appellate Authority would still be justified in taking additional evidence to enable it to come to its own conclusions on the articles of charges framed against the delinquent officer. 27. The learned counsel, in support of his arguments that the defect is not curable has placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Institute of Chartered Accountants [2024] 4 S.C.R. 223 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. of India v. L. K. Ratna. It was, no doubt, laid down in this case that a post-decisional hearing cannot be an effective substitute of pre-decisional hearing and that if an opportunity of hearing is not given before a decision is taken at the initial stage, it would result in serious prejudice, inasmuch as if such an opportunity is provided at the appellate stage, the person is deprived of his right of appeal to another body. There may be cases where opportunity of hearing is excluded by a particular service or statutory rule. In Union of India v. Tulsiram Patel, pre- decisional hearing stood excluded by the second proviso to Article 311(2) of the Constitution and, therefore, the Court took the view that though there was no prior opportunity to a government servant to defend himself against the charges made against him, he got an opportunity to plead in an appeal filed by him that the charges for which he was removed from service were not true. Principles of natural justice in such a case will have to be held to have been sufficiently complied with. In Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India and in Liberty Oil Mills v. Union of India an opportunity of making a representation after the decision was taken, was held to be sufficient compliance.