Penalty for acquisition by a member, office bearer or servant of interest in contract. - If a member or office [2024] 4 S.C.R. 169 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. bearer or servant of Panchayat knowingly acquires, directly or indirectly any personal share or interest in any contract or employment, with, by or on behalf of a Panchayat without the sanction of or permission of the prescribed authority he shall be deemed lo have committed an offense under Section 168 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (XLV of 1860).” 16. On perusal of the said provision, the intention of the legislators is lucid that a person can be removed from the office mainly on two instances, firstly, if they are guilty of misconduct and secondly, their continuation in office is undesirable in public interest. The provision further attempts to enlist the events which typically fall within the definition of misconduct. Clause (c) of the first explanation to Section 40 encompasses use of position by direct or indirect influence to secure employment for the relatives and extending any pecuniary benefits to them as misconduct. Upon perusal, it is irrefutably inferred that functioning of the Panchayat must be free from influence in selection and appointment and no undue benefit should be given to relatives in employment or any other pecuniary benefit. Otherwise contravention of this provision attracts removal of the office bearers. Further, it is apparent from the Explanation to clause (c), that the term ‘relative’ encompasses father, mother, brother, sister, husband, wife, son, daughter, mother-in-law father- in-law brother-in-law of the office bearer and such relationships are implied to be falling within the category of ‘prohibited degree of relationship’ in the matter of employment or to grant pecuniary benefit. Thus, it is explicit that relatives of elected office bearers, if secures an employment by the process where the office bearers were actively participating and controlling the process, it gives cause for removal of such office bearers. 17. As per factual matrix of the instant case, out of 14 candidates whose selection was set aside, 7 fall within the prohibited degree of relationships and others can be said to be in near relation. Though in the present case we are not concerned with the removal of office bearers, nonetheless, we should not lose track of the fact that the conduct of the office bearers in giving undue benefits to their near relatives in an orchestrated manner to deprive other candidates of the opportunities despite them securing more marks in qualifying higher secondary examination, by and large amounts 170 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to ‘misconduct’ under the law. Upon challenge, the selection and appointment of successful candidates who were alleged to be in relationships with the office bearers has been set aside by the s of the authorities and the High Court on the ground that the presence of reasonable likelihood of bias vitiates the selection process and consequently the appointment. Further, the plea of their non-joinder at initial stage was not found favour by both, the authorities and the High Court, by stating that since the candidates have been afforded sufficient opportunity however, their non-joinder before Collector would not be detrimental to the principle of natural justice.