After the trial, the Trial Court found that the prosecution had succeeded in bringing damning evidence to establish that the victim, aged 7 years was taken to Rajaram Baba Thakur Mandir by the petitioner-convict and there upon making her and himself nude he committed rape. Upon her screaming, the prosecution witnesses who went there found the convict, belonging to the same village, laying over and violating the victim and at their sight running away from there. The oral testimonies of the prosecution witnesses (PWs-1, 2 and 14) on the culpability of the convict got credence from the medical evidence unerringly pointing to his guilt. The consequential conviction inter alia, under Section 376 AB, IPC as amended by Act No. 22 of 2018, originally, brought him capital sentence. Though, the petitioner was also convicted under Section 376 (2) (i) and under Sections 3/4, Sections 5(d)/6 of the POCSO Act taking note of his conviction under Section 376 AB, IPC, no separate sentences were awarded for the aforesaid offences by the trial Court. In view of the commutation of capital punishment awarded for the conviction under Section 376 AB, IPC it is also a matter to be considered if we interfere with the sentence of life imprisonment for the offence under Section 376 AB, IPC as amended under the Act No. 22 of 2018. 6. As noticed hereinbefore, on appreciating the evidence on record and coming to the conclusion that the guilt of the petitioner under Section 376 AB, IPC has been conclusively proved, but capital punishment imposed therefor, is to be commuted while confirming the conviction under Section 376 AB, IPC. The High Court commuted it to imprisonment for life though another alternative punishment was also possible viz. rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than 20 years with fine. 7. In the decision in Mulla v. State of U.P.1, this Court held:- 1 [2010] 2 SCR 633 : (2010) 3 SCC 508 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 115 Bhaggi @ Bhagirath @ Naran v. The State of Madhya Pradesh “85……...It is open to the sentencing court to prescribe the length of incarceration. This is especially true in cases where death sentence has been replaced by life imprisonment…...” 8. Evidently, the decision in Mulla’s case (supra) and a catena of decisions where death sentence was commuted to the imprisonment for life including the decisions in Bantu alias Naresh Giri v. State of M.P.2, Amrit Singh v. State of Punjab3 and Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod (2) v. State of Gujarat4 were considered by the High Court while commuting capital sentence to imprisonment for life. A bare perusal of all those decisions would reveal that those are cases involving rape and murder of young girls aged between 4 to 12 years. It is true that after referring to those decisions the High Court, in the instant case held in paragraph 34 of the impugned thus:- “ln the present case the important consideration is the manner in which the alleged offence is committed. The evidence of Dr. Saroj Bhuriya (PW -3) is relevant.