The rule requiring corroboration is merely a rule of prudence. 1 (2010) 9 SCC 1 : 2010 INSC 491 42 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (v) Where the dying declaration is suspicious, it should not be acted upon without corroborative evidence. (vi) A dying declaration which suffers from infirmity such as the deceased was unconscious and could never make any statement cannot form the basis of conviction. (vii) Merely because a dying declaration does not contain all the details as to the occurrence, it is not to be rejected. (viii) Even if it is a brief statement, it is not to be discarded. (ix) When the eyewitness affirms that the deceased was not in a fit and conscious state to make the dying declaration, medical opinion cannot prevail. (x) If after careful scrutiny, the court is satisfied that it is true and free from any effort to induce the deceased to make a false statement and if it is coherent and consistent, there shall be no legal impediment to make it the basis of conviction, even if there is no corroboration.” 7. It can thus be seen that this Court has clearly held that dying declaration can be the sole basis of the conviction if it inspires the full confidence of the court. The Court is required to satisfy itself that the deceased was in a fit state of mind at the time of making the statement and that it was not the result of tutoring, prompting or imagination. It has further been held that, where the Court is satisfied about the dying declaration being true and voluntary, it can base its conviction without any further corroboration. It has further been held that there cannot be an absolute rule of law that the dying declaration cannot form the sole basis of conviction unless it is corroborated. It has been held that the rule requiring corroboration is merely a rule of prudence. The Court has observed that if after careful scrutiny, the court is satisfied that it is true and free from any effort to induce the deceased to make a false statement and if it is coherent and consistent, there shall be no legal impediment to make it the basis of conviction, even if there is no corroboration. 8. A perusal of the material placed on record would reveal that Raj Kumar Bhaskar (PW-5), the then Naib Tehsildar has deposed that [2024] 3 S.C.R. 43 Naeem v. State of Uttar Pradesh he was directed by the Tehsildar on phone to record the statement of the victim Shahin Parveen at the District Hospital, Moradabad. He came to the hospital and asked the Chief Medical Officer of the hospital about the condition of the victim Shahin Parveen, who informed that Shahin Parveen was in a sound condition and was also fit to give her statement. He further deposed about the certificate issued by the doctor. He also deposed that, after recording the statement, the deceased put her thumb impression. He has further deposed that the deceased answered in full sense and she was understanding the questions.