The plaintiff, son of the donor, also waited for 20 years despite admitted knowledge of the hospital running over the land in suit and did not take any action. 27. Article 65 under the Schedule to the Limitation Act provides limitation of 12 years for filing a suit for possession based on title. In the present case, merely because the name of the plaintiff continued in the revenue records (Jama Bandis), it would not confer any title upon him. Revenue records (Jama Bandis) are only entries for the purpose of realising tax by the Municipal Corporations or land revenue by Gram Sabhas. The plaintiff having failed to claim relief of declaration, the suit itself would not be maintainable. Further, for a suit for declaration, period of limitation would be three years under Article 58 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act, which in the present case was long lost. 28. There is nothing on record available from the cross-examination of defendants 1 and 2 that the documents which they proved [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2447 The State of Punjab and Ors. v. Bhagwantpal Singh Alias Bhagwant Singh (Deceased) Through Lrs. were either incorrect, doubtful or suspicious. The documents exhibited by the defendants could not be ignored as they were public documents, copies of which were filed and duly proved. Even if the deed was not placed on record but due explanation was given, the facts of the case and the evidence on record clearly established the case of the defendant-appellant that the land in suit had been donated by Sri Inder Singh, father of the plaintiff way back in 1958. The lethargy/carelessness on the part of the State in not getting the revenue records corrected on the basis of the gift deed would not take away the rights conferred on the State under the gift deed. 29. The case-laws relied upon by Sri Luthra on the question of State not being entitled to claim adverse possession as also the presumption of revenue records being correct, have no application and are of no help to the respondents in the light of the discussion made above. 30. It is settled law that in a suit for possession, the burden of proof lies on the plaintiff. As per Section 110 of the Evidence Act, 1872, the burden of proof as to ownership of a property lies on the person challenging the ownership of the person in possession. Section 110 of Evidence Act is produced as follows: “110. Burden of proof as to ownership- When the question is whether any person is owner of anything of which he is shown to be in possession, the burden of proving that he is not the owner is on the person who affirms that he is not the owner.” 31. This Court had summarized the provision in Chuharmal v. CIT (supra) as follows: “6. …Section 110 of the Evidence Act is material in this respect and the High Court relied on the same which stipulates that when the question is whether any person is owner of anything of which he is shown to be in possession, the onus of proving that he is not the owner, is on the person who affirms that he is not the owner.