11. The aforesaid submission is taken note of only to be turned down. The period of two months referred to by the High Court in its dated 20th September, 2016 was only for making payment of the amount. Not that any direction was issued to the respondents to confine the payment of additional compensation only to a period of two months. In fact, the passed by this Court on 30th March, 2011 is crystal clear and needs no interpretation. Highlighting certain anomalies noticed in Chapter IV A of the Act, particularly Section 20F, this Court referred to the proviso to Section 20F (2) and observed as follows: “12. (iii) The second proviso to section 20F (2) requires payment of additional compensation for the delay in making of the award, at the rate of not less than five percent of the value of award, for each month of delay. This vests unguided discretion in the competent authority or the Arbitrator to award additional compensation at any higher rate and gives room for unnecessary litigation at the instance of “entitled persons” claiming higher percentages as additional compensation. It is necessary to consider whether specifying a fixed monthly rate of increase would serve the ends of justice better instead of indicating a minimum rate per month. xxxx xxxx xxxx 8 Award No. 1/2011-12, dated 19th April, 2012 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 713 Subodh Singh v. Union of India and Others “13. In view of our finding that the acquisition has not lapsed, we allow this appeal, set aside the of the High Court, and dismiss the challenge to the acquisition. It is however made clear that in view of the delay in making the award beyond one year, the first respondent shall be entitled to additional compensation as provided under the second proviso to section 20F (2) of the Act. Parties to bear their respective costs.” 12. It is apparent from the above that the appellant would be entitled to additional compensation for the delay in making the award @ not less than 5% of the value of the award for each month’s delay. In our opinion, there was no reason for the High Court to have relegated the appellant to initiate any arbitration proceedings for determining the additional compensation when the passed by this Court had clarified the manner in which compensation would be calculated and paid for the delay in making the award for the left out parcel of land. 13. In view of the above discussion, the present appeal succeeds. The appellant is held entitled to additional compensation for the left out portion of land at least @ 5% of the value of the award for a period spreading over 84 months. Needless to state that the amount already paid by the respondents towards the delay, i.e., for a period of two months, shall be duly adjusted. The remaining amount shall be released by the respondents within eight weeks from today. Besides the aforesaid amount, the appellant shall also be entitled to simple interest on the outstanding amount calculated @ 7% per annum from the date the said amount became due and payable, till the same is realized.