Aparna Bhat submitted that the petitioner has locus standi to approach this Court against the remission s dated 10.08.2022. It was submitted that upholding the constitutional values and protection of all citizens is the responsibility of the State and there is a legitimate expectation that the State conducts all its actions in accordance with constitutional values. That the aforesaid petition has been filed in public interest as the premature release of respondent Nos.3 to 13 cannot be permitted since the convicts pose a danger to society. That the petitioners in the connected matters fulfil the wide ambit of the expression “person aggrieved” as envisaged under PIL jurisdiction since they are challenging the release of convicts who have committed heinous and grave offences against society. 26.1. On the issue of locus standi of the petitioners to approach this Court, the learned counsel relied on para 6 of A.R Antulay vs. Ramdas Sriniwas Nayak, (1984) 2 SCC 500 (“A.R Antulay”). Further, it was submitted that in Sheonandan Paswan, this Court relied on A. R. Antulay and held that if a citizen can set the machinery of criminal law in motion, she is also entitled to oppose the unwarranted withdrawal of prosecution in an offence against society. 26.2. Learned counsel further placed reliance on the dictum of this Court in Manohar Lal vs. Vinesh Anand, (2001) 5 SCC 407, wherein it was held that the doctrine of locus standi is totally foreign to criminal jurisprudence and that society cannot afford to have a criminal escape his liability. Also, in Ratanlal vs. Prahlad Jat, (2017) 9 SCC 340, this Court held that a crime is not merely an offence committed in relation to an individual but is also an offence against society at large and it is the duty of the State to punish the offender. 27. Although, we have recorded the detailed submissions made on behalf of the respective parties, we do not think it is necessary to answer the point regarding maintainability of the PILs in this case inasmuch as one of the victims, namely, Bilkis Bano has also filed a writ petition invoking Article 32 of the Constitution assailing the s of remission which we have held to be maintainable. The consideration of that petition on its merits would suffice in the instant case. Hence, we are of the view that the question of maintainability of the PILs [2024] 1 S.C.R. 827 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others challenging the s of remission in the instant case would not call for an answer from us owing to the aforesaid reason. As a result, we hold that consideration of the point on the maintainability of the PILs has been rendered wholly academic and not requiring an answer in this case. Therefore, the question regarding maintainability of a PIL challenging s of remission is kept open to be considered in any other appropriate case. 28. Before we consider point No.3, we shall deal with the concept of remission. Remission : Scope & Ambit 29.