The of the court in such event would read: “ in terms of consent terms.” (emphasis added) 17. As the passed in terms of the “Minutes of ” is an in invitum, when a document styled as “Minutes of ” signed by the advocates for the parties is tendered on record, the Court must first examine whether it will be lawful to pass an in terms of the “Minutes of ”. The Court must consider whether all necessary parties have been impleaded to the proceedings in which the “Minutes of ” have been filed. The Court must consider whether third parties will be affected by the sought in terms of the “Minutes of ”. If the Court is of the view that necessary parties were not impleaded, the Court ought to allow the petitioner to implead them. On the failure of the petitioner to implead them, the Court must decline to pass an of disposing of the petition in terms of the “Minutes of ”. The reason is that an of the Court passed without hearing the necessary parties would be illegal. The Court must remember that though the parties may say that they have agreed to what is recorded in the “Minutes of ”, the passed by the Court based on the “Minutes of ” is not a consent . It is an in invitum. Only if the Court is satisfied that an in terms of the “Minutes of the ” would be legal, the Court can pass an in terms of the “Minutes of ”. While passing an in terms of the “Minutes of ”, the Court must record brief reasons indicating the application of mind. 18. For the convenience of the Court and as a matter of courtesy, the advocates draft “Minutes of ” containing what could be incorporated by the Court in its . Perhaps this practice was evolved to save the time of the Court. The advocates who sign and tender the “Minutes of ” have greater responsibility. Before they sign the “Minutes of the ”, the advocates have an important duty to perform as officers of the Court to consider whether the 170 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports they were proposing will be lawful. They cannot mechanically sign the same. After all, they are the officers of the Court first and the mouthpieces of their respective clients after that. 19. Even if parties file consent terms, while accepting the consent terms in terms of Rule 3 of XXIII of the Code of Civil Procedure Code, 1908, the Court is duty-bound to look into the legality of the compromise. The Court has the jurisdiction to decline to pass a consent if the same is tainted with illegality. However, an passed by the Court in terms of compromise recorded in the consent terms is a consent which will not bind the persons who were not parties to the consent terms unless they were claiming through any of the parties to the consent terms. 20.