The new policy facilitated big wholesale distributors, whose outpour towards the licence fee was fixed. • The policy favoured and promoted cartelisation. Large wholesale distributors with high market share because of extraneous reasons and kickbacks, were ensured to earn exorbitant profits. • Mahadev Liquor, who was a wholesale distributor for 14 small manufacturers, having 20% market share, was forced to surrender the wholesale distributorship licence. • Indo Spirit, the firm in which the liquor group had interest, was granted whole distributor licence, in spite of complaints of cartelisation etc. which were overlooked. The complainant was forced to take back his complaint. • The excess amount of 7% commission/fee earned by the wholesale distributors of Rs. 338,00,00,000/- [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2417 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement (rupees three hundred thirty eight crores only) constitute an offence as defined under Section 7 of the PoC Act, relating to a public servant being bribed. (As per the DoE, these are proceeds of crime). This amount was earned by the wholesale distributors in a span of ten months. This figure cannot be disputed or challenged. Thus, the new excise policy was meant to give windfall gains to select few wholesale distributors, who in turn had agreed to give kickbacks and bribes. • No doubt, VAT and excise duty was payable separately. However, under the new policy the VAT was reduced to mere 1%. • Vijay Nair had assured the liquor group that they would be made distributor of Pernod Ricard, one of the biggest players in the market. This did happen.” 64. During the course of arguments, we had specifically asked the learned counsel appearing for Arvind Kejriwal to address arguments on facts. He did not, however, address arguments on the said aspect.56 As noticed above, the arrest of Arvind Kejriwal is on several counts, which are independent and separate from each other. 65. Arguments raised on behalf of Arvind Kejriwal, which tend to dent the statements and material relied upon by the DoE in the “reasons to believe”, though worthy of consideration, are in the nature of propositions or deductions. They are a matter of discussion as they intend to support or establish a point of view on the basis of inferences drawn from the material. It is contended that the statements relied upon by the DoE have been extracted under coercion, a fact that is contested and has to be examined and decided. This argument does not persuade us, given the limited power of judicial review, to set aside and quash the “reasons to believe”. Accepting this argument would be equivalent to undertaking a merits review. 66. Arvind Kejriwal can raise these arguments at the time when his application for bail is taken up for hearing. In bail hearings, the court’s 56 It was also submitted on behalf of Arvind Kejriwal that he would not like to argue on the question of applicability of Section 70 of the PML Act to political parties or the issue whether he can be prosecuted being the person in-charge and responsible.