Under the said clause, the Secured Lenders authorised and directed the Security Trustee to act for the benefit of the secured parties, including the Secured Lenders. The authority conferred by clause 2.2 includes the authority to execute and take delivery of the secured documents and to accept the security and all related deeds and documents. It also authorises the Security Trustee to enforce the security in accordance with the provisions of the MSTA. To that extent, the Security Trustee acts on behalf of the appellants, who are Original Lenders. DEEDS OF HYPOTHECATION (DOH) 43. Then comes the DoH, to which RCom entities are shown as “Chargors”. The Chargors have executed the DoH in favour of the Security Trustee. The DoH refers to the entities availing the secured facilities mentioned in Schedule I as “Obligors” for that specific secured facility. The recitals mention that the Obligors have availed of the security facilities mentioned in Schedule I. There are sixteen security facilities mentioned therein, out of which eleven have been availed by RCom, one by RTL and four by RITL-Corporate Debtor. As mentioned in Schedule-I, one of the facilities was extended to RCom by the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 7298 of 2022. 44. Clause 2 of the DoH provides that each of the Chargors covenanted with Security Trustee that each Obligor (RCom entities) shall repay the secured facilities availed by it together with the interest, liquidated damages, premia of prepayment, etc. In pursuance of the aforesaid, Clause 3 of the agreement provides for hypothecation of the Chargors’ assets for the purpose of securing the facilities. The relevant part of Clause 3 read thus: “3. Charge In pursuance of the aforesaid, each of the Chargors does hereby hypothecate as he by way of a first ranking pari passu charge to the Security Trustee, acting in trust for and for the benefit of the Secured Parties, for the purpose of securing the due discharge by the Obligors of all their 2060 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports obligations in connection with the Secured Facilities, all of its following assets: .. .. .. .. .. .. ..” The properties hypothecated by Chargors have been described as “charged properties”. 45. Clause 5 contains the Chargor’s covenants, representations and warranties. Sub-clause (iii) of Clause 5 is material, which reads thus: “5. Chargor’s Covenants, Representations and Warranties .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . … .. .. .. .. .. . .. . . (iii) In the event that an Event of Default has occurred under a Facility Document the Security Trustee or its nominees shall, on receiving instructions from the Secured Lender/s, in accordance with Section 4 of the Security Trustee Agreement and after providing 7 (seven) Business Days notice to any of the Chargors and without assigning any reasons and at the risk and expense of the Chargors and if necessary as attorney for and in the name of the Chargors, be entitled to take charge and/ or possession of, seize, recover, receive and remove them and/or sell by public auction or by private contract, dispatch or consign for realisation or otherwise dispose of or deal with all or any part of the Hypothecated Property (including by way or through the exercise of its powers and rights specified in Section 6 hereof) and to enforce, realise, settle, compromise and deal with any rights or claims relating thereto, without being bound to exercise any of these powers or be liable for any losses in the exercise or non-exercise thereof and without prejudice to the Security Trustee’s rights and remedies of suit or otherwise.