The Respondent No.1 / plaintiff preferred Special Civil Suit No.133 of 2009, for declaration of his ownership and possession in respect of the suit properties. Seeking rejecting of the said plaint, the appellants filed an application under VII Rule 11(d) of CPC on the ground that the reliefs sought in the suit were clearly barred by limitation. The trial Court rejected the application filed by the appellants stating that the issue of limitation is a mixed question of facts and law, for which, the parties will have to lead evidence. The revision application filed by the appellants against the said of the trial Court, was also rejected by the High Court, by observing that (i) the plaintiff has specifically asserted that Gosavis family had no authority to create third party rights and they were only entitled to revenue grant; (ii) whether the Plaintiff is entitled to declaration in terms of prayer clauses (a) and (b) in view of the sale deeds executed in favour of Defendant No.1, is a matter of trial and that cannot be gone into at the stage of deciding the application under VII Rule 11(d) of CPC; and [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1455 Shri Mukund Bhavan Trust and Ors. v. Shrimant Chhatrapati Udayan Raje Pratapsinh Maharaj Bhonsle and Another (iii) the defendants played a systematic fraud on various courts and without any judicial pronouncements, usurped the suit lands under suspicious compromise arrived at before the Court. Feeling aggrieved and being dissatisfied with the rejection s of the Courts below, the appellants are before us with the present appeal. 11. The law applicable for deciding an application filed under VII Rule 11 of CPC7 was outlined by this Court in the decision in Dahiben v. Arvindbhai Kalyanji Bhanusali (Gajra) dead through legal representatives8 and the same read as follows: “23.1 … 23.2. The remedy under VII Rule 11 is an independent and special remedy, wherein the Court is empowered to summarily dismiss a suit at the threshold, without proceeding to record evidence, and conducting a trial, on the basis of the evidence adduced, if it is satisfied that the action should be terminated on any of the grounds contained in this provision. 23.3. The underlying object of VII Rule 11 (a) is that if in a suit, no cause of action is disclosed, or the suit is barred by limitation under Rule 11 (d), the Court would not permit the plaintiff to unnecessarily protract the proceedings in the suit. In such a case, it would be necessary to put an end to the sham litigation, so that further judicial time is not wasted. 7 “11. Rejection of plaint.– The plaint shall be rejected in the following cases– (a) where it does not disclose a cause of action; (b) where the relief claimed in undervalued, and the plaintiff, on being required by the Court to correct the valuation within a time to be fixed by the Court, fails to do so; (c) where the relief claimed is properly valued but the plaint is written upon paper insufficiently stamped, and the plaintiff, on being required by the Court to supply the requisite stamp-paper within a time to be fixed by the Court, fails to do so; (d) where the suit appears from the statement in the plaint to be barred by any law; (e) where it is not filed in duplicate; (f) where the plaintiff fails to comply with the provisions of rule 9: Provided that the time fixed by the Court for the correction of the valuation or supplying of the requisite stamp-paper shall not be extended unless the Court, for reasons to be recorded, is satisfied that the plaintiff was prevent by any cause of exceptional nature for correction the valuation or supplying the requisite stamp-paper, as the case may be, within the time fixed by the Court and that refusal to extend such time would cause grave injustice to the plaintiff.” 8 (2020) 7 SCC 366 : 2020 SCC OnLine SC 562 1456 [2024] 12 S.C.R.