11. The Union of India has submitted that: (i) Child marriages persist due to societal perceptions and economic pressures. Girls are often seen as burdens, with early marriage viewed as an appropriate option. Additionally, investment in a girl’s education is frequently regarded as wasteful, leading some families to end schooling early and consider marriage instead. Poverty and structural inequalities, including gender, caste, and class, further drive child marriages; (ii) The PCMA was introduced to criminalize the facilitation and solemnization of child marriage, aiming to deter this harmful practice. Additionally, the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao23 program addresses gender-based issues by promoting girls’ education and empowerment, thereby supporting delayed marriage and promoting a culture that values girls’ rights and opportunities; (iii) Census data from 2001 and 2011 indicates a decrease in child marriage rates; (iv) Data from NFHS-4 shows a reduction in the percentage of women aged 15-19 who were mothers or pregnant, from 16% in 2005-06 to 7.9% in 2015-16. The National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights24 has identified 70 high-risk districts across 13 states with the highest child marriage rates, and 52 of these districts are covered under the BBBP scheme; (v) Programs like the Mahila Shakti Kendra aim to reach rural women and girls, enhancing awareness and equipping them with knowledge on gender equality. The program operates District Level Centres for Women across 640 districts to implement initiatives that improve women’s status and address gender- based challenges; and (vi) States and Union Territories25 have also taken various measures for the elimination of child marriages. 23 ‘BBBP’ 24 ‘NCPCR’ 25 ‘UTs’ [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1535 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. III. A vicious cycle: socio-economic determinants and effects of child marriage 12. All child marriages are forced marriages. Many parents wish to marry their girl child early to guard against any aspersions on the girl’s virtue of virginity and to mitigate the economic costs associated with raising a child, payment of dowry and conducting a wedding. The economic factors of child marriage are borne out by studies that reflect that child marriage in India predominantly occurs in less educated, rural and poor families.26 Parents in such families are informed by a survivalist and patriarchal mindset that responds to social, cultural and religious norms and economic necessity. 13. Culturally embedded concepts of virginity and chastity are used to control the sexuality of women by men and the family. They are not just markers of control but are also made into identifiers of family and community honour. By placing an overemphasis on these constructed virtues, a false sense of protectionism is generated to safeguard girls against their ability of self-exploration and to form meaningful bonds on their own. Honour, purity, and decisional incapacity are presented as the domain of womanhood and its protection is laid in the institution of marriage. Parents marry their daughters early to meet the prescription of a society rooted in parochial norms of controlling a woman’s sexuality.