5. It was also submitted by Mr. P.S. Patwalia that this Court in all its humility had not quashed the decision of the Full Court but having given serious thought to it, had clearly observed that this Court was of the considered view that the Full Court of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana needs to reconsider this matter which in itself is a clear indication that this Court had expressed its view on the resolution of the Full Court regarding termination of the appellant’s service to be not sustainable. It was thereafter that this Court had set aside the of the High Court dated 25.10.2018 and the Termination dated 17.12.2009. 6. It is also submitted on behalf of the appellant that the RPC and also the Full Court of the High Court have simply reiterated their earlier resolutions and as such there has been no reconsideration of the matter, the resolutions placed on record are also non-speaking. 7. It is also the submission of Mr. Patwalia that the complaint against the appellant was given by his wife and his mother-in-law. The entire contents of the reports submitted by the District and Sessions Judge and also the Administration Judge and the Review Committee are based on the complaint made by the wife and his mother-in-law. No independent enquiry was conducted, nor any show cause notice was issued to the appellant calling upon him to give a response to the complaint made by his wife and mother-in-law. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 145 Anantdeep Singh v. The High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh & Anr. 8. It was also submitted that the main allegations made by the wife and mother-in-law relates to the appellant carrying on an illicit relationship with the lady judicial officer. The other complaints alleged were of residing outside the official accommodation and of using a private car, which did not belong to him. It was also alleged in the complaint that the appellant had threatened and assaulted his wife. All the other allegations apart from the main allegations of illicit relationship with the lady judicial officer, were linked to the aforesaid main allegation. 9. The High Court, on the judicial side in the case of the lady judicial officer, found that there was not even any remote evidence regarding their illicit relationship and that the statement of the wife could not be taken as a gospel truth to throw the said lady judicial officer out of service, and it was found to be totally unjust. The findings recorded by the High Court in the dated 26.10.2018 with respect to the illicit relationship is reproduced hereunder: “At the outset, we are at a loss to find even remote evidence about any illicit relationship from the above except use of the word “illicit relations”. That apart, her mere statement/ perception like a gospel truth could not be acted upon to throw the appellant out of service. That was totally unjust” 10. It was submitted that once the complaint of the wife and mother-in- law of the appellant were not found to be credible and truthful with respect to the allegations of an illicit relationship, any reliance placed upon the said complaints with respect to minor allegations of using a private car not belonging to the appellant and of threatening and assaulting cannot be relied upon without there being any further corroboration.