He lived with his mother at his village where his mother had property. In the same village, his maternal uncle used to reside. Both the accused were residents of his village and belonged to the same community. He deposed that he 674 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports had a rivalry with accused Ram Singh in connection with the election of village Pradhan. In that election, wife of the accused Ram Singh was one of the candidate. Ram Singh was also related to accused Lala Ram. PW-1 stated that he had voted for the candidate who stood against the wife of Ram Singh. In that election, Ram Singh’s wife lost and in this connection, a fight had broken out between the son of PW-1 i.e. Baan Singh and accused Ram Singh in respect of which FIR and cross FIR were lodged. The cases were going on. Accused Lala Ram was deposing as a witness in Ram Singh’s case. This incident had happened about a month and a half prior to the present incident. According to him, it was around 08:00PM in the evening when he was sitting at his door. His mother Dulli was sitting on the cot. The place was lit up by the hanging lantern which was hung on the roof. The two accused came from the north. Accused Lala Ram challenged PW-1 by saying that the latter was creating a lot of mischief and, therefore, he should be killed. Ram Singh fired from his country made pistol which he was carrying. Instead of hitting PW-1, the bullet hit his mother leading to her death. Thereafter, the two accused fled away. After this incident, PW-1 alongwith PW-2 Man Singh went to Bhognipur Police Station and on the way informed his brother Sunder Lal, the scribe, who wrote the first information which PW-1 carried to the police station. 9.1. In his cross-examination, he stated that accused Lala Ram was a witness in the case against his son. He explained that there was a pile of bricks about 3-4 steps north of the courtyard where the deceased was sitting. The deceased was sitting on the northern side of the cot whereas PW-1 and his brother Desh Raj were sitting at the other end of the cot. He added that when Ram Singh fired at him, he bent below the cot, so also his brother. He could not see as to whether PW-2 and PW-3 had bent or not. As per the version of PW-1, the first gunshot did not hit him. Second shot was not fired at him or his brother because his mother had died in the first gunshot itself. Accused Ram Singh was at a distance of three steps from his mother’s cot. On hearing their screaming, several villagers came to the place of occurrence. At this, the two accused ran away. However, he stated that he could not say as to whether any villager had seen the accused running away or not as no villager had told him.