This gap is entirely unexplained and wholly overlooked by the Courts below. 762 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 38. Coming to the version of PW-2 again, we notice him to be extremely evasive on the issue as to whether the police had visited the spot in the night intervening 3/4th March 2002 or not. He denies being interrogated by the police before 4th March 2002 till about 5.00 p.m. He admits having visited a private hospital and, yet, as discussed earlier, failed to report the matter to the police, more so the cause of injuries sustained by him or for that matter others present on the spot. 39. The evidence of PW-3, upon which the counsel has laid considerable emphasis for the respondent, appears to us to be fraught with contradictions. In his examination-in-chief, it is recorded that D-1 had asked A-2 and A-1 for a bottle of liquor on credit, which the latter two refused and scolded him, upon which he pushed down the showcase, leading A-1 to grab a beer bottle and break it on the head of D-1. When he was cross-examined he deposed as follows: “The police recorded what all I have stated and obtained my signature. It is not correct to state that Dharmalingam asked 1st Accused in the wine shop to provide bottle on credit; that as he has refused, Dharmalingam picked up the quarrel, pushed the show case and broken into pieces; that Thangavel appeared there to question it; that we and Dharmalingam stabbed his relatives and Thangavel;….” 40. As is apparent, he states, for one, that D-1 had indeed broken the showcase but subsequently states that to depose the same would be incorrect. Furthermore, we find his actions not to be akin to that of a prudent man. When A-1 had allegedly broken a bottle on the head of D-1, PW-3 took the injured D-1 not to the hospital but to an STD booth located nearby, where a quarrel ensued between him and A-1, which was eventually separated by PWs 1 and 2. Even more so, when A-1 was allegedly stabbing PW-2, he was still at the STD booth with D-1, yet not having gone to the hospital and also not having made any attempt to stop such stabbing. Why a person would “hold” a person with a grievous head injury near an STD booth and not take him to the hospital or, additionally, not try and stop others from being grievously injured is something that compromises, in our mind, the credibility of the version of PW-3. 41. Apart from the three star witnesses of the prosecution, in our considered view, failing the standard of scrutiny applied to a criminal proceeding, a perusal of the records reveals another facet, [2024] 3 S.C.R. 763 Periyasamy v. The State Represented by the Inspector of Police compromising in nature to the prosecution case. It has come forth in the evidence of PW-1 that upon his arrival at the hospital, he was in a conscious state, so why the recording of the statement delayed till 4.30 a.m. is unsubstantiated.