Section 11 of 1874 Act authorized the Collector to declare any alienation of the nature described in Section 10 thereof to be null and void, if it had taken place, otherwise than by virtue of, or in execution of a decree or of any Court, after recording his reasons in writing. Section 11A empowered the Collector to either summarily resume possession of the property in relation to which an of the Court had been passed on receipt of his certificate under Section 10, or on his own declaration under Section 11, and the said property shall thenceforward revert to the Watan. 16. Much controversy was generated in the context of the proceeding filed before the Additional Commissioner, Poona Division, Poona, [2024] 3 S.C.R. 603 Baban Balaji More (Dead) by LRs. & others v. Babaji Hari Shelar (Dead) by LRs. & others that resulted in the dated 12.06.1962. The appellants would contend that this ‘proceeding’ must be construed to be a revision filed under Section 79 of the 1874 Act and the State Government could not have entertained another revision thereafter, as the statutory scheme speaks of only one revision being maintainable under that provision. However, perusal of the dated 12.06.1962 passed by the Additional Commissioner, Poona Division, Poona, reflects that the same was dealt with as an ‘appeal’ and not as a ‘revision’. Trite to state, appellate jurisdiction is vastly different from revisional jurisdiction, in terms of its scope and extent of review, and when the authority dealing with matter proceeded under the impression that it was exercising appellate jurisdiction the same cannot be construed to be revisional jurisdiction, contrary to what has been stated in the itself. The entertainment of this ‘appeal’ has been explained by pointing out that Section 203 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879, titled ‘Appeals and Revision’, states to the effect that, in the absence of any express provision or any law to the contrary, an appeal shall lie from any decision or passed by a Revenue Officer under the Code or any other law for the time being in force to that Officer’s immediate superior. However, as pointed out by the appellants, the scheme of the 1874 Act did not permit a ‘second’ appeal being maintained under Section 77 thereof. In effect, the proceeding before the Additional Commissioner, Poona Division, Poona, was utterly misconceived and was not maintainable. However, once such a misconceived ‘appeal’ was entertained and resulted in the dated 12.06.1962, which was bereft of jurisdiction, a statutory revision came to be filed before the State Government under Section 79 of the 1874 Act. Significantly, this revision called in question the appellate dated 27.03.1962 also and upon being heard afresh, pursuant to the ‘consent ’ of the High Court in Special Civil Application No. 61 of 1965, it culminated in the dated 03.05.1982. Having consented to the remand of the revision for hearing afresh, the appellants cannot, in any event, raise this issue now. Therefore, the contention of the appellants in this regard is without merit and is rejected accordingly.