Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 2161 of 2012 From the and dated 27.08.2009 of the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam in AS No.563 of 1999 Appearances for Parties CS Vaidyanathan, Chitambaresh, Sr. Advs., A. Raghunath, Babu Malayil, Advs. for the Appellants. Ms Vishnu Shankar, Atul Shankar Vinod, Dileep Pillai, Kannan Gopal Vinod, M. P. Vinod, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Sanjay Karol, J. 1. The instant appeal, preferred by the original defendants, assails the dated 27.08.2009 passed by the High Court of Kerala in A.S. No. 563 of 1999 whereby the appeal was dismissed and the preliminary decree passed by the Trial Court in O.S.631/1999 was affirmed. MARUMAKKATHAYAM CUSTOMARY LAW - AN INTRODUCTION 2. The present appeal concerns the devolution of property by way of traditional Marumakkathayam law. Prior to delving into the legal niceties, an understanding of certain foundation concepts is necessary. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1017 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. 3. The Hindu community being a vast and diverse community is governed by different schools of personal laws. Apart from the dominant Mitakshara school of law, some communities among Hindus have their own system of personal law like the Marumakkathayam law, the Nambudiri law or the Aliyasantana law. In the issue at hand, parties are admittedly governed by the Marumakkathayam law. With respect to Marumakkathayam law, this Court has stated in Achuthan Nair v. Chinnamu Amma1: “6. …The said law [Marumakathayam law] governs a large section of people inhabiting the West-Coast of South India. “Marumakkathayam” literally means descent through sisters’ children. There is a fundamental difference between Hindu law and Marumakkathayam law in that, the former is founded on agnatic relationship while the latter is based on matriarchate. The relevant principles of Marumakkathayam law are well settled and, therefore, no citation is called for...” 4. Under this law, tharwad, thavazhi, karanavan are dominant concepts with respect to joint family. A tharwad is a Marumakkathayam joint family comprising of a female ancestor, her children, her daughter’s children, her daughter’s daughter’s children and all such other descendants, however remote, in the female line. By necessary exclusion, only the immediate male heir is part of the tharwad while his progeny are not. A person belongs to tharwad of his or her mother only.2 Membership of a tharwad is acquired by virtue of birth alone and on death, his interest devolves upon the other members of the tharwad. Members of a tharwad do not have a fixed interest but a fluctuating one, subject to change as per the number of members of the tharwad. Unlike coparcenary in Mitakshara law which extends to three generations succeeding the last male holder of the property, the Marumakkathayam system gives equal rights to all persons, however remote. 1 [1966] 1 SCR 454 : 1965 SCC OnLine SC 303 2 K. Sreedhara Variar Marumakkathayam and Allied Systems of law in the Kerala State, First Edition, 1969 1018 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 5. A tharwad is a larger body which holds within itself many branches.