It was further held that the Seat normally carries with it the choice of that country’s arbitration/curial law”. In the present case, the parties have only agreed on Dubai as a “Venue” of arbitration and not the juridical seat of the arbitration. If Dubai is treated as seat of the arbitration, ipso jure, local laws will be applied. So much so, the stipulation regarding the governing law of the agreement -Laws of UAE - contained in the first part of Cl. 27 will not dictate, what the governing or controlling law would be, whereas the second part applies to both the substantive law and curial law, did not concede an exclusive jurisdiction to Dubai courts. Therefore on a matter of construction, Dubai cannot be the seat of Arbitration. 10. In Indus Mobile Distribution Pvt. Ltd. v. Datawind Innovations Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. (2017) 7 SCC 678 followed by M/s Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. v. Girdhar Sondhi reiterated that “seat” in the context of arbitration proceedings is akin to an exclusive jurisdiction clause and would not vest the courts with seat if exclusive jurisdiction is not conceded. 11. Submission is that “supervisory control over the arbitral proceedings” is not exclusively given to Dubai courts by the 2nd part of Clause 27 and the party’s autonomy is thus preserved. 1160 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. 2nd submission. The Bi-party Agreement executed between the petitioner and a foreign company in Kabul was altered by invoking the Group of Companies doctrine by a non-signatory to the agreement. In terms, the agreement has become a tri-partite agreement where a non-signatory to the original agreement directed the petitioner to make a direct payment of $109500 to India by changing the original invoice raised by a party to the agreement. Submission is, 2nd part of Cl.27 envisages a jurisdictional situation as had happened subsequently by the conduct of parties. 12.1 A jurisdiction clause is suggestive of control. In the context of this particular case, the Dubai Courts would have no real control or supervisory jurisdiction over the arbitral process, in as much as, this supplementary agreement further reiterates the party’s autonomy of choosing the juridical seat of Arbitration in consonance with 2nd part of Cl.27 in which case, a reference to the “venue” cannot be treated as the “seat” of the arbitration. 12.2 Micromax Inc.’s insistence on payment in India by altering the original terms is a non-contest/in terrorem clause or a condition precedent which again substantiates the Party’s autonomy lest the respondents would have terminated the subsisting distribution agreement for violating the supplementary agreement by giving written notice under clause 15. Equally, clause 16.7 (Effect of termination), obliges respondents to pay forthwith any amount standing to the credit of distributor, should they choose to terminate the agreement. Respondents have perpetrated a continuous wrong. 12.3. The petitioner’s submission in this regard are fortified by a plain reading of the following clauses r/w the supplementary agreement, in the form of emails forming an integral part of the Agreement u/s 7 (4) (b) and Mc.