y In support of the submission that a shopping mall could be treated as a plant, which will fall in the exception carved out to Section 17(5)(d), reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in the case of CIT, Trivandrum v. Anand Theatres19 wherein it was held that when a building is specially designed and constructed with some special features to attract the customers, the building could be treated as a plant. In the case of Commissioner of Income Tax, Karnataka v. Karnataka Power Corporation,20 this Court held that an electricity power generating station building would have to be treated as a plant as it would satisfy the functional test or test of essentiality. This Court further held that the in the case of Anand Theatres19 would be limited to buildings used for hotels or cinemas/theatres. Reliance was also placed on the decision in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax v. Victory Aqua Farm Ltd.,21 which holds that ponds specially designed for doing business of aquaculture of prawns should be treated as plants for the purposes of the Income Tax Act. y Reliance has been placed on numerous decisions concerning the principles for interpreting taxation statutes. Usually, a taxation Statute calls for strict interpretation, as held in the decision of this Court in the case of Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai v. Dileep Kumar & Company & Ors.22 It is equally well settled that when two interpretations of a provision in a taxing Statute are possible, the Court would ordinarily interpret 19 [2000] Supp. 1 SCR 338 : (2000) 5 SCC 393 20 (2002) 9 SCC 571 21 (2016) 16 SCC 553 22 (2018) 9 SCC 1 810 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the provisions in favour of the assessee and against the revenue. Reliance was placed on this behalf in the case of Sneh Enterprises v. Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi23 and Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal 1, Calcutta v. M/s Vegetables Products Ltd.24 It is submitted that if one reads Section 17 objectively, it would be noticed that the restrictions on availing ITC are imposed on a reasonable basis. The benefit of ITC is excluded when the services are used for personal purposes or for providing exempted services, or if the supply is outside the ambit of levying GST. However, where the taxing chain continues, ITC is not restricted. It is submitted that the Court shall not interpret a statutory provision in such a manner that it would create an additional fiscal burden on a person. c. Thirdly, it is submitted that services of renting/leasing/letting out, etc., in relation to immovable property constitute supply. Clause 2 of Schedule II provides that any lease or letting out of the building, including a commercial, industrial or residential complex for business or commerce, is a supply of service. Clause 5(a) of Schedule II provides that renting an immovable property is a supply of service. Clause 5(b) of Schedule II provides that the construction of a complex, building, civil structure or a part thereof intended for sale to a buyer, wholly or partly, is also a supply of service, except where the entire consideration has been received after issuance of the completion certificate or after its first occupation, whichever is earlier.