[2024] 9 S.C.R. 894 : 2024 INSC 710 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. (Arbitration Petition No. 19 of 2024) 20 September 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, J.B. Pardiwala* and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration What is the scope of jurisdiction of the referral court under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996; Whether in the instant case, on a prima facie view, the SRG Group being a non-signatory to the Family Arrangement Agreement (FAA), can be referred to arbitration. Headnotes† Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s.11(6) – Appointment of arbitrators – Scope of jurisdiction of the referral Court: Held: SBP & Co. case expanded the scope of the Court’s power under Section 11 while empowering the referral courts to decide several preliminary issues – Boghara Polyfab case went to the extent of identifying three categories of preliminary issues that may arise for consideration in an application under Section 11 – However, the insertion of Section 11(6A) through the 2015 Amendment to the Act, 1996 stipulated that the Courts under Section 11 shall confine their examination to the ‘existence’ of an arbitration agreement – It legislatively overruled the decisions in SBP & Co. and Boghara Polyfab by virtue of its non-obstante clause – Duro Felguera case, in clear terms, clarified the effect of the change brought in by Section 11(6A) and stated that all that the Courts need to see is whether an arbitration agreement exists - nothing more, nothing less – Vidya Drolia case endorsed the prima facie test in examining the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement both under Sections 8 and 11 respectively – However, it was clarified that in cases of debatable and disputable facts and reasonably good arguable case, etc. the Court may refer the parties to arbitration since the arbitral tribunal has the * Author [2024] 9 S.C.R. 895 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. authority to decide disputes including the question of jurisdiction – It was further stated that jurisdictional issues concerning whether certain parties are bound by a particular arbitration under the group-company doctrine etc. in a multi-party arbitration raise complicated questions of fact which are best left to the tribunal to decide – In Re: Interplay Between Arbitration Agreements under Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and Stamp Act, 1899, the position taken in Vidya Drolia case was clarified to state that the scope of examination under Section 11(6) should be confined to the “existence of the arbitration agreement” under Section 7 of the Act, 1996 and the “validity of an arbitration agreement” must be restricted to the requirement of formal validity such as the requirement that the agreement be in writing – Krish Spinning case cautioned that the Courts delving into the domain of the arbitral tribunal at the Section 11 stage run the risk of leaving the claimant remediless if the Section 11 application is rejected – The Cox and Kings case specifically dealt with the scope of inquiry under Section 11 when it comes to impleading the non-signatories in the arbitration proceedings – While saying that the referral court would be required to prima facie rule on the existence of the arbitration agreement and whether the non-signatory party is a veritable party to the arbitration agreement, it also said that in view of the complexity in such a determination, the arbitral tribunal would be the proper forum.