Though this Court in the case of Inox Wind Limited (supra) agrees with the in the case of M.R. Engineers and Contractors Private Limited (supra), it holds that general reference to a standard form of contract of one party along with those of trade associations and professional bodies will be sufficient to incorporate the arbitration clause. In the said case (i.e. Inox Wind Limited), this Court found that the purchase was issued by the appellant therein in which it was categorically mentioned that the supply would be as per the terms mentioned therein and in the attached standard terms and conditions. The respondent therein by his letter had confirmed its acceptance. This Court found that the case before it was a case of a single-contract and not two-contract case and, therefore, held that the arbitration clause as mentioned in the terms and conditions would be applicable. 16. The present case is a ‘two-contract’ case and not a ‘single-contract’ case. 17. It will be relevant to refer to Clause 3.34 of the Additional Terms & Conditions of Contract as contained in the tender issued by the DVC to the NBCC. Clause 3.34 reads thus: “3.34 SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES & ARBITRATION Any dispute(s) or difference(s) arising out of or in connection with the contract shall to the extent possible be settled amicably between the owner and supplier/contractor. In the event of any dispute or difference whatsoever arising under the contract or in connection therewith including any question relating to existence meaning and interpretation of the contract or any alleged breach thereof the same shall be referred to the sole arbitration of the Secretary, CEO of Damodar Valley Corporation, Kolkata-54 or to a person appointed by him for that purpose. The arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of arbitration and conciliation law 1996 and the decision/ of Arbitrator shall be final and binding on both the parties. 822 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports All suits arising out of this enquiry and subsequent purchase , if any, are subject jurisdiction of court in the City of Kolkata only and no other door when resolution/settlement through mutual discussion and arbitration fails.” 18. No doubt that Clause 3.34 provides for a reference of the dispute to the sole arbitration of the Secretary, CEO of Damodar Valley Corporation, Kolkata-54 or to a person appointed by him for that purpose. 19. It will also be apposite to refer to Clauses 1.0, 2.0, 7.0 and 10.0 of the L.O.I., which read thus: “1.0 The work shall be executed you on contractual, financial and technical conditions of contract as contained in the following documents which shall be applicable and binding on you for execution of works and shall form part of agreement with you as also mentioned in the above mentioned NIT-01/WEIR/06 dated November 3, 2006. (a) Notice Inviting Tender (b) General Conditions of Contract (c) Special Conditions of Contract (d) Bill of Quantity 2.0 All terms and conditions as contained in the tender issued by DVC to NBCC shall apply mutatis mutandis except where these have been expressly modified by NBCC.