1061 Sheikh Javed Iqbal @ Ashfaq Ansari @ Javed Ansari v. State of Uttar Pradesh for such an offence would result in punishment of imprisonment for life or with punishment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to fine. Offence under Section 489C IPC is committed when one is found in possession of any forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes despite knowing the same to be forged or counterfeit and intending to use the same as genuine. Punishment for such an offence is imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years or with fine or with both. 20.1. Section 16 of the UAP Act provides for punishment for committing a ‘terrorist act’. ‘Terrorist act’ is defined in Section 15. For the present case, the definition which would be relevant is that a person commits a ‘terrorist act’ if he does any act with the intention to threaten or likely to threaten the economic security of India i.e. damage to the monetary stability of India by way of production or smuggling or circulation of ‘high quality counterfeit Indian paper currency’, coin or of any other material. Explanation (b) explains ‘high quality counterfeit Indian currency’. In such a case, the punishment under Section 16 would be imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine. 20.2. Section 43D of the UAP Act says that there shall be modified application of certain provisions of the Cr.P.C. As per sub- Section (5) of Section 43D, which starts with a non-obstante clause, notwithstanding anything contained in the Cr.P.C, no person accused of an offence punishable under Chapters IV (which includes Section 16) and VI of the UAP Act shall, if in custody, be released on bail or on his own bond unless the public prosecutor has been given an opportunity of being heard on the bail application. The proviso says that such accused person shall not be released on bail or on his own bond if the court on a perusal of the case diary or the report made under Section 173 Cr.P.C. is of the opinion that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against such person is prima-facie true. Sub-Section (6) clarifies that the restrictions on granting of bail specified in sub-Section (5) would be in addition to the restrictions under the Cr.P.C. or any other law for the time being in force on granting of bail. 1062 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. It is true that the appellant is facing charges under Section 489B IPC and under Section 16 of the UAP Act which carries a maximum sentence of life imprisonment, if convicted. On the other hand, the maximum sentence under Section 489C IPC is 7 years. But as noticed above, the trial is proceeding at a snail’s pace. As per the impugned , only two witnesses have been examined.