46. Broadly, there were four important Governing Bodies, i.e., the Executive Council, the Academic Council, the Court, and other Officers such as the Lord Rector, Vice Chancellor, Pro-Vice Chancellor, etc 47. Without expressing any opinion on the interpretation of its provisions or the legislative policy of the AMU Act, 1920,we deem it fit to encapsulate some relevant provisions. 48. In this light, the role and authority of the Lord Rector was delineated in Section 13, which states as follows: 57 Theodore Beck, supra note 53; MAOCM and AIG, supra note 53. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1779 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. “13. (1) The Governor General shall be the Lord Rector of the University. (2) The Lord Rector shall have the right to cause an inspection to be made by such person or persons as he may direct, of the University, its buildings, laboratories, and equipment, and of any institution maintained by the University, and also of the examinations, teaching and other work conducted or done by the University, and to cause an inquiry to be made in like manner in respect of any matter connected with the University. The Lord Rector shall, in every case, give notice to the University of his intention to cause an inspection or inquiry to be made and the University shall be made entitled to be represented thereat. (3) The Lord Rector may address the Vice-Chancellor with reference to the result of such inspection and inquiry, and the Vice-Chancellor shall communicate to the Court the views of the Lord Rector with such advice as the Lord Rector may be pleased to offer upon the action to be taken thereon. (4) The Court shall communicate through the Vice- Chancellor to the Lord Rector such action, if any, as it is proposed to take or has been taken upon the result of such inspection or inquiry. (5) Where the Court does not, within reasonable time, take action to the satisfaction of the Lord Rector, the Lord Rector may, after considering any explanation furnished or representation made by the Court issue such directions as he may think fit, and the Court shall comply with such directions.” 49. Similarly, the authority and responsibility of the AMU Court was stated under Section 23: “23. (1) The Court shall consist of the Chancellor, the Pro-Chancellor and the Vice Chancellor for the, time being, and such other persons as may be specified in the Statutes: Provided that no person other than a Muslim shall be a member thereof. 1780 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (2) The Court shall be the supreme governing body of the University and shall have the power to review the acts of the Executive and the Academic Councils (save where such Councils have acted in accordance with powers conferred on them under this Act, the Statutes or the Ordinances) and shall exercise all the powers of the University not otherwise provided for by this Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances and the Regulations. (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Court shall exercise the following powers and perform the following duties, namely:— (a) of making Statutes and of amending or repealing the same; (b) of considering Ordinances; (c) of considering and passing resolutions on the annual report, the annual accounts and the financial estimates; (d) of electing such persons to serve on the authorities of the University and of appointing such officers as may be prescribed by this Act or the Statutes; and (e) of exercising such other powers and perform such other duties as may be conferred or imposed upon it by this Act or the Statutes.” 50.