P.W.1 and P.W.2 had deposed in the court that the other accused instigated the appellant to fire the shot, but on the contrary, the Investigating Officer had deposed that during investigation, it was revealed by the complainant and the other witness that the appellant fired on his own. The Sessions Court did not accept the evidence of P.W.1 and P.W.2 with regard to the charge framed against other accused and acquitted them. Considering the fact that for a person to be convicted under section 34, there must be an involvement of two or more persons with common intention to commit the crime. Mere presence of the accused at the scene of occurrence is not sufficient. In the present case, after the acquittal of the other accused with a finding that there was nothing in the FIR or statement under section 161 to sustain the charge under section 34 IPC, the appellant remains the sole accused and there could be no charge under section 34 against him. Therefore, we are of the opinion that the conviction of the appellant under section 34 IPC by the Sessions Court as confirmed by the High Court is unsustainable. 18. For the reasons stated above, the concurrent finding recorded by the Sessions Court as affirmed by the High Court that the appellant was found guilty of the offence under section 302 IPC is confirmed. However, the appellant is acquitted of the charge under section 34 IPC and the s of the Courts below, insofar as convicting him for the same, are set aside. 19. As far as the sentence is concerned, considering the gravity and nature of the offence and all other relevant factors, the Courts can modify the punishment or reduce / enhance the period of sentence imposed on the accused. At this juncture, it will be apposite to refer to some s of this Court. The Constitutional Bench of this 782 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court (majority view) in Union of India v. V.Sriharan,8 has held that “there is a power which can be derived from IPC to impose a fixed term sentence or modified punishment which can only be exercised by the High Court or in the event of any further appeal, by the Supreme Court and not by any other court”. Placing reliance on the said decision of the Constitutional Bench, this Court in Shiva Kumar @ Shiva @ Shivamurthy v. State of Karnataka,9 has observed as follows: “14…We have no manner of doubt that even in a case where capital punishment is not imposed or is not proposed, the constitutional courts can always exercise the power of imposing a modified or fixed-term sentence by directing that a life sentence, as contemplated by “secondly” in Section 53 IPC, shall be of a fixed period of more than fourteen years, for example, of twenty years, thirty years and so on. The fixed punishment cannot be for a period less than 14 years in view of the mandate of Section 433-A Cr.PC.” 19.1.