Taxes not to be imposed save by authority of law. – No tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.’ 1386 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a penalty five times the amount due from them. On 15.12.2010, the Council of the Corporation passed Resolution No.18 to cancel the registration of the advertising agencies that had defaulted in making payment of the enhanced royalty/fee/tax. The same was done when it came to the notice of the Corporation that several advertising agencies had illegally displayed hoardings, with some not even having permission to do so from the Corporation and not having paid dues. On 11.02.2012, in terms of various Resolutions/ decisions of the Corporation under the Act, a demand was raised towards royalty/fee/tax on the Respondent No.1 to the tune of Rs.64,50,040/- (Rupees Sixty-Four Lakhs Fifty Thousand and Forty). This demand, as also the Office dated 02.11.2007 was assailed by filing a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the Patna High Court, wherein the learned Single Judge ultimately went on to quash ‘the of demand of penalty by the Patna Municipal Corporation in all the cases’and directed ‘that the Patna Municipal Corporation should accept the tax/royalty/rent payable by these petitioners in accordance with the 2007 rates fixed by the Patna Municipal Corporation.’ On 18.07.2012, the Corporation sent a Demand Notice to the Respondent No.1 to pay Rs.21,98,000/- (Rupees Twenty One Lakhs Ninety Eight Thousand) as royalty/fee/ tax in light of the Single Bench , to which the Respondent No.1 replied on 28.01.2013 contending that the same was calculated wrongly and, thus, a corrected Demand Notice ought to be sent. As the Corporation did not respond to this, the Respondent No.1 continued paying royalty/fee/tax as self-assessed by it i.e. at the rate of Re.1 per square foot. 8. The Respondent No.1 and others, similarly-situated, preferred intra- Court appeal(s) before the Division Bench of the High Court assailing the Single Bench . The Division Bench, by way of the Impugned , quashed the enhancement itself, and held that the Corporation had no power to charge royalty/fee/tax under the Act, since it was necessary to frame Regulations. The Impugned reasoned that in the absence of such Regulations, there was no authority in law to levy/impose/collect tax, as sought to be imposed by the Corporation. Apropos the Regulations framed on 04.07.2012, published in the Gazette on 13.08.2012, the Division Bench held that the said Regulations pertain only to licensing provisions and not taxing provisions. It added that when the Regulations were silent and do not speak of tax on advertisement, the same could not be levied [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1387 The Patna Municipal Corporation & Ors. v. M/s Tribro Ad Bureau & Ors. by the Corporation. It further went on to hold that even the decision of the Corporation to auction-settle the right to collect advertisement tax from advertisers to private individuals is totally impermissible as the State/its instrumentalities cannot trade in taxation. The Division Bench was of the view that to levy, assess and raise any demand of tax is a sovereign function, which cannot be auction-settled to private individuals.