Under the Marumakkattayam system, “a female is a stock of descent while the male is not”, which is why the children of a sole male sharer get no right to the property obtained by him on the partition, whereas a sole female sharer has to take it as tharwad property in which she must concede a share to her children, if she gives birth to any. Further, reliance was placed on Section 38 of the Madras Marumakkathayam Act before its amendment in 1958, which clarifies in its explanation that a sole sharer in a partition whether a male or a female, takes the share with the incidents of tharwad property. 29. However, the said opinion was not accepted by Govindan Nair, J., who observed that in Hindu Law, if ancestral joint family property is divided and a share taken by a father, a son born to that father after partition will only get an interest in that property by birth. The son takes such an interest by birth only because it is ancestral and not by reason of the fact that the property was joint family property or because it has retained its character as joint property. When an individual member obtains a share for themselves, the property ceases to be joint property after partition, thereby changing the nature of the property. He differed with the interpretation of the majority opinion and by dissenting, opined that the statute enacted does not lay down or declare any general principle for the nature of property remaining a tharwad after the partition. The explanation to Section 38(2) of the Madras Marumakkattayam Act, 1932, before it was amended in 1958, only permitted a thavazhi partition and the absence of such an explanation in the Cochin Nayar Act, XXIX of 1113, which was enacted after the Madras Marumakkathayam Act further proves the intent of legislation to change the nature of property after the partition. He rejected the principle of “once a tarwad always a tarwad” as an outmoded concept. 30. Another minority opinion was expressed by Krishnamoorthy Iyer, J., who propounded that property obtained by a Nair female towards 1030 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports her share vide partition in her tharwad continues to be her separate property, notwithstanding the birth of a child to the female after the date of the partition. The result of partition is to convert, what was originally joint family non-ancestral property, into separate property. Further, reliance was placed on Mitakshara school of Hindu Law, which distinguishes the character of the property obtained by a co- parcener in the division of ancestral property and the shares received in the division of joint family property, not being ancestral property. OUR VIEW 31. We have perused the s professing both the majority and minority views. The main point of disagreement between three learned judges on one side and two on the other, pertains to the question as to whether a female who, at the time of partition did not have any heirs, retains such property as her own or as tharwad property which she would have to eventually part with in favour of her children or descendants.