The Note and the record make it clear that for various jails, approvals for the works are expected to be given in the present Financial Year 2024-25 i.e. in the next 10 months, upto March, 2025. 10. In the above background, the AC has prayed for issuance of directions as under: ‘a) Approval for additional wards in District Jail Aurangabad, District Jail Lakhisarai and District Jail Nawadah, and the 5 women jails mentioned above may be expedited by the State Government so that process for construction can begin at the earliest. The [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1043 In Re-Inhuman Conditions In 1382 Prisons Government has stated that the financial approval would be given in this financial year. The Government may consider giving approval in 3 months’ time and take further steps thereafter. b) It is important that with the increase in the capacity, the State Government may also be directed to ensure that other necessary infrastructure like sanitation facility, kitchen, staff etc is also upgraded to meet the additional needs. c) Construction is going on in District Jail Darbhanga, Central Jail Purnea, District Jail Saharsa and District Jail Chhapra. Affidavit of the State Government states that most of the works would be completed by next year i.e. 2025. The Chief Secretary, State of Bihar may take a review meeting of the ongoing construction in 6 months’ time to ensure that there is no delay in the said construction. d) Land identification process is underway interalia in Gopalganj, Khagaria, Biharsharif and few other districts. It is humbly prayed that the Chief Secretary may review the matter in 4 months. He may impress upon the District Magistrates of the urgency, so that land is identified at the earliest. The progress in this regard may be informed to this Hon’ble Court. e) It appears that land has been selected for construction of new jail in Madhepura. Madhepura has huge overcrowding in as much as sanctioned capacity is 182 and existing capacity is 517 i.e. 2.5 times the sanctioned capacity. It is prayed that the State Government may be directed to complete the land acquisition process within 6 months. f) A new jail is proposed in Supaul for which estimate has been received from Building Construction Department and process of approval is underway. The State Government may be directed to expedite approval process so that construction process can begin.’ 1044 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. The AC has also highlighted additional issues: ‘… The undersigned has gone through the summary of the report and respectful submits that the following may need the attention of the State Government:- Sr. Name of jail Report of the Committee No. 1 District Jail Facilities for children lodged with their Begusarai mothers in jail:- There is women’s cell of 10 capacity located in the prison currently have 37 women prisons with one child are living. A temporary crèche facility is available in the women’s sections. District Education Officer/ District Programme Officer Begusarai have been requested to open an Anganwari Center in the women’s wing of the jail for the primary education of the children of 0-6 years confined with female prisoners.