On the basis of the oral report of PW-1, an FIR (Exh. P-1) came to be registered at Police Station, Damoh. 2.3 Upon completion of the investigation, the chargesheet came to be filed in the Court of Judicial Magistrate First Class. Since the case was exclusively triable by the learned trial Judge, it was committed to the learned trial Judge. 2.4 At the conclusion of the trial, the learned trial Judge has acquitted the accused persons since the prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt. The respondent-State preferred an appeal before the High Court. 2.5 The High Court, by the impugned , reversed the finding of the learned trial Judge, as aforesaid. 2.6 Being aggrieved thereby, the present appeal. 3. We have heard Mr. Varun Thakur, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants and Shri Pashupathi Nath Razdan, learned counsel for the respondent-State. 4. Mr. Varun Thakur, learned counsel, submits that the High Court has grossly erred in reversing the well-reasoned of acquittal. He submits that the learned trial Judge by giving elaborate reasonings, found that the prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt. He submits that the High Court in a cursory manner interfered with the said finding. He submits that the present case is a case of circumstantial evidence and unless the prosecution is able to prove the chain of circumstances beyond reasonable doubt it is not permissible to interfere with the findings of the trial Judge and to record the finding of conviction. He further submits that, in an appeal arising from acquittal, the scope is limited. Unless the finding is shown to be perverse or impossible, it will not be permissible for the Appellate Court to interfere with the same. 5. Shri Pashupathi Nath Razdan, learned counsel for the respondent- State, on the contrary, submits that the learned trial Judge has totally misread the evidence. He submits that the evidence of Beni 52 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Prasad (PW-1) and Sumitra Bai (PW-6), coupled with the medical evidence, would show that the prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. 6. Undoubtedly, the prosecution case rests on circumstantial evidence. The law with regard to conviction on the basis of circumstantial evidence has very well been crystalized in the of this Court in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra1, wherein this Court held thus: “152. Before discussing the cases relied upon by the High Court we would like to cite a few decisions on the nature, character and essential proof required in a criminal case which rests on circumstantial evidence alone. The most fundamental and basic decision of this Court is Hanumant v. State of Madhya Pradesh [(1952) 2 SCC 71 : AIR 1952 SC 343 : 1952 SCR 1091 : 1953 Cri LJ 129]. This case has been uniformly followed and applied by this Court in a large number of later decisions up-to-date, for instance, the cases of Tufail (Alias) Simmi v. State of Uttar Pradesh [(1969) 3 SCC 198 : 1970 SCC (Cri) 55] and Ramgopal v. State of Maharashtra [(1972) 4 SCC 625 : AIR 1972 SC 656].