97. Section 5 of the Act, 1996 also minimises the supervisory role that the courts may play in the arbitral process. There are two facets to Section 5 – positive and negative. The positive facet allows the judicial authorities to exercise jurisdiction over matters expressly permitted under the Act, 1996. The negative aspect, on the other hand, prohibits the judicial authorities from intervening in the arbitral proceedings [2024] 7 S.C.R. 899 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning in situations where the arbitral tribunal has been conferred with exclusive jurisdiction. 98. What follows from the negative facet of arbitral autonomy when applied in the context of Section 16 is that the national courts are prohibited from interfering in matters pertaining to the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal, as exclusive jurisdiction on those aspects vests with the arbitral tribunal. The legislative mandate of prima facie determination at the stage of Sections 8 and 11 respectively ensures that the referral courts do not end up venturing into what is intended by the legislature to be the exclusive domain of the arbitral tribunal. 99. Gary B. Born1 describes arbitral autonomy as intrinsically related to the ‘right to arbitrate’, which in turn is a concomitant of freedom of contract, liberty of association and personal autonomy. He describes “the right of parties to resolve their disputes, with one another, in a manner of their own choosing” as “a basic aspect of individual autonomy and liberty, which is properly accorded protection in almost all developed legal systems.” He also stresses on the importance of autonomy of parties to arbitrate as giving effect to fundamental right to autonomy of parties and increasing their access to justice. Characterising the right to arbitrate as an important political right, he observes that “voluntary agreements, by free men and women, to resolve their disputes between themselves, in a manner which they structure, are the exercise of basic rights of liberty, association and property and a bulwark against governmental oppression.”2 100. In Hayter v. Nelson reported in [1990] 2 Lloyd’s Rep. 265, 272, it was observed that the “modern view in line with the basic principles of the English law of freedom of contract and indeed International Conventions is that there is no good reason why the Courts should strive to take matters out of the hands of the tribunal into which the parties have by agreement undertaken to place them”. b. Negative Competence-Competence 101. Section 16 of the Act, 1996 recognises the doctrine of competence- competence and empowers the arbitral tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction. The policy consideration for the same is, firstly, to 1 Gary B. Born, Internation Commercial Arbitration, 3rd Ed. (2021), pp. 685 2 Gary B. Born, Internation Commercial Arbitration, 3rd Ed. (2021), pp. 696 900 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports recognise the intention of the parties in choosing arbitration as the method for resolving the disputes arising out of the contract and secondly, to prevent the parties from initiating parallel proceedings before courts and delaying the arbitral process.