23. Section 32 confers on the State Government the power to make rules for carrying out the purposes of the Madarsa Act.19 d. Steps taken by the State Government and the Board pursuant to the Madarsa Act 24. The provisions of the Madarsa Act grant the Board and the State Government wide-ranging powers to frame regulations, directions and rules and to regulate education in the Madarsas. After the enactment of the Madarsa Act, both the Board and the State Government have in fact taken various steps. Some of the steps detailed below indicate that there is a marked shift by the State Government and the Board towards including modern subjects in the curriculum and adopting the established curriculum (such as the NCERT curriculum). These steps are: a. On 15 May 2018, the Board issued a circular with the stated aim of “bringing educational upgradation in standardization and uniformity” in the Madarsas. The circular states that it has been decided that for education in the Madarsas in Mathematics, Science, English, Hindi, Computer Science and Social Science, the curriculum will be based on the available textbooks of NCERT. Subsequently, by a letter dated 30 May 2018, the State Government sent a copy of the Circular and directed all the District Minority Welfare Officers to include the books prescribed by the NCERT in the syllabus of Madarsa Education from the Academic Session of 2018-19. The District Minority Welfare Officers were directed to take steps to ensure that there are sufficient NCERT Books and to apprise the Board if training is required for the teachers in the Madarsas in the district; b. Pursuant to Section 20, the Board has framed the 2016 Regulations with the approval of the State Government. Two amendments were made to the 2016 Regulations in 2017 and 19 Section 32 reads: “32. The State Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 387 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 2018, respectively. The latter amended the provision which dealt with the medium of instruction in the Madarsas. Originally, the Regulations provided that while all subjects could be taught, the medium of education should be Urdu, Arabic and Persian. However, the provision was amended to stipulate that while the medium of instruction in “Deenayat and other Arabic, Persian subjects” shall remain in Urdu, Arabic and Persian, the medium of instruction for “Maths, Science, Social Science, Computer etc.” may be Urdu, Hindi or English, as the case may be;20 and c. The functions of the Board under the Madarsa Act include prescribing the course of instruction, textbooks and instructional material for courses at various educational levels and classes. For this purpose, the Board has held several meetings from time to time. The Minutes of one such meeting dated 12 October 2021 have been placed on record before this Court, which contains a discussion on the curriculum to be implemented in Madarsas. It is noted in the Minutes of the Meeting that the Board has approved the inclusion of Elementary Math and Elementary Science, History and Civics as compulsory subjects from Class 1 to secondary level in accordance with the NCERT curriculum.