This is because the Act is a piece of Parliamentary legislation and in to achieve a uniform policy vis-à-vis management and administration of enemy properties throughout the length and breadth of the country. It, therefore, cannot be held that the properties vest with the Union within the meaning of Article 285 of the Constitution. In our view, the said Article has no application to enemy properties. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 929 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others 22. In Amir Mohammad Khan case, the father of the respondent therein was a Raja, who had migrated to Pakistan in 1957 and became a citizen of that country. However, the respondent therein and his mother (since deceased) continued to reside in India as Indian citizen. Under the provisions of the Enemy Property (Custody and Registration) , 1965, the property of the respondent’s father in India vested in the Custodian of Enemy Property. After the enactment of the Act under consideration, by virtue of Section 24 thereof, the property continued to be vested in the Custodian. In 1973, the Raja died in London. The respondent then sought the Government of India and the Custodian to release that property as the same stood vested in him as an Indian citizen. In 1981, the Government of India agreed to release 25% of the property to the legal heirs and successors of the late Raja in India and the Custodian of the Enemy Property asked the respondent for legal evidence regarding such heirs and successors. In 1986, at the instance of the respondent, the civil court declared that the respondent was the sole heir and successor of his father and thereby entitled to 25% or whatever percentage it might be of the suit property. The said became final. Since, the properties were not handed over to the respondent, he filed a writ petition before the Bombay High Court which was allowed by directing that the possession of the properties should be handed over to the respondent. The Union of India filed an appeal before this Court by way of a Special Leave. Dismissing the appeal, this Court held that the Act was enacted for the purpose of continued vesting of enemy property in the Custodian of Enemy Property for India under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 and the Defence of India Rules, 1971. 22.1 This Court observed that the respondent therein was the sole heir and successor of the late Raja and properties belonging to the late Raja was succeeded to by the respondent by way of succession and the properties in question could no longer be enemy property within the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Act. Therefore, the Custodian could not be permitted to continue in possession of such properties. During the pendency of the Writ Petition before it, the High Court directed the appellant therein to place on record a copy of the note put up for release of the property of the respondent’s father and the decision taken thereon by the Cabinet.