Such an interpretation excludes from the power of review conferred the course taken by the second and third Division Bench, composed of Wilberforce, J., and Scott Smith, J., and by Wilberforce, J., and LeRossignol, J., respectively. The result is that the s given by these two Division Benches ought to be set aside, and that of the Bench of the Chief Court composed of Scott Smith, J., and Leslie Jones, J., restored, so that the suit will stand dismissed. The respondent-plaintiffs must pay the costs here and in the Courts below.” (emphasis supplied) Discovery of New Matter or Evidence ● State of W.B. v. Kamal Sengupta, (2008) 8 SCC 612 “21. At this stage it is apposite to observe that where a review is sought on the ground of discovery of new matter or evidence, such matter or evidence must be relevant and must be of such a character that if the same had been produced, it might have altered the . In other words, mere discovery of new or important matter or evidence is not sufficient ground for review ex debito justitiae. Not only this, the party seeking review has also to show that such additional matter or evidence was not within its knowledge and even after the exercise of due diligence, the same could not be produced before the court earlier. 22. The term “mistake or error apparent” by its very connotation signifies an error which is evident per se from the record of the case and does not require detailed examination, scrutiny and elucidation either of the facts or the legal position. If an error is not self-evident and detection thereof requires long debate and process of reasoning, it cannot be treated as an error apparent on the face of the record for the purpose of 47 Rule 1 CPC or Section 22(3)(f) of the Act. To put it differently an or decision or cannot be corrected merely because it is erroneous in law or on the ground that a different view could have been taken by the court/tribunal on a point of fact or law. In any case, while exercising the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 109 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. power of review, the court/tribunal concerned cannot sit in appeal over its /decision.” An can be reviewed only on the prescribed grounds mentioned in XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC 1908 ● Shri Ram Sahu v. Vinod Kumar Rawat, (2021) 13 SCC 1 “10. To appreciate the scope of review, it would be proper for this Court to discuss the object and ambit of Section 114CPC as the same is a substantive provision for review when a person considering himself aggrieved either by a decree or by an of court from which appeal is allowed but no appeal is preferred or where there is no provision for appeal against an and decree, may apply for review of the decree or as the case may be in the court, which may or pass the decree.