19. The appellants filed their written statement denying the plaint allegations; three preliminary objections were also raised to the effect that suit was not maintainable in its form; the appellants were in continuous possession over the suit land and; the suit was time barred. It was further specifically stated that the land in suit was donated by Sri Inder Singh in 1958 for construction of Government Veterinary Hospital and, further, Municipal Council, Samana and the State of Punjab had made financial contribution for construction of the building of the hospital in the year 1959 and since then, the hospital is functioning, which is well known to the public of Samana as also to the plaintiff. In support of the fact that the hospital was constructed and that the possession was with the State-appellant, various resolutions of 1958-59, other revenue records were filed. It was also specifically stated that as the land had been donated, there was no question of payment of consideration or compensation to the plaintiff. 20. A replication was filed by the plaintiff-respondent. 21. Plaintiff examined himself as P.W.-1 and filed documentary evidence which were exhibited. On the other hand, the State examined Dr. Rajendra Kumar Goyal as D.W-1 and Jagdish Chand as D.W.- 2 and had also filed several documents relating to resolutions passed by the Municipal Council in the year 1958-59, also the correspondence between the Veterinary Officer and the Executive Officer of the Municipal Council sometimes in 1981, as also the documents to show that the plaintiff was aware of the existence of the Veterinary Hospital in the year 1981 as he had made an enquiry from the concerned Tehsildar regarding the exact location of the Veterinary Hospital. 22. A perusal of all such documents (Ex’s- DW2/C, DW2/B, D-2, D-3, D-4 and D-5) filed by the defendant-State clearly establishes that the land had been donated by Sri Inder Singh, father of the plaintiff in the year 1958-1959 and, thereafter, after arranging for funds from various sources, the hospital had been constructed in 1959 and has, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2445 The State of Punjab and Ors. v. Bhagwantpal Singh Alias Bhagwant Singh (Deceased) Through Lrs. eversince then, been functional. The above documents are resolutions of the Municipal Council of 1958-59 and also Utilization Certificates of funds utilized for construction of the hospital. The document (Ex DW2/A) also goes to prove that there was a communication from the Executive Officer of the Municipal Council dated 01.07.1981 giving details of the allotment, the construction, the finances and also the functionality of the hospital. This communication further mentions that somebody had destroyed the file of the gift and the construction of the hospital for which an enquiry was pending. Nevertheless, the facts stated therein clearly reflect that there was a hospital in existence much before 1981. Another document filed by the defendant-appellant was Ext.-D (8), which is a letter written by the plaintiff dated 24.04.1981 requiring the Tehsildar, Samana to verify and give a report regarding location of the Veterinary Hospital.