604 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 144. As far as extension of limitation by negotiation is concerned, a careful look at paragraph 16.03(d) of the arbitral award would indicate that there is a reference to two more aspects, ‘apart from meaningful negotiations’, to conclude that limitation for the claim was saved. These are: (a) the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018; and (b) the written offer of OPG (respondent(s) to the claim) dated 26 May 2018 to settle the matter. We have already found, while deciding sub- issues (b) and (c), that the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018 tantamounted to an acknowledgment under Section 18 of the 1963 Act qua the items mentioned therein. We also noticed that it carried no mention regarding those items on which counterclaims were based, and therefore, they were rejected as barred by limitation. In these circumstances, though paragraph 16.03(d) of the award gives the impression that limitation was extended because negotiations were ongoing in respect of items related to the claim, the limitation was extended by applying the principle of acknowledgment as enshrined in Section 18 of the 1963 Act on basis of two documents i.e., the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018; and the offer letter dated 26 May 2018. Importantly, the principle of extension of limitation by acknowledgement was applied in respect of only those claims regarding which a mention was there in the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018. In respect of claims regarding which there was no recital in the minutes, the tribunal observed that they were not part of the negotiations. Thus, though the term used in paragraph 16.03(d) of the award is ‘negotiation(s)’, the tribunal, by referring to minutes dated 19 April 2018 and settlement offer dated 26 May 2018, indicated the underlying legal principle / rationale behind its conclusion. We, therefore, conclude that though reasons recorded in the award at first blush appear insufficient, or a bit confusing, but, when those reasons are examined in the context of the documents placed and the arguments advanced, the underlying reasons, which form basis of the conclusion, are not only intelligible but sound. For the aforesaid reasons and in the light of the law expounded in paragraph 71.6 above, we reject the submission of the appellant(s)’ counsel that the reasoning of the arbitral tribunal is flawed/perverse or that the award is vitiated by adopting different yardstick for adjudging the claim than what was adopted for the counterclaim. Even otherwise, the mistake, if any, committed by the arbitral tribunal in using the words ‘ongoing negotiations’ in place of acknowledgement is trivial does not go to the root of the matter as to have a material bearing [2024] 9 S.C.R. 605 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. on the conclusion. Therefore, for this mistake alone, the award is not liable to be set aside. 145. The other submission on behalf of the appellant that the arbitral tribunal was obliged to accept the admission contained in the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018 qua liquidated damages and customs duties, because it relied on it for extending the limitation, is equally unacceptable.