(6) The President shall cause all such reports to be laid before each House of Parliament along with a memorandum explaining the action taken or proposed to be taken on the recommendations relating to the Union and the reasons for the non-acceptance, if any, of any of such recommendations. (7) Where any such report, or any part thereof, relates to any matter with which any State Government is 1474 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports concerned, a copy of such report shall be forwarded to the Governor of the State who shall cause it to be laid before the Legislature of the State along with a memorandum explaining the action taken or proposed to be taken on the recommendations relating to the State and the reasons for the non-acceptance, if any, of any of such recommendations. (8) The Commission shall, while investigating any matter referred to in sub-clause (a) or inquiring into any complaint referred to in sub-clause (b) of clause (5), have all the powers of a civil court trying a suit and in particular in respect of the following matters, namely:— (a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person from any part of India and examining him on oath; (b) requiring the discovery and production of any document; (c) receiving evidence on affidavits; (d) requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any court or office; (e) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses and documents; (f) any other matter which the President may, by rule, determine. (9) The Union and every State Government shall consult the Commission on all major policy matters affecting Scheduled Castes. (10) In this article references to the Scheduled Castes shall be construed as including references to the Anglo-Indian community.” “366. Definitions.—In this Constitution, unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions have the meanings hereby respectively assigned to them, that is to say— ******** [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1475 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. (24) “Scheduled Castes” means such castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within such castes, races or tribes as are deemed under Article 341 to be Scheduled Castes for the purposes of this Constitution; (25) “Scheduled Tribes” means such tribes or tribal communities or parts of or groups within such tribes or tribal communities as are deemed under Article 342 to be Scheduled Tribes for the purposes of this Constitution;” 49. It will be relevant to note that in the draft definition of ‘the Scheduled Castes’, the word used earlier was “specify”. However, in the final clause (24) of Article 366, the word “specify” has been changed to “deemed”. III. JUDICIAL PRECEDENTS 50. In the last 74 years, the aforesaid constitutional provisions have been considered by this Court on a number of occasions. It will be relevant to refer to some of these s. 51. It will also be relevant to note that by the First Amendment to the Constitution in the year 1951 by which clause (4) was added to Article 15 was necessitated on account of the of this Court in the case of State of Madras vs. Smt.