It reads: “51-A. Fundamental duties.—It shall be the duty of every citizen of India— … (e) to promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of India transcending religious, linguistic and regional or sectional diversities; to renounce practices derogatory to the dignity of women; … (h) to develop the scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform;” 19. At this stage, we may also take note of Article 51(c) of the Constitution which enjoins upon the State the responsibility to foster respect for International Law and treaty obligations. The protection of dignity for all human beings as also the protection of women against discrimination form important parts of obligations under International Law in so far as India is concerned. India is the signatory to International Covenant on Civil and Protection Rights (See Article 6,7,10,17), Convention on Elimination of Discrimination Against Women13 (See Preamble, Article 2,5) and Universal Declaration of Human Rights (See Article 1,3,5,7,12). It would be apposite to reproduce below certain provisions of the CEDAW: 13 In short ‘CEDAW’ [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1135 Rajeev Kumar Upadhyay v. Srikant Upadhyay & Ors. “Preamble … Recalling that discrimination against women violates the principles of equality of rights and respect for human dignity, is an obstacle to the participation of women, on equal terms with men, in the political, social, economic and cultural life of their countries, hampers the growth of the prosperity of society and the family and makes more difficult the full development of the potentialities of women in the service of their countries and of humanity, … Article 2 States Parties condemn discrimination against women in all its forms, agree to pursue by all appropriate means and without delay a policy of eliminating discrimination against women and, to this end, undertake: (a) To embody the principle of the equality of men and women in their national constitutions or other appropriate legislation if not yet incorporated therein and to ensure, through law and other appropriate means, the practical realization of this principle; (b) To adopt appropriate legislative and other measures, including sanctions where appropriate, prohibiting all discrimination against women; (c) To establish legal protection of the rights of women on an equal basis with men and to ensure through competent national tribunals and other public institutions the effective protection of women against any act of discrimination; (d) To refrain from engaging in any act or practice of discrimination against women and to ensure that public authorities and institutions shall act in conformity with this obligation; (e) To take all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against women by any person, organization or enterprise; (f) To take all appropriate measures, including legislation, to modify or abolish existing laws, regulations, 1136 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports customs and practices which constitute discrimination against women; … Article 5 States Parties shall take all appropriate measures: (a) To modify the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women;…” 20.