An interest @21% per annum was the consideration for the time value of money. The learned counsel submitted that the NCLAT was right in going into the issue of the true nature and effect of the transaction reflected in the agreements. Relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Pioneer Urban 5 [2020] 8 SCR 291 : (2020) 8 SCC 401 6 [2021] 15 SCR 1079 : (2021) 3 SCC 475 7 [2022] 5 SCR 319 : (2023) 1 SCC 724 222 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Land and Infrastructure Ltd2, the learned counsel submitted that clause (f) of sub-section (8) of Section 5 of the IBC is a “catch all” and “residuary” provision which includes any transaction having the commercial effect of borrowing and any transaction which is used as a tool for raising finance. 8. The learned senior counsel submitted that the agreements entered into were the tools for raising finance, and no actual services have ever been rendered to the first respondent or other lenders. Therefore, in view of the law laid down by this Court in the case of V.E.A. Annamalai Chettiar & Ors. v. S.V.V.S. Veerappa Chettiar & Ors.8, the true effect of the transaction has been taken into consideration. It is pointed out that the corporate debtor has established a practice of raising finance through private entities in the garb of security deposit under various services agreements. The learned counsel, therefore, submitted that no fault can be found with the impugned . 9. The learned counsel appearing for the second respondent-Resolution Professional, supported the appellants by contending that the money advanced by the first respondent cannot be categorised as a financial debt. Therefore, the first respondent was an operational creditor. He relied upon the definition of “operational debt” under sub-section (21) of Section 5 of the IBC. He submitted that the security deposit was not meant to reorganize the corporate debtor’s debts. He submitted that the agreements are service agreements by which the corporate debtor agreed to take services from the first respondent for consideration. Therefore, the security deposit was obviously to ensure the performance of the terms of the agreements by the first respondent. He submitted that accounting treatment cannot override the law and the definition of “operational debt” under the IBC. He submitted that none of the ingredients of clauses (a) to (f) of sub-section (8) of Section 5 are present in the case at hand. In this case, there is no disbursal of debt. He submitted that there was no financial contract between the corporate debtor and the first respondent. Lastly, he submitted that in view of the dated 29th September 2018 of the NCLAT on an application filed by M/s. New View Consultants Pvt. Ltd., the second respondent categorised 8 AIR 1956 SC 12 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 223 Global Credit Capital Limited & Anr. v. Sach Marketing Pvt. Ltd. & Anr the first respondent as operational creditor. He would, therefore, submit that the view taken by the NCLAT was not correct.