6. It is therefore submitted on behalf of the applicants that the approach of the respondent-Corporation in setting aside the selection process even of such candidates who possessed the CCC certificate at the time of interview on the ground that they did not possess the same on the last date of application i.e. 30th September 2014 is totally erroneous. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 435 Mukul Kumar Tyagi v. The State of Uttar Pradesh and Others 7. Insofar as the plea of Shri Rana Mukherjee, learned Senior Counsel is concerned, he submitted that, as per the advertisement, even such of the candidates who did not possess the CCC certificate at the time of interview but had obtained the same prior to the last date of the interview i.e. 4th July 2015 are entitled to be continued in service and their selection could not have been set aside. 8. Shri Saxena, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-Corporation, on the contrary, submitted that, it is a settled position of law that the requisite qualification has to be obtained prior to the last date of submission of application. It is submitted that, as such, the candidates who possessed CCC certificate on the date of interview but did not possess the same on the last date of submission of application are not entitled to be continued. It is therefore submitted that the respondent-Corporation has rightly terminated the services of such of the candidates. 9. The present applications arise out of peculiar facts and circumstances. The Board of Directors of the respondent-Corporation, vide office memorandum dated 29th January 2011, amended the 1995 Regulations which provided that all incumbents seeking selection to the post of Technician Grade-II would be required to hold the CCC certificate issued by DOEACC/ NIELIT. The amended resolution required CCC certificate to be mandatorily possessed by the candidates at the time of interview. 10. By another office memorandum dated 25th November 2011, the respondent-Corporation provided that an equivalent computer eligibility qualification to CCC certificate issued by the DOEACC would also be accepted. 11. On 6th September 2014, the respondent-Corporation issued an advertisement thereby inviting applications for appointments against 2,211 posts of Technician Grade-II (Electrical). The said advertisement provided two mandatory qualifications. The first one being the High School or its equivalent examination of Board of Higher Secondary Education, U.P. passed with Science & Mathematics subjects and All India/State Professional Certificate in Electrical Trade. The second qualification required a CCC certificate or its equivalent computer qualification certificate. As per clause 7 of the said advertisement, merely permitting a candidate to appear in the written test would 436 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not earn him/her a right to selection. It was also provided that the scrutiny of the certificates of the candidates would be carried out at different levels. 12. In pursuance of the said advertisement, a written examination was conducted on 8th November 2014. The interviews were held from December 2014 to July 2015. The final selection list was prepared and published on 14th July 2015.