other than such services are such services Explanation. —For the person availed of with the are availed the purposes of who hires the approval of the of with the this clause, — services for first mentioned approval of the (a) the expression consideration person. first mentioned “commercial paid or Explanation.— person but does purpose” does promised, or For the not include a not include use partly paid purposes of person who by a person of and partly sub-clause (i), avails of such goods bought promised, “commercial services for and used by him or under purpose” does any commercial exclusively for the any system not include use purpose. purpose of earning of deferred by a consumer Explanation.—For his livelihood, by payment, when of goods bought the purposes means of self- such services and used by of this clause, employment; are availed him exclusively “commercial (b) the of with the for the purpose purpose” does expressions “buys approval of the of earning his not include use any goods” and first mentioned livelihood, by by a person of “hires or avails person means of self- goods bought any services” employment; and used by him includes offline or and services online transactions availed by him through electronic exclusively for means or by the purposes teleshopping or of earning his direct selling livelihood by or multi-level means of self- marketing; employment; [2024] 6 S.C.R. 223 Shriram Chits (India) Private Limited Earlier Known as Shriram Chits (K) Pvt. Ltd v. Raghachand Associates 15. Structurally, there are three parts to the definition of a consumer. We can deconstruct Section 2(7)(i) as a matter of illustration.3 The first part sets out the jurisdictional prerequisites for a person to qualify as a consumer – there must be purchase of goods, for consideration4 . The second part is an ‘exclusion clause’ [‘carve out’] which has the effect of excluding the person from the definition of a consumer. The carve out applies if the person has obtained goods for the purpose of ‘resale’ or for a ‘commercial purpose’. The third part is an exception to the exclusion clause – it relates to Explanation (a) to Section 2(7) which limits the scope of ‘commercial purpose’. According to the said explanation, the expression, ‘commercial purpose’ does not include persons who bought goods ‘exclusively for the purpose of earning his livelihood, by means of self-employment’. The significance of this structural break down will be discussed shortly. 16. The carve out existed as part of the original enactment. However, the Explanation to Section 2(7) was inserted by amendment in 1993. 17. Judicial experience has shown us that the service providers most often than not take up a plea in their written version that the service obtained/goods bought was for a commercial purpose. For, if they succeed in their plea, the complainant is excluded from availing any benefit under the Act. According to Section 11, the District Forum has jurisdiction to entertain complaints ‘where the value of the goods or services and the compensation, if any, claimed does not exceed rupees twenty lakhs’.