4 [2014] 2 SCR 1 : (2014) 3 SCC 92 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 917 Asim Akhtar v. The State of West Bengal & Anr. 14. The in the case of Hardeep Singh (supra) does not provide that it is mandatory to decide the application under section 319 CrPC before conducting cross-examination and only on the basis of examination-in-chief. It merely clarifies that even examination- in- chief is part of evidence and record and thus can be relied upon to decide an application under section 319 CrPC. 15. The does not take away the discretion of the Trial Court to wait for the cross-examination to take place before deciding the application under section 319 CrPC. It merely provides that consideration of such an application should not be a mini trial. It is for the Trial Court to decide whether the application should be decided without waiting for the cross-examination to take place or to wait for it. The same would depend upon the satisfaction of the Trial Court on the basis of the material placed on record. 16. The five-Judges Bench in Hardeep Singh (supra) concluded the following: “89. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the diverse views expressed in the aforementioned cases. Once examination-in chief is conducted, the statement becomes part of the record. It is evidence as per law and in the true sense, for at best, it may be rebuttable. An evidence being rebutted or controverted becomes a matter of consideration, relevance and belief, which is the stage of 5 Page 56 by the court. Yet it is evidence and it is material on the basis whereof the court can come to a prima facie opinion as to complicity of some other person who may be connected with the offence. 90. As held in Mohd. Shafi (Supra) and Harbhajan Singh (Supra), all that is required for the exercise of the power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. is that, it must appear to the court that some other person also who is not facing the trial, may also have been involved in the offence. The pre-requisite for the exercise of this power is similar to the prima facie view which the magistrate must come to in to take cognizance of the offence. Therefore, no straight-jacket formula can and should be laid with respect to conditions precedent for arriving at such an opinion and, if the Magistrate/Court is convinced even on 918 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the basis of evidence appearing in Examination-in-Chief, it can exercise the power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. and can proceed against such other person(s). It is essential to note that the Section also uses the words ‘such person could be tried’ instead of should be tried. Hence, what is required is not to have a mini-trial at this stage by having examination and cross-examination and thereafter rendering a decision on the overt act of such person sought to be added. In fact, it is this mini-trial that would affect the right of the person sought to be arraigned as an accused rather than not having any cross-examination at all, for in light of sub-section 4 of Section 319 Cr.P.C., the person would be entitled to a fresh trial where he would have all the rights including the right to cross examine prosecution witnesses and examine defence witnesses and advance his arguments upon the same.