v. Rafiquddin [State of U.P. v. Rafiquddin, 1987 Supp SCC 401 : 1988 SCC (L&S) 183], MCD v. Surender Singh [MCD v. Surender Singh, (2019) 8 SCC 67 : (2019) 2 SCC (L&S) 464] and Jharkhand Public Service Commission v. Manoj Kumar Gupta [Jharkhand Public Service Commission v. Manoj Kumar Gupta, (2019) 20 SCC 178], we do not find any illegality or impropriety in fixation of cut-off at 65-60% vide dated 7-1-2019. The facts on record indicate that even with this cut-off the number of qualified candidates is more than twice the number of vacancies available. It must be accepted that after considering the nature and difficulty level of examination, the number of candidates who appeared, the authorities concerned have the requisite power to select a criteria which may enable getting the best available teachers. Such endeavour will certainly be consistent with the objectives under the RTE Act. 79. In the circumstances, we affirm the view taken by the Division Bench of the High Court and conclude that in the present case, the fixation of cut-off at 65-60%, even after the examination was over, cannot be said to be impermissible. In our considered view, the Government was well within its rights to fix such cut-off.” 19. In these two writ petitions, we are not, however, only concerned with the “midway change of the Rule” Principle. But on that count also, the ratio of the decisions cited by Mr. Gupta are distinguishable. The three Judge Bench in Tej Prakash Pathak (supra) had referred to the in the case of Subhas Chandra Marwaha (supra) to express doubt over correctness of the in the case of K. Manjusree (supra). As we have already observed, the ratio of K. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 239 Sushil Kumar Pandey & Ors. v. The High Court of Jharkhand & Anr. Manjusree (supra) still holds the field. In the case of Ram Sharan Maurya (supra), the Rules guiding recruitment empowered the Government to stipulate qualifying marks of the particular selection process to be such minimum marks as may be determined from time to time by the Government. In this decision, the itself takes note of the decisions of this Court in K. Manjusree (supra) and Hemani Malhotra (supra) and finds that the course for selection to the posts involved in that case was different from that which was found to be impermissible in K. Manjusree (supra) and Hemani Malhotra (supra). 20. We find from Rule 18 of the 2001 Rules, the task of setting cut-off marks has been vested in the High Court but this has to be done before the start of the examination. Thus, we are also dealing with a situation in which the High Court administration is seeking to deviate from the Rules guiding the selection process itself. We have considered the High Court’s reasoning for such deviation, but such departure from Statutory Rules is impermissible. We accept the High Court administration’s argument that a candidate being on the select list acquired no vested legal right for being appointed to the post in question.