Supreme Court Reports 54. Therefore, we are of the considered view that the writ petition filed before the High Court, despite the significant delay, raised substantial questions regarding the legality of the land acquisition proceedings. The alleged patent illegality in the acquisition process justify the condonation of delay in this exceptional case. (ii) On the validity of the notification for acquisition under Section 52(1) 55. It is the case of the respondents that the appellant and the State Government failed to meet the mandatory requirements of notice laid down in Section 52(2) of the RUI Act. Section 52 of the RUI Act is reproduced below: “52. Compulsory acquisition of land- (1) Where on a representation from the Trust it appears to the State Government that any land is required for the purpose of improvement or for any other purpose under this Act, the State Government may acquire such land by publishing in the official Gazette a notice specifying the particular purpose for which such land is required and stating that the State Government has decided to acquire the land in pursuance of this section. (2) Before publishing a notice under sub-section (1), the State Government shall by another notice call upon the owner of the land and any other person who in the opinion of the State Government may be interested therein to show cause, within such time as may be specified in the notice, why the land should not be acquired. [Such notice shall be individually served upon the owner of the land and any other person who in the opinion of the State Government may be interested therein. It shall also be published in the Official Gazette at least 30 days in advance and shall be pasted on some conspicuous place in the locality, where the land to be acquired is situate. Such publication and pasting of notice shall be deemed as sufficient and proper service of notice upon the owner of the land and upon all other persons who may be interested therein,] [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1025 Urban Improvement Trust v. Smt. Vidhya Devi and Ors. (3) After considering the cause, if any, shown by the owner of the land and by any other person interested therein and after giving such owner and person an opportunity of being heard, the State Government may pass such s as it deems fit. (4) When a notice under sub-section (1) is published in the official Gazette, the land shall, on and from the date of such publication, vest absolutely in the State Government free from all encumbrances. (5) Where any land is vested in the State Government under sub-section (4), the State Government may, by notice in writing, any person who may be in possession of the land to surrender or deliver possession thereof to the State Government or any person duly authorized by it in this behalf within thirty days of the service of the notice. (6) If any person refuses or fails to comply with an made under sub-section (5), the State Government may take possession of the land and may for that purpose use such force as may be necessary.