The words in Articles 14 and 21 apparently do not give the meaning which has come to be given to these two Articles now, through a catena of decisions of this Court. They cover the whole range of Rights as this is how they have evolved and expanded by this Court and the High Courts. A Constitutional provision acquires its meaning only after it is interpreted by a Constitutional Court. 322 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 48. The provisions in Article 39(b) & (c) too have to be read in the light of Article 38 of the Constitution of India. Once we do that, we cannot but give an expansive meaning to the phrase “material resources of the community”. The meaning which must be given to “material resources of the community” is what has been given to it in Ranganatha Reddy by the Three Judges and what has been followed in the Constitution Bench decision in Sanjeev Coke. To my mind, this has been the correct interpretation of the phrase “material resources of the community”. To reiterate what was said by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy: “… material resources of the community in the context of re-ing the national economy embraces all the national wealth, not merely natural resources, all the private and public sources of meeting material needs, not merely public possessions. Everything of value or use in the material world is material resource and the individual being a member of the community his resources are part of those of the community.” 85 49. It is for the legislature to decide how the ownership and control of material resources is to be distributed in to subserve common good. Once the expansive meaning of “material resources of the community” is determined, there is no necessity of drawing further guidelines for the legislatures to determine as to what will constitute material resources. How to control and distribute a material resource is also the task of the Legislature, but while doing so what has to be seen is that the control and ownership of the material resource be so distributed that it subserves common good of the community. If it does not, then such a legislation can be struck down as the Judiciary is not deprived of its powers of judicial review. The legislation in question has to establish a nexus with the principles specified in Article 39(b) and (c) to be a valid legislation. This is the law in terms of Kesavananda Bharati and Minerva Mills. To put it differently what and when do the “privately owned resources” come within the definition of “material resources” is not for this Court to declare. This is not required. The key factor is whether such 85 (1977) 4 SCC 471, para 81. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 323 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. resources would subserve common good. Clearly the acquisition, ownership or even control of every privately owned resource will not subserve common good. Yet at this stage we cannot come out with a catalogue of do’s and don’ts.