Hence it is a fit case where the Tribunal should interfere. We may also add here that this is not a case of procedural irregularity, and we do not propose to interfere with the of the disciplinary authority on the ground of procedural irregularity. …. On the basis of the discussion attempted in the preceding para we are fully convinced that the Inquiry 3 Supra note 2. 1638 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Officer and the Disciplinary have recorded irrational findings on relevant charges.” (emphasis supplied) 5. The State/disciplinary authority assailed the 4 passed by the Tribunal by filing Writ Petition5 which was allowed vide dated 30th July, 2018 and the passed by the Tribunal was set aside thereby reaffirming the issued by the disciplinary authority which had imposed penalty. The appellant herein has assailed the dated 30th July, 2018 passed by the High Court in exercise of its writ jurisdiction by preferring this appeal by special leave. Submission on behalf the appellant: - 6. Learned counsel representing the appellant urged that the inquiry proceedings conducted against the appellant were in gross dereliction of Rule 7(3) of the Uttar Pradesh Government Servant(Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1999.6 The disciplinary proceedings were initiated and allegations constituting major penalty were proposed by Inquiry Officer. Since the appellant had emphatically denied the charges, it was incumbent upon the Inquiry Officer to have recorded evidence to establish the charges attributed to the appellant. However, admittedly, not a single witness was examined by the Inquiry Officer to bring home the charges, and thus, the inquiry report is non est in the eyes of law. He, therefore, urged that the Tribunal was perfectly justified in quashing the inquiry proceedings and the imposing penalty vide dated 5th June, 2015 and that the High Court fell in grave error of law whilst allowing the writ petition and reversing the passed by the Tribunal. He, therefore, implored the Court to accept the appeal, set aside the passed by the High Court and restore the passed by the Tribunal. Submissions on behalf of the respondent-State:- 7. Per contra, learned standing counsel appearing for the State vehemently and fervently opposed the submissions advanced by 4 Dated 5th June, 2015. 5 Writ Petition No. 6850(S/B) of 2015 6 Hereinafter being referred to as the ‘Rules of 1999’ [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1639 Satyendra Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. learned counsel for the appellant. He contended that the appellant did not seriously challenge the findings of the Inquiry Officer in the Inquiry Report. The reply submitted by the appellant was considered by the Disciplinary Authority and after due application of mind, the Disciplinary Authority passed a well-reasoned dated 5th November, 2014 imposing the penalty afore-stated against the appellant. He submitted that the High Court exercised the jurisdiction conferred upon it by virtue of Article 226 of the Constitution of India by proper consideration of the material available on record and hence, this Court should not interfere with the impugned rendered by the High Court.