Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No. 1552 of 2023 From the and dated 03.10.2019 of the High Court of M.P. at Gwalior in CRR No. 2288 of 2019 Appearances for Parties Abhinav Ramkrishna, Amit Lahoti, Ms. Anjali Chauhan, Ms. Samina Thakura, Advs. for the Appellant. Harmeet Ruprah, D.A.G., Yashraj Singh Bundela, Surjeet Singh, Mrs. Pratima Singh, Chanakya Baruah, Abhijeet Singh, Ms. Chitrangda Rastravara, Anirudh Singh, Aishwary Mishra, Dhananjai Shekhwat, Dashrath Singh, Ms. Anjali Sexena, Gp. Capt. Karan Singh Bhati, Advs. for the Respondents. 10 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court Ujjal Bhuyan, J. This criminal appeal by special leave is directed against the and dated 03.10.2019 passed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Gwalior (the ‘High Court’ hereinafter) dismissing Criminal Revision No. 2288 of 2019 filed by the appellant. The aforesaid criminal revision petition was filed by the appellant before the High Court assailing the dated 24.04.2019 passed by the Xth Additional Sessions Judge, Gwalior (‘Sessions Judge’ hereinafter) in Sessions Trial No. 505 of 2018 whereby charges under Section 376(2)(n) and 506 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) were framed against the appellant and the application for discharge filed by the appellant was rejected. 2. The case of the prosecution is that the prosecutrix had lodged a first information report (FIR) on 06.09.2018 alleging that in the year 2016, the accused (appellant herein) used to show photographs of hers and telling her to come to Gwalior with him otherwise her photographs would be uploaded on Whatsapp. It was due to fear that she came to Gwalior alongwith the appellant by train from Dabra. One boy from Anupam Nagar came to the railway station to receive her. On his motorbike, the prosecutrix and the appellant went to Anupam Nagar city centre where the appellant was living in rented premises. There, the appellant forcefully committed wrongful act on her. Thereafter, the appellant forcefully took the signature of the prosecutrix on an affidavit. It was mentioned in the affidavit that the prosecutrix would live with the appellant for life. After that she came to Dabra with the appellant and went home. Appellant used to tell her again and again about having a relationship. He told her that he would marry her after the marriage of his brother. But after the marriage of his brother when the prosecutrix broached the topic of marriage, the appellant told her that his brother had received Rs. 15 lakhs in marriage; if her family would give Rs. 15 lakhs then only he would marry her, otherwise not. Her parents went to the residence of the appellant with a marriage proposal but his family members turned out the proposal. In the FIR, it was alleged that the appellant while having relationship with the prosecutrix took money from her on various occasions totalling [2024] 7 S.C.R. 11 Shiv Pratap Singh Rana v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Anr. Rs. 90,000/-; besides jewellery were also taken. When the appellant started threatening the prosecutrix, she filed the FIR before the Vishwavidhyalaya Police Station, District Gwalior.