That is why this other rule has some times been referred to as constructive res judicata which, in reality, is an aspect or amplification of the general principle.” (Emphasis supplied) 142. This Court in Devilal Modi v. Sales Tax Officer, Ratlam & Ors. reported in AIR 1965 SC 1150, held that if the underlying rule of constructive res judicata is not applied to writ proceedings, it would be open to the party to take one proceeding after another and urge new grounds every time, and would be inconsistent with considerations of public policy. The relevant observations read as under: - “8. [...] the rule of constructive res judicata which is pleaded against him in the present appeal is in a sense a somewhat technical or artificial rule prescribed by the Code of Civil Procedure. This rule postulates that if a plea could have been taken by a party in a proceeding [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1701 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. between him and his opponent, he would not be permitted to take that plea against the same party in a subsequent proceeding which is based on the same cause of action; but basically, even this view is founded on the same considerations of public policy, because if the doctrine of constructive res judicata is not applied to writ proceedings, it would be open to the party to take one proceeding after another and urge new grounds every time; and that plainly is inconsistent with considerations of public policy [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 143. In Shankara Coop. Housing Society Ltd. v. M. Prabhakar, reported in (2011) 5 SCC 607, this Court held that the ground of non-compliance of statutory provision which was very much available to the parties to raise but did not raise it as one of the grounds, cannot be raised later on and would be hit by the principles analogous to constructive res judicata. The relevant observations read as under: - “89. In the present case, it is admitted fact that when the contesting respondents filed WP No. 1051 of 1966, the ground of non-compliance with statutory provision was very much available to them, but for the reasons best known to them, they did not raise it as one of the grounds while challenging the Notification dated 11-12-1952 issued under the Evacuee Property Act. In the subsequent writ petition filed in the year 1990, initially, they had not questioned the legality of the notification, but raised it by filing an application, which is no doubt true, allowed by the High Court. In our view, the High Court was not justified in permitting the petitioners therein to raise that ground and answer the same since the same is hit by the principles analogous to constructive res judicata.” (Emphasis supplied) 144. From the above exposition of law, it is clear that the ‘Henderson Principle’ is a core component of the broader doctrine of abuse of process, aimed at enthusing in the parties a sense of sanctity towards judicial adjudications and determinations.