Their selection and appointment were strictly in terms of the Nagaland Engineering Service Rules, 1997.1 Ever since their appointment they have been performing their duty diligently. 4.1 The contesting private respondents are incumbents who were earlier working in the cadre of Sectional Officers, Grade-I in the pay-scale of ₹4500-7000. Their posts were upgraded to that of Junior Engineers by the Government of Nagaland vide Communication dated 11.10.2007. It was only thereafter that they entered in the cadre of Junior Engineer. Prior to that they were working in a lower grade as compared to the direct recruits/Junior Engineers. 4.2 After the selection of the direct recruits, a number of tentative seniority lists were circulated starting from 31.05.2004. However, none of them were finalized. It was only on 26.03.2018 that the seniority list was finalized. The appellants herein were shown above the incumbents/respondents who entered in the grade of Junior Engineers after their post of Sectional Officer, Grade-I, was upgraded to Junior Engineer. It was for the reason that the appellants have been working as Junior Engineer ever since their appointment vide Notification dated 01.05.2003 whereas the post of the Sectional Officer, Grade-I, was upgraded to that of Junior Engineers only vide Communication dated 11.10.2007. Prior to that they were working on non-gazetted lower post of Sectional Officer, Grade-I. 4.3 Even otherwise if considered in terms of the 1997 Rules, the manner in which post of Sectional Officer, Grade-I, has been 1 The 1997 Rules [2024] 8 S.C.R. 713 Mhabemo Ovung & Ors. v. M. Moanungba & Ors. upgraded to Junior Engineer, is not the manner provided in which the post of Junior Engineer can be filled up. Be that as it may, the appellants are not aggrieved with that action of the State, in case they are granted proper position in the seniority list. The result of the of the Division Bench of the High Court is that the private respondents have been assigned seniority in the cadre of Junior Engineers from the date on which they were not even born in the cadre, which is legally impermissible. In support of the arguments reliance was placed upon the s of this Court in State of Uttaranchal and Another v. Dinesh Kumar Sharma,2 P. Sudhakar Rao and Others v. U. Govinda Rao and Others3 and Ganga Vishan Gujrati and Others v. State of Rajasthan and Others.4 5. As the State is also aggrieved by the of the Division Bench of the High Court, in furtherance to the arguments raised on behalf of the directly recruited Junior Engineers, Mr. K.N. Balgopal, learned senior counsel appearing for the State in C.A. @ S.L.P. (C)No.1136 of 2022, submitted that the of the Division Bench is based on certain wrong facts/premise. The Learned Judge had tried to trace out the history from 1997 onwards, which was not relevant for the lis to be examined. It is a case in which inter-se seniority was to be determined after the first ever direct recruitment to the post of Junior Engineer was made on 01.05.2003.