That the IDRA is an instance of such legislation. It was contended that the in Tika Ramji insofar as it held that there must be a notified in force pursuant to Section 18G for the doctrine of repugnancy to apply is not correct and in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), the in Tika Ramji was rightly not considered. The expression “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8- List II means a beverage which has the effect of intoxication upon consumption. In Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), this Court held that “intoxicating liquors” is “alcoholic liquors fit for human consumption”. Other learned counsel for the respondents have adopted the above arguments. 5. On enumerating the questions for opinion of this nine-Judge Bench, the following issues have been crystallised for consideration in paragraph 42 of the of the learned Chief Justice of India which read as under: [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2053 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons “42. With the above preliminary observations, we have formulated the following issues: a. Whether Entry 52 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution overrides Entry 8 of List II; b. Whether the expression ‘intoxicating liquors’ in Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution includes alcohol other than potable alcohol; and c. Whether a notified under Section 18G of the IDRA is necessary for Parliament to occupy the field under Entry 33 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.” Relevant Constitutional Framework: 6. Article 265 of the Constitution mandates that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law. Article 366 is a definition clause and it states that in the Constitution, unless the context otherwise requires, the expressions mentioned therein have the meanings thereby respectively assigned to them. For the purpose of this case, Article 366(12) and (28) are relevant and the same read as under: “Article 366. Definitions.- In this Constitution, unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions have the meanings hereby respectively assigned to them, that is to say – xxx (12) “goods” includes all materials, commodities and articles; xxx (28) “taxation” includes the imposition of any tax or impost, whether general or local or special and “tax” shall be construed accordingly;” The aforesaid definition of ‘taxation’ is not exhaustive but inclusive in nature to include not only any tax in the usual understanding of the said expression or tax stricto senso but also any levy akin to a tax. There can be no cavil to the proposition that before any tax or impost could be levied or collected, it must have the authority of law vide Article 265 including legislative competence. 2054 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6.1 Article 246 of the Constitution deals with distribution of legislative powers between the Parliament and State Legislature, while Article 254 speaks of inconsistency between the laws made by Parliament and laws made by the Legislatures of States. They read as under: “246. Subject-matter of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of States.