It is clear that even Section 63 of the Act does not provide continuation of a repealed provision to rights and liabilities accrued during its subsistence. At the most, Section 63 of the M.P. Excise Act, 1915, only enables the government to issue subordinate legislation with effect from such a date as may be specified. We may mention at this very stage that Rule 19 which has been substituted on 29.03.2011 has not been notified to operate from any other date by the Government. 18. Faced with this situation, Mr. Saurabh Mishra, learned A.A.G. for the State, came up with an attractive argument that the State of M.P. can continue to apply the repealed Rule for the transaction of 2009-2010 by virtue of specific provisions under the Madhya Pradesh General Clauses Act, 1957. He brought to our notice Section 10 of the Act which is as follows:- “10. Effect of Repeal. Where any Madhya Pradesh Act repeals any enactment then, unless a different intention appears, the repeal shall not- (a) revive anything not in force or existing at the time at which the repeal takes effect; or (b) affect the previous operation of any enactment so repealed or anything duly done or suffered thereunder; or (c) affect any right, privilege, obligation or liability, acquired, accrued or incurred under any enactment so repealed; or (d) affect any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against any enactment so repealed; or [2024] 4 S.C.R. 679 Pernod Ricard India (P) Ltd. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. (e) affect any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid; and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed, as if the repealing Madhya Pradesh Act had not been passed.” 19. The above-referred Section of the MP General Clauses Act by itself would not make any difference as the Section is applicable only to enactments, i.e. when any M.P. Act repeals any enactment and not a subordinate legislation. Interpreting an identical provision of the General Clauses Act, 1897, i.e. Section 6, this Court has consistently held that Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, has no application to subordinate legislation.21 20. Mr. Saurabh Mishra then referred to Section 31 of Madhya Pradesh General Clauses Act, 1957, which is as under: “31. Application of Act to Ordinances and Regulations.- The provisions of this Act shall apply, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context- (a) to any Ordinance or Regulation as they apply in relation to Madhya Pradesh Acts: Provided that sub-section (1) of section 3 of this Act shall apply to any Ordinance or Regulation as if for the reference in the said sub-section (1) to the day of the first publication of the assent to an Act in the Official Gazette there were substituted a reference to the day of the first publication of the Ordinance or the Regulation, as the case may be, in that Gazette; (b) to the construction of rules, regulations, bye-laws, s, notifications, schemes or forms made or issued under a Madhya Pradesh Act.” 21 Rayala Corp. v. Director of Enforcement [1970] 1 SCR 639 : (1969) 2 SCC 412; Kolhapur Canesugar Works Ltd. v. Union of India [2000] 1 SCR 518 : (2000) 2 SCC 536 680 [2024] 4 S.C.R.