In the State of Orissa, by Section 2 of Orissa Act 11 of 1988 w.e.f. 28-6-1988, a proviso is added to Section 438 stating that no final shall be made on an application for anticipatory bail without giving the State notice to present its case for offence punishable with death, imprisonment 288 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than seven years. xxx xxx xxx 329. Further, at the risk of repetition, we may add that Section 438 is a new provision incorporated in the present Code creating a new right. If that new right is taken away, can it be said that the removal of Section 438 is violative of Article 21. In Gurbaksh Singh [(1980) 2 SCC 565 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 465 : (1980) 3 SCR 383] , there is no specific statement that the removal of Section 438 at any time will amount to violation of Article 21 of the Constitution.” (Emphasis supplied) 28. The aforesaid decision was discussed in the course of the hearing of this case for the limited proposition that there is no constitutional or fundamental right to seek anticipatory bail. Section 438 of the CrPC is just a statutory right. 29. In Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra), a Constitution Bench of this Court (speaking through Justice Y.V. Chandrachud, Chief Justice, as his Lordship then was) undertook an extensive analysis of the provision of anticipatory bail. This Constitution Bench decision can be termed as a profound and passionate essay on how personal liberty under the Constitution can be consistent with needs of investigations and why this Court should avoid any generalisation that would take away the discretion of the courts dealing with a new set of facts in each case. Chief Justice Y.V. Chandrachud observed thus: “8. […] Attendant upon such investigations, when the police are not free agents within their sphere of duty, is a great amount of inconvenience, harassment and humiliation. That can even take the form of the parading of a respectable person in handcuffs, apparently on way to a Court of justice. The foul deed is done when an adversary is exposed to social ridicule and obloquy, no matter when and whether a conviction is secured or is at all possible. It is in to meet such situations, though not limited to these contingencies, that the power to grant anticipatory bail was introduced into the Code of 1973. xxx xxx xxx [2024] 9 S.C.R. 289 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. 12. […] The legislature conferred a wide discretion on the High Court and the Court of Session to grant anticipatory bail because it evidently felt, firstly, that it would be difficult to enumerate the conditions under which anticipatory bail should or should not be granted and secondly, because the intention was to allow the higher courts in the echelon a somewhat free hand in the grant of relief in the nature of anticipatory, bail. That is why, departing from the terms of Sections 437 and 439, Section 438(1) uses the language that the High Court or the Court of Session “may, if it thinks fit” direct that the applicant be released on bail.