SCC 280 (“Titaghur Paper Mills”), wherein this Court discussed the scope and ambit of the expression royalty and it was observed that while understanding the meaning of an expression, the dictionary meaning of a word cannot be looked at where that word has been statutorily defined or judicially interpreted (in light of the constitutional Entries in the Lists). Where there is no such definition or interpretation, the Court may take the aid of dictionaries to ascertain the meaning of a word in common parlance, bearing in mind that a word is used in different senses according to its context and a dictionary gives all the meanings of a word in several contexts. The Court has therefore to select the particular meaning which would be relevant to the context in which it has to interpret that word. Thirdly, the in the India Cement was doubted even in the absence of their being a conflict of the with any other seven-judge Bench decision. No doubt, at the Highest Court, one cannot really be bogged down by the Bench strength nor does the doctrine of stare decisis would apply strictly to this Court when a of a larger Bench is questioned by a Bench of similar or smaller strength. But for that, there must be present a flagrant violation of law, a patent error or a blatantly erroneous approach in the matter so as to enable a Bench of a similar or smaller strength to doubt the correctness or otherwise of the decision of a larger Bench. There could also be a situation where a is per incuriam or the doctrine of sub silentio would apply. For instance, a two-judge Bench of this Court doubted the correctness of a five-judge Bench decision in A.R. Antulay vs. R.S. Naik, 1986 Supp SCC 510 (“A.R. Antulay”) which led to the constitution of a seven-judge Bench by Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India. By a majority 1824 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of 5:2, the seven-judge Bench in the aforesaid case answered the questions raised by the two-judge Bench and thereby set aside the of the five-judge Bench. The circumstances as, they occurred in the case of A.R. Antulay did not present themselves in Kesoram so as to doubt India Cement. Fourthly, in my view, the opinion of the majority in the Kesoram is per incuriam as it failed to follow the dictum in India Cement on the basis of a “typographical error” in paragraph 34 thereof where there was none. s of larger Benches cannot be questioned by smaller Benches on the basis of an imagined “typographical error”! The entire must be read and understood including its under currents before negating it for what it stands. A of a Court of law is not a piece of legislation but one pregnant with reasoning and it becomes the duty of a succeeding Bench considering a precedent to be cautious in opining something contrary on the premise of a “typographical error” in a of a larger Bench by failing to understand the import of the reasoning.