The motive for the commission of the offence was supplied by the pending legal dispute relating to the property belonging to late Jang Bahadur Singh. The Court also replied upon circumstantial evidence borne out from the testimonies of PW7 (maternal uncle of the de-ceased), PW3 (father-in-law of the deceased), PW23 (sister of the deceased) and PW13 (doctor) to arrive at the finding of guilt. 114 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports BEFORE THE HIGH COURT 9. A reading of the impugned passed by the High Court suggests that the High Court carried out a fresh appreciation of evidence. The High Court firstly examined the question whether Neelam was actually residing in the house from which she was abducted. Relying upon the testimonies of PW7 (maternal uncle of deceased), PW18 (brother-in-law of deceased and informant) and PW21 (Investigating Officer), the Court concluded that Neelam was indeed residing in the said house. In doing so, the Court discarded the fact that the other independent occupants of the house such as Ram Chabila Singh, his son, Kumud Ranjan Singh etc. did not come in support of the said fact. To overcome this deficiency, the Court relied upon the statements of PW21 and PW23 (sister of deceased) that some make-up articles were found in a bag lying in the room, which was suggestive of the fact that a woman was residing in the said room. 10. In further consideration, the High Court excluded the evidence of PW5 for the reason that his presence at the place of incident was doubtful. For, PW5 deposed that he was heading towards his home from Deoghar and on the way from Lakhisarai to Simaltalla, he stopped at Sikandra Chowk along with PW2 and PW4. It was at this point that they heard the hulla and ended up witnessing the commission of offence. The High Court took note of the fact that while going from Deoghar to Simaltalla, Lakhisarai and Ghogsha would come first and thus, there was no reason for PW5 to come all the way to Sikandra Chowk if he was going to his home in Ghogsha as he could have directly proceeded from Lakhisarai to Ghogsha. Nevertheless, the High Court duly relied upon the evidence of PW2, PW4 and PW18 as well as on circumstantial evidence comprising of the testimonies of PW23, PW13 (doctor) and absence of suitable explanation in the statements of accused persons under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 19734 as regards the fatal injuries suffered by the deceased. Thus, the High Court upheld the finding of guilt of A-1 to A-5. 11. As regards A-6 and A-7, the High Court reversed the finding of acquittal of the Trial Court into that of conviction. Primarily, the High 4 Hereinafter referred as “CrPC” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 115 Vijay Singh @ Vijay Kr. Sharma v. The State of Bihar Court observed that the said two accused persons were acquitted on the basis of the exonerating testimony of PW5 and the same cannot be sustained as the testimony of PW5 has been excluded by the High Court in appeal.