98. Thus, from the above discussion, it is abundantly clear that there exists a very fine & clear distinction between an overcharge and an illegal charge, and that Section 106 sub-section (3) of the Act, 1989 only applies when the claim is for a refund of an overcharge, for all other charges, be it illegal or not, the said provision will have no application whatsoever. iii. Whether the present case is one of ‘Overcharge’ or ‘Illegal Charge’? a. Applicability of Section 106(3) of the Railways Act, 1989. 99. Now coming to the facts of the present case at hand, it is the case of the respondent company herein that at the time of booking the consignments, from Baad to Hisar via Palwal, the notified chargeable distance for calculating freight as per the Local Distance Table was 444 km, and accordingly the respondent company paid the same from time to time. 100. However, subsequently, the appellant railways vide its letter dated 05.07.2005 changed the chargeable distance to 334 km in the revised Local Distance Table and the said revised table was to apply prospectively. It is undisputed that, at the time when the respondent company had booked its consignment, the notified chargeable distance was 444 km for Baad to Hisar, and any consignment booked for the said route was to be charged as per the said rate. 101. The respondent company has contended that a change in the notified chargeable distance due to a change in policy was held to be illegal by this Court in Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd. (supra). The High [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1127 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. Court too whilst passing the impugned has placed reliance on the said decision and held that the present case is squarely covered by the ratio of Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd. (supra). 102. However, we are not in agreement with the same. In Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd. (supra), the notified chargeable distance was 125 km, subsequently by the introduction of the Terminal Mechanism System (TMS) which was a computerized railway receipt system, the notified chargeable distance was reduced to 100 km. A close reading of the said decision would reveal that the change in the notified distance was attributable to a computerized receipt system, which had no bearing on the actual calculation of distance, in other words a receipt system had nothing to do with determining a chargeable distance. Thus, when the chargeable distance subsequent to the introduction of the said receipt system got altered and came out to be 100 km, this Court had no hesitation to hold that the initial notified distance of 125 km was illegal, and only upon the introduction of the TMS system, the said glaring patent error came into light. 103. However, in the instant case, the change in the policy is in respect to the change in the methodology for calculation of chargeable distance, which has a direct bearing on the chargeable distance payable as per law. Thus, a mere change in policy which results in the change of a charge payable as per law, will not render the original charge illegal, regard must be had to the nature of the policy and its effect.