Therefore, a foreign award can be enforced when the objections against it are finally decided and dismissed. At this point, the award is deemed to be a decree of the court as per Section 49.18 Unlike under the Arbitration Act, 1940, there is no requirement for a separate decree by a court for making the award a rule of the court.19 (ii) it is in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law; or (iii) it is in conflict with the most basic notions of morality or justice. ] [Explanation 2.—For the avoidance of doubt, the test as to whether there is a contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law shall not entail a review on the merits of the dispute.] (3) If an application for the setting aside or suspension of the award has been made to a competent authority referred to in clause (e) of sub-section (1) the Court may, if it considers it proper, adjourn the decision on the enforcement of the award and may also, on the application of the party claiming enforcement of the award, the other party to give suitable security.” 15 Section 50 reads: “50. Appealable s.—(1) [Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, an appeal] shall lie from the refusing to— (a) refer the parties to arbitration under section 45; (b) enforce a foreign award under section 48, to the court authorised by law to hear appeals from such . (2) No second appeal shall lie from an passed in appeal under this section, but nothing in this section shall affect or take away any right to appeal to the Supreme Court.” 16 Section 51 reads: “51. Saving.—Nothing in this Chapter shall prejudice any rights which any person would have had of enforcing in India of any award or of availing himself in India of any award if this Chapter had not been enacted.” 17 Section 52 reads: “52. Chapter II not to apply.—Chapter II of this Part shall not apply in relation to foreign awards to which this Chapter applies.” 18 See Fuerst Day Lawson v. Jindal Exports Limited (2001) 6 SCC 356, paras 30 and 31. 19 ibid. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 303 DLF Ltd. (Formerly Known as DLF Universal Ltd) and Anr. v. Koncar Generators and Motors Ltd. 5. Case-law on Relevant Date for Conversion: Now, we will discuss the case-law on the relevant date of conversion, both in the context of arbitral awards and s where the decretal amount is expressed in a foreign currency. The seminal case that first decided this question was Forasol v. ONGC (supra). Forasol was a French company that was awarded a tender for structural drilling of oil for exploration by ONGC. Pursuant to certain disputes that arose between the parties, the matter was referred to arbitration and on 21.12.1974, an arbitral award was passed in Forasol’s favour where the amount was expressed in French francs. This award was made under the Arbitration Act, 1940. The Court held that the award can be enforced either in foreign currency or in Indian rupee.