Since the two situations cannot co-exist, the High Court is directed to ensure uniform compliance and furnish information on the same. (ii) In terms of para 100.5, the High Court is directed to ensure uniform compliance and furnish information on the same (iii) In terms of the direction contained in para 100.7, the State is directed to give details of the number of Special Courts constituted and whether any steps are underway for creation of Additional Special Courts and at what stage. (iv) To ensure compliance with the directions issued in para 100.8, 100.9 and 100.10 and furnish information regarding the same. (v) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of the judicial academy. (vi) To inform on whether the in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC. 1098 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. State of Maharashtra -Directions to be complied with: (i) From perusal of records, we find that the State of Maharashtra alone has not filed compliance affidavits as per the directions issued in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) and subsequent s passed by this Court. Therefore, the State is directed to file a detailed compliance affidavit as per Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) and subsequent s passed by this court within a period of 8 weeks and the same shall also be circulated with learned amicus who upon perusal shall file a report within 2 weeks thereafter. 21.1 High Court of Bombay -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, as per report, compliance has been made. However, no details have been furnished on whether bail is being granted or not. Therefore, a detailed affidavit on this count shall be filed. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.3 and 100.5, there is part compliance of direction, since it is revealed that some District Courts such as Dhule, Nandurbar, Parbhani and Ratnagiri are asking for bail applications despite filing of chargesheet without arrest. Furthermore, in respect of South Goa and Dadra and Nagar Haveli there is non-compliance, therefore, it is directed that necessary steps shall be taken in respect of these districts and an affidavit indicating compliance shall be filed. (iii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, the affidavit does not indicate anything on constitution of Special Courts and existing vacancies thereof except for a statement indicating details of Special Courts constituted under 7 different statutes. (iv) In terms of direction contained in para 100.8, no information has been provided about identification of under trial prisoners and action taken in view of Section 440 of CrPC. Therefore, it is directed that immediate steps shall be taken in this regard. (v) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of judicial academy.