Hence, the primary duty of the UOI is to assist the Court and not to defend an amendment in the Act, which is per se unconstitutional. III. Issues for determInatIon 82. Thus, in our considered opinion, the instant reference,based on the question of the tests required to be fulfilled by an institution, for seeking protection under Article 30 of the Constitution of India, can be broken down into the following segmented questions of law and fact: Prefatory issues I. What are the requisite parameters of reference to a larger bench? What matters were intended to be addressed by the larger bench, in Anjuman (supra);What are the facets required to be considered by a regular bench for making a reference is made to a larger bench; What are the powers entrusted to the Chief Justice of India in such circumstances? [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1805 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. II. Whether Appellant has the locus standi to bring the present challenge? It is essential to examine whether the Appellant can invoke Article 30 in the first place. In this regard, various sub-issues that may arise are: (a) Can Article 30 be invoked by institutions set up before the Constitution? ;(b) Is it necessary for the whole of the minority community to file the claim, or can an individual or group of individuals also bring a claim? ; and (c) Would Muslims be considered a ‘minority’? Questions on constitutional interpretation III. What are the tests to seek protection under Article 30 of the Constitution? It is necessary to examine the requirements that must be met for claiming protection under Article 30. The relevant question in this regard is whether the expressions ‘establishment’ and ‘administration’ should be read conjunctively or disjunctively? IV. What is the meaning of the term ‘establish’ in Article 30? Article 30 does not define the term ‘establish’. The pertinent questions are: (a) What is the scope and meaning of this term? ; (b) Can a university be established without statutory intervention? If not, whether the recognition of a university by a Statute amounts to establishment by the Legislature? and (c) Is there any conflict in the opinions of this Court in Azeez Basha (supra) vis-à-vis Prof. Yashpal (supra) and the provisions of the NCMEI Act? V. What is the meaning of the term ‘administer’ in Article 30? Akin to the term ‘establish’, the term ‘administer’ is also not defined. It is necessary to understand its meaning, along with its scope. In other words, the question is whether the presence of members of the non-minority community within the management would necessarily mean that the minority community is not administering the institution? VI. Whether AMU satisfies the test of ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ and is thus entitled to the protection under Article 30? 1806 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports VII. Whether the Union of India is obligated to defend the AMU Amendment Act, 1981? IV. analysIs Prefatory Issues F. Issue I: What are the requisite parameters of reference to a larger bench?