128. Once, the Borrower had elected to move the High Court for the very same cause of action and underlying prayers, the moment the same was entertained by the High Court, which it did, the Borrower was precluded from pursuing its remedies before the DRT by way of S.A. No. 46 of 2024, and was duty bound to now espouse it only in the writ proceedings, as otherwise it would tantamount to having a second bite at the cherry and relitigating what it has already litigated. 129. Thus, when the impugned of the High Court was challenged before this Court in the Main Appeals, the scope of proceedings before us also entailed the issue of validity of the Bank’s actions under the SARFAESI Act. As discussed by us in the foregoing paragraphs of this , that the Borrower for reasons best known to it, never agitated the validity of the proceedings under the SARFAESI Act including the legality of the 9th auction notice. Not once did the Borrower submit either in the course of its arguments or in its written submissions that the very auction process is allegedly illegal and in contravention of the SARFAESI Act. 130. It was in this backdrop, that the decision in the Main Appeals being Celir LLP v. Bafna Motors & Ors. was rendered by this Court. Since, no challenge had been raised to the measures taken by the Bank under the SARFAESI Act and the 9th auction notice by the Borrower, this Court proceeded to determine only the issue of right of redemption under Section 13 sub-section (8) of the SARFAESI Act. Accordingly, this Court held that under the unamended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, the right of the borrower to redeem the secured asset was available till the sale or transfer of such secured asset. However, under the amended provisions of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act the right of the borrower to redeem the secured asset would 1692 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports be available only till the date of publication of the notice under Rule 9(1) of the SARFAESI Rules and not till the completion of the sale or transfer of the secured asset in favour of the auction purchaser. 131. This Court thereafter proceeded to determine the Borrower’s right of redemption and after going through the facts of the case, held that since at the time of redemption of mortgage the notice of auction had already been published, it was impermissible for the High Court to allow the Borrower to redeem the same. 132. Thus, this Court only went on to determine the Borrower’s right to redeem the mortgage and having done so, this Court inter-alia set- aside the impugned of the High Court and in view of the fact that the Bank had already confirmed the sale in favour of the petitioner, and in the absence of any challenge to the auction process, further directed that the sale certificate of the Secured Asset be issued to the petitioner.