Therefore, if the parents of the child have taken him in a taxi, probably that was the only option available to them. Accordingly, we award a sum of Rs 2 lakhs as conveyance charges.” (emphasis supplied) 38. In the present case also, the appellant will remain dependant on another person for the rest of her life. Even though the physical age will increase, but her mental age will be that of a child studying in the 2nd Standard/Class. Effectively, while her body grows, she will remain a small baby. 39. Similar to the case of Kajal (supra), the appellant in the present case will also miss out on partaking in activities which she would have normally done, if she had not met with this unfortunate accident. 40. The High Court, vide impugned and , only enhanced the compensation under the head of pain and suffering from Rs. 50,000/- as awarded by the learned Tribunal to Rs.1,00,000/-. The same is not commensurate to the impact the unfortunate accident had and will have on the appellant as well as her family members for the rest of their lives. In our view, the compensation should be enhanced further. Therefore, in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, we are of the considered view that it would be appropriate to award compensation to the tune of Rs. 15,00,000/- to the present appellant under the head of pain and suffering. c) Loss of marriage prospects 41. In this respect, we reiterate the evidence given by the Dr. Monica Juneja (PW-3) vide the disability certificate wherein she has opined that the mental status of the appellant would be the same as that of a child studying in the 2nd Standard/Class. Further, it was stated [2024] 12 S.C.R. 981 Baby Sakshi Greola v. Manzoor Ahmad Simon and Another that the appellant would also have severe apathy and therefore, maintaining/forming marital/familial bonds with the aforementioned conditions for the appellant is very difficult. 42. The appellant, therefore, has not only lost her childhood but also her adult life. Marriage/companionship is an integral part of the natural life of a human being. Although, in the present case the appellant is capable of reproduction, it is near impossible for her to rear children and enjoy the simple pleasures of marital life and companionship. However, the learned Tribunal in the present case did not award any compensation to the appellant under this head and the High Court, in appeal, without appreciating the impact of the non-pecuniary loss suffered by the appellant only awarded compensation of Rs. 1,00,000/- for the loss of marriage prospects. 43. We are, therefore, of the opinion that this a fit case where the compensation awarded under the head of loss marriage prospects by the High Court is inadequate and the same must be enhanced to Rs. 5,00,000/-. d) Attendant Charges 44. In the present case, the learned Tribunal recorded the evidence of the appellant’s mother (PW-2). She stated that they had engaged a maid servant to do the household work whom they were paying Rs.