12.7. It was submitted that the s dated 10.08.2022 were passed by the Government of Gujarat after following the due procedure laid down in this regard and on an application of mind. Therefore, the same do not call for any interference by this Court in these petitions. 13. Learned Counsel for respondent No.3, Sri Rishi Malhotra at the outset attacked the maintainability of the writ petitions on the ground that in substance, the petitions seek to challenge the of this Court dated 13.05.2022 in Writ Petition(Crl.) No.135 of 2022; that the same is impermissible and is in the teeth of the of a Constitution Bench of this Court in Rupa Ashok Hurra vs. Ashok Hurra, (2002) 4 SCC 388, (“Rupa Ashok Hurra”) wherein it has been held that a writ petition assailing the or of this Court after the dismissal of the Review Petition is not maintainable. Thus, the only remedy, if any, available to the petitioner-victim herein against the dismissal of the Review Petition, is to file a Curative Petition as propounded by this Court in the case of Rupa Ashok Hurra. 13.1. Sri Rishi Malhotra further submitted that in this proceeding this Court cannot sit over the passed by another co- ordinate bench. It was further submitted that this Court by its dated 13.05.2022 was right in categorically directing the State of Gujarat to consider the application for premature release of respondent No.3 in terms of the policy dated 09.07.1992 which was applicable on the date of conviction. That after duly taking into account the fact that respondent No.3 had undergone over fifteen years of imprisonment and that no objections were received from the Jail Superintendent, Godhra and that nine out of ten members of the Jail Advisory Committee had recommended his premature release. That coupled with the aforesaid facts the Home Department of the State of [2024] 1 S.C.R. 807 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others Gujarat as well as the Union Government had recommended and approved the premature release of respondent No.3. This clearly demonstrates that the remission was correct. Further, it is nowhere mentioned in the 1992 policy that all stakeholders must give a unanimous opinion for the release of the convict. All it says is that the State Government should collate various opinions from different quarters in to arrive at a decision. 13.2. As regards the contention of learned counsel for the petitioner- victim to the effect that the s are illegal inasmuch as those were passed without consulting the Presiding Judge of the convicting court as required under Section 432(2) of the CrPC, it was submitted that the said provision categorically stipulates that the appropriate government ‘may require’ the Presiding Judge of the Trial Court to give his opinion, hence obtaining such an opinion is not mandatory; whereas, Section 435 of the CrPC uses the word ‘shall’ in respect to the State Government to act only after consultation with the Central Government. The legislature is conscious to use the words ‘may’ and ‘shall’ whenever it deems appropriate and necessary and that the said procedure has been followed in the instant case.