Having considered the specific facts and circumstances of this case, the Adjudicating Authority as well as the NCLAT have concurrently held that the entries in the balance sheets amount to clear acknowledgment of debt. We agree with the findings. Further, Note 3.4 appended to said balance sheet entry dated 31.03.2017 mentions that “company has made certain defaults in the repayment of term loans and interest.” It further mentions of a continuing default. The entry also mentions long-term borrowings. The conclusions of NCLT and NCLAT that there is acknowledgment of debt are unimpeachable. 10.1 Following the principles as expounded in the case of Bishal Jaiswal (Supra), the Adjudicating Authority as well as the NCLAT have examined the case in detail and have come to the conclusion that the entry made in the balance sheet coupled with the note of the auditor of the appellant clearly amounts to acknowledgement of the liability. We see no reason whatsoever to take a different view of the matter. Their findings are fortified when we examine the matter from another perspective. 11. Adjudicating Authority and NCLAT have also considered the Corporate Debtor’s proposal of One Time Settlement (OTS) to UCO Bank. The proposal made by letter dated 07.06.2016 acknowledges that there were prior debts owed to UCO Bank. To substantiate the argument that such OTS constituted acknowledgment of debt since it relates 1472 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to present and subsisting liability and indicates existence of a jural relationship between the parties, UCO Bank relied on of this Court in Lakshmirattan Cotton Mills Co. Ltd. and Messrs Behari Lal Ram Charan v. Aluminium Corporation of India Limited11. The implication of a statement about a present and subsisting debt of a Corporate Debtor is articulated by this Court in the following manner; “9. It is clear that the statement on which the plea of acknowledgment is founded must relate to a subsisting liability as the section requires that it must be made before the expiration of the period prescribed under the Act. It need not, however, amount to a promise to pay, for, an acknowledgment does not create a new right of action but merely extends the period of limitation. The statement need not indicate the exact nature or the specific character of the liability. The words used in the statement in question, however, must relate to a present subsisting liability and indicate the existence of jural relationship between the parties, such as, for instance, that of a debtor and a creditor and the intention to admit such jural relationship. Such an intention need not be in express terms and can be inferred by implication from the nature of the admission and the surrounding circumstances. Generally speaking, a liberal construction of the statement in question should be given. That of course does not mean that where a statement is made without intending to admit the existence of jural relationship, such intention should be fastened on the person making the statement by an involved and far- fetched reasoning…” (emphasis supplied) 11.1 It is also relevant to refer to in Dena Bank (Supra) which held as follows: “139.