An application for anticipatory bail should be based on concrete facts (and not vague or general allegations). It is not essential that an application should be moved only after an FIR is filed. ii. It is advisable to issue a notice on the anticipatory bail application to the Public Prosecutor. iii. Nothing in Section 438 of the CrPC compels or obliges courts to impose conditions limiting relief in terms of time. The courts would be justified – and ought to impose conditions spelt out in Section 437(3) of the CrPC [by virtue of Section 438(2)]. The need to impose other restrictive conditions would have to be judged on a case-to-case basis. iv. Courts ought to be generally guided by considerations such as the nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the applicant, and the facts of the case, while considering whether to grant anticipatory bail or not. v. Once granted, Anticipatory bail can, depending on the conduct and behaviour of the accused, continue after filing of the chargesheet till the end of trial. vi. An of anticipatory bail should not be a “blanket” and should be confined to a specific incident. vii. An of anticipatory bail does not limit the rights of the police to conduct investigation. viii. The observations in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) regarding “limited custody” or “deemed custody” would be sufficient for the purpose of fulfilling the provisions of Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. ix. The police can seek cancellation of anticipatory bail under Section 439(2) of the CrPC. x. The correctness of an granting bail can be considered by the appellate or superior court. 35. The aforesaid principles as regards the grant of anticipatory bail discernible from the decision of this Court in Sushila Aggarwal (supra) are general and may not have a direct bearing on the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 293 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. question we are called upon to consider and answer. What is important to be taken note of in the decision in Sushila Aggarwal (supra) is the following: “62. … In this background, it is important to notice that the only bar, or restriction, imposed by Parliament upon the exercise of the power (to grant anticipatory bail) is by way of a positive restriction i.e. in the case where accused are alleged to have committed offences punishable under Section 376 (3) or Section 376-AB or Section 376-DA or Section 376-DB of the Penal Code. In other words, Parliament has now denied jurisdiction of the courts (i.e. Court of Session and High Courts) from granting anticipatory bail to those accused of such offences. […] 63. Clearly, therefore, where Parliament wished to exclude or restrict the power of courts, under Section 438 of the Code, it did so in categorical terms. Parliament’s omission to restrict the right of citizens, accused of other offences from the right to seek anticipatory bail, necessarily leads one to assume that neither a blanket restriction can be read into by this Court, nor can inflexible guidelines in the exercise of discretion, be insisted upon-that would amount to judicial legislation”.