The of conviction and the of sentence was challenged by the accused appellants before the Division Bench of Gujarat High Court by filing separate criminal appeals, which came to be rejected vide a common dated 18th February, 2019, which has been subjected to challenge in the instant batch of appeals by special leave. 9. Since the appeals arise out of a common judgement, the same were heard and are being decided by this judgement. Submissions on behalf of the accused-appellants:- 10. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused appellants advanced the following submissions beseeching the Court to accept the appeals, set aside the impugned s and acquit the accused appellants of the charges: - 10.1 Demistalkumar, Police Constable (PW-12), projected to be an eyewitness of the incident, was admittedly the first to reach the police station with two weapons collected from the crime scene at 9:15 pm. However, surprisingly, his statement was either not recorded or if recorded, the same never saw the light of the day. The FIR (Exhibit P-79) which ought to have been registered on the earliest version of Demistalkumar (PW-12) was lodged at a much later point of time on the basis of a statement given by the first informant, Mohammad [2024] 8 S.C.R. 353 Allarakha Habib Memon Etc. v. State of Gujarat Arif Memon (PW-11) to S.N. Ghori, Police Sub-Inspector (PW-17) at 11:00 pm. The fact that Demistalkumar (PW-12) had reached the police station at the earliest point of time along with the weapons used in the crime is admitted by the prosecution and is fortified by the evidence of panch witness, Mohammad Hussain (PW-5), who stated that he was informed by the police that a person named Demistalkumar (PW-12) had produced the weapons at 9:15 pm. 10.2 Demistalkumar (PW-12) admitted in his cross-examination that after reaching the police station, an enquiry was made from him by the higher officials. As Demistalkumar (PW-12) is projected to be an eyewitness who had produced the weapons used in commission of the crime and had also been questioned about the incident at the police station at the earliest point of time, his statement which presumably was the first detailed disclosure about the incident, would have assumed the character of an FIR. However, his statement was never brought on record, which tantamounted to deliberate concealment by the prosecution. These proceedings which took place at the police station would definitely have been recorded in the daily diary (roznamcha) maintained at the police station. However, these vital aspects of the case have been intentionally withheld by the prosecution who failed to produce the corresponding daily diary entry before the Court, warranting an adverse inference to be drawn. In support of this contention, learned counsel placed reliance on a rendered by this Court in the case of Tomaso Bruno & Anr. v. State of Uttar Pradesh.1 It was urged that the statement of Demistalkumar (PW-12) was legally required to be treated as the first and foremost information. 10.3 That the explanation offered by Demistalkumar (PW-12), for not lodging the FIR of the incident, stating that an another person was already present there at the police station at 9:15 pm for giving the complaint, is falsified by the testimony of S.N.