Further, while he organized camps such [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1027 Union of India Rep. by The Inspector of Police National Investigation Agency Chennai Branch v. Barakathullah etc. as Beginners Camp, Basic Camp and Secondary camps in which training to handle lethal weapons, attacking on the vulnerable parts of body to kill the enemy was imparted to PFI cadres as a preparation to wage a war against the Government of India to achieve their goal of establishing Islamic State in India by the year 2047. 17.17 …… 17.18 The investigation disclosed that the accused Mohammed Abutbahir (A-3) is the district president of PFI Madurai district, he organised terrorist camps in the name of PE to Muslim youth as a preparation to wage a war against the Government of India to achieve their goal of establishing Islamic State in India by the year 2047. He is one of the organizers of PFI’s campaign called “Makkal Sangamam” for which Public meetings and exhibitions were organized by him and other accused persons. In the meetings, he arranged the display of swords, guns, organized demonstration of lethal weapons to attract Muslim youth to join PFI and to get trained in the terrorist camps conducted by PFI in the name of PE classes and Mohalla Committee, and also to create fear among a section of people on the basis of religion. He is one of the PFI’s core team members who created social disharmony on the basis of religion by spreading fake news on the Tiruparankundram hills or Sikkanthar Malai communal rift. He plotted to split and divide members belonging to a confederation of Muslim mosques in Madurai as the office bearers of the Jamath were not co-operative for the unlawful activities of PFI such as Sikkanthar Malai communal issue and for the Mohalla Committee. In this process, he conspired with another PFI cadre to murder a Muslim political leader (Protected witness) whose name is suspected to be in the red category of the list created by PFI. The accused also insisted that Muslim community members join PFI’s Mohalla committee in a public protest meeting organized by PFI. 17.19 The investigation disclosed that the accused Adv. Kalith Mohamed (A-4) is the State vice president of PFI 1028 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Tamil Nadu. The accused used to give speeches which were intended to cause fear among Muslim community people and thereby making gullible Muslim youth to commit offenses against the State and to commit offences against a particular community. To achieve their larger conspiracy of making India as Islamic country by the year 2047 by striking terror on a section of people thereby threatening the unity, integrity, security and sovereignty of India, he gave speeches in the classes organized by PFI to its cadres. The accused was working for PFI to recruit and organize weapons training camps in the name of PE classes which were held to achieve their larger conspiracy to make India an Islamic country by the year 2047 by striking terror on a section of people thereby threatening the unity, integrity, security and sovereignty of India.