[2024] 11 S.C.R. 463 Nabha Power Limited & Anr. v. Punjab State Power Coroporation Limited & Anr. (iii) Goods required for setting up a mega power project, would qualify for the fiscal benefits after it is certified by an officer not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to the Govt. of India in the Ministry of Power that (i) the power purchasing States have constituted the Regulatory Commissions with full powers to fix tariffs and (ii) power purchasing states shall undertake to carry out distribution reforms as laid down by Ministry of Power. (iv) Mega Power Projects would be required to tie up power supply to the distribution companies/utilities through long term PPA(s) in accordance with the National Electricity Policy 2005 and Tariff Policy 2006, as amended from time to time, of Government of India. (v) There shall be no further requirement of ICB for procurement of equipment for mega projects if the requisite quantum of power has been tied up or the project has been awarded through tariff based competitive bidding as the requirements of ICB for the purpose of availing deemed export benefits under Chapter 8 of the Foreign Trade Policy would be presumed to have been satisfied. In all other cases, ICB for equipments shall be mandatory. (vi) The present dispensation of 15% price preference available to the domestic bidders in case of cost-plus projects of PSUs would continue. However, the price preference will not apply to tariff based competitively bid projects of PSUs. 3. This issues with the approval of Secretary (Power). Sd/- (Puneet K Goel) To Principal Sectary/Secretary/ Energy of all States/UTs. Copy to: (i) Chairman, CEA, (ii) CMDs of all PSUs of MOP 464 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Copy for information to :- PS to MOP/PS to MOS(P) / PS to Secretary(P) Sr. PPS to AS(AK)/ PPS to AS(GBP)/ All Joint Secretaries/ Directors in the Ministry of Power, Dir (PIB), MOP. Copy also to Cabinet Secretariat, New Delhi Copy for putting on website of Ministry of Power to NIC, MOP. Sd/- (Puneet K Goel) Director (IPC)” (Emphasis Supplied) 14. It will be noticed that the mandatory conditions of inter-State sale of power for getting mega power status was removed; it was decided that goods required for setting up a Mega Power Project would qualify for the fiscal benefits after it is certified by an officer not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Power that (i) the Power purchasing States have constituted the Regulatory Commissions with full powers to fix tariffs and (ii) Power purchasing States shall undertake to carry out distribution reforms as laid down by Ministry of Power apart from certain other conditions. Events Leading to the Dispute 15. The appellant no. 1 Nabha Power Limited, which was now owned by appellant no. 2, entered into a Power Purchase Agreement on 18.01.2010 with the respondent PSPCL. 16. According to the appellant, thereafter a series of correspondence ensued between appellant no.