However, trial court has not accepted this version of the prosecution and had acquitted accused Nos.3 and 4. The prosecution had failed to place on record any evidence to establish as to the how the passport kept in the safe custody had gone missing and in what manner it was handed over to the appellant or appellant in turn having returned the same back to Passport Office by post. Thus, for lack of direct evidence the accused No.3 and 4 have been acquitted. 10. The Court cannot convict one accused and acquit the other when there is similar or identical evidence pitted against two accused persons. In the case of Javed Shaukat Ali Qureshi v State of Gujarat reported in 2023 INSC 829, this court has held that: “15. When there is similar or identical evidence of eyewitnesses against two accused by ascribing them the same or similar role, the Court cannot convict one accused and acquit the other. In such a case, the cases of both the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 631 Yogarani v. State by The Inspector of Police accused will be governed by the principle of parity. This principle means that the Criminal Court should decide like cases alike, and in such cases, the Court cannot make a distinction between the two accused, which will amount to discrimination.’’ In the case on hand, allegations against the appellant being the same as made against Accused No.3 & 4, the Courts below could not have convicted the Appellant while acquitting the other two. 11. There is no direct incriminating information emanating from the evidence of the PW-3 against the Appellant. All that she has deposed is that she had filled the application form of accused No.1 and Appellant was by her side while she was filling the application and she has also deposed that appellant would verify and check the application after filling of the application. PW-3 was treated as hostile by prosecution as already noted herein above and prosecution was not able to elicit any incriminating material against the Appellant in her cross examination. As such the evidence of PW-3 is not reliable and trustworthy. 12. PW-15 has deposed that application of accused No.1 has been submitted to his firm by Appellant herein and that the charges were paid by Appellant. Apart from the said statement, no documentary evidence was produced to show that charges were paid by the Appellant and that the Appellant had prior knowledge of accused No.1 having a passport. Evidence of this witness does not inspire confidence and even if the same is taken at its face value, it would not discharge the burden cast on the prosecution to prove the guilt of the Appellant beyond reasonable doubt. 13. Evidence of PW-16 would also not come to the assistance of prosecution and, merely because he has deposed there are some similarities between the writings found on postal cover i.e. Ex.P8 and that of admitted writings of Appellant, by itself would not be sufficient to convict the Appellant, since he has admitted that it is not possible for him to express any opinion on the rest of the questioned items except with regard to handwriting of PW-3.