6 suggests that the defendant no. 1 is empowered to fully utilize that power. g. The defendant no. 3 is a bona fide purchaser of the suit property for a sale consideration of Rs 1.70 Crore and since the registered sale deed is not void, there can be no injunction against the purchaser from enjoying the suit property and the sale in his favour cannot be said to be null and void. h. The defendants, under the threat of being forcibly & illegally dispossessed from the suit property, preferred Regular Civil Suit No. 36/2019 before the 10th Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate & Civil Judge, First Class, Vadodara seeking mandatory injunction against the plaintiffs, wherein the said Civil Judge was pleased to restrain the plaintiffs and their agents from entering into the premises of the suit property till the disposal of the Regular Civil Suit No. 36/2019. i. The modus operandi of the plaintiffs is to ensure that the defendants are not able to enjoy and utilise the suit property. 1352 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The plaintiffs have raised objections with the electricity company as regards grant of electricity connection in the suit property. j. As part of the family arrangement between the parties, it was decided between the brothers that the joint business properties would be partitioned by executing sale deeds in favour of their respective sons and the sale consideration would be transferred from the business account to the account of purchasers and such purchaser shall issue cheques in the names of the four brother. While transfer of different properties took place as per this arrangement, no transfer or transaction was done in favour of the defendant no. 1. When this was taken up by the defendant no. 1 with his other brothers, they asked him to transfer the suit property to his son, that is, the defendant no. 3 by exercising his rights under the power of attorney. 17. In response to the aforesaid contentions of the defendants before the High Court, the plaintiffs inter alia submitted the following: a. The power of attorney was executed in favour of the defendant no. 1 only for the purpose of obtaining necessary permissions for development and construction of the suit property and the power to sell the property was never conferred through the said power of attorney. b. The defendant no.1 executed the sale deed in respect of the suit property in favour of his son, that is, the defendant no. 3, for a meagre consideration of Rs 1.70 Crore whereas the market value of the property at the relevant point in time was more than 17 Crore. c. The plaintiffs have filed a written complaint dated 09.01.2019 against the defendant nos. 1, 3, 4 and 5 respectively for the offence punishable under Sections 406, 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120 of the IPC respectively in relation to the execution of the sale deed dated 23.03.2018 and one another complaint dated 18.01.2019 against defendant nos.