The surety is entitled to all the rights of the creditor against the principal debtor. He also relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Economic Transport Organization, Delhi v. Charan Spinning Mills Pvt. Ltd. & Anr.4 6. He submitted that upon receipt of Rs.38.87 crores from the guarantor, the debt repayable to the 1st respondent financial creditor has been discharged. The 1st respondent financial creditor is now estopped from enforcing the remaining part of the debt from the 2nd respondent- corporate debtor in view of Section 63 read with Section 41 of the Contract Act. The 1st respondent financial creditor applied Section 7 of the IBC against the 2nd respondent corporate debtor, though the entire debt of the 1st respondent financial creditor has been discharged. Moreover, there is a right of subrogation. He relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Lala Kapurchand Godha & Ors. v. Mir Nawab Himayatalikhan Azamjah.5 SUBMISSIONS OF THE 1ST RESPONDENT – FINANCIAL CREDITOR 7. Mr Abhimanyu Bhandari, the learned counsel appearing for the 1st respondent-financial creditor, has taken us through the impugned s. He pointed out that the resolution plan of the 2nd respondent- corporate debtor has been approved by the adjudicating authority by the dated 19th September 2023. He submitted that no payment was made against the claim raised by ACIL as it was an unsecured financial creditor primarily because the liquidation value of the 2nd respondent-corporate debtor is much lower than the total claim amount of the secured financial creditors. He pointed out that the main grievance of the appellant is that the institution of corporate insolvency has been upheld against the 2nd respondent-corporate debtor, for the assets allegedly part of the CIRP of ACIL, which is the holding company of the 2nd respondent-corporate debtor. He pointed out that under Section 36(4) of the IBC, the assets of the subsidiary of the corporate debtor cannot be included in the liquidation estate assets. He invited our attention to Section 18 4 [2010] 2 SCR 887 : (2010) 4 SCC 114 5 [1963] 2 SCR 168 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2151 BRS Ventures Investments Ltd. v. SREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd. & Anr. of the IBC, which contains the duties of IRPs. He submitted that if there is a resolution of a corporate debtor, the assets of any of its subsidiaries will not be included in the scope of the resolution process. He submitted that the holding company and its subsidiaries are distinct legal persons, and the holding company does not own the subsidiary’s assets. The learned counsel relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Vodafone International Holdings BV v. Union of India & Anr.6 He also relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Jaypee Kensington Boulevard Apartments Welfare Association & Ors. v. NBCC (India) Ltd. & Ors.7 Inviting our attention to the information memorandum in the CIRP of ACIL, he submitted that the same did not contain the particulars of the assets of the 2nd respondent-corporate debtor.