Therefore, the expressions sum for which the award is made and a sum directed to be paid by an arbitral award contextually refers to the award on the substantive claims and not ancillary or consequential directions relating to interest and costs. The Bench explained that clause (b) of Section 31(7) is intended to ensure prompt payment by the award debtor once the award is made. The higher rate of interest is provided in clause (b) with the deliberate intent of discouraging award debtors from adopting dilatory tactics and to persuade them to comply with the award. Holding that in the absence of any provision for interest upon interest in the contract, arbitral tribunals do not have the power to award interest upon interest or compound interest either for the pre-award period or for the post-award period, the Bench concluded as under: 34. Thus it is clear that Section 31(7) merely authorises the Arbitral Tribunal to award interest in accordance with the contract and in the absence of any prohibition in the contract and in the absence of specific provision relating to interest in the contract, to award simple interest at such rates as it deems fit from the date on which the cause of action arose till the date of payment. It also provides that if the award is silent about interest from the date of award till the date of payment, the person in whose favour the award is made will be entitled to interest at 18% per annum on the principal amount awarded, from the date of award till the date of payment. The calculation that was made in the execution petition as originally filed was correct and the modification by the respondent increasing the amount due under the award was contrary to the award. 41. The correctness of the view taken in S.L. Arora (supra) was gone into by a three-Judge Bench of this Court in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd (supra). The majority opined that it was not possible to agree with the conclusion in S.L. Arora (supra) that Section 31(7) of the 1996 Act does not require that interest which accrues till the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1605 North Delhi Municipal Corporation v. M/s. S.A. Builders Ltd. date of the award be included in the sum from the date of the award for calculating the post-award interest. Justice Bobde in his majority opinion was of the view that the conclusion reached in S.L. Arora (supra) does not seem to be in consonance with the clear language of Section 31(7) of the 1996 Act. After extracting sub-Section (7) of Section 31 of the 1996 Act, the majority analysed clause (a) of sub- Section (7) in the following manner: 4. Clause (a) of sub-section (7) provides that where an award is made for the payment of money, the Arbitral Tribunal may include interest in the sum for which the award is made. In plain terms, this provision confers a power upon the Arbitral Tribunal while making an award for payment of money, to include interest in the sum for which the award is made on either the whole or any part of the money and for the whole or any part of the period for the entire pre-award period between the date on which the cause of action arose and the date on which the award is made.