5.1. Elaborating further, the learned senior counsel for the respondent(s) submitted that it was clearly stated in the appointment that the same is subject to satisfactory reports of police verification and medical examination; though the appellant cleared the medical examination, his police verification report was still awaited; upon receipt of the communication from the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Intelligence Branch, Kolkata, vide Memo No.1899/S.231-04/SA-I/VR dated 07.07.2010, pursuant to the secret verification report dated 25.05.2010 of the Government, to the effect that the appellant was considered as ‘unsuitable’ for employment to the post in question, the Director of Health Services, Government of West Bengal, issued a show cause notice by way of memo dated 23.08.2010, calling upon the appellant to submit his defence; accordingly, the appellant submitted his reply on 09.09.2010; being dissatisfied with the same, the authority concerned terminated the appellant from service with immediate effect on 11.02.2011. Thus, according to the learned counsel, only after receipt of the reply submitted by the appellant and upon considering the same, the termination came to be issued and hence, there was no violation of the principles of natural justice. 5.2. Referring to the decisions of this court in Nirma Industries Ltd. v. Securities and Exchange Board of India; 4 State of UP v. Sudhir Kumar Singh; 5 and Dharampal Satyapal Ltd v. Deputy 4 [2013] 3 SCR 662 : (2013) 8 SCC 20 5 [2020] 13 SCR 571 : (2021) 19 SCC 706 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 425 Basudev Dutta v. The State of West Bengal & Ors. Commissioner of Central Excise, Gauhati and Others,6 wherein, it was observed that ‘the principles of natural justice means, a fair hearing should be given to the concerned person and the same would not necessarily imply oral hearing’, the learned senior counsel for the respondent(s) submitted that merely because the appellant was not given an opportunity of hearing, that by itself is not sufficient to quash the proceedings, unless and until it is pointed out by him that he was prejudiced by the , which was passed behind his back and therefore, the denial of personal hearing before passing the termination would not amount to violation of the principles of natural justice. 5.3. Adding further, the learned senior counsel for the respondent(s) submitted that police verification is essential for joining any service and it is a settled principle of law that any act contrary to law cannot be given the sanctity of being legal under law by mere passage of time and hence, the delay in submission of the verification report, cannot be a ground to quash the termination passed against the appellant. 5.4. Therefore, the learned senior counsel for the respondent(s) submitted that the High Court correctly set aside the of the Tribunal and restored the termination passed against the appellant herein, by a reasoned , which does not call for any interference by this court. 6. By way of reply, the learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the grandfather of the appellant was a permanent resident of Calcutta and the father of the appellant was born in the year 1911 at Calcutta and through migration certificate, the appellant came to India along with his father in the year 1969, before creation of Bangladesh (Formerly East Pakistan) and hence, he is a citizen of India.