[2024] 7 S.C.R. 2037 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. PART-II I. Overview of the Technology: 18.10 It was contended that the conditional approval was given on 25.10.2022 to the CGMCP, University of Delhi, for environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 and parental lines bn.36 and modbs 2.99 containing barnase, barstar and bar genes. The object was to create DMH-11 – a hybrid obtained by crossing Varuna bn 3.6 (containing bar, barnase genes) with EH-2 modbs 2.99 (containing bar, barstar genes). The three relevant genes used in the process of creating DMH-11 are as follows: barnase gene which makes the plant male sterile; barstar gene which restores male fertility; and bar gene which confers HT. Presently, Varuna mustard seed contains both male and female parts and is self-pollinating (self-fertilization). It is first made male sterile so that it can be pollinated and crossed with another variety. This is achieved by introducing the barnase gene. Hence, a male sterile Varuna bn 3.6 is created (containing bar, barnase genes). Since Varuna bn 3.6 is male sterile, it cannot self-pollinate to reproduce. For multiplying this parental line, it is crossed with normal Varuna which produces a crop which is 50% Varuna bn 3.6 (male sterile) and 50% normal Varuna (fertile). This progeny crop is then planted in an alternating arrangement with EH-2 modbs 2.99 plants (containing bar, barstar genes). At this stage, herbicide is sprayed at the site which eliminates the fertile (normal varuna) portion of the progeny crop (since it does not have HT) leaving behind the portion of the progeny crop which is male sterile, i.e. Varuna bn 3.6 (since it contains the bar gene which confers HT). This is termed a selection event. The male sterile Varuna bn 3.6 remaining from the progeny crop gets fertilized by the adjacent EH-2 modbs 2.99 crop (which also contains the bar gene and survives the herbicide) and produces the hybrid seed DMH-11. 18.11 Thus, DMH-11 is produced, containing all three genes i.e. barnase, barstar and bar. It is fully fertile since the barnase gene inherited from EH-2 modbs 2.99 restores the male fertility of the resulting hybrid. The bar gene inherited in DMH-11 is of no utility in the hybrid. Its utility is at the selection event, namely, 2038 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to multiply the male sterile Varuna bn 3.6. This male sterility/ restorer system is a highly promising technology which can be used to produce new hybrids with higher yields in future, thereby increasing agricultural output and farmer income. II. Herbicide Tolerance (HT): 18.12 It was contended that a crop is referred to as an HT variety if its commercial trait is HT, but DMH-11 is not such a crop since the HT trait in DMH-11 is of no commercial utility. In fact, transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 is not developed as HT Technology and it is unnecessary to use herbicide in the cultivation of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11. In fact, the HT trait is useful only at the selection event during the development phase of the event and is of no utility when the crop is being cultivated by a farmer.