299 : (2000) 4 SCC 640 29 ibid at para 35. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1175 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors between the Executive and the Judiciary, the Constitution- makers have taken care to see by enacting relevant provisions for the recruitment of eligible persons to discharge judicial functions from the grass-root level of the Judiciary up to the apex level of the District Judiciary, that rules made by the Governor in consultation with the High Court in case of recruitment at grass-root level and the recommendation of the High Court for appointments at the apex level of the District Judiciary under Article 233, remain the sole repository of power to effect such recruitments and appointments. ...For judicial appointments the real and efficacious advice contemplated to be given to the Governor while framing rules under Article 234 or for making appointments on the recommendations of the High Court under Article 233 emanates only from the High Court which forms the bedrock and very soul of these exercises. It is axiomatic that the High Court, which is the real expert body in the field in which vests the control over the Subordinate Judiciary, has a pivotal role to play in the recruitments of judicial officers whose working has to be thereafter controlled by it under Article 235 once they join the Judicial Service after undergoing filtering process at the relevant entry points. It is easy to visualise that when control over the District Judiciary under Article 235 is solely vested in the High Court, then the High Court must have a say as to what type of material should be made available to it both at the grass-root level of the District Judiciary as well as the apex level thereof so as to effectively ensure the dispensation of justice through such agencies with the ultimate object of securing efficient administration of justice for the suffering litigating humanity. Under these circumstances, it is impossible to countenance bypassing of the High Court either at the level of appointment at the grass-root level or at the apex level of the District Judiciary. The rules framed by the Governor as per Article 234 after following due procedure and the appointments to be made by him under Article 233 by way of direct recruitment 1176 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the District Judiciary solely on the basis of the recommendation of the High Court clearly project a complete and insulated scheme of recruitment to the Subordinate Judiciary. This completely insulated scheme as envisaged by the Founders of the Constitution cannot be tinkered with by any outside agency dehors the permissible exercise envisaged by the twin Articles 233 and 234. (emphasis added) 65. In numerous decisions, this Court has emphasized the importance of the control which is wielded by the High Courts over the District Judiciary.30 Undoubtedly, it is equally well-settled that when the Rules under Article 309 hold the field, these Rules have to be implemented. Where specific provisions are made in the Rules framed under Article 309, it would not be open to the High Court to issue administrative directions either in the form of the Full Court Resolution or otherwise, that are at inconsistent with the mandate of the Rules.