1537 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. maybe, for the limited purpose of Article 330, which refers to reservation of seats for Scheduled Castes in the House of the People, which is not applicable to the facts of this case. It is also clear from Article 341 that except for a limited power of making an exclusion or inclusion in the list by an Act of Parliament there is no provision either to subdivide, subclassify or subgroup these castes which are found in the Presidential List of Scheduled Castes. Therefore, it is clear that the Constitution intended all the castes including the subcastes, races and tribes mentioned in the list to be members of one group for the purpose of the Constitution and this group could not be subdivided for any purpose. A reference to the Constituent Assembly in this regard may be useful at this stage.” 150. His Lordship observed that from the perusal of Article 341 of the Constitution, there can be only one list of Scheduled Castes regarding a State and that list should include all specified castes, races or tribes or part or groups notified in that Presidential List. It has been observed that any inclusion or exclusion from the said list can only be done by Parliament under Article 341(2) of the Constitution. It is observed that it is also clear from Article 341 that except for a limited power of making an exclusion or inclusion in the list by an Act of Parliament there is no provision either to subdivide, subclassify or subgroup these castes which are found in the Presidential List of Scheduled Castes. It has been observed that the Constitution intended all the castes including the subcastes, races and tribes mentioned in the list to be members of one group for the purpose of the Constitution and that the said group could not be subdivided for any purpose. 151. In paragraph 26, it has been observed thus: “26. Thus from the scheme of the Constitution, Article 341 and above opinions of this Court in the case of N.M. Thomas [(1976) 2 SCC 310 : 1976 SCC (L&S) 227] it is clear that the castes once included in the Presidential List, form a class by themselves. If they are one class under the Constitution, any division of these classes of persons based on any consideration would amount to tinkering with the Presidential List.” 1538 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 152. The Court, relying on Article 341 and the opinions expressed in the case of N.M. Thomas, observed that it was clear that the castes once included in the Presidential List, form a class by themselves. It has been observed that if they are one class under the Constitution, any division of these classes of persons based on any consideration would amount to ‘tinkering’ with the Presidential List. 153. In paragraph 31, the Court observed thus: “31. On a detailed perusal of the Act it is seen that Section 3 is the only substantive provision in the Act, rest of the provisions are only procedural.