1380 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 8.13 Divorce being sought by one of the spouses on the basis of fault committed on the part of the other spouse is dependant on proof of the matrimonial offence as delineated under Section 13 of the HMA. By contrast under Section 13B(1) of the HMA, a petition for dissolution of marriage by a decree of divorce could be presented by both the parties together on the ground that they have been living separately for a period of one year or more, that they have not been able to live together and that they have mutually agreed that the marriage should be dissolved. If the aforesaid three ingredients are established, then on the basis of sub-section (2) of Section 13B of HMA, after hearing the parties and after making such inquiry as the Court thinks fit, a decree of divorce declaring the marriage to be dissolved with effect from the date of the decree could be passed by the Court and on compliance of the conditions mentioned therein. In our view, if the ingredients of sub-section (1) of Section 13B of HMA are established by both spouses, it has to be construed as an instance of irretrievable breakdown of marriage inasmuch as the parties in unison state that there has been an actual separation between them for a period of one year or more and they have not been able to live together and they have mutually agreed that the marriage should be dissolved. Sub-section (1) of Section 13B of HMA has to be contrasted with Section 13 of the HMA, inasmuch as the parties to the marriage would neither have to allege anything against each other nor would have to prove fault on the part of the other spouse before seeking divorce and that is why, it is called divorce by mutual consent. The only aspect on which the Court has to be satisfied is that the marriage had been solemnised between the parties and the averments in the petitions are true and the Court is satisfied that the consent has been arrived at out of free volition of the parties and without any coercion or undue influence exercised by any of them on the other. 8.14 Having perused the dicta of this Court particularly in Shilpa Sailesh, we find that the grant of divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage is on the basis of exercise of discretion by this Court for doing complete justice between the parties. Thus, on the basis of the application filed by one of [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1381 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda the parties to the marriage, he or she cannot seek such divorce as a matter of right. It is only when this Court is satisfied and convinced that there is a deadlock in the marriage which cannot be saved and the only solution for the parties is to move on independently by putting an end to their marital ties that the decree for divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage can be granted.