The Law of Contracts by John D. Calamari & Joseph M. Perillo has been quoted by Black to say that “restitution” is an ambiguous term, sometimes referring to the disgorging of something which has been taken and at times referring to compensation for injury done: “Often, the result under either meaning of the term would be the same. … Unjust impoverishment as well as unjust enrichment is a ground for restitution. If the defendant is guilty of a non- tortious misrepresentation, the measure of recovery is not rigid but, as in other cases of restitution, such factors as relative fault, the agreed-upon risks, and the fairness of alternative risk allocations not agreed upon and not attributable to the fault of either party need to be weighed.” The principle of restitution has been statutorily recognized in Section 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. Section 144 CPC speaks not only of a decree being varied, reversed, set aside or modified but also includes an on a par with a decree. The scope of the provision is wide enough so as to include therein almost all the kinds of variation, reversal, setting aside or modification of a decree or . The interim passed by the court merges into a final decision. The validity of an interim , passed in favour of a party, stands reversed in the event of a final decision going against the party successful at the interim stage. Unless otherwise ed by the court, the successful party at the end would be justified with all expediency in demanding compensation and being placed in the same situation in which it would have been if the interim would not have been passed against it. The 636 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports successful party can demand (a) the delivery of benefit earned by the opposite party under the interim of the court, or (b) to make restitution for what it has lost; and it is the duty of the court to do so unless it feels that in the facts and on the circumstances of the case, the restitution far from meeting the ends of justice, would rather defeat the same. Undoing the effect of an interim by resorting to principles of restitution is an obligation of the party, who has gained by the interim of the court, so as to wipe out the effect of the interim passed which, in view of the reasoning adopted by the court at the stage of final decision, the court earlier would not or ought not to have passed. There is nothing wrong in an effort being made to restore the parties to the same position in which they would have been if the interim would not have existed. 27. Section 144 CPC is not the fountain source of restitution, it is rather a statutory recognition of a pre-existing rule of justice, equity and fair play. That is why it is often held that even away from Section 144 the court has inherent jurisdiction to restitution so as to do complete justice between the parties.