Even eschewing the aspect of discovery under Section 27, we have found that other circumstantial evidence does exist pointing to the guilt of the appellant. Presumption under the POCSO Act 28. It is clearly established in evidence that the deceased was subjected to a brutal sexual assault. The injuries as evidenced in the postmortem report Exh.P.28 particularly injury no. 1 clearly indicate that the deceased was subjected to aggressive penetrative sexual assault. The injury on the prepuce of the penis of the accused along with the matching of the blood group coupled with other circumstantial evidence clearly constitute foundational facts for raising presumption under Sections 29 and 30 of the POCSO Act. Sections 29 and 30 of the POCSO Act reads as under: “29. Presumption as to certain offences.—Where a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under Sections 3, 5, 7 and Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume, that such person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case may be unless the contrary is proved. 30. Presumption of culpable mental state:- (1) In any prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall presume the existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution. (2) For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when the Special Court believes it to 1088 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of probability.” 29. It will be seen that presumption under Section 29 is available where the foundational facts exist for commission of offence under Section 5 of the POCSO Act. Section 5 of the POCSO Act deals with aggravated penetrative sexual assault and Section 6 speaks of punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault. Section 3 of the POCSO Act defines what penetrative sexual assault is. The relevant Sections are extracted hereinbelow. “3. Penetrative sexual assault. - A person is said to commit “penetrative sexual assault” if- (a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or 5. Aggravated penetrative sexual assault.— (i) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault causing grievous hurt or causing bodily harm and injury or injury to the sexual organs of the child; or (m) whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on a child below twelve years; or 6. Punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault.—(1) Whoever commits aggravated penetrative sexual assault shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than twenty years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of natural life of that person, and shall also be liable to fine, or with death.