(D) No. 9887 of 2020 in Civil Appeal Nos. 6328-6399 of 2015. In the said proceeding, clarification was also sought on the aspect that the did not bar the Union of India from considering and rectifying the clerical/arithmetical errors in computation of certain dues. This was again an , in substance, permitting rectification of an arithmetic error, which is implicit in Section 152 of the Code read with XII Rule 3 of the 2013 Rules. 19. We have indicated in the earlier part of this that Dr. Singhvi had expressed his desire to withdraw the present application on the last date of hearing, i.e., 24.01.2024. Ordinarily, we would not have had set out the background leading to the filing of the present application and the course of the application that was taken before this Court in view of such submission. Any plaintiff would be entitled to abandon a suit or abandon part of the claim made in the suit at any time after institution of the suit, as provided in Rule 1 of XXIII of the Code. We, however, decided not to permit such simpliciter withdrawal, as the Rajasthan Discoms sought imposition of costs. Secondly, in our opinion, the provision which pertains to a suit would not ipso facto apply to a miscellaneous application invoking inherent powers of this Court, instituted in a set of statutory appeals which 1042 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports stood disposed of. Even if an applicant applies for withdrawal of an application, in exceptional cases, it would be within the jurisdiction of the Court to examine the application and pass appropriate s. So far as the present proceeding is concerned, an important question of law has arisen as regards jurisdiction of the Court to entertain an application taken out in connection with a set of statutory appeals which stood disposed of. of this Court in Supertech Limited (supra) deals with this question and in our opinion, the ratio of the said would apply to the present proceeding as well. 20. We felt it necessary to examine the question about maintainability of the present application as we are of the view that it was necessary to spell out the position of law as to when such post-disposal miscellaneous applications can be entertained after a matter is disposed of. This Court has become functus officio and does not retain jurisdiction to entertain an application after the appeal was disposed of by the of a three-Judge Bench of this Court on 31.08.2020 through a course beyond that specified in the statute. This is not an application for correcting any clerical or arithmetical error. Neither it is an application for extension of time. A post disposal application for modification and clarification of the of disposal shall lie only in rare cases, where the passed by this Court is executory in nature and the directions of the Court may become impossible to be implemented because of subsequent events or developments. The factual background of this Application does not fit into that description.