The critical facet of the case was its interpretation of Section 127 of the CrPC. It was held that Section 127 did not totally exempt a husband from providing maintenance to a destitute ex-wife if the amount he paid to her under the personal law was not sufficient to support her. It was held that: “12. The payment of illusory amounts by way of customary or personal law requirement will be considered in the reduction of maintenance rate but cannot annihilate that rate unless it is a reasonable substitute. The legal sanctity of the payment is certified by the fulfilment of the social obligation, not by a ritual exercise rooted in custom. No construction which leads to frustration of the statutory project can secure validation if the court is to pay true homage to the Constitution. The only just construction of the section is that Parliament intended divorcees should not derive a double benefit. If the first payment by way of mehar or ordained by custom has a reasonable relation to the object and is a capitalised substitute for the under Section 125 — not mathematically but fairly — then Section 127(3)(b) subserves the goal and relieves the obliger, not pro tanto but wholly. The purpose of the payment “under any customary or personal law” must be to obviate destitution of the divorcee and to provide her with wherewithal to maintain herself. The whole scheme of Section 127(3)(b) is manifestly to recognise the substitute [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1283 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. maintenance arrangement by lump sum payment organised by the custom of the community or the personal law of the parties. There must be a rational relation between the sum so paid and its potential as provision for maintenance to interpret otherwise is to stultify the project. Law is dynamic and its meaning cannot be pedantic but purposeful. The proposition, therefore, is that no husband can claim under Section 127(3)(b) absolution from his obligation under Section 125 towards a divorced wife except on proof of payment of a sum stipulated by customary or personal law whose quantum is more or less sufficient to do duty for maintenance allowance.” 16. This carefully balanced and gender-just interpretation further guided our jurisprudence in Fuzlunbi vs. K. Khader Vali (1980) 4 SCC 125 and Mohd. Ahmed Khan vs. Shah Bano Begum (1985) 2 SCC 556 (“Shah Bano”) insofar as the application of Section 125 to persons governed by Muslim Personal Law was concerned. In Shah Bano, this Court held that Section 125 overrides personal law of Muslims and hence a divorced Muslim woman is a “wife” within the meaning of this provision. The crux of these s is that an under Section 127 ought to be a reasoned and shall only allow an for maintenance to be cancelled if a judge was satisfied that the divorced woman had received a sufficient amount of maintenance under any customary or personal law. In Danial Latifi vs. Union of India (2001) 7 SCC 740 (“Danial Latifi”), this Court has recorded that there was a big uproar after the in Shah Bano was pronounced and Parliament enacted the 1986 Act “perhaps, with an intention of making the decision in Shah Bano ineffective.” Interpretation of 1986 Act: 17.