[2024] 8 S.C.R. 263 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. On strength of the above submissions, learned counsel implored the Court to take a sympathetic view and discharge the contempt notice issued to contemnor-respondent No. 4. 24. Learned senior counsel, Mr. D.N. Ray, representing 6th ACJM No.6 (contemnor-respondent No. 7), at the outset, submitted that the judicial officer is having an impeccable service record. She had no intention whatsoever of committing wilful or intentional disobedience of this Court’s and that the judicial officer has expressed unconditional and unqualified apology for the acts done in discharge of judicial functions which are wrongly branded as contumacious by the petitioner. He advanced the following submissions: - 24.1 On perusing the remand application filed by the Investigating Officer, the contemnor-respondent No.7 inculcated a reasonable belief that the petitioner was not cooperating with the investigation in terms of the passed by this Court. 24.2 She was also guided by the long prevailing practice being followed in the State of Gujarat wherein, the Courts, while granting anticipatory bail, incorporate a condition that in case the accused in whose favour the of anticipatory bail has been passed does not cooperate in investigation then, the concerned Magistrate would be empowered to direct police custody remand of such accused. 24.3 He submitted that it is purely based on this long-standing practice prevalent in the State of Gujarat that 6th ACJM (contemnor-respondent No. 7), in bona fide discharge of her judicial functions allowed the application filed by the Investigating Officer and remanded the petitioner to three days’ police custody. He urged that at the end of the remand period, the petitioner voluntarily filed an application under Section 437 CrPC seeking bail, which was routed through the Registry of the Court and that is why the Magistrate, was left with no other option but to pass an on the said application requiring the accused petitioner to furnish bail bonds in lieu of release on bail. However, on a pertinent query being put, Mr. Ray, was not in a position to dispute the fact that the petitioner herein was released from custody after a delay of nearly 48 hours from the date i.e. 16th 264 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports December, 2023, the period when the police custody remand had come to an end. 24.4 Regarding the proceedings taken on the complaint of custodial violence made by the petitioner, learned counsel urged that contemnor-respondent No. 7 was acting well within her jurisdiction by virtue of provisions contained in CrPC when she questioned the petitioner and also conducted preliminary body examination so as to take note of the injuries, if any, suffered by him owing to the alleged custodial violence. These facts were recorded in the court sheet as per the observations made during the course of judicial proceedings. The formal complaint was dismissed by the contemnor while exercising judicial discretion conferred upon a Magistrate by virtue of Section 203 CrPC. The rejecting the complaint has already been set aside by the High Court and since the said complaint is sub judice, any expression by this Court on this issue may have an adverse reflection on the service record of the contemnor.