of Management Studies (2009) 6 SCC 171 : (2009) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 939 Indore Vikas Praadhikaran (IDA) & Anr. v. Shri Humud Jain Samaj Trust & Anr. 2 SCC (Civ) 803], this Court has laid down that a bidder has no right in the matter of bid except of fair treatment in the matter and cannot insist for further negotiation. The authority has a right to reject the highest bid. This Court has laid down thus : (SCC p. 182, paras 27 & 29) “27. The bidders participating in the tender process have no other right except the right to equality and fair treatment in the matter of evaluation of competitive bids offered by interested persons in response to notice inviting tenders in a transparent manner and free from hidden agenda. One cannot challenge the terms and conditions of the tender except on the above stated ground, the reason being the terms of the invitation to tender are in the realm of the contract. No bidder is entitled as a matter of right to insist the authority inviting tenders to enter into further negotiations unless the terms and conditions of notice so provided for such negotiations. 29. The Authority has the right not to accept the highest bid and even to prefer a tender other than the highest bidder, if there exist good and sufficient reasons, such as, the highest bid not representing the market price but there cannot be any doubt that the Authority’s action in accepting or refusing the bid must be free from arbitrariness or favouritism.” 14. Keeping in view of the aforesaid s, this Court is of the considered opinion that in the absence of allotment letter and acceptance of highest bid, no relief could have been granted in favour of respondent No.1 as there was no concluded contract in the matter and the decision taken by the Tender Evaluation Committee to generate more revenues could not have been interfered with in the manner and method as has been done by the Division Bench of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Indore Bench. The bidder has no right in the matter of bid except of fair treatment and cannot insist for further negotiation as has been done in the present case. The terms and conditions of NIT, particularly condition No. 6, empowers 940 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the IDA to accept or reject any or all bids. In the present case, the bid was rejected for valid and cogent reasons and, therefore, the passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh is set aside. 15. Learned Counsels for respondent No. 1 placed heavy reliance on Eva Agro (supra) stating that the Appellant does not have absolute or unfettered discretion to cancel the auction. While we agree with the principle that the auctioning authority must adhere to the rule of law, the facts of the present case are entirely distinguishable from Eva Agro (supra). In that case, after the Appellant therein was declared the highest bidder, the auction was cancelled without providing any reason.