When he reached her house, he found her dead body after postmortem. He states that they were not told how she fell and he suspects that her in-laws have killed her. After a month of marriage, the deceased had started complaining to him that her in-laws were not satisfied with the dowry they received and were constantly demanding more dowry. After the deceased had daughter, her mother-in-law and sister-in-law were angry and they started beating and abusing here. Even after birth of the son in 2015, they were torturing the deceased and not allowing her to visit parental home. 14. It has been further revealed from the statement of Rajesh Jain, who used to work at house of deceased, that the deceased was not treated well by her in laws as she would often get scolded by them. Additionally, Respondent No. 5 sister-in-law of Anjali, disliked her. She would argue with the deceased whenever she came to the house. 15. The Appellant is brother of deceased. He submits that the phone call with Alok Kumar one hour before the incidence shows foul play. Further, carrying the deceased in handcart (‘Thela’) despite having neighbors spot ready with their vehicles, creates a doubt that the husband himself did not want to save his wife’s life. There is a possibility of him with help of other accused persons, had pushed the deceased from terrace. Further, the fact that deceased was not wearing any jewelry at that time, creates a doubt on conduct of accused. 16. On the other hand, the Respondent No. 2 to 5 submit that FIR has been registered against them only due to pressure of electronic and 816 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports print media. Respondent No. 2 carried the deceased in handcart only because the hospital was close to his house and it would have taken time for a car to get out. Mere harassment does not amount to abetment to suicide. Thus, there is no prima facie offence made out against the Respondents as there is no overt act indicating active involvement to instigate the deceased to commit suicide. Further, there were no ante mortem injuries and her injuries have come from falling from terrace. The same has been confirmed by the Medical officers. 17. We have considered the submissions of both the counsels and have perused through the record. 18. From the above facts and testimonies of witnesses, it is evident that deceased struggled in her matrimonial home and relations between her and her in-laws cannot be called healthy. The above testimonies indicate that she was being abused and ill-treated in the house. Additionally, the testimony of Alok Agarwal indicates that there was a serious argument between her and her husband right before she allegedly fell off from terrace. She was taken to hospital by husband on handcart despite having alternate options of using the Car. No ornaments were found on her body. 19. For quashing of criminal charges it must be shown that there is no sufficient evidence to prove a prima facie case against the accused person/s.