v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. policy matters on fiscal issues. We are therefore unable to accept the challenge to the constitutional validity of Section 54(3).” (emphasis added) Paragraph 142 of the decision reads thus: “142. The above judicial precedents indicate that in the field of taxation, this Court has only intervened to read down or interpret a formula if the formula leads to absurd results or is unworkable. In the present case however, the formula is not ambiguous in nature or unworkable, nor is it opposed to the intent of the legislature in granting limited refund on accumulation of unutilised ITC. It is merely the case that the practical effect of the formula might result in certain inequities. The reading down of the formula as proposed by Mr Natarjan and Mr Sridharan by prescribing an of utilisation would take this Court down the path of recrafting the formula and walk into the shoes of the executive or the legislature, which is impermissible. Accordingly, we shall refrain from replacing the wisdom of the legislature or its delegate with our own in such a case. However, given the anomalies pointed out by the assessees, we strongly urge the GST Council to reconsider the formula and take a policy decision regarding the same.” At this stage, it will be also necessary to consider the decision of this Court in the case of Nitdip Textiles.8 In paragraph 66, this Court held thus: “66. To sum up, Article 14 does not prohibit reasonable classification of persons, objects and transactions by the legislature for the purpose of attaining specific ends. To satisfy the test of permissible classification, it must not be “arbitrary, artificial or evasive” but must be based on some real and substantial distinction bearing a just and reasonable relation to the object sought to be achieved by the legislature. The taxation laws are no exception to the application of this principle of equality enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution of India. However, it is well 856 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports settled that the legislature enjoys very wide latitude in the matter of classification of objects, persons and things for the purpose of taxation in view of inherent complexity of fiscal adjustment of diverse elements. The power of the legislature to classify is of wide range and flexibility so that it can adjust its system of taxation in all proper and reasonable ways. Even so, large latitude is allowed to the State for classification upon a reasonable basis and what is reasonable is a question of practical details and a variety of factors which the court will be reluctant and perhaps ill-equipped to investigate.” (emphasis added) Apart from these decisions, there are other binding decisions which hold that the laws relating to economic activities should be viewed with greater latitude than laws touching civil rights such as freedom of speech, religion, etc. In the present case, the legislature was dealing with a complex issue. Therefore, greater freedom and greater play in the joints has to be allowed to the legislature.