The whole process of regulation depends upon the data made available to the regulators by the technology developers. b. None of the Committees established under the 1989 Rules conduct the closed field trials on their own but are solely dependent on the data provided to them by the technology developer. c. There was a scope for the technology developers to manipulate the data to suit their own requirements. d. The Government failed to put in place the desired protocols as late as 2011, while the GM crops were introduced in 2002. e. Two of the top three positions of GEAC are held by the bureaucrats of the MoEF&CC. There is a conflict of interest in the appointment of some of the members of GEAC. f. The members of GEAC were mostly from the Government and Government-aided institutions and there was hardly any representation of the civil society or the State Governments on the Board. g. Even though the DLCs are provided for in the 1989 Rules, the importance of this Committee had not been realised, thereby further weakening the confidence level of farmers, civil societies, environmentalists, etc. h. There was lack of clarity on the impact of the adoption of Bt cotton on crop yield. Therefore, the Committee was not persuaded about the claims of success of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1999 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Bt cotton as India’s cotton yields increased by 69% in the five years (2000-2005) when Bt cotton was less than 6% of total cotton area, but by only 10% in the ten years from 2005 to 2015 when Bt cotton grew to 94% of the total cotton area. There was also lack of clarity on whether traditional methods of farming could achieve better outcomes. i. It also expressed its apprehensions about the stated benefit of reduced dependence on chemical pesticides. Based on consultations with members of civil society, it observed that after the advent of Bt cotton, the insecticide use on bollworm, both sucking and secondary pests took over the ecological niche vacated by the bollworm. Therefore, the per hectare insecticide use had almost doubled. The issue of pesticide resistivity was also a matter of concern, as it was observed that the pink bollworm had developed resistance to Bt cotton variety, i.e., Bollgard-II (BG-II). j. Since transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 is a HT GMO, there exists clear evidence of the adverse impacts thereof from elsewhere in the world. In the case of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11, thus, there are serious unanswered questions. k. The cultivation of GM crops in the midst of other indigenous farming would cause unstoppable contamination and cross-pollination. It would also adversely affect non-target organisms like soil microbes, insects, bees, butterflies, birds or even mammals which are critical to the agro-ecosystem. l. There is a glaring lack of indigenous study on the impact of GM crops on human health. It is particularly worrying because certain studies on animals revealed complications including infertility, immune problems, accelerated aging, insulin regulation, and changes in major organs.