I tender my unconditional and unqualified apology in this regard once again. 4. I state that no such lapse will occur in future. I will always uphold the Majesty of the Court of law. 5. Furthermore, pursuant to the dated 16.04.2024, the Deponent took an initiative to redeem himself voluntarily and in view of the same, the Deponent to took an initiative to publish public apologies in various National and Regional Newspapers with wide circulation across the country which were carried out on 22.04.2024. The said public apology which was published in several newspapers circulated across the nation is reproduced as below for ready reference: “Patanjali Ayurved Limited fully respects the dignity of the Hon’ble Supreme Court. We sincerely apologize for the mistake of publishing [2024] 8 S.C.R. 419 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others advertisements and holding a press conference even after our advocates made a statement in the apex court. We are committed to not let such a mistake be repeated ever in future. We reassure you that we shall remain committed to uphold the constitution and dignity of the Hon’ble Supreme Court. Patanjali Ayurved Limited Haridwar, Uttarakhand.” K. PROCEEDINGS DATED 23rd APRIL, 2024 18. On 23rd April, 2024, learned counsel appearing for the proposed contemnors stated before this Court that some advertisements tendering unqualified apologies by the proposed contemnors had been published in the press a day before. When the newspaper cuttings were handed over to the Court for perusal, it was noticed that the apologies tendered were in a small box with such a fine print that it was impossible to read the apologies without using a magnifying glass. This attempt to downsize the advertisements, making them virtually illegible, had drawn an adverse comment from the Court. As time was sought to collate and file the documents and issue additional advertisements, the following s were passed on 23rd April, 2024 : “1. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior counsel appearing for the proposed contemnors submits that some advertisements tendering unqualified apologies have been published in the press by the proposed contemnors for the lapses on their part, only yesterday. It is submitted that the same have been collated and shall be filed during the course of the day with copies furnished to learned counsel for the parties. 2. Needful shall be done within two days. 3. It is further stated that additional advertisements shall be published by the proposed contemnors tendering an unqualified apology for the lapses on their part within this week. As and when the said advertisements are issued and copies filed, the same shall be considered and appropriate s passed. 420 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4. List on 30th April, 2024, at the top of the Board. The proposed contemnors shall continue to remain present on the next date of hearing.” 19. On 24th April, 2024, an affidavit was filed by Acharya Balkrishna furnishing a list of the daily newspapers published by the proposed contemnors on 22nd April, 2024, both in English and in Hindi.