COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION A qualifying examination shall be held to test the ability of the candidates of translation from English to Hindi and Hindi to English. Paper-I English to Hindi translation 100 marks Paper-II Hindi to English translation 100 marks Explanation: For the qualifying examination the officials appearing therein shall be given passages for translation from English to Hindi and Hindi to English from the and records. Personal Interview: There shall be a personal interview of the candidate. 50 marks Note: A candidate who secures in aggregate 75% marks and minimum 60% marks in each paper shall only be called for interview.” (d) Later, vide Office dated 24 July 2004, amendments were made in the Office dated 5 December 2002 thereby substituting the provision relating to recruitment of Translators (Ordinary Scale) by the following: [2024] 12 S.C.R. 35 Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. “TRANSLATORS Recruitment shall be made from amongst the judicial assistants or junior judicial assistants having experience of 3 years by holding a test in English and Hindi translation. Candidates shall be given passages in English from the s and records and shall be asked to translate them into Hindi. Similarly passages in Hindi from the records or from some other books etc. shall be given and the candidates shall be asked to translate them into English. Minimum qualification shall be Graduate Preference shall be given to a Law Graduate” (e) Thereafter, on 8 September 2009, the Office dated 5 December 2002 was further amended to substitute the specified minimum qualification with the following: “Minimum qualification shall be Post Graduate in English Literature from any recognized University established by law in India” (f) On 19 December 2009 examination was held. Twenty-one aspirants appeared in the examination. Result was declared on 20 February 2010, wherein only 3 candidates were declared successful. This was so, because the Chief Justice of the High Court ed that only those candidates who secured a minimum of 75% marks will be selected to fill up the posts in question. As only three candidates could secure a minimum of 75% marks, the list of successful candidates comprised of only three candidates. (g) Some of the unsuccessful candidates filed writ petition before the High Court questioning the decision of the Chief Justice of the High Court in fixing the cut off at 75% on the ground that it amounted to “changing the rules of the game after the game is played”. The High Court on its administrative side defended the decision of the Chief Justice by claiming it to have been taken in good faith for appointing a suitable candidate. (h) The writ petition came to be dismissed by the High Court vide under appeal dated 11 March 2011. The High Court 36 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports took the view that on mere placement in the select list no indefeasible right accrues to a candidate for appointment. The employer may fix a higher benchmark to ensure that a person suitable to the post is appointed.