In subsequent cases, the courts cast the principle underlying the provisions of disclosure in the Indian Evidence Act as a conflict between two conceptions of public interest. This Court held that disclosure of information aids the party to the proceedings. But beyond that, disclosure also serves the public interest in the administration of justice.” 62. In State of Uttar Pradesh v. Raj Narain”, the respondent sought to summon documents in an election petition. The State made a claim of privilege from disclosure of documents. In his concurring opinion in the Constitution Bench, Justice KK Mathew observed that there is a public interest in the impartial administration of justice which can only be secured by the disclosure of relevant and material documents. The learned Judge reaffirmed this proposition by tracing the right to information to Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution: “74. In a Government of responsibility like ours, where all the agents of the public must be responsible for their conduct, there can be but few secrets. The people of this country have a right to know every public act, everything that is done in a public way, by their public functionaries. They are entitled to know the particulars of every public transaction in all its bearing. The right to know, which is derived from the concept of freedom of speech, though not 76 Indian Evidence Act 1872, Section 124 77 See State of Punjab v. Sodhi Sukhdev Singh, [1926 S1CR ]37 1 : (1961) 2 SCR 371 [13] 78 See State of Punjab v. Sodhi Sukhdev Singh, [1926 S1CR ]37 1 : (1961) 2 SCR 371 [Subba Rao J] 79 [1937 S5CR ]33 3 : (1975) 4 SCC 428 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 487 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. absolute, is a factor which should make one wary, when secrecy is claimed for transactions which can, at any rate, have no repercussion on public security.[... ]” 63. This principle was further elucidated in SP Gupta v. Union of India®. The Union of India claimed immunity against the disclosure of the correspondence between the Law Minister, the Chief Justice of the High Court of Delhi, and the Chief Justice of India on the reappointment of Additional Judges. Justice P N Bhagwati while discussing the position of law on claims of non-disclosure, observed that the Constitution guarantees the “right to know” which is necessary to secure “true facts” about the administration of the country. The opinion recognised accountability and transparency of governance as important features of democratic governance. Democratic governance, the learned Judge remarked, is not restricted to voting once in every five years but is a continuous process by which the citizens not merely choose the members to represent themselves but also hold the government accountable for their actions and inactions for which citizens need to possess information®"'. 64. Our discussion indicates that the first phase of the jurisprudence on the right to information in India focussed on the close relationship between the right and open governance.