The serial numbers, names of the candidates and the symbols of the political parties/ candidates are physically pasted on the ballot unit so as to enable the voter to identify the corresponding key/button against the respective candidate and the symbol. The control unit, which is also called the master unit, remains with the polling/presiding officer. Before the ballot unit can be used by a voter, the polling/presiding officer is required to press the ‘BALLOT’ button on the control unit, thereby enabling the voter to cast his vote on the ballot unit. As soon as the voter presses the ‘blue button’ and casts his/her vote on the ballot unit, an LED against the candidate button glows red and the control unit sends the command to the VVPAT. The VVPAT then prints the VVPAT slip comprising of the serial number, candidate name and the symbol. The VVPAT slip, after being printed, is displayed through the glass window which is illuminated for 7 seconds to enable the voter to know and verify the serial number, the candidate and the symbol for whom they have voted. The VVPAT slip then gets cut from the roll and falls into the box/compartment attached to the VVPAT. The fall sensor in the VVPAT then sends a confirmation to the control unit. The control unit records the vote. 18. The control unit, as explained below in some detail, has burnt memory, which is agnostic and does not have the names of the candidates and symbols allotted to the candidates or political parties. As noted earlier, the polling/presiding officer has to activate the EVM by pressing the ‘BALLOT’ button on the control unit. The data stored in the control unit, upon the vote being cast, records and counts the button or the key pressed on the ballot unit. The data, therefore, records the total number of votes as cast by the voters, and the key or the button number on the ballot unit pressed by the voters for casting their vote. After the vote is cast and the control unit has recorded the vote, a loud beep sound confirms the registration of the vote. 19. The EVMs are manufactured and supplied to the ECI by two public sector undertakings, namely, Bharat Electronics Limited15 (which functions under the Ministry of Defence), and Electronic 15 For short, ‘BEL’. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 431 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another Corporation of India Limited16 (which functions under the Department of Atomic Energy).17 The EVMs in use after 2013 are referred to as ‘M3’ EVMs. The EVM setup is designed in a rudimentary fashion and the EVM units are standalone and non-networked, that is, they are unconnectable to any other third-party machine or input source. In case any unauthorised attempt is made to access the microcontroller or memory of the EVM, the Unauthorised Access Detection Mechanism (UADM) disables it permanently. The advanced encryption techniques and strong mutual authentication or reception capability rules out the deciphering of communication between the EVM units and any unauthorised interaction with the EVM.