The adoption of the precautionary principle reflects a paradigm shift from the traditional reactive approach, wherein the environmental regulator responded to apparent environmental hazards. It is a significant shift even from the preventive approach that sought to prevent the 2084 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports environmental damage arising from risks that are bound to actualize in the foreseeable future. On the other hand, the precautionary principle seeks to avoid such future environmental damage which may arise from uncertain eventualities. In other words, the precautionary principle mandates cautiously taking appropriate measures to identify potentially harmful activities even in the face of scientific uncertainty. Precaution, in other words, is the expression of a well-founded fear of the unknown and the unknowable environmental consequences of certain human actions. For a fear to be well-founded, it must emerge from a robust risk analysis of potentially hazardous consequences for environmental health. 32. The 1982 World Charter for Nature first articulated the idea of the precautionary principle in General Principle 11, which postulates the control of activities which might have an impact on nature and the use of the best available technologies that minimize significant risks to nature or other adverse effects. The General Principle 11 recommends a graded approach to varying levels of environmental risks and damage, while instantiating that: i. those activities which are likely to cause irreversible damage to nature shall be avoided; ii. those activities which cause a significant risk to nature shall only be permitted upon exhaustive examination if the proponents of such activities would demonstrate that the expected benefits outweigh the potential damage to nature; and iii. those activities which cause a significant risk to nature but where the potential adverse effects are not fully understood should not be proceeded with; iv. those activities which may disturb nature shall be proceeded only upon ex-ante assessment of their consequences through environmental impact studies and requisite planning to minimize potential adverse effects. 32.1 Thereafter, the principle was enshrined in Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development 1992, which states: “In to protect the environment, the precautionary approach shall be widely applied by States according to their capabilities. Where there are threats of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2085 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.” 32.2 It also finds expression in Article 10(6) of the CPB to the CBD, which states that: “6. Lack of scientific certainty due to insufficient relevant scientific information and knowledge regarding the extent of the potential adverse effects of a living modified organism on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity in the Party of import, taking also into account risks to human health, shall not prevent that Party from taking a decision, as appropriate, with regard to the import of the living modified organism in question as referred to in paragraph 3 above, in to avoid or minimize such potential adverse effects.” 32.3 While Section 20 of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 exhorts the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to take precaution into account in passing s, this Court’s jurisprudence, as explained below, had long recognized and deepened the precautionary principle.