xx xx xx [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1025 Bharti Cellular Limited (Now Bharti Airtel Limited) v. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Circle 57, Kolkata and Another 11.2 During the term of this Agreement, the FRANCHISEE is authorised to use BML’s trademarks, logos and trade names only in connection with the FRANCHISEE’s use of such trademarks, logos and trade names as set out in this Agreement. The FRANCHISEE’s use of such trademarks, logos and trade names shall be in accordance with the guidelines issued by BML. Nothing herein shall give the FRANCHISEE any right, title or interest in such trademarks, logos or trade names, in the event of termination of this Agreement, however caused, the FRANCHISEE’S right to use such Trademarks, logos or trade names shall cease forthwith. The FRANCHISEE agrees not to attach any additional trademarks, logos or trade designation to the Trademarks of BML. 11.3 For as long as this Agreement continues in force but not thereafter, the FRANCHISEE may identify itself as an authorised FRANCHISEE of BML, but shall not use the Trademarks, logos and trade names of BML as part of its proprietorship name/corporate/partnership name or otherwise indicate to the public that it is an affiliate of BML. xx xx xx 11.5 BML shall allow the FRANCHISEE to use its logo to be displayed on the sign board to be placed at the FRANCHISEE’s outlet(s) and on the each memos and/or official business documents issued by the FRANCHISEE towards the services effected from the outlet(s). However, the intellectual property rights associated with Trademarks, logos and trade names are and shall remain the sole property of BML. xx xx xx 14.1 BML shall not be liable to the FRANCHISEE or any other party by virtue of the termination of this Agreement for any reason whatsoever, including but not limited to any claim for loss of profits or compensation or prospective profits or on account of any expenditure, investments, leases, capital improvements or any other commitments 1026 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports made by the FRANCHISEE in connection with the business made in reliance upon or by virtue of FRANCHISEE’s appointment under this Agreement. It is expressly agreed that no compensation whatsoever shall be payable by BML to the FRANCHISEE upon the termination of this Agreement. 14.2 Upon receipt of any notice of termination of this Agreement the FRANCHISEE shall conduct all its operations until the effective date of termination mentioned in such notice in the manner which is consistent with the obligation of the FRANCHISEE hereunder and the FRANCHISEE shall not prejudice the reputation or goodwill of BML and the interests of the subscribers in any manner whatsoever. 14.3 Upon termination of this Agreement for any reason, the FRANCHISEE shall cease to represent himself as the authorised FRANCHISEE of BML and shall not act in a manner, which is likely to cause confusion or to deceive the public. The FRANCHISEE shall promptly remove all Trademarks, signs, words, trademarks (sic), logos and any other representations connected with BML.