Building is more durable. If the contention of the assessee is accepted, virtually all such buildings would be considered to be a plant and the distinction which the legislature has made between “building” and “machinery” or “plant” would be obliterated. 63. Learned counsel for the assessee submitted that the words “plant” and “building” are not mutually exclusive. “Plant” may include building in a certain set of circumstances and, therefore, applying the functional tests the assessee would be entitled to depreciation under the head “it is more beneficial to it”. He submitted that in the modern era, theatre building and hotel building are integral part of operation for carrying out such business and, therefore, such building should be considered as a “plant”. Ultimately, in paragraph 67, this Court held thus: “67. In the result, it is held that the building used for running of a hotel or carrying on cinema business cannot be held to be a plant because: (1) The scheme of Section 32, as discussed above, clearly envisages separate depreciation for a building, machinery and plant, furniture and fittings etc. The word “plant” is given inclusive meaning under Section 43(3) which nowhere includes buildings. The Rules prescribing the rates of depreciation specifically provide grant of depreciation on buildings, furniture and fittings, machinery and plant and ships. Machinery and plant include cinematograph films and other items and the building is further given meaning to include roads, bridges, culverts, wells and tubewells. (2) In the case of Taj Mahal Hotel [(1971) 3 SCC 550 : (1971) 82 ITR 44] this Court has observed that business of a hotelier is carried on by adopting building or premises in suitable way. Meaning thereby building for a hotel is not an apparatus or adjunct for [2024] 10 S.C.R. 843 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. running of a hotel. The Court did not proceed to hold that a building in which the hotel was run was itself a plant, otherwise the Court would not have gone into the question whether the sanitary fittings used in bathroom was plant. (3) For a building used for a hotel, specific provision is made granting additional depreciation under Section 32(1)(v) of the Act. (4) Barclay, Curle & Co. case [(1969) 1 WLR 675 : (1969) 1 All ER 732 : (1970) 76 ITR 62 : 1969 SC 30 : 45 TC 221 (HL)] decided by the House of Lords pertains to a dry dockyard which itself was functioning as a plant, that is to say, structure for the plant was constructed so that dry dock can operate. It operated as an essential part in the operations which took place in getting a ship into the dock, holding it securely and then returning it to the river. The dock as a complete unit contained a large amount of equipment without which the dry dock could not perform its function. (5) Even in England, courts have repeatedly held that the meaning to the word “plant” given in various decisions is artificial and imprecise in application, that is to use the words of Lord Buckley, “it is now beyond doubt that the word ‘plant’ is used in the relevant section in an artificial and largely judge-made sense”.