Digital Supreme Court Reports (4) Where an application for withdrawal is under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1), the committee shall consider the application, within seven days of its receipt. (5) Where the application referred to in sub-regulation (4) is approved by the committee with ninety percent voting share, the resolution professional shall submit such application along with the approval of the committee, to the Adjudicating Authority on behalf of the applicant, within three days of such approval. (6) The Adjudicating Authority may, by , approve the application submitted under sub-regulation (3) or (5). (7) Where the application is approved under sub-regulation (6), the applicant shall deposit an amount, towards the actual expenses incurred for the purposes referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-regulation (2) till the date of approval by the Adjudicating Authority, as determined by the interim resolution professional or resolution professional, as the case may be, within three days of such approval, in the bank account of the corporate debtor, failing which the bank guarantee received under sub-regulation (2) shall be invoked, without prejudice to any other action permissible against the applicant under the Code.” 60. Regulation 30A (1) now provides for the procedure to make an application for withdrawal before the NCLT under Section 12A, both before and after the constitution of the CoC. Sub-clause (a) of Regulation 30A (1) states that in cases where the CoC has not been constituted, the applicant may place an application for withdrawal before the NCLT, through the IRP. Similarly, sub-clause (b) of Regulation 30A (1) states that in cases where the CoC is constituted, the applicant may place an application for withdrawal before the NCLT, through the IRP or the RP, as the case may be. In essence, at both stages – before and after the constitution of the CoC – the application for withdrawal may only be made through the person appointed to oversee the insolvency proceedings, i.e. the IRP or the RP. 61. The proviso to Regulation 30A (1) provides that when the application is made after the CoC has been constituted and after the invitation for [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1841 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. expression of interest has been issued, the applicant shall state the reasons for withdrawal at this stage. In essence, the regulation in its amended form, deviates from its earlier form by also responding to the decision of this Court in Brilliant Alloy Private Limited (supra). Unlike the unamended regulation, the regulation acknowledges the possibility of withdrawal even after the invitation for expression has been issued. However, it mandates that an application for withdrawal in such cases must be accompanied by reasons. 62. Regulation 30A (2) provides that the application must be made in the manner prescribed in Form FA of Schedule-I,45 and must be accompanied by a bank guarantee towards the specified expenses. Regulation 30A(3) provides that in cases where the application for withdrawal is moved before the constitution of the CoC, the IRP shall submit the application to the NCLT on behalf of the applicant within three days of receipt.