(3) If the purchase or lessee pays the purchase money or other sum which he is ed to pay under the decree within the period referred to in sub-section (1), the court may, on application made in the same suit, award the purchaser or lessee such further relief as he may be entitled to, including in appropriate cases all or any of the following reliefs, namely:— (a) the execution of a proper conveyance or lease by the vendor or lessor; (b) the delivery of possession, or partition and separate possession, of the property on the execution of such conveyance or lease. (4) No separate suit in respect of any relief which may be claimed under this section shall lie at the instance of a vendor, purchaser, lessor or lessee, as the case may be. (5) The costs of any proceedings under this section shall be in the discretion of the court. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 7 Ishwar (Since Deceased) Thr. Lrs & Ors. v. Bhim Singh & Anr. 11. We have heard Shri Subhasish Bhowmick for the appellant(s); Mr. Devendra Singh for the respondents; and have perused the materials on record. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT(S) 12. The learned counsel for the appellants submitted: (i) The Execution Court held no jurisdiction to extend the time for depositing the balance consideration as the decree under execution was passed by the appellate court. (ii) The decree was executable on payment of balance sale consideration within two months. No application for extension of time to make deposit was made within the aforesaid period, therefore the Court had no power to extend the time for deposit. (iii) The Execution Court committed grave error in extending the time to make deposit of the balance amount after four years of the appellate court’s decree, when, otherwise, it was to be paid within two months from the date of the decree. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS 13. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondents submitted: (i) The execution application was filed in the same Court where the original suit was instituted, therefore, the Court had jurisdiction to extend the time to make deposit; (ii) The decree under execution did not specifically fix the mode of payment and there was no direction to deposit the balance consideration in Court, therefore, except to file for execution of the decree and seek permission of the Court to deposit the balance consideration, there was no other method by which decree holder could have paid the balance amount, more so, when the debtor was not interested in abiding by the decree; (iii) The – debtor(s) were offered balance consideration within time, and the execution application was also filed within time, but, instead of executing the sale deed, the – debtor(s) chose to prefer a second appeal before the High Court. Not only that, after the second appeal was dismissed, the -debtor(s) preferred a Special Leave Petition (in short 8 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports SLP) before this Court, which, too, was dismissed on 07.11.2016.