If there is suppression of material facts or twisted facts have been placed before the High Court then it will be fully justified in refusing to entertain a petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution. This Court referred to the of Scrutton, L.J. in R. v. Kensington Income Tax Commissioners [(1917) 1 KB 486 (CA)] , and observed: (Prestige Lights Ltd. case [(2007) 8 SCC 449] , SCC p. 462, para 35) In exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution, the High Court will always keep in mind the conduct of the party who is invoking such jurisdiction. If the applicant does not disclose full facts or suppresses relevant materials or is otherwise guilty of misleading the court, then the Court may dismiss the action without adjudicating the matter on merits. The rule has been evolved in larger public interest to deter unscrupulous litigants from abusing the process of court by deceiving it. The very basis of the writ jurisdiction rests in disclosure of true, complete and correct facts. If the material facts are not candidly stated or are suppressed or are distorted, the very functioning of the writ courts would become impossible.” 7. The principle of compassionate appointment, as we have noticed above, has been put in place to ameliorate suffering that is cast upon members of a family upon the sudden death of the earning member. An equally well-recognized principle is that compassionate appointment cannot be claimed as a matter of right. It is therefore clear that a person, claiming an appointment on such ground, has to demonstrate his relationship to the deceased person and eligibility for appointment. The same cannot be done without placing all relevant documents before the competent authority. The Tribunal as also the authority has recorded a categorical finding that the respondent- employees had not submitted any document to establish their claim and submitted forged and bogus documents. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 17 Union of India & Ors. Etc. v. Prohlad Guha Etc. 8. On the aspect of non-compliance of the principles of natural justice, we find that the authority had issued show-cause notices to the respondent-employees, to which they responded. It was subsequent thereto, upon finding the responses to be unsatisfactory, they were removed from the service. On approaching the Tribunal and receiving favorable s, their appeals against such dismissal were heard and acted upon by the authority, with the dismissal being confirmed. Before the High Court, it was averred that the respondent-employees were not given an opportunity to prove their innocence, nor were any documents, on the basis of which the impugned of dismissal was passed, provided to them. All of this, it was submitted, flies against the protection envisaged under Article 311 of the Constitution of India. 9. It is difficult to find substance in the averments made. The respondent-employees have, at every stage, actively participated in the adjudication process of their alleged improper and illegal appointments. The Tribunal records that they did not produce any document, as they were asked to, instead they questioned the procedure adopted.