xiii. Steps for continuing education of lawyers involved in pre-litigation assistance and those associated with the Legal Aid Defence Counsel set-up should be provided by Legal Services Authorities. Apart from this, it should also be ensured that adequate law books and access to online libraries are available to lawyers engaged at the pre-litigation assistance stage and those involved with the Legal Defence Counsel set-up. xiv. Periodic reports should be submitted by the DLSAs to the SLSAs and the SLSAs to the NALSA, if not already done. NALSA should digitise the whole process whereby at the central level NALSA can, on the click of a button, get details of the updates done by SLSAs and DLSAs on regular basis. xv. The Union of India and the State Governments shall continue to extend their cooperation and assistance to the Legal Services Authorities at different levels for the effective implementation of the measures taken by them. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1801 Suhas Chakma v. Union of India & Ors. xvi. We direct the Registry to forward a copy of this to all the High Courts in the country. The High Courts may consider the feasibility of issuing a practice direction to the effect that all courts including the High Court while furnishing the copy of the of conviction/dismissal/reversal of acquittal/dismissal of bail applications, may append a coversheet to the informing the convict about the availability of free legal aid facilities for pursuing higher remedies. The coversheet may set out the contact address and phone number of the legal aid committee attached to the court for seeking appropriate guidance. Similar information may be made available in the notices issued to the respondents by the concerned courts in appeals against acquittal. The High Courts may on their webpage carry information about the legal aid facilities available in the State. 35. We place on record our appreciation for the assistance rendered by Mr. Vijay Hansaria, learned Amicus Curiae. 36. We also place on record our appreciation for Ms. Rashmi Nandakumar, learned counsel for her effective presentation of the case before this Court and for filing detailed written submissions with the relevant data. We grant liberty to NALSA to move appropriate applications in this matter in case any further directions are required in furtherance of the goals and objectives set out hereinabove. Result of the case: Directions issued. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey