90,000/- against excess interest charged by the bank. Ld. Senior Counsel submits that the purported claim is ex-facie barred by section 21(a) of the Consumer Protection Act, which mandates the Commission to entertain claims only above Rs. 1 crore. More-so, the alleged concern “about an excessive exorbitant rate of interest being charged by the Respondent no. 2 and other similarly placed banks. But not getting proper guidance about it, hence could not challenge grievances about excessive rate of interest on credit card facilities” is wholly insufficient to constitute an unfair trade practice. Further, the pleading raised by the said Complainant, is improper and devoid of any material particulars to sustain a complaint. It not only fails to indicate how the concerned Respondent has suffered a deficiency of service; it does not disclose the date of purported default or alleged damage, or any particular date/rate of interest charged from him due to such default. 5 Pratibha Pratisthan Vs Canara Bank (2017) 3 SCC 712 1498 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 22. It has been further submitted that the consumer complaint was purportedly filed in a representative capacity by the Respondents, ought to have complied with the provisions of 1 Rule VIII of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 as mandated under Section 13(6) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986.6 In terms of Section 13(6) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, it was necessary for the Complainants to take necessary permission of the National Commission to sustain a complaint in a representative capacity. Our attention is drawn to an application filed by the Complainant, under section 13(6) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, and it has been brough to our notice that: (a) No application seeking such permission to file a Complaint in a representative capacity was filed up till the point of conclusion of arguments and reservation of 22.05.2008. (b) Even otherwise, the application (undated) filed by the Complainant was done so subsequently, upon the reservation of the Judgement. (c) The application was never adjudicated upon by the Commission, and no attempt had been made by the Complainants to file review against the final in this regard. 23. It is stated that the Complaint could not have been filed in a representative capacity on behalf of all credit card holders across the spectrum, as only a handful of banks were impleaded as a party to the Complaint. Even otherwise, no notice of any kind whatsoever was issued to any other bank by the Hon’ble Commission for adequate representation, so as to further treat the complaint in a representative capacity. The scheduled banks notified by the Reserve Bank of India are engaged in the business of credit card, hence any representation at the behest of other banks, or directions to other banks, could not be done in a piecemeal manner. Most pertinently, all banks come under the regulation and supervision of the Reserve Bank of India, which is the statutory authority empowered to regularize, notify and further direct guidelines for the functioning of these Banks.