Digital Supreme Court Reports want to confirm your service’. The Respondent-University, being a statutory body, any such conduct would tantamount to an arbitrary and unreasonable exercise of power, apart from being unfair. The discretion vested in the Executive Council should be exercised in a fair and non-arbitrary manner. It cannot be based on the whim and caprice of the decision-making authority. If asked to justify, the Executive Council must have good reasons to defend the exercise of power. In this case, alas, there are none. The resolution of the Executive Council denying confirmation and preferring readvertisement is delightfully vague and offers no justification. The justification desperately attempted in the counter affidavit to defend the decision has, as demonstrated above, come a cropper. 28. In Somesh Thapliyal (supra) it was held as under:- “49. In our considered view, once the Appellants have gone through the process of selection provided under the scheme of the 1973 Act regardless of the fact whether the post is temporary or permanent in nature, at least their appointment is substantive in character and could be made permanent as and when the post is permanently sanctioned by the competent authority. 50. In the instant case, after the teaching posts in the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences have been duly sanctioned and approved by the University Grants Commission of which a detailed reference has been made, supported by the letter sent to the University Grants Commission dated 14-8-2020 indicating the fact that the present Appellants are working against the teaching posts of Associate Professor/Assistant Professor sanctioned in compliance of the norms of the AICTE/PCI and are appointed as per the requirements, qualifications and selection procedure in accordance with the 1973 Act and proposed by the University, such incumbents shall be treated to be appointed against the sanctioned posts for all practical purposes.” 29. Mehar Fatima Hussain (supra), while following Somesh Thapliyal (supra), held on the facts of that case that where appointment was after undergoing a regular selection process and the incumbents possess the relevant qualification, they should have been continued [2024] 8 S.C.R. 865 Maitreyee Chakraborty v. The Tripura University & Ors. on the posts merged with the regular establishment of the University instead of adopting a fresh selection procedure. Further in that case the University’s action of not continuing the incumbents and starting a fresh selection process was held to be unjust, arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Directions to continue the employment were given. On the facts of the present case too we are inclined to adopt a similar course. 30. Considering the facts obtaining in the present case, we are inclined to hold that, in the absence of any material indicating unsatisfactory performance, in the ordinary course of things, fair and just exercise of power would require that the Appellant be confirmed against the vacancy since there was no more a lien being exercised by Dr. Praveen Kumar Mishra. The reasoning given by the learned Single Judge and of the Division Bench, as demonstrated above, are fallacious.