[2024] 5 S.C.R. 879 : 2024 INSC 382 Jatinder Kumar Sapra v. Anupama Sapra (Civil Appeal No. 6088 of 2024) 06 May 2024 [Vikram Nath and Satish Chandra Sharma,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, was it a fit case for exercising jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India and pass a decree of divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage? Headnotes† Factors to be considered by the Supreme Court while exercising jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India and pass a decree for divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage – Explained: Held: Both the Family Court and the High Court of Punjab and Haryana had dismissed the petition instituted by the Appellant under Section 13(1)(ia) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, seeking dissolution of marriage by way of a decree of divorce. For passing a decree of divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, the Supreme Court must be fully satisfied and convinced that the marriage is totally unworkable and beyond salvation. For this, the Supreme Court must consider the period of time the parties cohabited after marriage; when the parties had last cohabited; the nature of allegations made by the parties against each other and their family members; the s passed in legal proceedings from time to time; cumulative impact on the personal relationship; whether attempts were made to settle the disputes by intervention of court or through mediation, and when was the last attempt made. But these factors are not exhaustive but are rather illustrative. Reliance placed on Shilpa Sailesh v. Varun Sreenivasan, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 544. [Paras 2 and 5] Case for exercising jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India and passing a decree of divorce on the * Author 880 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage – Whether made out? Held: In the instant case, there was no possibility of the parties residing together and/or arrive at an amicable settlement. The parties married on 14.10.1991 and last cohabited in January 2002. Out of the wedlock, two children were born in 1993 and 1996 respectively. The Appellant alleged that the Respondent ill – treated the Appellant and constantly acted against him. The Respondent alleged cruelty and torture at the hands of the Appellant. Both their children are majors now and are gainfully employed. Thus, the facts on record establish beyond doubt that the marriage between the parties has broken down and that there is no possibility of the parties cohabiting ever in the future. Therefore, the Supreme Court considered it to be a fit case for exercising its jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution and passed a decree of divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage. [Paras 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8] Permanent Alimony payable when decree of divorce passed in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution: Held: The Appellant has been gainfully employed by various multinational corporations previously and is presently endowed with a respectable estate.