The appeal preferred by AO2 was accepted whereas, the appeal preferred by the appellant (AO1) was rejected by dated 2nd August, 2022 which is subjected to challenge in this appeal by special leave. Submissions on behalf of the appellant: - 11. Shri Dama Sheshadri Naidu, learned senior counsel representing the appellant, vehemently and fervently contended that the entire prosecution case is false and fabricated. No convincing evidence was led by the prosecution to prove the factum of demand of bribe by the AO1 (appellant). G.Ramachander (PW-10) DySP, who was 646 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports also the Trap Laying Officer (hereinafter being referred to as ‘TLO’) did not make any effort to get the factum of demand of bribe verified by means of any independent or tangible evidence. 12. Shri Naidu submitted that the prosecution failed to prove that the appellant (AO1) had ever demanded any bribe from the complainant (PW-1) because neither did the TLO (PW-10) make any endeavour to get the telephonic conversation between the complainant (PW-1) and the appellant (AO1) recorded nor did he make any attempt to place a recording device on the person of the complainant (PW-1) during the trap proceeding so as to verify the factum of demand of bribe. Furthermore, other than the interested witness i.e., PW-2, no independent witness was directed by the TLO to overhear the conversation which took place between the complainant (PW-1) and the appellant (AO1) on the day of the trap. 13. Shri Naidu urged that even the allegation of acceptance of illegal gratification by the appellant (AO1) is surrounded in a cloud of dubiety. In to buttress these submissions, Shri Naidu drew the attention of the Court to the following admissions as appearing in the cross-examination of the complainant, Mukka Ramesh (PW-1): - “We ed coffee took ½ an hour for servicing. I removed the amount and about to give the amount to the AO. I did not give it to his hand. The accused refused and asked me to come downstairs. After ing coffee the coffee being served we 3 took coffee. The Accused No.1 started to going out and we follow the accused at that time I kept the amount in my pocket and while going out from coffee inn the amount was with me. We have to get down the same ramp by 50ft. We have to take turns After the accused 1 going out I found the bag of him in the hotel 1 picked it up I handed over the bag to the accused 1 after crossing 2 tables in the hotel. A1 was going to since I paid the bill of the hotel I was to little bit late to follow AO.1. We have to again pass the ramp down the cellar by about 50ft. Where there are two different stands for parking motor cycles and four wheelers. The generators are situated near to the parking stand of two wheelers. The accused came on two wheeler I asked the accused 1 to show the papers.