Here is a case where the court upon application of judicial mind accorded its approval to the Appellant’s arrest for which necessary warrant was issued. There was thus no occasion for the arresting police officer to form an opinion regarding the existence of valid reasons of arrest. The competent court having undertaken such a task, the police officer cannot be expected to sit over the of the court. 34. Still further, Section 41(1) opens with the expression that ‘any police officer may arrest without an from a Magistrate or without a warrant’. It necessarily means that where a Magistrate has issued an , the police officer stands absolved form his statutory obligation of forming an opinion. Consequently, it becomes apparent that the variables and conditions ensconced in Section 41(1)(b)(ii) of the CrPC would cease to apply in the present context, given the granted by the Trial Court prior. 35. Lastly, we are inclined to agree with the explanation given by the Learned ASG that the reference to Section 41(2) of the CrPC in the High Court’s appears to have been included inadvertently and is a typographical error. Both parties, during their submissions, have rightly clarified that Section 41(2) which pertains to the procedure 704 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of arrest in non-cognizable offences, does not apply to the facts and circumstances here. 36. Having considered the CBI’s compliance with Section 41A of the CrPC and the inapplicability of Section 41(1)(b)(ii) of the CrPC, we are thus of the view that the Appellant’s arrest does not suffer with any procedural infirmity. Consequently, the plea regarding non- compliance of these provisions, merits rejection. ed accordingly. B. Whether the Appellant is entitled to the relief of regular bail? 37. Adverting to the question of granting bail to the Appellant, it may be noticed that the High Court has viewed that due to the complexity and web of facts and the material on record, it was crucial to comprehensively determine the role of the Appellant in the alleged conspiracy and then only decide his entitlement to bail. The High Court further observed that considering the charge sheet had been filed before the Trial Court, the Appellant should first seek relief from that court. 38. The evolution of bail jurisprudence in India underscores that the ‘issue of bail is one of liberty, justice, public safety and burden of the public treasury, all of which insist that a developed jurisprudence of bail is integral to a socially sensitised judicial process’.4 The principle has further been expanded to establish that the prolonged incarceration of an accused person, pending trial, amounts to an unjust deprivation of personal liberty. This Court in Union of India v. K.A. Najeeb has expanded this principle even in a case under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (hereinafter ‘UAPA’) notwithstanding the statutory embargo contained in Section 43-D(5) of that Act, laying down that the legislative policy against the grant of bail will melt down where there is no likelihood of trial being completed within a reasonable time.5 The courts would invariably bend towards ‘liberty’ with a flexible approach towards an undertrial, save and except when the release of such person is likely to shatter societal aspirations, 4 Gudikanti Narasimhulu v. Public Prosecutor (1978) 1 SCC 240 5 Union of India v. K.A.