No court can come to a finding that any caste or any tribe is a scheduled caste or scheduled tribe. Scheduled caste is a caste as notified under Article 366(25). A notification is issued by the President under Article 341 as a result of an elaborate enquiry. The object of Article 341 is to provide protection to the members of Scheduled Castes having regard to the economic and educational backwardness from which they suffer. Per Methew, J. 82. The word “caste” in Article 16(2) does not include “scheduled caste”. The definition of “Scheduled Castes” in Article 366(24) means “such castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within such castes, races, or tribes as are deemed under Article 341 to be Scheduled Castes for the purposes of this Constitution.” This shows that it is by virtue of the notification of the President that the Scheduled Castes come into being. Though the members of the Scheduled Castes are drawn from castes, races or tribes, they attain a new status by virtue of the Presidential notification. Moreover, though the members of tribe might be included in Scheduled Castes, tribe as such is not mentioned in Article 16(2).” Per Krishna Iyer, J. “135. We may clear the clog of Article 16(2) as it stems from a confusion about caste in the terminology of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. This latter expression has been defined in Articles 341 and 342. A bare reading brings out the quintessential concept that they (sic there) are no castes in the Hindu fold but an amalgam of castes, races, groups, tribes, communities 1624 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or parts thereof found on investigation to be the lowliest and in need of massive State aid and notified as such by the President. To confuse this backwardmost social composition with castes is to commit a constitutional error, misled by a compendious appellation. So that, to protect harijans is not to prejudice any caste but to promote citizen solidarity. Article 16(2) is out of the way and to extend protective discrimination to this mixed bag of tribes, races, groups, communities and non-castes outside the four-fold Hindu division is not to compromise with the acceleration of castelessness enshrined in the sub-article. The discerning sense of the Indian Corpus Juris has generally regarded scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, not as caste but as a large backward group deserving of societal compassion.” 47. The above observations made in N.M. Thomas leaves no room of doubt that “Scheduled Castes” are not a caste within the ordinary meaning of caste. It is by virtue of the notification of the President under Article 341 that the “Scheduled Castes” come into being. Though, the members of the Scheduled Castes are drawn from different castes, races or tribes, they attain a new Special Status by virtue of the Presidential notification. A bare reading of Article 341 brings out the quintessential concept that “Scheduled Castes” is an amalgam of castes, races, groups, tribes, communities or parts thereof, and is a homogenous group, and that once notified by Presidential List, they acquire Special Status of “Scheduled Castes” which cannot be varied except by the Parliament by law.