[2024] 11 S.C.R. 1985 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 10. By letter, dated July 10, 1848, the Secretary, Calcutta Corresponding Committee, informed Rev. Vaux that they were looking out for a prominent person to commence missionary operations by opening a School “which is indeed a common way of beginning a Mission.” In a letter, dated December 22, 1848, written from Bhagalpur it was stated: “The Society will provide for the Missionary’s salary and trust that local funds will provide a residence for him of a suitable kind. All other Mission requirements, such as school teachers etc. should be left to be provided on the spot.” 11. Then there are minutes of the resolutions passed at a meeting held on October 24, 1849, by the Parent Committee and another resolution, dated October 25, 1851, of the Local Committee, to raise funds, and to determine upon disbursements with the advice of the Missionary to promote the objects of the Mission. In the minutes of the meeting, dated October 25, 1851, it is recorded that a statement of account of receipts and disbursements up to September 30, 1851, including expenses of a boys’ school and salary of masters, “hire of school rooms and furniture” and expenses of a girls’ school “including cost of working materials up to date” was submitted. xxx 15. It appears from this correspondence and the resolutions and the discussions at the meetings that a permanent home for the Boys’ School was set up in 1854 on property acquired by local Christians and in buildings erected from funds collected by them. The institution along with the land on which it was built and the balance of money from the local fund were handed over to the Church Missionary Society in 1856. It is also true that substantial assistance was obtained from the Church Missionary Society, London. But on that account, it cannot be said that the School was not established by the local Christians with their own efforts and was not an educational institution established by a minority.” 1986 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 148. Thus, this Court affirmed that the protection afforded by Article 30 extends to institutions established before the Constitution following the dictum in Kerala Education Bill [supra]. The Court scrutinized why the institution in question merits recognition as a minority institution, with particular emphasis on examining whether the minority was predominantly involved in its establishment. 149. In D.A.V. College v. State of Punjab, (1971) 2 SCC 269, the Court expressly notes that the institution in question was established by a community which was minority within the confines of the State of Punjab. Similarly, in Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society v. State of Gujarat, (1974) 1 SCC 717, J. H.R. Khanna’s opinion notes that the college in question was established, at the time of its inception, by the minority. Similarly, in Gandhi Faiz-e-am-College v. University of Agra, (1975) 2 SCC 283, the Court, while extending rights under Article 30, notes that the institution claiming protection was expressly established by the minority.