However, this Court is unable to subscribe to the expansive view adopted in the minority authored by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy and subsequently relied on by this Court in Sanjeev Coke. Not every resource owned by an individual can be considered a ‘material resource of the community’ merely because it meets the qualifier of ‘material needs’. e. The inquiry about whether the resource in question falls within the ambit of Article 39(b) must be context-specific and subject to a non- exhaustive list of factors such as the nature of the resource and its characteristics; the impact of the resource on the well-being of the community; the scarcity of the resource; and the consequences of such a resource being concentrated in the hands of private players. The Public Trust Doctrine evolved by this Court may also help identity resources which fall within the ambit of the phrase “material resource of the community”. f. The term ‘distribution’ has a wide connotation. The various forms of distribution which can be adopted by the state cannot be exhaustively detailed. However, it may include the vesting of the concerned resources in the state or nationalisation. In the specific case, the Court must determine whether the distribution ‘subserves the common good’.” 7.5 My opinion relates to the conclusion in sub-paras(d), (e) and (f) of the above conclusions, while I am in complete agreement with sub-para (a) and I have certain observations to make on the s of this Court in Ranganatha Reddy, Sanjeev Coke, Abu Kavur Bai and Basantibai on the merits of the said decision. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 209 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. (i) In sub-para (d) while holding that theoretically the phrase “material resources of the community” may include privately owned resources, it is also opined that not every resource owned by an individual can be considered a “material resource of the community” merely because it meets the qualifier of “material needs”. (ii) In sub-para (e), while considering the question whether a resource falls within the ambit of Article 39(b), the factors to be considered have been delineated. (iii) In sub-para (f), it is observed that vesting of the concerned resources in the state or nationalisation is covered within the connotation of the term “distribution” which has a wide connotation and can take various forms. 7.6 My immediate answer to the aforesaid conclusions is that “material resources” can, in the first instance be divided into two basic categories, namely: (i) state owned resources and, (ii) privatelyowned resources. There can be no contra-opinion to the fact that all state-owned resources, i.e., resources which belong to the State, are essentially “material resources of the community” which are held in public trust by the State. The State can also distribute the same in accordance with its socio-economic policy and in accordance with law aligned to the object of Article 39(b) of the Constitution. However, with regard to the “material resources” which belong to the private owners, how do such resources get qualified as “material resources of the community”?