93 [202 0SC3R ]113 6 : (2003) 4 SCC 399 [122] [2024] 2 S.C.R. 495 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Voters have a right to information which would enable them to cast their votes rationally and intelligently because voting is one of the foremost forms of democratic participation; b. In ADR (supra), this Court observed that while the disclosure of information may violate the right to privacy of candidates and their families, such information must be disclosed because it furthers public interest.%* The opinion of Justice Venkatarama Reddi in PUCL (supra) also followed the same line of reasoning. Justice M B Shah writing for himself and Justice D M Dharmadhikari held that the right to privacy would not be infringed because information about whether a candidate is involved in a criminal case is a matter of public record. Similarly, the assets or income are normally required to be disclosed under the provisions of the Income Tax Act; and c. The voters have a right to the disclosure of information which is “essential” for choosing the candidate for whom a vote should be cast. The learned Judges in PUCL (supra) differed to the extent of what they considered “essential” information for exercising the choice of voting. 78. While relying on the s of this Court in ADR (supra) and PUCL (supra) the petitioners argue that non-disclosure of information on the funding of political parties is violative of the right to information under Article 19(1)(a). This Court needs to consider the following two issues to answer the question: a. Whethetrhe requirements of disclosure of information about “candidates” can be extended to “political parties”; and b. If the answer to (a) above is in the affirmative, whether information on the funding of political parties is “essential” for exercising choice on voting. c. The focal point of the electoral process: candidate or political party 79. The decisions in ADR (supra) and PUCL (supra) recognise the right to information of a voter about candidates, which enables them to 94 In ADR (supra), this Court notes that such information would enable voters to determine if the candidate is corrupt and would further openness in democracy. [Paragraph 41]. 496 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cast their vote in an effective manner. The relief which was granted by this Court in PUCL (supra) and ADR (supra) was restricted to the disclosure of information about candidates contesting the election because of the limited nature of the reliefs sought. The ratio decidendi of the two s of this Court is that voters have a right to receive information which is essential for them to cast their votes. This Court has to first analyse if the ‘political party’ is a relevant ‘political unit’ in the electoral process to answer the question whether funding details of political parties are essential information for the voter to possess. 80. The Constitution of India did not make a reference to political parties when it was adopted.