These 258 Article 21, The Constitution of India. 1602 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports interconnected rights form the foundation for ensuring that marriage is a consensual partnership rather than a coercive arrangement, particularly when addressing the issue of child marriage. 174. Girls who are married off early are not only denied their childhood but are also forced into social isolation on account of being cutoff from their natal family, friends and other support systems. They are left to the mercies of their marital home and in-laws and denied their innocence which is native to a meaningful childhood experience. Boys who are married early are forced to take up more responsibilities and are pressured to play the role of a provider to the family, earlier in life. Patriarchy requires members of a marital union to play specific roles. It forces men to play the public role in a marriage and fend for the family by being responsible for its economic and occupational development. Both sexes are adversely affected by forced and early marriage. 175. In India, marriage has traditionally been a religious ceremony organised by the families of the bride and groom. The union is looked at as an integration of the two families and the object of facilitating an organically compatible relationship between the bride and the groom is inconsequential. The mandate to recreate a patriarchal family structure is tied to social norms and expectations. One of the primary manifestations of this is the control over sexuality. While social norms rooted in a patriarchal mindset seek to control the sexuality of all persons, its nexus with child marriage is undeniable. 176. Patriarchy offends the most basic rights of people by creating a hierarchy-based of subjugation and static power distribution in society. When an institution of patriarchy operates, it never denies rights in a unidimensional way. The frontal assault of patriarchal institutions is in, all at once, denying any deviance and valuing some over others. In the instance of child marriage, the right to sexuality of a person is systematically dismantled. The assault starts with the sexualisation of the child at a tender age. As we have stated above, marriage is an institution with legal standing in which sexual conduct is legitimised and promoted by the State and society. Marrying in childhood has the effect of objectifying the child. The practice of child marriage imposes mature burdens on children who are not physically or mentally prepared to comprehend the significance of marriage. When women are forced into marriages to protect their ‘chastity’ and ‘virginity’ she is denied her right to sexuality, bodily autonomy and the freedom to make choices for herself as she sees fit. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1603 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 177. The minor is then boxed with the expectation of compulsory heterosexuality. The ability of a person to experience sexual desire organically and to navigate their choice in intimacy is effaced at the altar of tradition and social norm.