They, therefore, submitted that the accused are entitled to an acquittal and the impugned deserves to be set aside. Submissions on behalf of Respondent-State:- 19. Per contra, Ms. Archana Pathak Dave, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent-State vehemently opposed the submissions advanced by the learned counsel representing the accused-appellants. She submitted that the High Court, after thorough and apropos appreciation of the substantial and convincing circumstantial evidence led by the prosecution has recorded unimpeachable findings holding the accused guilty of the offences. She thus implored the Court to dismiss the appeals and affirm the of the High Court. Discussion:- 20. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at bar and thoroughly perused the impugned minutely and the evidence available on record. 21. Two fundamental issues are presented for adjudication in these appeals:- (i) The scope of interference by High Court in an appeal challenging acquittal of the accused by the trial Court; (ii) The standard of proof required to bring home charges in a case based purely on circumstantial evidence. 22. It is not in dispute that the prosecution did not lead any direct evidence so as to bring home the charges against the accused and the entire case of prosecution is based on circumstantial evidence. 1186 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 23. The principles required to bring home the charges in a case based purely on circumstantial evidence have been crystalized by this Court in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra, (1984) 4 SCC 116. The following five golden rules were laid down in the above : - “(1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn must or should be and not merely “may be”, fully established. (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.” 24. The principles that govern the scope of interference by the High Court in exercise of appellate jurisdiction while dealing with an appeal against acquittal under Section 378(1)(b) CrPC were reiterated by this Court recently in the case of H.D. Sundara and Others v. State of Karnataka, (2023) 9 SCC 581 as follows: “(a) The acquittal of the accused further strengthens the presumption of innocence; (b) The appellate Court, while hearing an appeal against acquittal, is entitled to re-appreciate the oral and documentary evidence; (c) The appellate Court, while deciding an appeal against acquittal, after re-appreciating the evidence, is required to consider whether the view taken by the Trial Court is a possible view which could have been taken on the basis of the evidence on record; [2024] 2 S.C.R.