The need for caution in exercising the drastic power of arrest has been emphasized time and again by Courts but has not yielded desired result. Power to arrest 229 [2014] 8 SCR 128 : 2014 INSC 463 584 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports greatly contributes to its arrogance so also the failure of the Magistracy to check it. Not only this, the power of arrest is one of the lucrative sources of police corruption. The attitude to arrest first and then proceed with the rest is despicable. It has become a handy tool to the police officers who lack sensitivity or act with oblique motive.” (Emphasis added) 143. In Mallada K. Sri Ram v. State of Telangana,230 the Court, speaking through one of us (Justice DY Chandrachud), highlighted the constitutional mandate to prevent arbitrary exercise of prevention detention: “the personal liberty of an accused cannot be sacrificed on the altar of preventive detention merely because a person is implicated in a criminal proceeding. The powers of preventive detention are exceptional and even draconian. Tracing their origin to the colonial era, they have been continued with strict constitutional safeguards against abuse. Article 22 of the Constitution was specifically inserted and extensively debated in the Constituent Assembly to ensure that the exceptional powers of preventive detention do not devolve into a draconian and arbitrary exercise of state authority.” The exercise of the power to arrest or detain may become reflective of a colonial mindset, if not exercised with caution. The misuse of the power of arrest not just violates rights, but it can prejudice generations of innocent citizens, especially marginalized communities such as the Denotified Tribes. Arrests can create a stigma of criminality if not done diligently. Innocent people, if arrested on the grounds of stereotypes and mere suspicion, may face barriers in securing employment and earning a dignified livelihood. Entering the mainstream becomes impossible when those who have suffered incarceration find themselves unable to secure livelihoods, housing, and the necessities of life. 144. Discrimination against the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Denotified Tribes has continued in a systemic manner. Remedying 230 [2022] 3 SCR 5 : 2022 INSC 386 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 585 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. systemic discrimination requires concrete multi-faceted efforts by all institutions. In discharge of their role, courts have to ensure that while there should be proper implementation of the protective legislation such as the PoA Act, there should not be unfair targeting of members from marginalized castes under various colonial-era or modern laws. With this nuanced approach, we shall now examine the prison manuals. XIII. Impugned Provisions (i) Prison Act 145. At the outset, we must clarify that the Prison Act 1984 is not under challenge. Accordingly, we shall not be dealing with the validity of the Act. We are referring to its provisions to understand the background of prison manuals/rules. 146. The Act was enacted to amend the law relating to prisons and to provide for the regulation of prisons.