This defeats the basic purpose of the Act & hence contrary to the public interest. Thus in public interest it is required to check the activity of yours as you are not acting as per statutory provisions of Act & hence, suspension of the PNDT registration is desirable. Appropriate Authority, PNDT Act 1994 & CDHO, District Panchayat, Ahmedabad.” 15. Perusal of the above reveals that the appropriate authority while passing the sought to exercise power under sub-section (3) of Section 20 of PC&PNDT Act and directed suspension of the registration of the clinic till finalization of the criminal proceedings because of the contraventions of the provisions of the PC&PNDT Act and the Rules. Therefore, it is said to be contrary to the public interest and such activity is required to be curbed. 16. As per the discussion made hereinabove, in our view, the power of sub-section (3) of Section 20 of PC&PNDT Act is notwithstanding the power of sub-sections (1) & (2) of Section 20. The said power can only be exercised when the appropriate authority forms an opinion that it is necessary or expedient in public interest to do so. It is incumbent upon the appropriate authority to form its opinion based on reasons expedient or necessary to exercise the power of suspension. The contents of the suspension dated 29.12.2010 does not contain reasons as required to form an opinion that it is necessitated or expedient in public interest to exercise the power of suspension. Therefore, in our view, it does not fulfill the requirement of sub-section (3) of Section 20 of PC&PNDT Act. As per the above discussions, neither the first of suspension dated 25.10.2010 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 71 District Appropriate Authority under the PNDT Act and Chief District Health Officer v. Jashmina Dilip Devda & Anr. nor the second of suspension dated 29.12.2010 qualifies the requirement of sub-Section (3) of Section 20 of the PC&PNDT Act. The said view is fortified by the reasoning recorded by the learned Single Judge and Division Bench which we find just and concur by its reasoning. Therefore, we are not inclined to interfere in this appeal. 17. In the above context, it is necessary to refer to the intendment of Section 20(2) and Section 20(3) of PC&PNDT Act. At the cost of reiteration, we clarify that if the appropriate authority finds breach of provisions of PC&PNDT Act or the Rules it may, after issuing notice and giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard, without prejudice to any criminal action against the licensed entity, suspend its registration for such period as it may think fit or cancel the same as the case maybe. The appropriate authority has also been conferred with a power under sub-section (3) of Section 20 notwithstanding the power under sub-section (1) & (2) of Section 20. In the said situation in case, the authority forms an opinion that it is necessary or expedient in public interest, then after recording reasons in writing, it may suspend the registration of the licensed entity without notice as specified in sub-section (1) of Section 20.