Explanation 2.- Whoever, either prior to or at the time of the commission of an act, does anything in to facilitate the commission of that act, and thereby facilitates the commission thereof, is said to aid the doing of that act. 32.1 From a reading of Section 107 IPC what is deducible is that a person would be abetting the doing of a thing if he instigates any person to do that thing or if he encourages with one or more person or persons in any conspiracy for doing that thing or if he intentionally aids by any act or illegal omission doing of that thing. Explanation 1 clarifies that even if a person by way of wilful misrepresentation or concealment of a material fact which he is otherwise bound to disclose voluntarily causes or procures or attempts to cause or procure a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that thing. Similarly, it is clarified by way of Explanation-2 that whoever does anything in to facilitate the commission of an act, either prior to or at the time of commission of the act, is said to aid the doing of that act. 348 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Case law 33. Suicide is distinguishable from homicide inasmuch as it amounts to killing of self. This Court in M. Mohan Versus State1 went into the meaning of the word suicide and held as under: 37. The word “suicide” in itself is nowhere defined in the Penal Code, however its meaning and import is well known and requires no explanation. “Sui” means “self” and “cide” means “killing”, thus implying an act of self-killing. In short, a person committing suicide must commit it by himself, irrespective of the means employed by him in achieving his object of killing himself. 34. In Ramesh Kumar versus State of Chhattisgarh2, this Court delved into the meaning of the word ‘instigate’ or ‘instigation’ and held as under: 20. Instigation is to goad, urge forward, provoke, incite or encourage to do “an act”. To satisfy the requirement of instigation though it is not necessary that actual words must be used to that effect or what constitutes instigation must necessarily and specifically be suggestive of the consequence. Yet a reasonable certainty to incite the consequence must be capable of being spelt out. The present one is not a case where the accused had by his acts or omission or by a continued course of conduct created such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other option except to commit suicide in which case an instigation may have been inferred. A word uttered in the fit of anger or emotion without intending the consequences to actually follow cannot be said to be instigation. 34.1 Thus, this Court held that to ‘instigate’ means to goad, urge, provoke, incite or encourage to do ‘an act’. To satisfy the requirement of ‘instigation’, it is not necessary that actual words must be used to that effect or that the words or act should necessarily and specifically be suggestive of 1 [2011] 3 SCR 437 : (2011) 3 SCC 626 2 [2001] Supp.