Mafatlal: 20. The context of the case in Mafatlal was a claim for refund made by a taxpayer owing to an unconstitutional or illegal levy. With regard to the arguments made by Sri K Parasaran, learned senior counsel on the distinction between the constitutional values as they obtained in countries like United States of America, Canada United Kingdom and Australia and the Indian Constitution which has set the goal of “justice, social, economic and political” – a total restructuring of our society as envisaged in Articles 38 and 39 of the Constitution, certain observations were made by the nine-Judge Bench of this Court headed by learned Ahmadi, C.J. and speaking through Jeevan Reddy, J. in paragraphs 84 to 86. In this context, the observations of Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy were extracted, which are very apposite to the reference under consideration and which read as under: “Constitutional problems cannot be studied in a socio- economic vacuum, since socio-cultural changes are the source of the new values, and sloughing off old legal thought is part of the process of the new equity-loaded legality. … It is right that the rule of law enshrined in our Constitution must and does reckon with the roaring current of change which shifts our social values and shrivels our feudal roots, invades our lives and fashion our destiny.” It is in the above context that reference was made to the expression “the material resources of the community” and the exposition by Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy and in Sanjeev Coke and Abu Kavur Bai. Therefore, those observations could be construed only in the context of the submissions made in the said case on the goal of Justice as envisaged under the Indian Constitution. In this context, the observations of S.C. Sen, J. who wrote a dissenting opinion are instructive. He said, “Article 39 cannot be a basis for retaining [2024] 11 S.C.R. 255 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. whatever has been gathered unlawfully by the Government for common good. Simply stated, the Directive Principles of the State Policy do not license the Government to rob Peter to pay Paul.” They have a persuasive value. Therefore, those observations may be obiter in nature but have persuasive value in view of my aforesaid discussion. 21. In Kolkata Municipal Corporation vs. Bimal Kumar Shah, 2024 INSC 435 (“Bimal Kumar Shah”), Justice P.S. Narasimha has observed that “to hold that all private property is covered by the phrase “material resources of the community” and that the ultimate aim is state control of private resources would be incompatible with the constitutional protection detailed above.” Summary of Conclusion: 22. Having regarding to the lengthy discussion made above, it is necessary to have the summary of conclusions as under: I. Articles 37, 38 and 39 of the Constitution of India which are part of the Directive Principles of State Policy have to be interpreted by bearing in mind the changing economic policies of the State and not in a rigid watertight compartment.The flexibility of interpretation is having regard to the dynamic changes in the Indian socio-economic policies meant for the welfare and progress of the people of India.