24,15,20,115.76/- with interest @ 12 per cent per annum from the date of filing of O.A. till such realisation. 11. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant is here before this Court with the present appeals. B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 12. Mr. P.S. Patwalia, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant, vehemently submitted that the High Court committed an egregious error in holding that the auction proceeding conducted by the Tahsildar was a sham and much contrary to the statutory [2024] 7 S.C.R. 493 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. provisions of the Revenue Code more particularly Sections 193 and 194 respectively of the Revenue Code. 13. The learned Senior Counsel submitted that a written notice of the intended sale of the suit property with the time and place thereof was affixed strictly in accordance with the conditions as stipulated under Section 193 of the Revenue Code. In this regard, our attention was drawn to the findings recorded by the High court as contained in para 37 of the impugned of the High Court. The learned Senior Counsel further submitted that the original owner (respondent no. 1) on his own free will and volition had given his consent on 20.10.2008 to proceed with the auction sale of the suit property. 14. The learned Senior Counsel further submitted that the appellant is a bona fide purchaser of the suit property in an auction proceeding duly conducted by the Tahsildar under the provisions of the Revenue Code. According to the learned Senior Counsel it is not just sufficient to exhibit some material irregularity or fraud for the purpose of setting at naught the entire sale. It was argued that the aggrieved party must go further and establish to the satisfaction of the Court that the material irregularity or fraud had resulted in substantial injury to it. 15. According to the learned Senior Counsel, even assuming that the aggrieved party in the present litigation suffered substantial injury by reason of the sale of the suit property the same would not be sufficient to set aside the sale unless substantial injury is shown to have been caused by material irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting the sale. 16. With a view to fortify the aforesaid submission strong reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Chilamkurti Bala Subrahmanyam v. Samanthapudi Vijaya Lakshmi and Another reported in (2017) 6 SCC 770. 17. The learned Senior Counsel, thereafter, proceeded to argue that the two appeals filed before the Additional Commissioner, Division Konkan, Maharashtra were, by themselves, not maintainable in law. Thus, the Additional Commissioner had no jurisdiction to entertain and decide the two appeals. 18. In this regard, our attention was drawn to the provisions of Section 247 of the Revenue Code read in conjunction with Sections 207 and 210 respectively of the Revenue Code. It was argued that in 494 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports view of Sections 207 and 210 respectively of the Revenue Code the appeals filed by the respondent no.