The company had alleged that it could find only 174 hoarding out of 250 hoardings but the company in their letter dated 14th November, 2014 stated, inter alia, that they were able to find 200 street hoarding including 26-V-shaped. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 195 The Blue Dreamz Advertising Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. Kolkata Municipal Corporation & Ors. The company cannot take such plea particularly when the display sites/hoardings were specified in the lists under annexure-I, Il & III to the tender notice. The description of works under clause-2 of the tender notice clearly stated that the street hoarding in the annexure would be allotted in “As in where is basis”. The company after having understood the scope and effect of the terms and condition of the notice the offers which were accepted by the authorities. The bills for 5 clusters amounting to Rs.4,58,97,360/- had already been served. The company was informed of its failure to pay the sum of Rs.4,58,97,360/- for the period from July 2014 to September 2014. The company paid part amount for 55 nos. of hoarding as against the said demand for the said quarter. The company failed to mention the unit code on the allotted street hoarding and the company did not adhere to the instruction as made in this respect by writing letters on repeated occasions. Clause-2.1 as incorporated in the tender notice is redundant in respect of the hoardings already in-existence since such hoardings remain fitted with the provision for supply of electricity. In fact, no objection certificate is not required from the KMC in respect of the existing hoardings. All that is necessary is for confirmation of the change of the name of the user/agency. It is on record that the company continued to display the advertisement in the hoardings without requiring the no objection certificate from the KMC until 3rd March 2015 when a letter was issued in this respect. There is no document to show that the company applied to the CESC for electric connection and the CESC required no objection certificate from the KMC. It is on record that the contract period commenced from 1st June 2014 and hence there was no cogent reason to write the letter for No Objection Certificate after about 8 months. No application to the CESC in the name of the petitioners for the purpose illuminated street hoarding was submitted to the concerned authorities. The company used the supply of Electricity without requiring to inform the KMC AND EACH AND EVERY HOARDING was found illuminated during 196 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports inspection failed to obtain the interim as prayed for preferred the appeal being APOT No. 290 of 2015 and an application being G.A. No. 2374 of 2015 was filed in connection with the said appeal. The Hon’ble appeal court while dismissing the appeal and also the application by an dated 3rd August 2015 was pleased to observe that there was no urgency in the matter in view of pendency of the writ petition.