Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in K. Virupaksha and Another vs. State of Karnataka and Another2 and in A.P. Mahesh Cooperative Urban Bank Shareholders Welfare Association vs. Ramesh Kumar Bung and Others3, to submit that 1 [2021] 4 SCR 1044 : (2021) SCC Online SC 315 2 [2020] 2 SCR 1020 : (2020) 4 SCC 440 3 [2021] 6 SCR 850 : (2021) 9 SCC 152 320 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports even in case of Neeharika Infrastructure (supra), the discretion has been conferred on the High Court to pass the interim s in exceptional cases for not taking coercive steps against the accused pending the proceedings, particularly when the proceedings under the SARFAESI Act were initiated against the borrowers. According to them, bypassing the statutory remedies available to the borrowers or having failed in such proceedings, the borrowers should not be permitted to prosecute the financial institution or its officers or the purchasers just to instill a fear in their mind, which otherwise would have the potentiality to affect the marrows of economic health of the nation. 19. At the outset, it may be noted that the impugned interim s have been passed by the High Court under the umbrella of the dated 04.07.2023 passed by this Court in Gagan Banga’s case, creating an impression that the impugned s were passed in furtherance of the said , though this Court had passed the said leaving it open to the High Court to decide the writ petitions on their own merits. 20. In our opinion, it’s a matter of serious concern that despite the legal position settled by this Court in catena of decisions, the High Court has passed the impugned s staying the investigations of the FIRs and ECIR in question in utter disregard of the said settled legal position. Without undermining the powers of the High Court under Section 482 of Cr.PC to quash the proceedings if the allegations made in the FIR or complaint prima facie do not constitute any offence against the accused, or if the criminal proceedings are found to be manifestly malafide or malicious, instituted with ulterior motive etc., we are of the opinion that the High Court could not have stayed the investigations and restrained the investigating agencies from investigating into the cognizable offences as alleged in the FIRs and the ECIR, particularly when the investigations were at a very nascent stage. It hardly needs to be reiterated that the inherent powers under Section 482 of Cr.PC do not confer any arbitrary jurisdiction on the High Court to act according to whims or caprice. The statutory power has to be exercised sparingly with circumspection and in the rarest of rare cases. In a way, by passing such s of staying the investigations and restraining the investigating agencies from taking any coercive measure against the accused pending the petitions under Section 482 Cr.PC, the High Court has granted blanket s [2024] 2 S.C.R. 321 Directorate of Enforcement v. Niraj Tyagi & Ors.