Champakam Dorairajan4 wherein Government specifying reservation for Harijans was set aside. A. M.R. Balaji vs. State of Mysore 52. In the case of M.R. Balaji and others vs. State of Mysore,5 the subject matter of challenge before the Constitution Bench of this Court was an issued by the State of Mysore under Article 15(4) of the Constitution of India. Vide the said , the State reserved 68% of the seats in the engineering and medical colleges and other technical institutions for the educationally and socially backward classes and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and only 32% seats were available for the merit pool. 53. The Constitution Bench of this Court held that the provisions contained in Articles 15(4) and 16(4) are similar provisions. It further held that Article 15(4) is an enabling provision and that it does not impose an obligation, but merely leaves it to the discretion of the appropriate government to take suitable action, if necessary. 4 [1951] SCR 525 5 [1963] Supp. 1 SCR 439 : 1962 SCC OnLine 147 : AIR 1963 SC 649 1476 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 54. It will be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court: “20. Article 15(4) authorises the State to make a special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens, as distinguished from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. No doubt, special provision can be made for both categories of citizens, but in specifying the categories, the first category is distinguished from the second. Sub-clauses (24) and (25) of Article 366 define Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes respectively, but there is no clause defining socially and educationally backward classes of citizens, and so, in determining the question as to whether a particular provision has been validly made under Article 15(4) or not, the first question which falls to be determined is whether the State has validly determined who should be included in these Backward Classes. It seems fairly clear that the backward classes of citizens for whom special provision is authorised to be made are, by Article 15(4) itself, treated as being similar to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes which have been defined were known to be backward and the Constitution-makers felt no doubt that special provision had to be made for their advancement. It was realised that in the Indian Society there were other classes of citizens who were equally, or may be somewhat less, backward than the Scheduled Castes and Tribes and it was thought that some special provision ought to be made even for them. Article 34(1) provides for the issue of public notification specifying the castes, races or tribes which shall, for the purposes of this Constitution, be deemed to be Scheduled Castes either in the State or the Union territory as the case may be. Similarly Article 342 makes a provision for the issue of public notification in respect of Scheduled Tribes. Under Article 338(3), it is provided that references to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes shall be construed as including references to such other Backward Classes as the President may, on receipt of the report of a commission appointed under Article 340(1) by , specify and also to the Anglo-Indian community.