7 seems to have acted in defence of the police officials when she made a note on the complaint of custodial violence made by the petitioner on 16th December, 2023, that after personally examining the feet of the accused, she did not find any injury thereupon. Law requires that the moment the accused had made a complaint of torture in police custody, it was incumbent upon the concerned Magistrate to have got the accused subjected to medical examination as per the mandate of Section 54 CrPC. The formal complaint lodged by the petitioner herein was proceeded with by 8th Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate who took cognizance thereof on 22nd December, 2023 and directed that the complaint be posted for verification. The only permissible action as per law after cognizance had been taken on a private complaint, would be to record the statements of the complainant and his witnesses by taking recourse to the mandatory procedure prescribed under Sections 200 and 202 CrPC. However, in sheer disregard to the dated 22nd December, 2023 passed by 8th Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, the 6th ACJM (contemnor- respondent No.7) dismissed the complaint filed by the petitioner vide dated 6th January, 2024 which has been rightly reversed by the High Court of Gujarat vide dated 22nd February, 2024 passed in R/Criminal Revision Application No. 273 of 2024. This conduct of contemnor-respondent No. 7 gives a strong indication of her biased approach in the matter. 55. The arguments advanced by learned senior counsel appearing for the Additional Chief Secretary, Government of Gujarat as well as the High Court of Gujarat about the long-standing practice prevailing in the State, that the Investigating Officer(s) are given liberty to seek police custody remand of the accused after competent Court has granted anticipatory bail does not appeal to us for a moment. Such an interpretation does not appear to be in consonance with the unambiguous position of law. The provisions of anticipatory bail enumerated under Section 438 CrPC or the newly enacted Section 482 of the Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (hereinafter being referred to as ‘BNSS’), which has come into force with effect from 1st [2024] 8 S.C.R. 281 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. July, 2024, do not contemplate any such liberty to the Investigating Officer. However, the Court adjudicating an application for anticipatory bail may, in a given case, restrict the tenure of anticipatory bail in view of the law laid down by this Court in the case of Sushila Agarwal (supra) and may also impose suitable conditions in light thereof. However, it does not stand to reason that as a matter of course, the High Court or the Court of Sessions, as the case may be, while exercising anticipatory bail jurisdiction, grants pre-arrest bail to the accused and yet, invariably the Investigating Officer is given blanket liberty to keep the accused in custody for prolonged periods in a routine manner. This would virtually frustrate the very purpose and intent behind the grant of anticipatory bail to an accused.