The meaning of such a contract must be gathered by adopting a common sense approach and it must not be allowed to be thwarted by a narrow, pedantic and legalistic interpretation. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. … . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..” (emphasis added) Therefore, the name of the document is not a decisive factor. Only because the title of the document contains the word hypothecation, we cannot conclude that guarantee is not a part of this document. Parties to the DoH 54. Before we go to the clauses in the DoH, we must again go back to the MSTA. Under the said agreement, the Security Trustee has been appointed to act as trustee for the benefit of secured parties which include Secured Lenders. Under clause 2.2.1 of the MSTA, the Secured Lenders have authorised and directed the Security Trustee to execute and deliver security documents to which, the Security Trustee is to be a party and to accept the security, all related deeds and documents as may be required to be submitted by the Obligors for the benefit of secured parties. Under sub-clause (c) of clause 2.2.1 of MSTA, it is the duty of the Security Trustee to enforce the security in accordance with the provisions of the agreement and to receive and apply all money in accordance with the security documents. Therefore, the Secured Lenders have authorised the Security Trustee to accept the security on their behalf. 55. In light of this discussion, we turn to the DoH. We have already quoted the relevant portion of the DoH. The RCom entities, including RITL- 2068 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Corporate Debtor, are described as Chargors in the DoH. Clause 2 of the DoH reads thus: “2. Covenant to Pay: In pursuance of the Secured Facilities and the Facility Documents and in consideration of the Secured Lenders having made available the Secured Facilities to the Obligors for the purposes and subject to the terms and conditions set out in the Facility Documents and/or the other Security Documents, each of the Chargors does hereby covenant with the Security Trustee that each Obligor shall repay the Secured Facilities availed by it together with interest, liquidated damages, premia on prepayment, financing charges, remuneration payable to the Security Trustee, fees payable to any Secured Party, costs, charges expenses and all other monies stipulated in the relevant Facility Documents in the manner set out therein and shall duly observe and perform all the terms and conditions of the relevant Facility Documents and/or the other Security Documents.” Clause 2 refers to Secured Lenders and Obligors. As noted earlier, the appellants are Secured Lenders within the meaning of the MSTA. The two RCom entities, namely RCom and RTL, are the obligors being the borrowers of the appellants. Therefore, as per clause 2, the appellants had made available the secured facilities to RCom and RTL, who undertook to repay the secured facilities availed by it together with the interest, liquidated damages, premia of prepayment, financing charges, etc., including the remuneration payable to the Security Trustee.