Ganga was mentioned as the appellant’s wife, along with other family members. 6. However, matrimonial differences cropped up and Smt. Ganga shifted to her father’s house. Even at that stage, on 24.05.1997, the land- loser in his communication to the Senior Manager (Administration & Labour Relation) (Annexure R/6) stated that although his daughter Smt. Ganga, being mentally disturbed, is currently not staying with his son-in-law in recent times, neither he nor his family members, have any objection for confirmation of the job of the appellant, at the Kaiga Atomic Power Project. 7. The appellant around that period, filed an application under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 seeking divorce from Smt. Ganga. The said proceeding concluded with a consent decree of divorce granted on 16.06.2001. 8. In the meantime, on account of the estrangement between the appellant and his wife and the divorce proceeding initiated by appellant, his father-in-law made complaints, which led to issuance of the charge memo dated 10.01.2000, with the allegation that the appellant is not married to Smt. Ganga (the daughter of the land- loser) and therefore he is disentitled to secure the job intended for a land-loser’s family member. The resultant inquiry was answered against appellant and the said decision led to the termination dated 19.04.2002. The appellate authority and the revisional authority upheld the termination , which prompted the appellant, to seek a Reference under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 9. The Central Government Industrial Tribunal-cum-Labour Court in the Reference i.e., CR No. 66 of 2007, from the evidence of the witnesses concluded that the appellant had married Smt. Ganga (the daughter of the land-loser - Bellanna Venkanna Gowda) but when the matrimonial relationship became strained and divorce proceeding was initiated, Smt. Ganga applied for maintenance, claiming to be the appellant’s 1632 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports wife. The Labour Court accordingly concluded that this itself would be enough to establish that the appellant had married Smt. Ganga (the daughter of the land-loser - Bellanna Venkanna Gowda) and at the instance of the said land-loser, he was given appointment under the prevalent Scheme intended for the land-loser’s family member. The Reference was accordingly answered favouring the appellant and the following Award was passed: “ AWARD The reference is allowed holding that the action of the management of Nuclear Power Corporation Ltd., Kaiga in imposing the penalty of removal from service on Shri Ganapthi B Naik w.e.f. 19.04.2002 is illegal and not justified and that he is entitle for reinstatement with full back wages, continuity of service and all other consequential benefits that he could have received in the absence of the impugned of removal from service.” 10. The aggrieved Management then filed the W.P. No. 71540 of 2012 (L-TER) to challenge the said Award. The Writ Court had no occasion to stay the Award and instead on 06.06.2014, passed an interim to ensure remittance of wages payable to the appellant. However under the impugned final dated 16.12.2020 the learned Judge reached the conclusion that the appellant had misrepresented that he is the son-in-law of the land-loser (Bellanna Venkanna Gowda) and secured the job by playing fraud with the Management.