It is also recommended that in the event the above quota remains unfilled in a particular year, the remaining vacancies be carried forward for a period of 3 years whereupon the unfilled vacancies if any would stand de-reserved. It further recommended for age relaxation to the OBCs at par with the Scheduled Castes & Scheduled Tribes. The validity of the aforesaid 27 per cent reservation in favour of OBCs was upheld by this Court in the year 1992 in Indra Sawhney (supra). 49. In addition to the above exercise of the Government on the executive/ administrative side, on the direction of this Court in the case of E.V. Chinnaiah’s (supra), the Government of India appointed a single Member Justice Usha Mehra Commission of a National level to examine the issue of sub-categorization of scheduled castes in Andhra Pradesh. This Commission appointed in the year 2006 was followed by another Commission set up by the Central Government in 2007 under the chairpersonship of Justice G. Rohini. It was also entrusted with the task of studying the entries in the Centre list of the OBCs and to examine the extent of equitable distribution of benefits of reservation amongst the OBCs. One important aspect which was also entrusted to this Commission was to work out a mechanism for sub-categorization of OBCs. 50. This apart, different States on different occasions had set up various State Level Committees and Commissions to study and report about the improvements to be made in reservation policy and the smooth implementation of the provisions of reservations vis-a-vis the concerned State. In this context, it may be beneficial to refer to some of the such Committees and Commissions set up by different States: 19 [1963] Supp. 1 SCR 439 : AIR 1963 SC 649 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1659 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 1. 1961 Dr R. Naganna It suggested 50% reservation in technical Gowda and professional institutions and 45% in Committee, Government services. Karnataka 2. 1963 V.K. It recommended reserving 40% seats in Vishwanathan technical and professional colleges for OBC Commission, students and 10% for SC/ST students. Kerala 3. 1964 B.D. It recommended grouping of backward Deshmukh classes into four categories and reservation Committee, in Government services and educational Maharashtra institutions related in the ratio of their percentage in the State. 4. 1969 A.N. It submitted its Report in 1970 and recommended Sattanathan 33% reservation in State Government jobs and Commission, in educational institutions. Tamil Nadu 5. 1970 Manohar It identified four different categories of OBCs Pershad and recommended reservations in their Commission, favour, in both professional colleges and in Andhra Government services. Pradesh 6. 1970 J.N. Wazir On the basis of the recommendations of Committee, this Committee “The Jammu and Kashmir Jammu and Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes Kashmir (Reservation) Rules, 1970” were framed by the State Government. 7. 1973 Dhebar This Commission was set up to study the Commission vulnerable tribal groups. It suggested creation Ministry of of separate category for the less developed Tribal Affairs among the tribal groups.