79. The role of the Court, it is needless to observe, is to adjudicate; it cannot, in the absence of exercising its advisory jurisdiction under Article 143 of the Constitution, take upon itself the role of the advisor to any party to the proceedings, to wit, the land acquiring authorities. The maxim heavily relied on by the review petitioners, i.e., actus curiae neminem gravabit, in such a situation would kick in to prevent any harmful act being perpetrated. 80. There is another perspective which cannot be lost sight of. If the understanding of learned senior counsel for the review petitioners [2024] 5 S.C.R. 993 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others of the relevant sentence in paragraph 217 of Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) is accepted, it would result in utter chaos and confusion in the justice delivery system apart from disturbing the principle of finality of judicial decisions. Should we read “open to be reviewed” as connoting a ‘liberty’ granted to apply for review, any number of review petitions could be filed based on such liberty for review of decisions between parties which have attained finality not only in this Court but also in the high courts. From the practical point of view, the results could be pernicious. A landowner, satisfied with a final decision of a court, could find himself requiring to contest a review petition filed on the basis of the ‘liberty’ granted by none other than the Supreme Court of India in proceedings where such landowner was not even noticed. We would be inclined to the thought that no court, much less the Supreme Court (because of its status as the apex court), should pass any judicial affecting the right of a party who has not been put on notice. If such an is passed, there cannot be a more egregious violation of principles of natural justice. 81. Notably, if a and/or has attained finality because a judicial remedy is either not available in law or even if available, such remedy has been lost, it is not open for a higher court of law by a judicial fiat either to create a remedy for the party on the losing side to pursue or to grant liberty to him to pursue an otherwise available remedy - which by passage of time might have been lost - behind the back of a party who would obviously be seriously affected if he were compelled to contest the proceedings once again. Such an act of court would be without the authority of law, and this is precisely what Vikramjit Singh (supra) has held. 82. Moreover, as on the dates the RPs were filed, the decision in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra) had not seen the light of the day. A review petition, under the law, cannot be filed in anticipation of a favourable in the future. 83. For the reasons discussed above, we cannot be persuaded to accept that the phrase “open to be reviewed in appropriate cases” occurring in paragraph 217 of the decision in Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) could have been perceived by the review petitioners as opening up an avenue for them to apply for review.