(v) Earlier also he had visited Brij Bihari Prasad in the hospital on another occasion, but he could not remember the date and time of this meeting. (vi) He met Brij Bihari Prasad approximately 8-10 days prior to the date of incident. (vii) He did not know the specific treatment for which Brij Bihari Prasad was admitted to the hospital. He states that the treatment had been going on for about one and a half months. (viii) He denies having knowledge of any case(s) pending against Brij Bihari Prasad. (ix) He states that he is unaware of any case pending against him. However, he accepts that way back in 1979, a murder [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1331 Rama Devi v. The State of Bihar and Others case was registered against him, for which he had remained in jail for 3-4 months. (x) He states that he was sentenced to life imprisonment and filed an appeal in 1987; however, he was uncertain whether the appeal was still pending or had been dismissed, and he could not recall the grounds for the appeal. (xi) He did not have any documentary proof of visiting the hospital on 13.06.1998. (xii) He had not made any signatures on the death summary report and the seizure memo. (xiii) He did not know if the wife of Onkar Singh (since deceased) had given a police statement that her husband was murdered by Brij Bihari Prasad due to a contract dispute. (xiv) Mahanth Ashwani Das (PW-25) had deposed about remaining at the place of occurrence after the firing. He saw the police coming and lifting the dead bodies of Brij Bihari Prasad and Lakshmeshwar Sahu. He left the hospital for the residence of Brij Bihari Prasad at 9:30 p.m., where several people, including Kamakhya Narain Singh (PW-15), Shiv Ji Prasad, Ram Nandan Singh (PW-12), Onkar Singh, and Raj Bala Verma (Collector, Patna), had already gathered. Later that night, on 14.06.1998, around 12:30 a.m., he departed for Muzzaffarpur Math. (xv) He was arrested on 04.05.2006 in Patna. Thereafter, he was given protection by the Bihar Government to give evidence in the present trial. Armed security guards, who were generally not present with him, used to accompany him whilst going to the court. (xvi) He states that he used to reach Smriti Bhawan of Brij Bihari Prasad at about 5:00 a.m. Rama Devi (PW-24), her driver and security guards reside at the Smriti Bhawan. (xvii) During the firing he had hidden about 30-40 steps away from the hospital room. (xviii) He denies the suggestion of giving false evidence due to his close relationship with Brij Bihari Prasad. 1332 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. As noted above, the High Court has rejected the testimony and complicity of the accused by Mahant Ashwani Das (PW-25) on the ground that he is himself an accused in a murder case and had absconded despite being convicted in appeal, while he was being examined as a witness in the present case. The High Court had also held that Mahant Ashwani Das (PW-25) had the patronage of Rama Devi (PW-24) and the deceased Brij Bihari Prasad.