Stated differently, the doctrine of necessity makes it imperative 1076 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for the authority to decide and considerations of judicial propriety must yield. It is often invoked in cases of bias where there is no other authority or Judge to decide the issue. If the doctrine of necessity is not allowed full play in certain unavoidable situations, it would impede the course of justice itself and the defaulting party would benefit therefrom. Take the case of a certain taxing statute which taxes certain perquisites allowed to Judges. If the validity of such a provision is challenged who but the members of the judiciary must decide it. If all the Judges are disqualified on the plea that striking down of such a legislation would benefit them, a stalemate situation may develop. In such cases the doctrine of necessity comes into play. If the choice is between allowing a biased person to act or to stifle the action altogether, the choice must fall in favour of the former as it is the only way to promote decision-making. In the present case also if the two Election Commissioners are able to reach a unanimous decision, there is no need for the Chief Election Commissioner to participate, if not the doctrine of necessity may have to be invoked.” 18. In the present case, had the Working President not convened the meeting, the elections of the executive body would have been in limbo for an unreasonable amount of time. The convening of the meeting by the Working President upon the requests by the 16 surviving members was a “necessity” at the time. 19. There is one more aspect of the matter to be discussed here with respect to the duties of the ‘Working President’. Clause 11 of the Byelaws recognizes a Working President and also defines his rights and duties. The same is reproduced below: “11. “Working President” – The Rights and Duties of Working President: 1. To complete the work as per the written instructions of the President of the Shikshan Prasarak Mandal, the executive body of the Mandal and the General Body of the Mandal. 2. Make efforts from the point of extending the area of operation of the Shikshan Prasarak Mandal.” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1077 Adv Babasaheb Wasade & Ors. v. Manohar Gangadhar Muddeshwar & Ors. As per the above clause, the ‘Working President’ was to act on the directions of the President, Executive Body and the General Body. In the present case, the recognition was by almost all the members of the General Body. He had no option but to call for a general body meeting in accordance with the rights and duties conferred upon him. 20. In the present case, it was not only appropriate but also legal for the surviving members to request for convening a meeting. Further in the present case, as many as 16 members had requested in writing for convening the meeting. If the submission of the Objectors is to be accepted that the Working President could not convene the meeting, then no alternative has been suggested by the Objectors as to who could convene the meeting.