“A judge or Magistrate in India frequently has to perform duties which in England would be performed by Police Officer or attorneys. He has to sift out the truth for himself as well as he can, and with little assistance of a professional kind. Section 165 is intended to arm the judge with the most extensive 806 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports power possible for the purpose of getting at the truth. The effect of this section is that, in to get to the bottom of the matter before the count, he will be able to look at and enquire into every fact whatever.” (emphasis supplied) 30. Ram Chander v. State of Haryana, (1981) 3 SCC 191, “O. Chinnappa Reddy, J.— What is the true role of a judge trying a criminal case? Is he to assume the role of a referee in a football match or an umpire in a cricket match, occasionally answering, as Pollock and Maitland [ Pollock and Maitland : The History of English Law] point out, the question ‘How is that’, or, is he to, in the words of Lord Denning ‘drop the mantle of a judge and assume the robe of an advocate’? [Jones v. National Coal Board, (1957) 2 All ER 155 : (1957) 2 WLR 760] Is he to be a spectator or a participant at the trial? Is passivity or activity to mark his attitude? If he desires to question any of the witnesses, how far can he go? Can he put on the gloves and ‘have a go’ at the witness who he suspects is lying or is he to be soft and suave? These are some of the questions which we are compelled to ask ourselves in this appeal on account of the manner in which the Judge who tried the case put questions to some of the witnesses. 2. The adversary system of trial being what it is, there is an unfortunate tendency for a judge presiding over a trial to assume the role of a referee or an umpire and to allow the trial to develop into a contest between the prosecution and the defence with the inevitable distortions flowing from combative and competitive elements entering the trial procedure. If a criminal court is to be an effective instrument in dispensing justice, the presiding judge must cease to be a spectator and a mere recording machine. He must become a participant in the trial by evincing intelligent active interest by putting questions to witnesses in to ascertain the truth. As one of us had occasion to say in the past: [2024] 2 S.C.R. 807 Shailesh Kumar v. State of U.P. (Now State of Uttarakhand) Every criminal trial is a voyage of discovery in which truth is the quest. It is the duty of a presiding Judge to explore every avenue open to him in to discover the truth and to advance the cause of justice. For that purpose he is expressly invested by Section 165 of the Evidence Act with the right to put questions to witnesses.