Supreme Court Reports possession of the property and as such, this Court had concluded the rights of all parties and that nothing remained in S.A. No. 46 of 2022 after the decision of this Court. ii. Submissions of the Borrower/the respondent no. 1. 60. Dr. A.M. Singhvi the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Borrower submitted that this Court in its decision in the Main Appeals only decided the issue of interpretation of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, and rightly chose not to decide either the validity of the 9th auction process or to interfere with the proceedings emanating from S.A. No. 46 of 2022 that was pending before the DRT. 61. He further submitted that since the terms of the auction more particularly clause 29 therein specifically stipulated that the auction is subject to the outcome of the proceedings in S.A. No. 46 of 2022 pending before the DRT, this Court rightly never decided the validity of the auction proceedings and left it for the DRT to decide. 62. It was submitted that in the Main Appeals, this Court held that writ jurisdiction ought not to have been invoked by the Borrower having already availed the statutory remedy and rightly did not decide the issue of validity of the auction conducted by the Bank as such remedy was available to the Borrower to avail in the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 pending before the DRT. 63. It was also submitted that the issues involved in the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 as to the validity of the measures taken by the Bank under the SARFAESI Act, is still pending and to this date no court or judicial authority has examined the same, and any interference with the said proceedings would render the Borrower remediless and infringe its rights under Article 21 and 300A of the Constitution. It was further submitted that this Court ought not to decide the validity of such measures in view of the fact that S.A. No. 46 of 2022 is pending before the DRT which is the competent authority to decide these issues. 64. It was submitted that the auction of the Secured Asset was conducted on the basis of a symbolic possession and that said auction was subject to the validity of such auction. Placing reliance on the terms and conditions of the auction, it was submitted that as per clause 19, [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1651 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. it was specified that only symbolic possession of the Secured Asset would be delivered. As per clause 26 it was stipulated that the Secured Asset would be sold to the auction purchaser on ‘as is where is’ and ‘as is what is and whatever there is’ basis and lastly, as per clause 29, it was stipulated that such sale would be subject to the outcome of S.A. No. 46 of 2022 pending before the DRT. Thus, any sale certificate issued in pursuance of such auction would also be subject to such terms of the auctions.