List of Acts Representation of the People Act, 1951; Conduct of Election Rules, 1961; Constitution of India; Penal Code, 1860. List of Keywords Elections; 2024 General Elections; EVMs; Paper ballots; Paper ballot system; Booth capturing; VVPAT; Ballot box; Ballot unit, Control unit; Manipulation of EVMs; VVPAT slips; Hacking; Tampering; Free and fair elections; First Level Check; Higher mock poll; Two-stage randomization process; First randomization; Second randomization; Strong rooms; Writ jurisdiction; Infringement of right; Doctrine of res judicata; Suspicion of infringement of right. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 423 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another Case Arising From EXTRA-ORDINARY ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (Civil) No. 434 of 2023 (Under article 32 of The Constitution of India) With Writ Petition (Civil) Nos. 184 and 277 of 2024 Appearances for Parties Tushar Mehta, SG, Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, ASG, Gopal Sankaranarayanan, Kapil Sibal, Sanjay R. Hegde, Maninder Singh, Anand Grover, Huzefa Ahmadi, Ms. Haripriya Padmanabhan, Santosh Paul, Sr. Advs., Abhay Anil Anturkar, Asim Sarode, Dhruv Tank, Aniruddha Awalgaonkar, Ms. Surbhi Kapoor, Bhagwant Deshpande, Ms. Neha Rathi, Ms. Kajal Giri, Kamal Kishore, Vishal Sinha, Prashant Bhushan, Nizamuddin Pasha, Rahul Gupta, Ms. Ria Yadav, Ms. Alice Raj, Mrs. Suroor Mandar, Rishabh Parikh, Ms. Aparajita Jamwal, Prateek Kumar, Ruchir Ranjan Rai, Ms. Ashita Chawla, Ajay Sabharwal, Rangasaran Mohan, Amarpal Singh Dua, Kanu Agrawal, Ms. Anupriya Srivastava, Ms. Shivika Mehra, Praneet Pranav, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Pranav Sachdeva, Zulfiker Ali P.S., Ms. Lakshmi Sree P., Augustine Peter, Ms. Lebina Baby, Nizam Pasha, Lzafeer Ahmad B. F., Ms. Aayushi Mishra, Ajay Marwah, Swaroopananda Mishra, Prabhu Ramasubramanian, Navneet Dugar, Bharathi Mohan M., Manoj Kumar A., Santhosh K., Shrutanjay Bharadwaj, Sriharsh Nahush Bundela, Vedant Mishra, Virendra Mohan, Varun K Chopra, Mehul Sharma, M/s. VKC Law Offices, Ms. Tasneem Ahmadi, Mehmood Pracha, R.H.A. Sikander, Ms. Mahima Rathi, Jatin Bhatt, Sanawar, Mohd. Shameem, Ms. Nujhat Naseem, Advs. for the appearing parties. Petitioner-in-person / of the Supreme Court Sanjiv Khanna, J. Delay in refiling is condoned. 2. At the outset, we take on record that the counsel for the petitioners, in unison, have stated that the petitioners do not attribute any motive or 424 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports malice to the Election Commission of India1, or for that matter contend that the Electronic Voting Machines2 have been tutored or configured to favour or disfavour a candidate or political party. However, due to possibility of manipulating the EVMs there is suspicion and, therefore, this Court should step in to instil confidence in the voters3 and the people. Voters have the right to know that the franchise exercised by them has been correctly recorded and counted. 3. On a pointed question put by the Court, it was argued, without prejudice and in the alternative, on behalf of the petitioner – Association for Democratic Reforms, that the Court should direct: a) return to the paper ballot system; or b) that the printed slip from the Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail machine4 be given to the voter to verify, and put in the ballot box, for counting; and/or c) that there should be 100% counting of the VVPAT slips in addition to electronic counting by the control unit.