Ltd., helpline 01244302020/2021/2022/2023/2024 E-mail support@bankerauctions.com or K.N. SHRINATH-9840446485. Passwords will be allotted only to those bidders who fulfil all the terms and conditions of e-auction and have deposited the requisite EMD. And for further property related query you may contact Mr. G.S. Prasad, Chief Manager, Central Bank of India, CFB, Chennai Tel. No. 044-42625259 Mobile 9962029300 e-mail ID: bmchen3507@centralbank.co.in during officer hours i.e. 10 AM to 5 PM during the working days. 9. After Registration by the bidder in the Web-Portal, the intending bidder / purchaser is required to get the copies of the following documents uploaded in the Web Portal before last date of submission of the bid viz. i) Copy of the NEFT/RTGS Challan; ii) Copy of PAN Card; iii) Proof of Identification (KYC) viz. self- attested copy of Voter ID Card / Driving License / Passport etc. iv) Copy of proof of address; without which the bid is liable to be rejected. 10. The interested bidders, who have submitted their bid not below the Reserve price through online mode before 4.00 p.m. on 05-12-2016 shall be eligible for participating in the e-bidding process. The e-Auction of above properties would be conducted exactly on the scheduled Date & Time as mentioned against each property by way of inter-se bidding amongst the bidders. The bidder shall improve their offer in multiple of the amount mentioned under the column “Bid Increase Amount”. In case bid is placed in the last 5 minutes of the closing time of the e-Auction, the closing time will automatically get extended for 3 minutes (subject to maximum of unlimited extensions of 3 minutes each). The bidder who submits the highest bid amount (not below the Reserve Price) on closure of e-Auction process shall be declared as Successful Bidder and a communication to that effect will be issued which shall be subject to approval by the Authorized Officer/Secured Creditor. 11. The Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) of the successful bidder shall be retained towards part sale consideration and the EMD of unsuccessful bidders shall be refunded. The Earnest Money Deposit shall not bear any interest. The successful bidder shall 22 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports have to deposit 25% of the auction price less the EMD already paid, within 24 hours of the acceptance of bid price by the Authorized Officer and the balance 75% of the sale price on or before 15th day of sale or within such extended period as agreed upon in writing by and solely at the discretion of the Authorized Officer. If any such extension is allowed, the amount deposited by the successful bidder shall not carry any interest. In case of default in payment by the highest and successful bidder, the amount already deposited by the bidder shall be liable to be forfeited and property shall be put to re-auction and the defaulting bidder shall have no claim / right in respect of property/amount. 12. The authorized Officer is not bound to accept the highest offer and the authorized officer has absolute right to accept or reject any or all offer(s) or adjourn / postpone / cancel the e-auction without assigning any reasons thereof.