[2024] 9 S.C.R. 935 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. Section 16 is an inclusive provision which comprehends all preliminary issues touching upon the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal. [Uttarakhand Purv Sainik Kalyan Nigam Ltd. v. Northern Coal Field Ltd. (2020) 2 SCC 455 : (2020) 1 SCC (Civ) 570] The doctrine of competence- competence is intended to minimise judicial intervention at the threshold stage. The issue of determining parties to an arbitration agreement goes to the very root of the jurisdictional competence of the Arbitral Tribunal. xxx xxx xxx 169. In case of joinder of non-signatory parties to an arbitration agreement, the following two scenarios will prominently emerge : first, where a signatory party to an arbitration agreement seeks joinder of a non-signatory party to the arbitration agreement; and second, where a non-signatory party itself seeks invocation of an arbitration agreement. In both the scenarios, the referral court will be required to prima facie rule on the existence of the arbitration agreement and whether the non-signatory is a veritable party to the arbitration agreement. In view of the complexity of such a determination, the referral court should leave it for the Arbitral Tribunal to decide whether the non-signatory party is indeed a party to the arbitration agreement on the basis of the factual evidence and application of legal doctrine. The Tribunal can delve into the factual, circumstantial, and legal aspects of the matter to decide whether its jurisdiction extends to the non-signatory party. In the process, the Tribunal should comply with the requirements of principles of natural justice such as giving opportunity to the non-signatory to raise objections with regard to the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal. This interpretation also gives true effect to the doctrine of competence-competence by leaving the issue of determination of true parties to an arbitration agreement to be decided by the Arbitral Tribunal under Section 16. 170. In view of the discussion above, we arrive at the following conclusions: xxx xxx xxx 936 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (170.12) At the referral stage, the referral court should leave it for the Arbitral Tribunal to decide whether the non-signatory is bound by the arbitration agreement […]” (Emphasis supplied) 64. Therefore, on the pivotal issue whether the non-signatories can be referred to arbitration, this Court took the view that the referral court is required to prima facie rule on the existence of the arbitration agreement and whether the non-signatory party is a veritable party to the arbitration agreement. However, recognising the complexity of such a determination, the arbitral tribunal was considered the proper forum since it can decide whether the non-signatory is a party to the arbitration agreement on the basis of factual evidence and application of legal doctrine. In this process, the non-signatory must also be given an opportunity to raise objections regarding the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal in accordance with the principles of natural justice. 65. The position of law that emerges from the aforesaid discussion can be summarized as follows; • SBP & Co. (supra) expanded the scope of the Court’s power under Section 11 while empowering the referral courts to decide several preliminary issues.