[2024] 7 S.C.R. 1044 : 2024 INSC 575 Ajay Kumar Bhalla & Ors. v. Prakash Kumar Dixit (Civil Appeal No. 8129-8130 of 2024) 29 July 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud,* CJI, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Respondent approached the High Court of Delhi for challenging an of the DIG (CR&VIG), whereby he was removed from service. The High Court set aside the impugned ; imposed a minor penalty on him; reinstated him without back wages; directed his reinstatement to be dated back to 1995 (when the original of dismissal was made) for the purposes of pay fixation, seniority and all other consequential benefits including promotions; and also directed the to be implemented within 8 weeks. When he was not reinstated within time prescribed and was denied promotion to the eligible rank of IG by the time he superannuated, the Respondent initiated contempt proceedings before a Single Judge in the High Court. The Court was of the opinion that there was willful disobedience on the part of the Appellants in complying with the earlier directions issued by the Division Bench. The Appellants went in Appeal before a Division Bench of the High Court. It was rejected as not maintainable under Section 19 Contempt of Courts Act. The issue before the Hon’ble Supreme Court was to decide as to when a Letter Patent Appeal lies against an of a Single Judge of High Court if such an appeal is not maintainable under Section 19 of The Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. Headnotes† Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 – Section 19 – Midnapore Peoples’ Coop. Bank Ltd. and Others v. Chunilal Nanda and Others [2006] Supp. 2 SCR 986 – The position w.r.t. appeals against s in contempt proceedings – Reiterated: * Author [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1045 Ajay Kumar Bhalla & Ors. v. Prakash Kumar Dixit Held: Para 11 of the in Midnapore Peoples’ Coop. Bank Ltd. case sums up the principles in regard to appeals against s in contempt proceedings, as under:- I. An appeal under Section 19 is maintainable only against an or decision of the High Court passed in exercise of its jurisdiction to punish for contempt, that is, an imposing punishment for contempt. II. Neither an declining to initiate proceedings for contempt, nor an initiating proceedings for contempt nor an dropping the proceedings for contempt nor an acquitting or exonerating the contemnor, is appealable under Section 19 of the CC Act. In special circumstances, they may be open to challenge under Article 136 of the Constitution. III. In a proceeding for contempt, the High Court can decide whether any contempt of court has been committed, and if so, what should be the punishment and matters incidental thereto. In such a proceeding, it is not appropriate to adjudicate or decide any issue relating to the merits of the dispute between the parties. IV. Any direction issued or decision made by the High Court on the merits of a dispute between the parties, will not be in the exercise of “jurisdiction to punish for contempt” and, therefore, not appealable under Section 19 of the CC Act.