20.18 Further, any international convention not inconsistent with the fundamental rights and in harmony with its spirit must be read into these provisions to enlarge the meaning and content thereof, so as to promote the object of the constitutional guarantee. 20.19 Similarly, reference was made to Nilabati Behera vs. State of Orissa, (1993) 2 SCC 746 (“Nilabati Behera”), wherein the absence of an enacted law to provide for effective enforcement of the basic human right of gender equality was held to give the basis for using international conventions and norms to construe and give meaning to fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution of India. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2049 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 20.20 It was also submitted that the present regulatory system continues to be deficient and therefore, there is a need for putting in place a suitable regulatory system which would work within the framework of its mandate. 20.21 In conclusion, it was submitted that the petitioners were seeking implementation of the recommendations of the TEC. That the TEC Report has been given a go-by by GEAC in consideration of the application made by Prof. Pental, Former Professor of Genetics and Vice-Chancellor, University of Delhi, South Campus, New Delhi. Therefore, the petitioners have sought the aforesaid reliefs. Points for Consideration: 21. Before framing the points for consideration, we make it clear that this case does not decide the competing claims made in the scientific literature about the desirability of GMOs, their impact on increasing crop yield in the short or long term and other subjects that belong to the domain of scientific and agricultural experts. This Court is not conducting a review or an evaluation of various scientific studies submitted by the petitioners and the respondents on GMOs. This Court does not have the institutional competence and therefore any conclusion raised on that basis would be a futile exercise. 21.1 The purpose of our adjudication is to satisfy our judicial conscience on the subject of critical public interest. We have viewed the matter from the perspective of compliances of the principles of exercise of discretion and use of administrative power in a niche area where opinions of scientists and experts in the field would determine the course of action to be taken in a matter as significant as the steps leading to the decision for environmental release of DMH-11 mustard in an altered technology. 21.2 This case also does not decide on the divergent substantive content and recommendations made by the TEC or GEAC. The ambit of the present case is strictly limited to compliance with constitutional and legal requirements in the decision-making process impugned herein. In light of the aforesaid, and the 2050 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports submissions advanced by learned senior counsel and counsel for respective parties, the following points would arise for our consideration: (i) Whether GEAC approval dated 18.10.2022 and the consequent decision dated 25.10.2022 for the environmental release of DMH-11 is in accordance with law?