Only after several meetings, deliberations and consideration of the reports of the trials, on 18.10.2022, GEAC recommended environmental release of DMH-11 subject to strict conditions and safeguards and accordingly, permission for environmental release of DMH-11 was issued on 25.10.2022. 18.6 It was further submitted that the regulatory requirements are adequate to address all aspects of the concerns voiced by the petitioners and the rules and guidelines are in consonance with the CPB and Codex principles and guidelines on foods derived from biotechnology. 18.7 It was further argued that even the concerns expressed by the TEC Report have since been adequately addressed by the Union of India. The TEC Report was written in the background of the existing regulatory regime, which as noted above, has subsequently been updated. The regulatory regime in place has been strengthened to ensure that a comprehensive, 2036 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports transparent and science-based framework of GM crops is in place for ERA of GM crops. That rigorous risk analysis approach has been applied to ensure the safety of both the environmental and health risks vis-à-vis transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 for the past ten years. 18.8 Therefore, learned Attorney General submitted that the scope of adjudication now stands confined to the question of due procedure being followed under the relevant rules and the guidelines and there is no need to traverse beyond this limited inquiry. It was emphasised that the question that should be addressed by this Court would revolve around due processes being followed and deliberations on the varying understandings on applications of science and technology would lie in the domain of the Government alone and mere differences of opinions cannot invite the Court’s attention into the evaluation of views and adopting or rejecting any one of them. 18.9 Learned Attorney General then proceeded to argue that the petitioners’ concern regarding risk with regard to environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 is purely hypothetical and there is a distinction between a risk which is clearly known and demonstrated and presumption of risk on unproven hypotheses. Even under the precautionary principle approach, a rigid and uncompromising approach is not encouraged insofar as it stifles technological advancement. That the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) describes risk assessment as a scientific process consisting of the following steps: (i) hazard identification, (ii) hazard characterisation, (iii) exposure assessment, and (iv) risk categorization. There is also a principle that an analysis of benefit versus risk is undertaken to determine the actions that provide the greatest benefits while encountering the least risk. In the instant case, the procedures adopted for the environmental clearance are argued to be in consonance with the above said steps. To seek judicial scrutiny of the same would, thus, be inappropriate and will amount to dislodging governance responsibility in taking decisions on a consideration of all relevant factors. Therefore, this Court ought not to enter into any evaluation of rival views on the subject of GMOs in general and the issue of environmental release of DMH-11 in particular.