Rule 14 – Verification of Caste Certificate. Any person desirous of availing of the benefits and concessions provided to the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Caste converts to Buddhism, De-notified Tribes (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes or Special Backward Categories for any of the purposes as mentioned in Section 3 of the Act shall, invariably submit an application in FORM–16 with an affidavit in FORM–3 and FORM–17 for students; FORM–18 with an affidavit in FORM–3 and FORM–19 for employees or service purpose; FORM–20 with an affidavit in FORM–3 and FORM–21 for election [2024] 4 S.C.R. 139 Navneet Kaur Harbhajansing Kundles @ Navneet Kaur Ravi Rana v. State of Maharashtra and Other purpose; or FORM–22 with an affidavit in FORM–3 and FORM–23 for other purpose, as per his requirement, to the concerned Scrutiny Committee for verification of his caste claim and issue of Caste Validity Certificate, well in time : Provided that, the Caste Certificate issued to migrant from other State and Caste or Community Certificates issued by Authorities of the States other than the State of Maharashtra, shall not be verified by such Caste Scrutiny Committee. Rule 17 – Procedure of Scrutiny Committee. (1) On receipt of application, the Scrutiny Committee shall ensure that the application and the information supplied therewith is complete in all respects and to carry out scrutiny of the application. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the claimant or applicant or complainant shall be personally responsible for removal of objections raised by Scrutiny Committee, if any, within two weeks or within such extended period, which shall not be more than six weeks, failing which the claim or application or complaint shall be disposed of, by appreciating available records and such decision may be communicated to the applicant by the Scrutiny Committee. (3) The incomplete application may be rejected by recording reasons. (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, it will be the sole responsibility of the claimant or applicant to attend the dates of hearing, either personally or through duly authorized representative. (5) The roznama of the Scrutiny committee shall be self-evident as to what transpired on a particular day and it shall be signed by all the members of the Scrutiny Committee. (6) If the Scrutiny Committee, upon appreciating the statement of applicant or claimant submitted in the 140 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports form of Affidavit filed in consonance with 18 Rule 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, as well as other evidence and documents furnished along with any application or proposal is satisfied, about the genuineness of Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Caste converts to Buddhism or De-notified Tribes (Vimukta Jatis) or Nomadic Tribes or Other Backward Classes or Special Backward Category claim the scrutiny committee shall forthwith issue Validity Certificate in FORM-20 without enquiry by vigilance cell. (7) If the Scrutiny Committee, upon appreciating the statement of applicant or claimant submitted in the form of Affidavit filed in consonance with 18 Rule 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, as well as other evidence and documents furnished along with any application or proposal, is of the opinion that the documents do not satisfy or conclusively prove the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Caste converts to Buddhism or De-notified Tribes (Vimukta Jatis) or Nomadic Tribes or Other Backward Classes or Special Backward Category claim, the Scrutiny Committee by mentioning the same in the roznama, shall refer such case to the Vigilance Cell for carrying out suitable inquiry, as is deemed fit, by the Scrutiny Committee: Provided that, findings recorded by the Vigilance Cell shall not be binding on the Scrutiny Committee, as the vigilance inquiry is meant for internal assistance to the Scrutiny Committee.