It is submitted that the term “subject to the provisions of this Constitution” has to be interpreted as “subject to the other provisions of the Constitution including Article 136”. It is therefore submitted that, since the issue with regards to the same subject matter is pending before this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution, a suit for the same purpose under Article 131 of the Constitution is barred. 5. The learned Solicitor General further submitted that, in various proceedings filed either under Article 226 before the High Court or under Article 136 of the Constitution wherein the State of West Bengal is a party, the question with regards to the jurisdiction of the Central Bureau of Investigation (for short “CBI”) to investigate cases within the State of West Bengal after 16th November 2018, i.e., the date on which the consent under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (hereinafter referred to as “DSPE Act”) was withdrawn arises for consideration. 6. While making a reference to the term “subject to the provisions of this Constitution” in Article 131 of the Constitution, the learned Solicitor General submitted that, since the subject matter of the present suit is also pending before this Court or the High Courts under Article 136 or 226 of the Constitution respectively, the present suit would not be tenable. 7. The learned Solicitor General further submitted that, perusal of the entire matter would reveal that, taking the averments in the plaint at its face value, it can be seen that no cause of action has been made out against the defendant to the suit i.e. the Union of India. 684 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Shri Mehta submitted that all the reliefs including declaration of the registration of cases being unconstitutional, restraining and forbearing the defendant from registering any case etc., are all related to the CBI. It is submitted that the cases referred to in the plaint are registered at the instance of the CBI and the Union of India has no role to play. It is submitted that, though the reliefs are claimed against the CBI, it has not been made a party to the suit and that this has been rightly done inasmuch as if the CBI was made a party, the suit would not have been maintainable under Article 131 of the Constitution. It is submitted that, since the defendant has no role to play in the registration of cases; even if the suit is decreed, the said decree would remain unenforceable against the present defendant. Reliance in this respect is placed on the s of this Court in the cases of Mumbai International Airport Private Limited v. Regency Convention Centre and Hotels Private Limited and Others1 and Ram Kumar v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others.2 It is therefore submitted that the present suit is liable to be dismissed on the ground of misjoinder or non-joinder of parties. 8. The learned Solicitor General further submitted that the present suit is also liable to be dismissed on the ground of non-laying down of the factual foundation in the suit.