It is a well known fact that partial overlaps of resident male territories in an area do occur. However, the degree of overlap increases lethal internecine combats. Several female territories do occur in an overlapping manner within the territory of a male tiger. The tiger land tenure dynamics ensures presence of prime adults in a habitat which act as source populations, periodically replacing old males by young adults from nearby forest areas (Plate 2). 6.2 The ongoing study and analysis of available research data on tiger ecology indicate, that the minimum population of tigresses in breeding age, which are needed to maintain a viable population of 80-100 tigers (in and around core areas) require an inviolate space of 800 -1000 sq km (see Annexure I). Tiger being an “umbrella species”, this will also ensure viable populations of other wild animals (co-predators, prey) and forest, thereby ensuring the ecological viability of the entire area / habitat. Therefore, buffer areas with forest connectivity are imperative for tiger dynamics, since such areas foster sub adults, young adults, transients and old members of the population. The young adults periodically replace the resident ageing males and females from the source population area. 6.3 The buffer area, absorbs the “shock” of poaching pressure on populations of tiger and other wild animals. In case of severe habitat depletion in buffer areas, the source population would get targeted and eventually decimate. 232 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Plate 2 : Tiger Land Tenure Dynamics. Minimum population of tigers in breeding age needed for maintaining a viable population (80-100 tigers), which require an inviolate space of 800-1000 square kilometers.” 52. Clause 8 of the said guidelines deals with the importance of the corridors, which reads thus : “8. Value of Corridors 8.1 Isolated populations of wild animals face the risk of extinction owing to insularization. Habitat fragmentation adversely affects wildlife due to decreased opportunity available for wild animal movement from different habitats. This in turn prevents gene flow in the landscape. The equilibrium theory of island biogeography predicts greater species richness in large wildlife areas or in smaller areas connected by habitat corridors owing to increased movements of wild animals. Such connecting habitats, apart from facilitating animal movements also act as refuge for spill over populations from the core areas. They may also act as smaller “source” by facilitating breeding and movement of native wildlife populations to colonize adjoining habitats. Natural [2024] 3 S.C.R. 233 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal linear features like rivers or mountain ranges may act as boundaries for wildlife populations. However, disturbance of corridors on account of human interventions (highways, canals, industries, roads, railway tracks, transmission lines) is deleterious to wildlife.” Plate 3 : Tiger Land Tenure Dynamics 8.2 “Source” populations are those which produce a surplus of animals which are potential colonizers. On the other hand, “Sinks” are those populations in which deaths exceed births, and their persistence depends on regular influx of immigrants.