According to her, if the impugned Notification is partly quashed and partly upheld, then the caste “Tanti-Tantwa” would be left nowhere and would not be entitled to any reservation [2024] 7 S.C.R. 807 Dr. Bhim Rao Ambedkar Vichar Manch Bihar, Patna v. The State of Bihar & Ors. or benefit either as Extremely Backward Class or as Scheduled Caste. She, thus, submitted that the impugned notification is non- severable and deserves to be quashed as a whole. 28. She has further submitted that request of the State of Bihar as also the Intervenors to continue to extend the benefits already granted during this period to the members of the “Tanti-Tantwa” caste, should not be accepted. According to her, the exercise by the State of issuing the Notification dated 01.07.2015 was clearly mala fide and deliberate mischief on its part. The continous issuance of Scheduled Castes Certificates to the members of “Tanti-Tantwa” community despite repeated directions by the Central Government not to issue such certificates clearly reflects the defiance of the State Government not to correct itself rather continue with impunity to issue certificates and treat them as Scheduled Caste. 29. In the process of issuing such certificates and extending benefits of Scheduled Castes, the State has deprived the genuine members of the Scheduled Castes community covered under the lists published under Article 341, which should be restored back to the Scheduled Caste community. She also referred to an dated 22.11.2021 passed by this Court in the appeal filed by Ashish Rajak, wherein this Court had clearly provided that all appointments are subject to the outcome of these proceedings. 30. She further submitted that members of “Tanti-Tantwa” community may be extended benefits available to them under the Extremely Backward Classes by the State of Bihar, but under no circumstances, should such members of “Tanti-Tantwa” community, who have benefited under the completely illegal and mala fide exercise of the State, be allowed to continue on a reserved seat of the Scheduled Caste taking advantage of the Resolution dated 01.07.2015. 31. She has also very fairly submitted that she would not have any objection to the State not making any recovery from the beneficiaries of such illegal appointments and in accommodating such candidates under the Extremely Backward Class quota/reservation but in no case should such candidates be allowed to withhold the seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes which should be forthwith returned to the Schedule Castes for the benefit of the notified castes only. 808 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 32. On the other hand, Sri Ranjeet Kumar, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the State of Bihar tried to justify the Resolution dated 01.07.2015 by urging that the Resolution is only clarificatory and nothing more; that the statutory and socio historical factors surrounding the controversy warrant that “Tanti-Tantwa” be treated as synonymous with ‘Pan, Sawasi’. The State has only acted on the recommendation of the State Commission for Extremely Backward Classes dated 02.02.2015 and, as such, no fault can be found with the resolution of the State.