The second point for corroboration of this version could be taken from the wound certificate issued by PW-8 during the treatment of PW-4 at Government Hospital, Shorapur. The Trial Court relied upon the wound certificate and noted a contradiction between the condition of PW-4 at the time of admission. In the certificate, PW-4 is stated to be “self-admitted” but at the same time, he is stated to be unconscious. The High Court rejected this contradiction as material by observing that PW-4 was semi-conscious at the time of admission and therefore, he could have admitted himself in the hospital. However, the inherent contradictions in the statement of PW-4 are not limited to this point. 31. The injuries found on PW-4, as per the wound certificate, were simple in nature. PW-8 gave some treatment to PW-4, however the nature of treatment is not indicated. Thereafter, PW-8 forwarded him to a hospital at Gulbarga where injury certificate Ex.P12 was prepared. Ex.P12 also recorded the nature of injury to be simple in nature. The nature of injury is to be corroborated with the nature of assault, as deposed by PW-4 and PW-3. They deposed that A3 had attacked PW-4 with an axe at three sensitive places i.e. head, back and scrotum. The attack was so severe that PW-4 immediately fell unconscious. In the ordinary course of natural events, an injury inflicted by an axe, that too in a manner that the injured immediately fell unconscious and remained unconscious for almost 20 days, could not have been a simple injury. More so, a simple injury of a standard that required no admission in the hospital. 32. Furthermore, PW-4 travelled to the hospital at Shorapur by a bus, but he failed to inform any passenger about the assault. Despite such injuries, including on the head, no one noticed his condition. He was unconscious for over 20 days and after he regained consciousness, his statement was recorded by PW-10. It is difficult to comprehend as [2024] 2 S.C.R. 305 Mallappa & Ors. v. State of Karnataka to how a severely injured person, who could not gain consciousness before 20 days, managed to go to the hospital on his own by using a public bus and later, to another hospital at a different place. It is difficult to comprehend that PW-4 was conscious enough to undertake two journeys to two different hospitals, by public transport, but did not have the senses to give a statement to the IO PW-10 before the passage of almost 30 days. During cross examination, PW-4 had deposed that he had sustained injuries on head and testicles only, and there was no other injury. The said statement was a material improvement from the versions initially put forth by PW-3 and PW-4 whereby, PW-4 had sustained injuries on the back as well. However, no such injury was recorded in the wound certificate and in all likelihood, the improvement was made for that reason. The testimony of PW-4 is impeachable for another reason – the time of the offence.