Importantly, government land of even 1 (one) Ha can be a forest, and accordingly can attract the imposition of NPV. Moreover, this Court in T.N. Godavarman Thirumalpad (87) v. Union of India21 observed that the criteria for NPV must be worked out on economic principles and hence it is submitted that this can have no nexus with identification. Furthermore, the NPV imposition also encompasses government forests which could even be of 1 (one) Hectare. Hence, it is understandable that the NPV criteria is per Hectare i.e., it conceives of NPV being imposed even for government forests of 1 (one) Ha. 20 (2008) 7 SCC 126. 21 (2006) 1 SCC 1. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 723 T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others 47. The counsel for the respondent further contends that this Court has never directed the adoption of NPV norms as those for identification of private forests. To suggest that the NPV norms be today adopted as the criteria for private forests would be nullifying the exercise conducted by the State of Goa in terms of the express of this Court dated 12.12.96. Above all, the of this Court, in directing each State to constitute its own Expert Committee expressly accepted that there can be no uniform criteria for such identification across the country. Lastly, in this regard, the counsel for the respondents contended that no State in the country has adopted the NPV norms for classification of land as private forests, and if the Appellant’s plea is accepted it would create dual legal regimes, namely, one in Goa and one in rest of the country. 48. The respondents further contends that if the criteria are implemented, this would also roughly mean that if there are 10 to 20 planted trees in an area of 10,000 sq. metres, it will be a ‘deemed forest’ and prior approval from the Central Government under the FC Act would be required. The respondent also drew our attention to the case of Re: Constitution of Park-Anand Arya v. Noida22 wherein the 3-Judge bench of this Court had stated that if such criteria is agreed, then most of Delhi would be forest. 49. The learned counsel on behalf of the respondent(s) submits that there are enough safeguards in the State of Goa for protection of trees. The Goa Daman and Diu Preservation of Trees Act, 1984 is strictly enforced in this regard. The respondent further submits that the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change Guidelines as well as the Scheduled Tribe and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006 have been clear and unambiguous where it has exempted the application of FCA 1980 on areas which are less than 1 (one) ha and where not more than 75 trees have to be cut vide letter dated 03.01.2005 of Ministry of Environment and Forest and also Section 3(2) of the Forest Rights Act, 2006. 50. The learned counsel for the respondent(s) submits that the parameters used by FSI is to map the forest cover and the tree cover in India.