18. The provisions of the CPC have not been made applicable to the proceedings before the learned Arbitrator and the Court under Sections 34 and 37 of the Arbitration Act. The legislature’s intention is reflected in Section 19(1) of the Arbitration Act, which provides that an Arbitral Tribunal is not bound by the provision of the CPC. That is why the provisions of the CPC have not been made applicable to the proceedings under Sections 34 and 37(1)(c). We are not even suggesting that because the provisions of the CPC are not applicable, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 157 Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation Private Limited v. Samir Narain Bhojwani the Appellate Court dealing with an appeal under Section 37(1)(c) is powerless to pass an of remand. The remedy of an appeal will not be effective unless there is a power of remand vesting in the appellate authority. In the Arbitration Act, there is no statutory embargo on the power of the Appellate Court under Section 37(1)(c) to pass an of remand. However, looking at the scheme of the Arbitration Act, the Appellate Court can exercise the power of remand only when exceptional circumstances make an of remand unavoidable. There may be exceptional cases where remand in an appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act may be warranted. Some of the exceptional cases can be stated by way of illustration: a. Summary disposal of a petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act is made without consideration of merits; b. Without service of notice to the respondent in a petition under Section 34, interference is made with the award; and c. Decision in proceedings under Section 34 is rendered when one or more contesting parties are dead, and their legal representatives have not been brought on record. 19. Some of the objectives mentioned in the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Arbitration Act are very relevant which are as follows: “4. The main objectives of the Bill are as under:- (i) to comprehensively cover international commercial arbitration and conciliation as also domestic arbitration and conciliation; (ii) to make provision for an arbitral procedure which is fair, efficient and capable of meeting the needs of the specific arbitration; (iii) to provide that the arbitral tribunal gives reasons for its arbitral award; (iv) to ensure that the arbitral tribunal remains within the limits of its jurisdiction; (v) to minimise the supervisory role of courts in the arbitral process; …………………………………” (emphasis added) 158 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports While coming out with the 2015 Amendment Bill, the legislature has noted in the objects and reasons that a lot of delay is involved in concluding the arbitral proceedings. In paragraphs 6 and 7 of the objects and reasons of the Bill, the Legislature has stated thus: “6. It is proposed to introduce the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2015, to replace the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2015, which inter alia, provides for the following, namely— (i) to amend the definition of “Court” to provide that in the case of international commercial arbitrations, the Court should be the High Court; (ii) to ensure that an Indian Court can exercise jurisdiction to grant interim measures, etc., even where the seat of the arbitration is outside India; (iii) an application for appointment of an arbitrator shall be disposed of by the High Court or Supreme Court, as the case may be, as expeditiously as possible and an endeavour should be made to dispose of the matter within a period of sixty days; (iv) to provide that while considering any application for appointment of arbitrator, the High Court or the Supreme Court shall examine the existence of a prima facie arbitration agreement and not other issues; (v) to provide that the arbitral tribunal shall make its award within a period of twelve months from the date it enters upon the reference and that the parties may, however, extend such period up to six months, beyond which period any extension can only be granted by the Court, on sufficient cause; (vi) to provide that a model fee Schedule on the basis of which High Courts may frame rules for the purpose of determination of fees of arbitral tribunal, where a High Court appoints arbitrator in terms of Section 11 of the Act; [2024] 7 S.C.R.