CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 10. In the examination-in-chief, PW-1 stated that PW-2 witnessed the commission of rape and murder of the victim. According to the witness, PW-2 told him that as the door of the room was open while he was standing outside, he saw the act of commission of rape and murder. He deposed that after the PW-2 told him about the incident, he rushed along with two or three other persons to the spot. He found that the appellant was present there, and he questioned the appellant. Thereafter, the appellant fled. He tried to search for the victim. He found the dead body of the victim under the haystack in the room. It is pertinent to note that PW-2 had informed PW-1 that the appellant was the offender. Though two to three persons accompanied PW-1, he did not attempt to apprehend the accused and take him to the police. The conduct of PW-1 of not apprehending the appellant, though he was present, is unnatural. 11. Examination-in-chief of PW-1 was recorded by learned Trial Judge on 11th May 2011. At the end of the examination-in-chief, the learned Trial Judge recorded that the case was adjourned at the oral request 1 [2023] 5 SCR 754 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 609 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 343 Ashok v. State of Uttar Pradesh of the appellant to engage a counsel. Before the cross-examination was recorded on 2nd July 2011, an advocate was appointed to espouse the appellant’s cause. The cross-examination of PW-1 was recorded on 2nd July 2011 and 24th September 2011. The witness reiterated that he had narrated the facts stated to him by PW-2. 12. As far as PW-2 is concerned, he was 10 years old when his deposition was recorded. Many preliminary questions were put to the witness by the learned Trial Judge. After satisfying himself that the witness was able to understand the questions and give a reply to the same, an oath was administered to him. His version in the examination-in-chief is that the appellant gave drinking water to him and the victim. After drinking the water, when they tried to leave, the appellant caught the victim from behind, took off her undergarments, and the victim started screaming. He did not depose that he had seen the commission of rape and murder by the appellant. To this extent, the version of PW-2, as told to PW-1, is entirely different. PW-1 claims that PW-2 reported to him that he had seen the appellant committing rape and murder from outside the cabin. PW-8, the investigating officer, stated that he had recorded the Statement of PW-2 on 18th June 2009. Thus, there was a delay of 21 days in recording his statement, though the FIR recorded that this witness had seen the appellant committing the crime. There is some dispute about whether the witness’s statement recorded under Section 161 of CrPC was produced with the charge sheet. The learned senior counsel appointed as amicus pointed out that it is not on the record of the Trial Court.