We, therefore, direct as follows : (i) The State must make payment of punitive compensation; (ii) The Chief Secretary of the Government of Uttar Pradesh is directed to have an enquiry conducted into the entire matter pertaining to the illegal demolition, against all concerned officers of the state and the contractors who are responsible for the illegal demolition. In addition, disciplinary action must be initiated against any officer who is found to be involved in the illegal demolition, not only of the house of the petitioner but of other similarly situated properties in the area which were similarly demolished without adequate notice; and (iii) The Chief Secretary of the Government of UP shall lodge a First Information Report as directed by the NHRC. The FIR shall be investigated by the CB-CID. 32. The State of Uttar Pradesh is directed to pay the petitioner compensation in the amount of Rs twenty-five Lakhs, as an interim measure. By way of abundant caution, we clarify that this compensation shall not come in the way of the petitioner, should he choose to pursue any other proceedings which are available in law for compensation for the demolition and for the taking over of property without the authority of law. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2361 In Re: Manoj Tibrewal Akash 33. The Chief Secretary of the Government of Uttar Pradesh shall, after conducting the enquiry, take suitable action including penal measures to ensure accountability of individual officials who have acted in violation of law. The implementation of these directions shall be initiated no later than within a period of one month from the date of this . Disciplinary proceedings shall be completed within four months of initiation. 34. The Registrar (Judicial) shall circulate a copy of this to the Chief Secretaries of all the States/Union Territories to ensure compliance with the directions which have been issued in regard to the procedure to be followed for the purpose of road widening in general. 35. The Writ Petition is accordingly disposed of. 36. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Result of the case: Writ Petition disposed of. †Headnotes prepared by: Niti Richhariya, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Abhinav Mukerji, Sr. Adv.)