Digital Supreme Court Reports State Bank of India Officers Service Rules, 1992 the relationship of master and servant has come to an end after 01.10.2010. Therefore, the respondent bank had no jurisdiction to initiate departmental proceeding without extension of services of the petitioner beyond 01.10.2010. Apart from the aforesaid legal of provision in the instant case as apparent from the pleadings of the parties the bank has not suffered any pecuniary loss for any act of omission or commission on the part of petitioner. In the aforesaid backdrop of fact the initiation of departmental proceeding and imposition of extreme punishment of dismissal from services is unreasonable, illegal and not legally sustainable. 27. When the appellants approached the Division Bench of the High Court in letters patents appeal, the Division Bench repelled the contention of the appellants and held as follows: 11. The contention of the learned counsel for the appellant Bank that as per the Rule 19(1) of the State Bank of India Officers’ Service Rules, 1992, the respondent writ petitioner was to superannuate on completion of 60 years of age, is again, not in consonance with the Rules. The relevant portion of Rule 19(1) of the aforesaid Rules reads as follows:- “19. (1) An officer shall retire from the service of the Bank on attaining the age of sixty years or upon the completion of thirty years’ service or thirty years’ pensionable service, if he is a member of the Pension Fund, whichever occurs first.” A bare perusal of the Rule clearly shows that if an officer of the State Bank of India, completes thirty years of service prior to attaining the age of 60 years, he is to superannuate from service, on completion of thirty years of service, irrespective of the fact that he has not attained the age of 60 years. 12. In the case of the writ petitioner, he was made to superannuate on the date of completion of 30 years of [2024] 11 S.C.R. 819 State Bank of India & Ors. v. Navin Kumar Sinha service in the year 2003 itself, and he was again given an extension of service from 27.12.2003 to 1.10.2010. As such, by no stretch of imagination, it can be said that even in case of extension of service given to the respondent writ petitioner beyond the period of 30 years of service, he was to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years. No other Rule has been brought on record, or to the notice of this Court to show that even after completion of 30 years of service, the officer of the Bank shall continue in service, till he attains the age of 60 years. Rule 19(1) of the State Bank of India Officers’ Service Rules, 1992, is absolutely clear, without any ambiguity, wherein there is no scope of accepting the submission of learned counsel for the appellant Bank. 13. Thus, the only conclusion that can be drawn in the present case, is that the writ petitioner could not have been allowed to continue in service after 1.10.2010, in absence of any further extension of service, which admittedly was not done in the present case.