Then the question to be considered was whether the college in that case which was admittedly receiving aid from the Government and was governed by the regulations of the University was a statutory body. The Court answered in the negative and rejected the claim for reinstatement. The Court observed as follows:- “The law enunciated in these decisions stand fully attracted to this case also. Even though the Lady Keane Girls College may be governed by the statutes of the University and the Education Code framed by the Government of Meghalaya and even though the college may be receiving financial aid from the Government it would not be a statutory body because it has not been created by any statute and its existence is not dependent upon any statutory provision. Ultimately the Supreme Court granted additional damages to the appellant.” 26. In Tekraj v. Union of India, 1988 (1) SCC 236, the question was whether the Institute of Constitutional and Parliamentary studies registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 was a “State” within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India. After tracing the case law on the subject the Court observed as follows:- “Democracy pre-supposes certain conditions or its successful working. It is necessary that there must be a deep sense of understanding, mutual confidence and tolerance and regard and acceptance of the views of others. In the early years of freedom, the spirit of sacrifice and a sense of obligation to the leadership that had helped the dream of freedom to materialise had been accepted. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2203 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. The emergence of a new generation within less than two decades of independency gave rise to a feeling that the people’s representatives in the legislatures required the acquisition of the appropriate democratic ideas and spirit. ICPS was born as a voluntary organisation to fulfil this requirement. At the inception it was certainly not a governmental organisation and it has not been the case of the parties in their pleadings nor have we been told at the bar during the long arguments that had been advanced that the objects of ICPS are those which are a State obligation to fulfil. The Society was thus born out of a feeling that there should be a voluntary association mostly consisting of members of the two Houses of Parliament with some external support to fulfil the objects which were adopted by the Society. The objects of the Society were not governmental business but were certainly the aspects which were expected to equip Members of Parliament and the State Legislatures with the requisite knowledge and experience for better functioning. Many of the objects adopted by the Society were not confined to the two Houses of Parliament and were intended to have an impact on society at large. The Memorandum of the Society permitted acceptance of gifts, donations and subscriptions. There is material to show that the Ford Foundation, a US based Trust, had extended support for sometime.