Divgi Metal Wares Employees Association, which is respondent No.1 herein, came to be allowed. Similarly, by the said , the Writ [2024] 3 S.C.R. 961 M/s. Divgi Metal Wares Ltd. v. M/s. Divgi Metal Wares Employees Association & Anr. Petition No.31808/2003 filed by Respondent No.1 was also allowed and the Writ Petition No.7993/2006 filed by M/s Divgi Metal Wares Ltd., the appellant herein, came to be dismissed. 2. The facts leading to the filing of the present appeals are as under:- 2.1 The appellant is a company which manufactures automobile gears at two factories, one in Pune, Maharashtra and the other at Sirsi, Karnataka. The Respondent No.1 is a Trade Union registered under the provisions of the Indian Trade Unions Act, 1926. The relations between the appellant and the respondents are governed by the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Act, 1946 (for short, ‘the said Act’). It is also not in dispute that, it was at the instance of the employer that the Deputy Labour Commissioner and Certifying Officer passed an on 03.07.1989 thereby certifying the Standing . Clause 20 of the Standing s reads thus:- “20. Transfers: An employee shall be liable to be transferred at any time from the unit/factory/office/ establishment of the company located anywhere in India or from one department to another within the same unit/factory/office/establishment or from one job of similar nature and capacity to another job of same nature and capacity from one job to another similar job or from one shift to another shift, provided such a transfer does not affect his normal wages. Any refusal to accept a transfer as above will be treated as mis-conduct as per Rule 31.2.1949.” 2.2 It will also be relevant to refer to Clause 31 of the Certified Standing . It reads thus: “Nothing contained in these standing s shall operate in derogation of any law for the time being in force or to the prejudice of any right under a contract of service, custom or usage, or an agreement settlement or award applicable to the establishment.” 2.3 It is also not in dispute that Clause 5 of every letter of appointment and Clause 1 of every letter of confirmation in service issued to the workmen contains the following stipulation:- 962 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “Your services are transferable at short notice to any department or any works, offices belonging to the Company. In the event of transfer the terms and conditions stipulated in this letter shall continue to apply, and you will be governed by the rules and regulations of the establishment where your services are transferred.” 2.4 The appeal challenging the Certified Standing dated 03.07.1989 came to be filed before the learned Industrial Tribunal which rejected the appeal as time barred vide dated 06.04.1996. Indisputably, the same has not been carried forward. 2.5 In the months of April to September, 1998 on account of reduction in s and lack of sufficient work, 66 workmen from the Sirsi Factory were transferred to Pune Factory.