I presently proceed to assign my view-point in support of my conclusion that the reference as well as the re-reference is incompetent. 21. The discussion on why the in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) is completely flawed and, thus, should not have any bearing on the re-reference must start with the decision in Lala Shri Bhagwan vs. Shri Ram Chand.20 Deprecating the approach of a Single Judge of the relevant high court, who had taken upon himself the task of deciding whether earlier decisions of Division Benches of the same high court ought to be reconsidered and revised based on his perception that such decisions stood impliedly overruled by a decision of this Court, Hon’ble P.B. Gajendragadkar, CJ. (as His Lordship then was) speaking for a bench of 3 (three) Judges observed: “18. *** It is hardly necessary to emphasise that considerations of judicial propriety and decorum require that if a learned Single Judge hearing a matter is inclined to take the view that the earlier decisions of the High Court, whether of a Division Bench or of a Single Judge, needed to be reconsidered, he should not embark upon that enquiry sitting as a Single Judge, but should refer the matter to a Division Bench or, in a proper case, place the relevant papers before the Chief Justice to enable him to constitute a larger Bench to examine the question. That 20 [1965] 3 SCR 218 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1867 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. is the proper and traditional way to deal with such matters and it is founded on healthy principles of judicial decorum and propriety. It is to be regretted that the learned Single Judge departed from this traditional way in the present case and chose to examine the question himself.” 22. It is true that this Court had the occasion to make the above observations arising out of the concern that the healthy principles of judicial decorum and propriety had not been followed by a Single Judge of a high court who had departed from the traditional way. However, what is significant and follows from the above passage is that a Single Judge, even if he is not in agreement with the view of a Division Bench which is binding on him, cannot refer the case straightaway to a larger bench; at the most, he may refer the case to a Division Bench or, in a proper case, direct placing of the papers before the Chief Justice to take a call on whether constitution of a larger bench is warranted or not. A Single Judge cannot decide the case himself by not following the binding decision of the Division Bench, with which he disagrees or has a doubt about its correctness. The position of law that emerges is that constitution of the bench, whether it be a combination of 2 (two), 3 (three) or more, must be left to the Chief Justice. However, there could be no valid reason as to why what was observed in the aforesaid excerpt by His Lordship would not proprio vigore apply to Judges of this Court too.