He submitted that the conversion and consequent deed executed in favour of the alleged lessee are entirely illegal. He would, therefore, submit that the of acceptance of the bid offered by the school be passed. 7. Shri Jayant Bhushan, the learned counsel representing the alleged lessee and his sons, submitted that the of conversion was passed in favour of the alleged lessee in terms of the prevailing policy of the State Government and there is nothing illegal about the same. He submitted that the deed executed based on the of conversion is legal and valid. He submitted that the school belatedly made the application for amendment of the Writ Petition for challenging the conversion and for the sale deed, which was never allowed. Therefore, the High Court committed gross illegality by setting aside the of conversion and the sale deed executed by the authority in favour of the alleged lessee. He submitted that there was a delay on the part of the school in purchasing the tender document, and as the same was purchased after the expiry of the outer limit provided in the tender notice, the school’s bid could not have been accepted. He urged that, as the alleged lessee has been in possession for decades, the conversion cannot be faulted. Shri Ravindra Raizada, learned senior counsel representing the State Government, stated that the present legal position is that such leasehold plots cannot be converted to freehold and cannot be auctioned. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS GRANT OF STATE LARGESSE 8. Before we consider the rival contentions, the legal position regarding the State largesse succinctly laid down by this Court in the case of Akhil Bhartiya Upbhokta Congress v. State of Madhya Pradesh 28 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and Others1 needs to be reiterated. In paragraphs 65 to 67 of the said decision, this Court held thus: “65. What needs to be emphasised is that the State and/ or its agencies/instrumentalities cannot give largesse to any person according to the sweet will and whims of the political entities and/or officers of the State. Every action/decision of the State and/or its agencies/ instrumentalities to give largesse or confer benefit must be founded on a sound, transparent, discernible and well-defined policy, which shall be made known to the public by publication in the Official Gazette and other recognised modes of publicity and such policy must be implemented/executed by adopting a non- discriminatory and non-arbitrary method irrespective of the class or category of persons proposed to be benefited by the policy. The distribution of largesse like allotment of land, grant of quota, permit licence, etc. by the State and its agencies/instrumentalities should always be done in a fair and equitable manner and the element of favouritism or nepotism shall not influence the exercise of discretion, if any, conferred upon the particular functionary or officer of the State. 66. We may add that there cannot be any policy, much less, a rational policy of allotting land on the basis of applications made by individuals, bodies, organisations or institutions dehors an invitation or advertisement by the State or its agency/instrumentality.