615 Mrugendra Indravadan Mehta and Others v. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation 45(2)(a),(b),(c) and Section 52(1)(iii), in accordance with Section 81 of the Act of 1976. The Bench observed that, if by reconstitution of the plots, anybody suffers injury, the statutory provisions provide for compensation under Section 67(b) read with Section 82 of the Act of 1976. It was further noted that, by such reconstitution and readjustment of plots, there is no vesting of land in the local authority and the Act of 1976 provides for payment of non-monetary compensation and that mode was approved by the Constitution Bench in Shantilal Mangaldas (supra), wherein this Court held that when the scheme comes into force, all rights in the original plots are extinguished and, simultaneously therewith, ownership springs in the reconstituted plots. Reference was also made to Maneklal Chhotalal and others vs. M.G. Makwana and others4, wherein it was observed that, even if an original plot owner is allotted a smaller extent of land in the final plot and has to pay certain amount as contribution, having regard to the scheme and its objects, it is inevitable and would not amount to deprivation. The 3-Judge Bench, accordingly, observed that it is evident that in case a land owner is not provided with a final plot, the amount of his loss would be payable to him as required under Section 82 of the Act of 1976. Again referring to Shantilal Mangaldas (supra), it was noted that there is no necessity to acquire the land as the title of the owners is readjusted upon the scheme being sanctioned and the lands required for any of the purposes of the scheme need not be acquired otherwise than under the Act, for it is a settled rule of interpretation of statutes that when power is given thereunder to do a certain thing in a certain way, the thing must be done in that way or not at all. 27. This being the legal position vis-à-vis the Act of 1976, it was contended before us by the plaintiffs that the impugned of the High Court is liable to be set aside on the short ground that no points for determination were framed therein, as required by 41 Rule 31 CPC. Reliance was placed on Malluru Mallappa (Dead) through Lrs. vs. Kuruvathappa and others5, wherein this Court observed that the first appellate Court is required to set out the points for determination, record the decision thereon and give its own reasoning. It was further observed that, even when the said Court affirms the 4 [1967] 3 SCR 65 : AIR 1967 SC 1373 5 [2020] 2 SCR 789 : (2020) 4 SCC 313 616 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the Trial Court, it has to comply with the requirements of 41 Rule 31 CPC as non-observance thereof would lead to an infirmity in its . However, it may be noted that no absolute proposition was laid down therein to the effect that failure to frame points for determination, in itself, would render the first appellate Court’s invalid on that ground.