Further, both Pankaj Bansal (supra) and Prabir Purkayastha (supra) hold that the failure to record “reasons to believe” in writing will result in the arrest being rendered illegal and invalid. Paragraph 131 of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), which has been quoted subsequently, states that Section 19(1) requires in-depth scrutiny by the designated officer. A higher threshold is required for making an arrest, necessitating a review of the material available to demonstrate the person’s guilt. Production of the “reasons to believe” before the Special Court/magistrate, cannot be construed and is not the same as furnishing or providing the “reasons to believe” to the arrestee who has a right to challenge his arrest in violation of Section 19(1) of the PML Act.24 25. On the aspect of the checks on the power to arrest under the PML Act, we would like to quote from the submission made on behalf 24 The arrestee may also challenge his arrest under Section 19(1) of the PML Act on the basis of the “grounds of arrest.” 2386 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the DoE, as recorded in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra). Specific reliance was placed on a Canadian in the case of Gifford v. Kelson.25 The relevant paragraphs in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) read: “16(liii). …Secondly, there must be material in possession with the Authority before the power of arrest can be exercised as opposed to the Cr. P. C. which gives the power of arrest to any police officer and the officer can arrest any person merely on the basis of a complaint, credible information or reasonable suspicion against such person. Thirdly, there should be reason to believe that the person being arrested is guilty of the offence punishable under the PMLA in contrast to the provision in Cr. P. C., which mainly requires reasonable apprehension/suspicion of commission of offence. Also, such “reasons to believe” must be reduced in writing. Fifthly, as per the constitutional mandate of article 22(1), the person arrested is required to be informed of the grounds of his arrest. It is submitted that the argument of the other side that the accused or arrested persons are not even informed of the case against them, is contrary to the plain language of the Act, as the Act itself mandates that the person arrested is to be informed of the ground of his arrest… xx xx xx 16(lix). Reliance is then placed on the decision of this court in Union of India v. Padam Narain Aggarwal, wherein the court examined the power to arrest under section 104 of the 1962 Act. Relying on the decision, it was stated that the power to arrest is statutory in character and cannot be interfered with and can only be exercised on objective considerations free from whims, caprice or fancy of the officer. The law takes due care to ensure individual freedom and liberty by laying down norms and providing safeguards so that the authorities may not misuse such power. It is submitted that the requirement of “reason to believe” and “recording of such reasons in writing” prevent arbitrariness and makes 25 (1943) 51 Man.