The mode of initiation in each case would necessarily be different. While in the case of suo motu proceedings, it is the court itself which must initiate by issuing a notice, in the other cases initiation can only be by a party filing an application. In our opinion, therefore, the proper construction to be placed on Section 20 must be that action must be initiated, either by filing of an application or by the court issuing notice suo motu, within a period of one year from the date on which the contempt is alleged to have been committed.” 42. Interpretation of section 20 of the Act, which formed the crux of the discussion in Pallav Sheth (supra), has the marginal note ‘limitation for actions for contempt’. Section 20 ordains that: “20. No court shall initiate any proceedings of contempt, either on its own motion or otherwise, after the expiry of 1104 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a period of one year from the date on which the contempt is alleged to have been committed.” 43. The vires of section 20 of the Act has been upheld by Division Benches of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh, High Court of Karnataka and the High Court at Calcutta in Advocate General v. A.V. Koteswara Rao,35 High Court of Karnataka v. Y.K. Subanna 36 and Arthur Branwell & Company Ltd. v. Indian Fibres Ltd.,37 respectively. 44. In upholding the vires of section 20, the High Court of Karnataka in Y.K. Subbanna (supra) traced the legislative history of section 20 of the Act. It is considered profitable to read the relevant passages therefrom, which are as follows: “79. The Act for the first time, by enacting Section 20, introduced a period of limitation. The Sanyal Committee examined the question as to whether any period of limitation should be prescribed in respect of contempt proceedings and observed in Paragraph 8 of Chapter X of its Report, as under: ‘8. Limitation:— Contempt procedures are of a summary nature and promptness is the essence of such proceedings. Any delay should be fatal to such proceedings, though there may be exceptional cases when the delay may have to be over looked but such cases should be very rare indeed. From this point of view we considered whether it is either necessary or desirable to specify a period of limitation in respect of contempt proceedings. The period, if it is to be fixed by statute, will necessarily have to be very short and provision may also have to be made for condoning delay in suitable cases. We feel that on the whole instead of making any hard and fast rule on the subject the matter may continue to be governed by the discretion of the Courts as hithertofore.’ 80. The Joint Select Committee of Parliament on Contempt of Court (Bhargava Committee) after examining the Report 35 1984 Cri. LJ. 1171 36 1989 SCC OnLine Kar 404 37 1993 (2) CLJ 182 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1105 S. Tirupathi Rao v. M. Lingamaiah & Ors.