The DySP (PW-10) questioned him about having accepted the bribe amount. The complainant (PW-1) immediately informed the DySP(PW-10) that the appellant (AO1) had demanded and accepted the bribe amount of Rs.5,000/- from him and had placed the same in a rexine bag. The hands of the appellant (AO1) were rinsed in sodium carbonate solution. The wash of the fingers of his right hand turned pink. The appellant (AO1), upon being questioned about having accepted the bribe, stated with trepidation that he had accepted the said amount towards compounding fee and opened the rexine bag which he was carrying. The mediator, Kathi Srinivas (PW-3) took out the currency notes from the rexine bag being held by the appellant (AO1) and on verification, numbers of the notes tallied with the numbers of the currency notes submitted by the complainant (PW-1) at the time of the pre-trap proceedings. The bribe amount and a diary along with the rexine bag held by the appellant (AO1) were seized. The diary too was tested for presence of phenolphthalein because it had also come into contact of the tainted currency notes which was kept in the bag. A money-receipt book was also seized (via memorandum (Exhibit P-6)). The post-trap proceedings were recorded in the memorandum (Exhibit P-11). [2024] 7 S.C.R. 645 Mir Mustafa Ali Hasmi v. The State of A.P. 7. The prosecution sanction was procured and upon concluding the investigation, charge sheet came to be filed against the appellant (AO1) and AO2 in the Court of learned Additional Special Judge for SPE and ACB Cases, City Civil Court, Hyderabad. The learned trial Court framed charges against the appellant (AO1) and AO2 for the offences punishable under Sections 7, 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of the PC Act. They denied the charges and claimed trial. The prosecution examined as many as 11 witnesses and exhibited 19 documents and 8 material objects in to prove its case. The accused (AO1 and AO2) upon being questioned under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter being referred as ‘CrPC’) and when confronted with the allegations as appearing in the prosecution evidence, denied the same and claimed to be innocent. 8. The appellant (AO1) categorically stated in his statement under Section 313 CrPC, that while he and the complainant (PW-1) were having coffee in the hotel, he inadvertently left his rexine bag behind at the coffee shop. He conjectured that the complainant (PW-1) might have planted the tainted currency notes in his rexine bag without his knowledge because he was aggrieved by the fine of Rs.50,000/- imposed upon M. Ashok (employee of the saw-mill) by the appellant (AO1) earlier. 9. Upon hearing the arguments of the learned defence counsel and the learned Special Public Prosecutor and after evaluating the evidence available on record, the trial Court proceeded to convict and sentence the appellant (AO1) and AO2 as above vide dated 5th August, 2008. 10. The said was assailed by both the accused by filing separate appeals before the High Court of Telangana.