Supreme Court Reports qua the right of redemption available to the Mortgagor held that the Amended S. 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act only puts a restriction on the right of the Mortgagee to deal with the property and does not speak in express terms about the equity of redemption available to the Mortgagor (at para 13). It was further held that the danger of interpreting Section 13(8) as though it relates to the right of redemption, is that if payments are not made as per Section 13 (8), the right of redemption may get lost even before the sale is be complete in all respects and that holding that the right of redemption would extinguished at the stage of issue of notice under Rule 9(1) would be tantamount to annulling the relevant provision of the Transfer of Property Act, 1862 which do not stand expressly excluded insofar as the question of redemption is concerned (para 14). The said was challenged before this Hon’ble Court vide SLP (Civil) Diary No. 28967/2019 and the same came to be dismissed, hence, confirming the said . 17. The view expressed in Concern Readymix (supra) was echoed by a Division Bench of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana in the case of M/s Pal Alloys & Metal India Private Limited and others V/s Allahabad Bank and Ors. CWP No. 6402 0£2019 (O & M) dated 23.12.2021 [Annexure R-5] wherein the Hon’ble High Court, inter alia, considered the specific issue “(a) till what time and date can the right of redemption of the Mortgage can be exercised by the Mortgagors/Borrowers in the light of the amendment to Section 13 (8) of the SARFAESI Act”. 18. While answering the said question, the Court considered the report of the Joint Committee on the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Bill, 2016 (the Report) as well as the law laid down by this Hon’ble Court in Mathew Varghese (supra) and the in Concern Readymix [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1685 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. (supra), in to determine whether the said right of redemption was available up to the date of transfer of the asset or only up to the date of publication of the sale notice. On a consideration of Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act as well as the in Nardas Karsondas (supra), it was observed that: “Thus even if the sale of secured assets is under a special statute like State Financial Corporations Act, there is no deviation from the general principle that the mortgagor’s right of redemption is not extinguished till the execution of conveyance.” 19. It was ultimately held as below:- “that the amended Section 13 (8) of the SARFAESI Act merely prohibits a secured creditor from proceeding further with the transfer of the secured asset by way of lease, assignment or sale; a restriction on the right of the mortgagee to deal with the property is not exactly the same as the equity of redemption available to the mortgagor, the payment of the amount mentioned in Section 13 (8) of the SARFAESI Act ties the hands of the mortgagee (secured creditor) from exercising any of the powers conferred under the Act; that redemption comes later; extinction of the right of redemption comes much later than the sale notice; and the right of redemption is not lost immediately upon the highest bid made by a purchaser in an auction being accepted.