SUBMISSIONS BY THE PETITIONER: 6. At the outset, learned senior counsel submitted that the High Court as well as the Appellate Court and the Trial Court committed error in convicting the petitioner without considering his case. It was argued that the Courts below failed to appreciate the fact that the petitioner had repaid the loan amount and received the receipt (Ex. P9), No-Objection Certificate (Ex. P8) and Form No.35 (Ex. P10) from the Company, after clearing the loan. It was pointed out that the Company failed to produce any document/ledger/booklet to show that the loan was not repaid by the accused. Even the allegedly-forged Form No.35 was never produced before the Courts. 2270 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7. It was argued that the prosecution failed to produce any evidence/ material to show how the disputed documents were fabricated and by using which computer/printer. There is also no material placed on record to connect the accused with the forged signatures. It was submitted that in the absence of such evidence, the petitioner cannot be convicted for the alleged offences in question. 8. It was submitted that Exs. P11 and P12 are said to be the formats of the receipt and No-Objection Certificate, which the Company issues to its customers. A customer entitled to receive Exs. P11 and P12 was not examined before the Trial Court. When the loan pertaining to the said customer is cleared and Exs. P11 and P12 were issued, there was no reason for the Company to retain those documents with it. Therefore, no importance could be attached to the said documents, and it was submitted that the said two exhibits were not produced from proper custody. 9. It was further submitted that all the witnesses were employees of the Company and hence no reliance could be placed on their depositions. It was pointed out that PW4 was the only independent witness and PW13 did not support the case of the prosecution. It was put forth that the prosecution failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt and therefore, in the interest of justice, the Impugned be set aside by acquitting the petitioner. SUBMISSIONS BY THE RESPONDENT-STATE: 10. Per contra, learned counsel for the State of Karnataka submitted that Courts below have rightly convicted and sentenced the accused based on cogent grounds and the same does not call for any interference by this Court. It was submitted that without repaying the loan, the accused has sold the vehicle to PW4 and forged Exs. P8 to P10. The disputed documents were forwarded to a handwriting expert along with the admitted signature and handwritings of the accused. The expert report (Ex. P28) fully supports the case of the prosecution. Further, PW5, the Divisional Manager of the Company, has specifically deposed that he never signed and issued Exs. P8, P9 and P10. It was submitted that the evidence on record sufficiently demonstrates that it is the accused alone who is the author of the forged and fabricated documents.