The liability of higher rates of power procurement would, it was opined, be passed on to the consumers, increasing the cost of power in the state. Alternative means, it was opined, should have been sought earlier and the public should not be held liable for procedural flaws. The Government of Kerala, accordingly, directed as follows: “NOW THEREFORE, after detailed examination of the matter, considering all facts and observations, without prejudice to any enquiry ongoing in the matter and without 7 Civil Appeal No. 41/2021 8 OP No. 05 of 2021 9 S.108, Electricity Act 2003. [Section 108. (Directions by State Government): ---- (1) In the discharge of its functions, the State Commission shall be guided by such directions in matters of policy involving public interest as the State Government may give to it in writing. (2) If any question arises as to whether any such direction relates to a matter of policy involving public interest, the decision of the State Government thereon shall be final] 976 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ratifying the procedural irregularities pointed out by KSERC, keeping in view the larger interest of the public, the Government deems it appropriate to invoke the power under section 108 of Electricity Act 2003 and accordingly, in exercise of the said power, Government hereby direct Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission to reconsider/review their s in O.P No.5/2021 filed by Kerala State Electricity Board Limited, in accordance with the policy of the Government for the best interest of the State and public at large.” (emphasis supplied) 11. In view of the above directive, the appellant withdrew its appeal before APTEL. While allowing the request for withdrawal, APTEL by its dated 31 October 2023, directed as follows: “We consider it appropriate, in such circumstances, to permit the Appeal to be withdrawn, with liberty to the Appellant to invoke the review jurisdiction of the Commission. It is made clear that the now passed by us shall not disable the Appellant, if need be later, from availing their appellate remedy against the original passed by the Commission dated 10.05.2023.” (emphasis supplied) 12. The appellant moved a petition before the KSERC seeking a review of its dated 10 May 2023. On 29 December 2023, KSERC allowed the review petition and approved the four PSAs in view of the public interest highlighted in the policy directions issued under Section 108 by the State government. The KSERC held that it was bound by the directions of the state government. Further, it was held that the subsequent directions issued by the state government fell within the ambit of “any other sufficient reasons” to review a previous , as required by XLVII Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure 190810 read with Section 94 of the Act. 13. Two of the generators who are now respondents before this Court, moved the APTEL in appeal. They contended that the above of the KSERC violated XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC read with 10 “CPC” [2024] 9 S.C.R.