A secretariat comprising dedicated scientists with area expertise as well as expertise in biosafety needs to be established. This will require consultation with experts having experience at the international level in biosafety testing and evaluation of GM safety dossiers in reputed regulatory bodies. The TEC recommends doing it in collaboration with the Norwegian Government and GM regulatory body since the Norwegian system has an established commitment and experience in, is one of the few that are attuned to considering socio-economic issues that would be important in the Indian context. The regulatory body should have area-wise subcommittees/expert groups in for example: • Health (human and animal) • Environment and Ecology • Agroeconomics and Socioeconomics [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1981 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. • Molecular biology • Entomology • Agricultural and Aquacultural Systems • Public Health • Soil science and microbiology • Plant biology • Regulatory toxicology • Plant and animal breeding and genetics A single committee such as the GEAC or RCGM doing all the valuation is not sufficient. 2. Conflict of interest in terms of location of the regulatory body needs to be addressed. The suggestion of the TEC is that the regulatory bodies to be located in the MoEF (environmental safety) and the MoHFW (health safety). At a different level, it is evident that members of the regulatory bodies should also be free of conflict of interest. 3. Specific sites for conducting confined field trials need to be designated, certified, and sufficient mechanisms put in place for monitoring the trials and ensuring restricted access, disposal of material, associated testing and other facilities, These sites should be used only for field trials of GM crops (GM and control material). The sites could be in ICAR institutes or State Agricultural Universities and required conditions for isolation should be established and supported appropriately by ICAR. Sites in company premises may also be considered for certification for trials, however the land should be permanently owned by the applicant/tester. Trials should not be conducted on leased land so as to avoid the possibility that it may be used for a different purpose following the trials. 4. Stakeholder participation, need, socio-economic considerations, societal impact, and sustainability 1982 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports should be some of the dimensions to be incorporated in the risk assessment and this should be done at an early stage in the risk assessment process.” 10.6 The specific findings of the Report of the majority of TEC on the terms of reference may be discussed at this stage. (i) Firstly, as to the nature of sequencing of risk assessment studies that need to be done for GM crops before they are released into the environment, the majority recommended the following: a. The majority recommended consultation, ideally prior to the development of the GM product intended for field trials, wherein the applicant would provide information to the regulator about the product, its purpose (including whether it is intended for research only or commercialization), and how it is to be deployed in India.