[Para 295] Art. 21 and s.6A Citizenship Act, 1955 – s.6A – Special provisions as to citizenship of persons covered by the Assam Accord – Constitution of India – Art. 21 – s.6A, if ultra vires Art. 21 – Plea that s.6A infringes upon the rights of the ‘indigenous’ Assamese community; that immigration led to the marginalization and disruption of their socio-economic aspirations; relying on Art.1 of ICCPR, their right of self-governance is being violated by s.6A; and inclusion of unidentified migrant population burdens country’s natural resources, hindering sustainable development: Held: (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) s.6A non-violative of Art. 21 – Petitioners not able to establish both a deleterious effect of s.6A on their indigenous communities as well as trace the cause of such effect to s.6A – As regards plea of self-governance, perceived right u/Art.1 of the ICCPR not enforceable through writ jurisdiction – More so, India’s explicit reservation is against its application in India, and it [2024] 10 S.C.R. 973 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 generally is applicable only to people under foreign domination – Assertion that immigration has impacted the self-governance of the original inhabitants of Assam, cannot be accepted – Furthermore, petitioners have not demonstrated how s.6A affects their right to govern themselves democratically – Mere fact that sub-class of immigrants whose status has been legitimised by s.6A also has access to these resources does not automatically imply a disruption of ecological balance or violation of the original inhabitants’ rights to resource usage – This conflates the idea of “unfair usage” with “more usage”- premise that cannot be accepted – Nation can accommodate immigrants and refugees, while simultaneously prioritizing sustainable development and equitable allocation of resources. [Paras 308-321] Aim of Art. 326 Constitution of India – Art. 326 – Aim and objective of Art. 326: Held: (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) Objective of Art. 326 is to enfranchise people as opposed to disenfranchising them – Evident purpose of its inclusion was to bestow upon every individual citizen the right to exercise their vote and choose their elected representatives. [Para 335] Right of exclusion and Art. 326 Constitution of India – Art. 326 – Right of exclusion – Right u/Art. 326, if can be invoked to exclude certain individuals – s.6A, if violates the political rights of Indian citizens in Assam u/Art.326: Held: (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) Art. 326 bestows upon individuals the right to vote and the right to be included in electoral rolls unless disqualified by the legislature or other constitutional provisions – It cannot be said that the influx of immigrants in the State of Assam has affected the right of the Assamese people to vote – Once deemed citizens by operation of s.6A, the erstwhile immigrants would enjoy equal rights as any other Indian citizen, including the right to vote, irrespective of the mode or time of acquisition of citizenship – Such constitutional rights cannot be summarily revoked or infringed upon – There has been no violation of the right of the petitioners u/Art.