Given the aforesaid statutory obligation of the Defendant, the Plaintiff being the repository of people on the subject of law and in State, the Defendant cannot cause investigation into the offences in the State. Since there cannot be two parallel investigations in respect of the same offence, the registration of FIRs by the Defendant precludes the State from initiating appropriate action on the allegations of this subject. As a consequence thereof, the Plaintiff fails to adhere to the constitutional obligation. 33. Article 131 of the Constitution provides for independent adjudication in case of federal disputes and should be widely and generously interpreted to advance the intended remedy. It can be invoked whenever a State and other States or Union differ on a question of interpretation of constitution or law so that a decision of it will affect the scope and exercise of the governmental powers which are attributes of a State. The jurisdiction conferred on this Hon’ble Court under Article 131 of the Constitution should not be tested on the anvil of banal rules which are applied under the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure for determining whether a suit is maintainable. 34. The Constitution aims at maintaining a fine balance not only between the legislature, the executive and the judiciary, but also between the powers of the Union and State, as demonstrated by the Legislative Lists and the executive power of the Central Government and the State Governments in part XI of the Constitution. This is a delicate relationship particularly if different political parties are in power in the Centre and in the States. The object of the Articles 245-246 is to ensure that the 714 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Central Government and State Governments act within the respective spheres of their authority and do not transgress upon each other’s constitutional functions or powers. ………… 36. This present suit is being filed to challenge the constitutionality of the actions of the defendant. Thus, a suit under Article 131 of the Constitution of India challenging the constitutionality of the impugning the action of the Defendant at the instance of a constituent State of the Union is maintainable. 37. A proceeding under Article 131 of the Constitution stands in sharp contrast with an ordinary suit. The proceedings are adjudicatory of the limits of the constitutional power vested in the Central and the State Governments. The competition in such a proceeding is between two or more Governments either the one or the other of which possesses the constitutional power to act. 38. While mere wrangles between the Governments have no place under the scheme, when legal as distinct from a mere political issue arises touching upon the existence or extent of the legal right the article is attracted. There is a distinction between “State” and “State Government”. When a right or capacity or lack of it attributed to any institution of person acting on behalf of the State, it raises a matter in which the State is involved or concerned.