Reference may be made to the observations of Wanchoo, J. in Vanguard Fire and General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. M/s Fraser and Ross [(1960) 3 SCR 857, 863: AIR 1960 SC 971: (1960) 30 Com Cas 13] where the learned Judge said that even where the definition is exhaustive inasmuch as the word defined is said to mean a certain thing, it is possible for the word to have a somewhat different meaning in different sections of the Act depending upon the subject or context… 20. Great artistry on the bench as elsewhere is, therefore, needed before we accept, reject or modify any theory or principle. Law as creative response should be so interpreted to meet the different fact situations coming before the court. For, Acts of Parliament were not drafted with divine prescience and perfect clarity. It is not possible for the legislators to foresee the manifold sets of facts and controversies which may arise while giving effect to a particular provision. Indeed, the legislators do not deal with the specific controversies. When conflicting interests arise or defect appears from the language of the statute, the court by consideration of the legislative intent must supplement the written word with ‘force and life’. See, the observation of Lord Denning in Seaford Court Estate Ltd. v. Asher [(1949) 2 KB 481, 498].” 26. In Vanguard Fire and General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Fraser and Ross24 this Court held that: 23 [1990] 1 SCR 278 : (1990) 2 SCC 134 24 [1960] 3 SCR 857 : (1960) 3 SCR 857 682 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “6. …That is why all definitions in statutes generally begin with the qualifying words similar to the words used in the present case, namely, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context. Therefore in finding out the meaning of the word ‘insurer’ in various sections of the Act, the meaning to be ordinarily given to it is that given in the definition clause. But this is not inflexible and there may be sections in the Act where the meaning may have to be departed from on account of the subject or context in which the word has been used and that will be giving effect to the opening sentence in the definition section, namely, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context. In view of this qualification, the court has not only to look at the words but also to look at the context, the collocation and the object of such words relating to such matter and interpret the meaning intended to be conveyed by the use of the words under the circumstances…” 27. In the ultimate analysis, interpretation statutes or definitions in interpretation clauses are only internal aids of construction of a statute. Who do they aid? Interpretation is the exclusive domain of the Court.25 A Constitutional Court is tasked with the sacred duty of interpreting the Constitution, Acts of Parliament or States, subordinate legislations, regulations, instructions and even to practices having force of law.