7,78,280/- being conditional, the respondent would have been under an obligation to refund the said amount in case the appellant had succeeded in the appeal under Section 37 of the Act, 1996. This argument does not impress, as in the event the appellant had succeeded in their appeal, the entire amount paid would have been refundable. The undertaking was not onerous, and was to operate only if the amount of Rs. 7,78,280/- was not refunded by the respondent. The respondent had obviously used and utilized the money. The appellant did not have any right on the money paid to the respondent, who could use it in a manner and way he wanted. There was no charge. Money is fungible and would have gotten mixed up with the other amounts available with the respondent. Right to restitution would not make the payment conditional. Interest has been jurisprudentially defined as the price paid for money borrowed, or retained, or not paid to the person to whom it is due, generally expressed as a percentage of amount in one year. It is in the nature of the compensation allowed by law or fixed by parties, for use or forbearance or damage for its detention. In the context of the present case, interest would be the compensation payable by the appellant to the respondent, for the retention or deprivation of use of money. Therefore, once the money was paid to the respondent, interest as compensation for deprivation of use of money will not arise.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 8 S.C.R. 319 DLF Ltd. (Formerly Known as DLF Universal Ltd) and Anr. v. Koncar Generators and Motors Ltd. 15.4 Therefore, the ability of the decree-holder to access and use the money in a manner he deems fit was considered by this Court while deciding the issue. 15.5 Here, the Court also differentiated P.S.L. Ramanathan Chettiar (supra), which has also been relied on by the respondent in the present matter, and another decision by this Court in Delhi Development Authority v. Bhai Sardar Singh and Sons58. P.S.L. Ramanathan Chettiar (supra) holds that a deposit is only a way to obtain a stay on execution and does not pass title to the decree-holder, and hence, is not in satisfaction of a decree. The decree-holder in Delhi Development Authority (supra) was not permitted to withdraw the deposited amount and hence, interest was calculated on the same. The Court in Nepa Limited (supra) however held that these cases do not apply in its facts as the respondent here was permitted to withdraw the deposited sum and did so. Hence, the Court instead relied on the ability of the respondent to use the deposited money as it deems fit. 16. These cases demonstrate that once there is a deposit by the award debtor and the award holder is permitted to withdraw the same, even if such withdrawal is conditional and subject to the final decision in the matter, the court must consider that the award holder could access and benefit from such deposit.