For better clarity, we reproduce the relevant provisions of the CENVAT Rules. Rule 2(a) (A) defines “capital goods” and Rule 2(k) defines “input” which reads as below: - Rule 2(a)(A) “2. In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, - (a) “capital goods” means:- (A) the following goods, namely:- (i) all goods falling under Chapter 82, Chapter 84, Chapter 85, Chapter 90, heading No. 68.02 and sub-heading No. 6801.10 of the First Schedule to the Excise Tariff Act; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1537 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune (ii) pollution control equipment; (iii) components, spares and accessories of the goods specified at (i) and(ii); (iv) moulds and dies, jigs and fixtures; (v) refractories and refractory materials; (vi) tubes and pipes and fittings thereof; and (vii) storage tank, used – (1) in the factory of the manufacturer of the final products, but does not include any equipment or appliance used in an office; or (2) for providing output service.” Rule 2(k) “2(k) “input” means- (i) all goods, except light diesel oil, high speed diesel oil and motor spirit, commonly known as petrol, used in or in relation to the manufacture of final products whether directly or indirectly and whether contained in the final product or not and includes lubricating oils, greases, cutting oils, coolants, accessories of the final products cleared along with the final product, goods used as paint, or as packing material, or as fuel, or for generation of electricity or steam used in or in relation to manufacture of final products or for any other purpose, within the factory of production; (ii) all goods, except light diesel oil, high speed diesel oil, motor spirit, commonly known as petrol and motor vehicles, used for providing any output service. Explanation 1. - The light diesel oil, high speed diesel oil or motor spirit, commonly known as petrol, shall not be treated as an input for any purpose whatsoever. 1538 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Explanation 2. - Input include goods used in the manufacture of capital goods which are further used in the factory of the manufacturer; Rule 3 is the enabling provision to take CENVAT credit, relevant portion of which reads as follows: - Rule 3 “3. (1) A manufacturer or producer of final products or a provider of taxable service shall be allowed to take credit (hereinafter referred to the CENVAT credit) of – (i) the duty of excise specified in the First Schedule to the Tarrif Act, leviable under the Excise Act: ………………………………………………. paid on – (i) any input or capital goods received in the factory of manufacture of final product or premises of the provider of out service on or after the 10th day of September, 2004; and (ii) any output service received by the manufacturer of final product or by the provider of output services on or after the 10th day of September, 2004. (2) ……………. (3) ……………. (4) …………….. (5) CENVAT credit may be utilized for payment of - (a) any duty of excise of any final product; or (b) an amount equal to CENVAT credit taken on inputs if such inputs are removed as such or after being partially processed; or (c) an amount equal to the CENVAT credit taken on capital goods if such capital goods are removed as such; or [2024] 11 S.C.R.