(ii) Biosafety Research Level-II (BRL-II) Trials: These are limited in size to no more than 2.5 acres (1 ha) per trial site location and number of locations to be decided on a case by case basis for each plant species/construct combination (e.g., one or more events originating from transformation of a plant species with the same genetic construct), per applicant, per crop season. The RCGM is the regulatory authority for BRL-I trials and GEAC is the regulatory authority for BRL-II trials, as per the Guidelines for the Conduct of Confined Field Trials of Regulated GE Plants, 2008. 26.6 Applications for environmental release are processed in accordance with Guidelines for the Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) of GE Plants, 2016. 26.7 The Risk Analysis Framework, 2016 prescribes the Regulatory Agency’s approach to risk analysis. It is based on national and international standards and guidance, including the CPB to which India is a party. In accordance with the Risk Analysis Framework, 2016, assessment of safety of GM plants is a comprehensive process involving subject experts and ensures transparency in the regulatory decision-making process by incorporating stakeholder consultations. 26.8 As per this framework, regulatory agencies seek views from various stakeholders and the steps followed in this consultation process include: (i) The communication of information about submission of applications for environmental release of GE plants to the regulatory agency. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2073 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (ii) Preparation of a RARM plan for each application by the regulatory agencies. (iii) RARM plan uploaded on the official website for receiving comments from the stakeholders for a period of 30 days. (iv) The regulatory agency gives its recommendations after due consideration of the responses received from the stakeholders. 26.9 That in line with the above, the applicant has to follow a clearly laid out step by step process for biosafety data generation from laboratory to field trials, safety tests and submission of application for environmental release. The biosafety data is generated in laboratories and by confined field trials under conditions authorized by the RCGM and GEAC, as per the guidelines and protocols and in recognized laboratories/ institutions/universities. 27. In the context of the crucial role of the regulatory bodies, particularly with regard to food safety and environment, this Court in Writ Petition (Civil) No.202 of 1995 (In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad vs. Union of India), dated 31.01.2024, speaking through Gavai, J. in paragraphs 22-25 and 28-32, has observed as under: “22. As new bodies, authorities, and regulators for environmental governance emerge from time to time, their institutionalisation assumes extraordinary importance. Institutionalisation means that these bodies must work in compliance with institutional norms of efficiency, integrity and certainty. In this context, the role of the constitutional courts is even greater. 23. Environmental Rule of Law: Environmental rule of law refers to environmental governance that is undergirded by the fundamental tenets of rule of law. The rule of law regime is one that has effective, accountable, and transparent institutions; responsive, inclusive, participatory, and representative decision making; and public access to information.