The statements of PW-1 in the Court and in the complaint Ex.P1 are different. In the complaint, PW-1 had mentioned about the involved of co-accused persons, whereas his testimony in the Court was completely silent regarding the involved of other accused persons. 1 Hereinafter referred as “IPC” [2024] 2 S.C.R. 397 Kalinga @ Kushal v. State of Karnataka By Police Inspector Hubli iv. PW-1 stated that his wife and mother were also present when the confession was made by the appellant. However, neither wife nor mother of PW- 1 was examined by the prosecution as a witness. v. PW-1 deposed that after the confession was made by the appellant, he took the appellant to the police station where he disclosed the involvement of accused no. 2 and 3. However, in the complaint Ex.P1 which was given by him at the police station, there is no mention of accused no. 3. The contradiction in this regard is material as, if the appellant had disclosed the involvement of accused no. 2 and 3 before going to the police station, there was no reason for PW-1 to skip the name of accused no. 3 from Ex.P1. vi. The Trial Court noted the multiplicity of versions by PW-1 and held that an extra judicial confession must be free from suspicion, which is not the case in the testimony of PW-1. vii. The Trial Court also noted the discrepancy regarding the arrest of the accused. PW-1 deposed that he took the appellant to the police station after his disclosure, whereas PW-16 deposed that after registering the complaint, he had arrested the appellant from his house. viii. No mention of the incident of utterance of certain words by the appellant on 14.11.2002 in the complaint given by PW-1 on the following day. ix. PW-1 took no steps in furtherance of the information supplied by PW-5 that he had seen the appellant taking away the child on 03.11.2002 or in furtherance of the information supplied by PW-7, who had informed PW-1 on 10.11.2002 that he had seen three people throwing something into the well. The conduct of PW-1 was not found to be natural. x. PW-1 failed to explain the discrepancy in the clothes allegedly worn by the deceased and the clothes found on the body of the deceased. Moreover, PW-12 deposed that at the time of filing the complaint, he had enquired from PW-1 regarding any ornaments on the child. PW-1 had replied in negative. 398 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports xi. The theory of last seen was also rejected by the Trial Court and PWs in that regard - PW-5, PW- 6, PW-7 and PW-18 - were disbelieved. 7. The decision of the Trial Court was assailed before the High Court by the State in appeal. The High Court analyzed the evidence on record and partially allowed the appeal by holding the appellant guilty for the commission of offences punishable under Sections 201, 302, 363, 364 of IPC. Notably, the High Court was in agreement with the conclusion of acquittal regarding accused no.