Features of the 1951 Amendment Act 53. With the dawn of independence, the AMU Act was amended in 1951 through Act No. LXII of 1951 (1951 Amendment Act). A significant change was the replacement of the Lord Rector, previously held by the Governor General, with the position of ‘Visitor’.At that time,the term ‘Governor General’ had pertinently been substituted by ‘President of India’ vide the Adaptation of Laws , 1950. Section 13 delineated the authority of the Visitor, and was thus amended as follows: “13. (1) The President of India shall be the Visitor of the University. (2) The Visitor shall have the right to cause an inspection to be made by such person or persons as he may direct, [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1783 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. of the University, its buildings, laboratories, and equipment, and of any institution maintained by the University, and also of the examinations, teaching and other work conducted or done by the University, and to cause an inquiry to be made in like manner in respect of any matter connected with the University. (2A) The Visitor shall in every case give notice to University of his intention to cause an inspection or inquiry to be made, and the University be entitled to appoint representative who shall have the right to be present and be heard at such inspection or inquiry. ; and (3) The Visitor may address the Vice-Chancellor with reference to the result of such inspection and inquiry, and the Vice-Chancellor shall communicate to the Executive Council the views of the Visitor with such advice as the Visitor may be pleased to offer upon the action to be taken thereon. (4) The Executive Council shall communicate through the Vice-Chancellor to the Visitors such action, if any, as it is proposed to take or has been taken upon the result of such inspection or inquiry. (5) Where the Executive Council does not, within reasonable time, take action to the satisfaction of the Visitor, the Visitor may, after considering any explanation furnished or representation made by the Executive Council issue such directions as he may think fit, and the Executive Council shall comply with such directions. (6) Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions section, the Visitor may, by in writing, annul any proceeding of the University which is not in conformity with this Act, the Statutes or the Ordinances: Provided that before making any such , shall call upon the University to show cause why such an should not be made, and, if any cause is shown within a reasonable time, shall consider the same.” 54. The AMU Court under Section 23 embodied the following: “23. (1) The Court shall consist of the Chancellor, the Pro-Chancellor and the Vice Chancellor and the Pro-Vice 1784 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Chancellor (if any) for the, time being, and such other persons as may be specified in the Statutes. (2) The Court shall be the supreme governing body of the University and shall have the power to review the acts of the Executive and the Academic Councils (save where such Councils have acted in accordance with powers conferred on them under this Act, the Statutes or the Ordinances) and shall exercise all the powers of the University not otherwise provided for by this Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances and the Regulations.