These observations were made in the context of an allottee of an apartment having the choice of initiating proceedings under the 1986 Act or the RERA.” (Emphasis supplied) (iii) Furthermore, by virtue of the Doctrine of Election, the Borrower cannot be permitted to pursue two inconsistent remedies, once 1706 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the Borrower had availed the remedy to redeem its mortgage and pay the dues sought to be recovered by way of the SARFAESI proceedings initiated by the Bank and having failed in doing so, it now cannot be permitted to challenge those very SARFAESI proceedings. A litigant cannot approbate or reprobate at the same time. Election is the obligation imposed upon a party by Courts of equity to choose between two inconsistent or alternative rights or claims in cases where there is clear intention of the person from whom he derives one that he should not enjoy both. For instance, if in a will, X bequeaths property owned by Y to Z while giving Y a substantial gift. Y must choose to either (i) accept the gift and let Z retain the property or (ii) reject the gift and assert ownership of the property, but can certainly not pursue both the remedies, and as such, the Borrower cannot be permitted to have its cake and eat it as well. In this regard we may refer to the decision of this Court in Joint Action Committee of Air Line Pilots’ Assn. of India (ALPAI) & Ors. v. DGCA reported in (2011) 5 SCC 435 wherein it was held as under: - “12. The doctrine of election is based on the rule of estoppel—the principle that one cannot approbate and reprobate inheres in it. The doctrine of estoppel by election is one of the species of estoppels in pais (or equitable estoppel), which is a rule in equity. By that law, a person may be precluded by his actions or conduct or silence when it is his duty to speak, from asserting a right which he otherwise would have had. Taking inconsistent pleas by a party makes its conduct far from satisfactory. Further, the parties should not blow hot and cold by taking inconsistent stands and prolong proceedings unnecessarily.” (Emphasis supplied) (iv) The premise on which the writ petition came to be filed by the Borrowers before the High Court is also significant. The Borrower in the writ petition contended that they have an apprehension that the DRT may reject their redemption application and the entire matter would become infructuous as the Bank at that point of time had already accepted the entire sale consideration for the auction from the petitioners and as such may likely issue [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1707 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. the Sale Certificate to the Secured Asset. Thus, the Borrower’s themselves were under the impression and understanding that once the Sale Certificate is issued, the sale to the Secured Asset becomes absolute and would in turn render the entire matter infructuous.