The High Court also therefore decided the Bail application, confining itself to the issue whether the application under Section 52A was made within reasonable time and the effect of delay, if any. 1412 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 5. We have heard learned Solicitor General of India, Mr. Tushar Mehta and Mr. Akshay Bhandari, learned counsel appearing for the Respondent at length on the interpretation of Section 52A of the said Act. OBJECTS OF NDPS ACT: - 6. At the outset, it may be noted that prior to the enactment of NDPS Act, 1985 the statutory control over narcotic drugs was exercised in India through number of Central and State enactments like the Opium Act, 1857, the Opium Act, 1878 and the Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930. With the passage of time and developments in the field of illicit drug traffic and drug abuse at national and international level, many deficiencies in the said enactments were noticed by the Parliament, which led to enactment of a comprehensive legislation on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic substances i.e. NDPS Act, 1985. The said Act was enacted in 1985 mainly to consolidate and amend the laws relating to narcotic drugs, and to make stringent provisions for the control and regulation of operations relating to narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. Various provisions of the Act have been amended from time to time considering the need to do so by the Parliament. 7. A three-judge bench in case of Hira Singh and Another Vs. Union of India and Another1 expressing serious concern about the problem of drug addicts and mafia at the national and international level had observed that the provisions of NDPS Act are required to be interpreted keeping in mind the object and purpose of the said Act and the impact on the society as a whole. It was also observed that the Act is required to be interpreted literally and not liberally which may ultimately frustrate the object, purpose and Preamble of the Act. The precise observations made therein are reproduced hereunder: “10.5. The problem of drug addicts is international and the mafia is working throughout the world. It is a crime against the society and it has to be dealt with iron hands. Use of drugs by the young people in India has increased. The drugs are being used for weakening of the nation. During the British regime control was kept on the traffic 1 (2020) 20 SCC 272 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1413 Narcotics Control Bureau v. Kashif of dangerous drugs by enforcing the Opium Act, 1857 the Opium Act, 1875 and the Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930. However, with the passage of time and the development in the field of illicit drug traffic and during abuse at national and international level, many deficiencies in the existing laws have come to notice. Therefore, in to remove such deficiencies and difficulties, there was urgent need for the enactment of a comprehensive legislation on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, which led to enactment of the NDPS Act.