It is their case that the previous notifications empowering DRI officers to issue show cause notices under Section 28 do not fulfil the mandate of Section 5(4) as they cannot be placed in any of the criteria envisaged therein. We find no merit in the said contention: a) Section 5(4) reads as follows: “(4) In specifying the conditions and limitations referred to in sub-section (1), and in assigning functions under sub-section (1A), the Board may consider any one or more of the following criteria, including, but not limited to (a) territorial jurisdiction; (b) persons or class of persons; (c) goods or class of goods; (d) cases or class of cases; (e) computer assigned random assignment; (f) any other criterion as the Board may, by notification, specify.” [Emphasis supplied] b) From a plain reading of the above-referred sub-section, we find that the Board has been entrusted with wide powers in respect of determination of criteria and the use of the word “may” is indicative of the Board’s discretion in this regard. Therefore, the writ petitioners are wrong in construing the sub-section as a mandatory provision for the purpose of invalidation of the show cause notices issued. c) A purposive interpretation of Section 97 indicates that clause (i) therein is the object of its enactment and clause (iii) is an extension thereof to further clarify that any deficiencies in law under Sections 2, 3 and 5 of the Act, 1962 as they stood prior to the Finance Act, 2022 would not be an obstacle to the validating act under clause (i). 328 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports d) Therefore, the retrospective application of Sections 2, 3 and 5 of the Act, 1962 respectively is not stand-alone but is restricted to achievement of the ultimate object of validation under clause (i) of Section 97. Any interpretation of the amended Sections 2, 3 and 5 arising from the retrospective application thereof, which is contrary to or not in furtherance of the Section 97(i) would not hold good in law. e) This Court in the case of Vivek Narayan v. Union of India reported in (2023) 3 SCC 1 has held that: “140. The principle of purposive interpretation has also been expounded through a catena of s of this Court. A Constitution Bench of this Court in M. Pentiah v. Muddala Veeramallappa [M. Pentiah v. Muddala Veeramallappa (1961) 2 SCR 295 : AIR 1961 SC 1107] was considering a question, as to whether the term prescribed in Section 34 would apply to a member of a “deemed” committee under the provisions of the Hyderabad District Municipalities Act, 1956. An argument was put forth that, upon a correct interpretation of the provisions of Section 16, the same would be permissible. Rejecting the said argument, K. Subba Rao, J., observed thus : (AIR pp. 1110-11, para 6) “6. Before we consider this argument in some detail, it will be convenient at this stage to notice some of the well-established rules of construction which would help us to steer clear of the complications created by the Act.