The said amount is recoverable by the State in accordance with who may ed to pay the same in the decree. (iii) Even when a suit is dismissed, the court fee shall be recoverable by the State in the form of first charge on the subject-matter of the suit. It was further held that – “20…So there is only a provision for the deferred payment of the court fees and this benevolent provision is intended to help the poor litigants who are unable to pay the requisite court fee to file a suit because of their poverty.” 11. The intent of s XXXIII and XLIV is unmistakable. They exemplify the cherished principle that lack of monetary capability does not preclude a person from knocking on the doors of the Court to seek vindication of his rights. 7 [2001] 3 SCR 580 : (2001) 5 SCC 22 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 903 Alifiya Husenbhai Keshariya v. Siddiq Ismail Sindhi & Ors. 12. It is unquestioned that a person dissatisfied with the amount of compensation received can file an appeal. In the present case, for a claim of Rs.10 lakhs, the Tribunal awarded compensation which was less than Rs. 2.5 lakhs. Without commenting on the merits of the matter, we recognize the desire of the claimant-appellant to file an appeal. 13. Once again turning to Darshana Devi (supra), we refer to certain observations made therein - “5……Our perspective is best projected by Cappelletti, quoted by the Australian Law Reform Commission: “The right of effective access to justice has emerged with the new social rights. Indeed, it is of paramount importance among these new rights since, clearly, the enjoyment of traditional as well as new social rights presupposes mechanisms for their effective protection. Such protection, moreover, is best assured by a workable remedy within the framework of the judicial system. Effective access to justice can thus be seen as the most basic requirement — the most ‘basic human right’ — of a system which purports to guarantee legal right.” [ M. Cappelletti, Rabels, (1976) 669 at 672] We should expand the jurisprudence of access to justice as an integral part of Social Justice and examine the constitutionalism of court-fee levy as a facet of human rights highlighted in our Nation’s Constitution. If the State itself should travesty this basic principle, in the teeth of Articles 14 and 39-A, where an indigent widow is involved, a second look at its policy is overdue. The Court must give the benefit of doubt against levy of a price to enter the temple of justice until one day the whole issue of the validity of profit-making through sale of civil justice, disguised as court-fee, is fully reviewed by this Court…” 14. In the present case although the State is not the one in appeal, the observations in regard to the insistence upon court fees by the High Court to be taken from the meager amount awarded as compensation even after having recorded that she had not yet received the said amount, has prompted us to refer to the above extract.