The bench observed that from the record it was clear that the amount as claimed by the plaintiff in the recovery suit was admittedly covered by the scheme and thus the proceeding was liable to be suspended by application of Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act. Thus, the position of law held in Sunil Mittal (supra), could not be said to have been disturbed, but only its incorrect application to the facts of the specific case was set aside in LML Ltd. (supra). 92. The decision in LML Ltd. (supra), on the contrary, fortifies the interpretation of Section 22(1) as was done in Sunil Mittal (supra) and Saketh India (supra). The relevant paragraph of the decision in LML Ltd. (supra) is extracted hereinbelow: “16. The principle of law is thus unambiguous. Where the amount claimed or the liability sought to be set up is covered under the scheme, Section 22(1) will be attracted and there would be an automatic suspension of all legal 372 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports proceedings including a suit for recovery of money. In the present case, the amount Rs. 21,74,490.88 is admittedly a part of the DRS pending before the BIFR. The debt of Rs. 3,00,000/- on account of sales tax dues, the petitioner admits as his liability. Even if this amount is not permitted to be adjusted at this stage as has been pointed out by the learned counsel for the respondent, keeping in view the wide import of the language of Section 22 of the said Act there can be no question of continuing with the suit proceedings. It also cannot be lost sight of the fact that the parties were maintaining a running account; payments were being made from time to time; it would thus not be possible to segregate the element of debt since the question would be whether the debt due to the plaintiff is correctly reflected or a lesser amount is in fact due to him. The language of Section 22 would take into its sweep a situation even where if the full amount is not a part of the DRS. The question of continuation of the suit would not arise.” (Emphasis supplied) 93. In M/s Haryana Steel & Alloys Ltd. v. M/s Transport Corporation of India reported in (2012) SCC OnLine Del 2140 it was held that the mere contention of the sick company unsubstantiated by any material indicating that the amount forming subject-matter of the recovery suit is covered under the scheme, would not be sufficient to bring the company under the protective ambit of Section 22(1) of the Act. The relevant paragraphs of the said decision are extracted thus: “11. However, there is another dimension to the said embargo placed on filing of the suit for recovery against a company when the proceedings are pending under the SICA, which is the necessity of the inclusion of the dues payable by the company to the plaintiff in the scheme formulated before the BIFR. It is a settled legal position that it is not by mere pendency of an enquiry under Section 16 of the said Act or preparation of the scheme thereof being under consideration or even filing of an appeal under section 25 before the appellate authority that by itself would entitle the appellant for the said statutory injunction against [2024] 5 S.C.R.