Where there is an honest endeavour on the part of the lower appellate court to consider the controversy between the parties and there is proper appraisement of the respective cases and weighing and balancing of the evidence, facts and the other considerations appearing on both sides is clearly manifest by the perusal of the of the lower appellate court, it would be a valid even though it does not contain the points for determination. The object of the rule in making it incumbent upon the appellate court to frame points for determination and to cite reasons for the decision is to focus attention of the court on the rival contentions which arise for determination and also to provide litigant parties opportunity in understanding the ground upon which the decision is founded with a view to enable them to know the basis of the decision and if so considered appropriate and so advised to avail the remedy of second appeal conferred by Section 100 CPC.’ 31. As already noted hereinabove, the High Court did set out all the issues framed by the Trial Court in the body of the and was, therefore, fully conscious of all the points that it had to consider 618 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the appeal. Further, we do not find that any particular issue that was considered by the Trial Court was left out by the High Court while adjudicating the appeal. In effect, we do not find merit in the contention that the impugned is liable to be set aside on this preliminary ground, warranting reconsideration of the first appeal by the High Court afresh. 32. As regards the merits of the matter, we may note that though the father of the plaintiffs was allotted Final Plot No. 463, admeasuring 3890 sq. yds./3252 sq. mts. in the original Town Planning Scheme No. 6, Paldi, in the year 1963, possession thereof could not be delivered to him as it was occupied by slum dwellers. It was only in the second variation of Town Planning Scheme No. 6 in August, 1986, that Final Plot No. 187 was allotted to the plaintiffs in lieu of Plot No. 463 and it had a smaller area by 974 sq. mts. Reliance was placed by the plaintiffs upon the resolutions passed by the Town Planning Committee in its meeting held on 15.10.1986 and the Corporation in its general board meeting held on 30.10.1986 respectively to contend that it was the intention of the authorities concerned to allot the same area as in Final Plot No. 463 to them. However, we find from the resolutions in question that Final Plot No. 187 was specifically mentioned therein and the intention was that this plot should be allotted to the plaintiffs. It is an admitted fact that this final plot was part of the original Town Planning Scheme No. 6, Paldi, and it was always of the same area, i.e., 2724 sq. yds/2278 sq. mts. Therefore, the mere use of the words ‘same area’ or ‘equal area’ in the resolutions had no impact as those words were used in juxtaposition to Final Plot No.