Every person connected with the company shall not fall within the ambit of the provision. It is only those persons who were in charge of and responsible for the conduct of business of the company at the time of commission of an offence, who will be liable for criminal action. It 68 [2007] 2 SCR 862 : (2005) 8 SCC 89 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 381 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. follows from this that if a director of a company who was not in charge of and was not responsible for the conduct of the business of the company at the relevant time, will not be liable under the provision. The liability arises from being in charge of and responsible for the conduct of business of the company at the relevant time when the offence was committed and not on the basis of merely holding a designation or office in a company. Conversely, a person not holding any office or designation in a company may be liable if he satisfies the main requirement of being in charge of and responsible for the conduct of business of a company at the relevant time. Liability depends on the role one plays in the affairs of a company and not on designation or status. If being a director or manager or secretary was enough to cast criminal liability, the section would have said so. Instead of “every person” the section would have said “every director, manager or secretary in a company is liable”…, etc. The legislature is aware that it is a case of criminal liability which means serious consequences so far as the person sought to be made liable is concerned. Therefore, only persons who can be said to be connected with the commission of a crime at the relevant time have been subjected to action.” 49.2 This is the settled position of law which has been subsequently being reiterated in numerous s of this Court. Illustratively, the recent in Susela Padmavathy Amma v. Bharti Airtel Ltd.,69 referring to S.M.S. Pharmaceuticals (supra) acquitted the appellant therein of the offences under Section 138 NI Act. Gavai, J., speaking for the Bench held as under: “21. It was held that merely because a person is a director of a company, it is not necessary that he is aware about the day-today functioning of the company. This Court held that there is no universal 69 [2024] 3 SCR 647 : 2024 SCC OnLine SC 311 382 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports rule that a director of a company is in charge of its everyday affairs. It was, therefore, necessary, to aver as to how the director of the company was in charge of day-to-day affairs of the company or responsible to the affairs of the company. This Court, however, clarified that the position of a managing director or a joint managing director in a company may be different. This Court further held that these persons, as the designation of their office suggests, are in charge of a company and are responsible for the conduct of the business of the company.