Mr. Sibal has relied on the above to submit that respondent no.1 did not object to the withdrawal of the termination of the development agreement of the appellant, and in fact, wanted the appellant to continue as the developer. He would further submit that Mr. Rai was acting without the authorisation of the other members, and hence, he also could not have filed an appeal before the AGRC on behalf of respondent no.1 against the of the respondent no. 3 – CEO, SRA dated 16.03.2021 that dropped the proceedings against the appellant. Mr. Navare, learned senior counsel, appearing for some of the slum dwellers, supported the submissions put forth by Mr. Sibal regarding the lack of authorisation of Mr. Rai to act on behalf of respondent no. 1. 21.1. Mr. Sundaram submitted that the appeal before the AGRC against the dated 16.03.2021 was maintainable even if some of the complaints filed on 18.11.2019 were withdrawn. He submits that Mr. Rai, who filed the appeal, had the requisite locus because he, along with some others, had also filed complaints that were not withdrawn. It is submitted that Mr. Rai was still a slum dweller and a member of respondent no.1 and hence, was an ‘aggrieved person’ against the dated 16.03.2021. There were also, as many as 132 complaints against the appellant by other slum dwellers who filed complaints in January and February, 2021 before the SRA under Section 13(2) of the Act alleging non-payment of rent. Lastly, he submits that in any case, the SRA has the power to 1466 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports suo moto proceed against the appellant under Section 13(2) of the Act and therefore the withdrawal of complaints is not fatal to proceeding against the appellant and does not preclude the AGRC from deciding the appeal. Mr. Ahmadi made a submission along the same lines and to the same effect. 21.2. Answering the question regarding the maintainability of the proceedings after the complaints dated 18.11.2019 were withdrawn, the High Court held that even if many complaints before the SRA were withdrawn, the complaint filed by Mr. Rai survived to be adjudicated. Further, the High Court rejected the contention of the appellant that Mr. Rai was not authorised by respondent no. 1 to take any action against the appellant. In to reach this conclusion, the High Court observed that if the contention of the appellant was true, then respondent no. 1 would have supported the appellant before the High Court; however, this was not the case. The High Court also held that in any case, the SRA and the AGRC have the requisite power under Section 13(2) of the Act to suo moto examine the delay caused by the appellant in implementing the project. 22. (vii) Re: Locus or conflict of respondent no.6: Mr. Sibal concluded his submissions by arguing that respondent no.6 does not have the locus to take a stand contrary to that of the appellant as it has been involved with the venture from the time of the joint development agreement dated 18.10.2019.