If the opinion of the presiding judge does not comply with the requirements of Section 432 (2) or if the judge does not consider the relevant factors for grant of remission that have been laid down in Laxman Naskar v. Union of India (supra), the government may request the presiding judge to consider the matter afresh.” (iv) In paragraph 27, it was further observed that the Presiding Judge in the said case had not taken into account the factors which have been laid down in Laxman Naskar and that the opinion was a mechanical one bereft of reasons and therefore, inadequate and not in accordance with law. Consequently, the petitioner’s application for remission was 892 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports directed to be considered afresh with a direction to the Special Judge, Durg to provide an opinion on the application afresh accompanied with adequate reasoning, taking into account all the relevant factors that govern the grant of remission as laid down in Laxman Naskar. A direction was issued to State of Chhattisgarh in the said case to take a final decision on the application for remission afresh within a month after receiving the opinion of the Special Judge, Durg. Consequently, the petition filed under Article 32 was allowed in the aforesaid terms. 52.2. Thus, the consistent view of this Court which emerges is that the expression “may” has to be interpreted as “shall” and as a mandatory requirement under sub-section (2) of Section 432 of the CrPC. The said provision has sufficient guidelines as to how the opinion must be provided by the Presiding Judge of the Court which has convicted the accused inasmuch as – (i) the opinion must state as to whether the application for remission should be granted or refused and for either of the said opinions, the reasons must be stated; (ii) naturally, the reasons must have a bearing on the facts and circumstances of the case; (iii) the reasons must be in tandem with the record of the trial or of such record thereof as exists; (iv) the Presiding Judge of the Court before or by which the conviction was had or confirmed, must also forward along with the statement of such opinion granting or refusing remission, a certified copy of the record of the trial or of such record thereof as exists. 52.3. Having regard to the requirements which the Presiding Judge must comply with while stating his opinion to the appropriate Government on an application for remission of sentence made by a convict, it cannot be held that the expression “may” in the said provision is not mandatory nor can it be left to the whims and fancies of the appropriate Government either to seek or not to seek the opinion of the Presiding Judge or the Court before which the conviction had taken place. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 893 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others 52.4. In the instant case, what is interesting is that when respondent No.3 - Radheshyam Bhagwandas Shah filed his application for remission before the State of Maharashtra pursuant to the of the Gujarat High Court dated 17.07.2019, the State of Maharashtra sought the opinion of the Special Judge at Mumbai who gave a negative opinion.