As indicated above, the traditional way of deciding whether to issue injunctions in lawsuits affecting the environment, at least where communal property is involved, has been to strike some sort of balance regarding the economic hardships on human beings…. …Why should the environment be of importance only indirectly, as lost profits to someone else? Why not throw into the balance the cost to the environment? …the lost environmental “values” of which we are now speaking are by definition over and above those that the market is prepared to bid for: they are priceless. One possible measure of damages, suggested earlier, would be the cost of making the environment whole, just as, when a man is injured in an automobile accident, we impose upon the responsible party the injured man’s medical expenses…” 32. Similarly, the concept of sustainable development is to be understood from an ecocentric approach. First and foremost, it is the environment that needs to be sustained, while the anthropogenic development must follow later. T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad (87) v. Union of India, (2006) 1 SCC 1 “38. Forest sustainability is an integral part of forest management and policy that also has a unique dominating feature and calls for forest owners and society to make a long-term (50 years or longer) commitment to manage forests for future generations. One of the viewpoints for sustaining forest is a naturally functioning forest ecosystem. This viewpoint takes the man and nature relationship to the point of endorsing, to the extent possible, the notion of letting the forest develop and process without significant human intervention. A strong adoption of the naturalistic [2024] 5 S.C.R. 121 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. value system that whatever nature does is better than what humans do, this is almost the “nature dominates man” perspective. Parks and natural reserve creations; non-intervention in insect, disease and fire process; and reduction of human activities are typical policy situations. This viewpoint has been endorsed by the 1988 Forest Policy of the Government of India.” (emphasis supplied) ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS 33. Wealth of a country has to be seen not only from the perspective of mere revenue, augmented through its industries and business activities. Rather, it has to be seen by giving due importance to its natural wealth which actually contributes much more than the other factors. As discussed, forests play a pivotal role in reducing carbon emissions in the atmosphere created by human activities. A substantial value needs to be attached to the contribution of forests. 34. Professor Wahlen in her paper titled “Opportunities for making the invisible visible: Towards an improved understanding of the economic contributions of NTFPs”, published in the Journal of Forest Policy and Economics, Volume 84, November 2017, has considered the implications on forest governance management and policy arguing that Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) offer an opportunity to increase attention on the non-cash contributions of forests and turn this invisible contribution into a visible one. These “invisible services” rendered by forests ought to be given due credit.