Therefore, it can be observed that the court shall adopt a liberal approach with regard to attendance of an accused person and until an accused’s presence is indispensable, a court can allow for an exemption, in case of existence of any exceptional circumstances. Moreover, issuance of a non-bailable warrant in case of absence of the accused, at the first instance, shall, due to any circumstance, be avoided. 18. As the presumption contemplated by virtue of Section 118 of the NI Act 1881 entails, Section 139 was similarly introduced to provide for a presumption that the holder of cheque had received the concerned issued cheque towards discharging of the liability of the drawer, either in whole or in part. Therefore, at this juncture, it is ideal to make a reference to Section 118 of the NI Act 1881, which is reproduced as: “118. Presumptions as to negotiable instruments Until the contrary is proved, the following presumptions shall be made:— (a) of consideration:—that every negotiable instrument was made or drawn for consideration, and that every such instrument, when it has been accepted, indorsed, negotiated or transferred, was accepted, indorsed, negotiated or transferred for consideration; (b) as to date:—that every negotiable instrument bearing a date was made or drawn on such date; (c) as to time of acceptance:—that every accepted bill of exchange was accepted within a reasonable time after its date and before its maturity; (d) as to time of transfer:—that every transfer of a negotiable instrument was made before its maturity; 132 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (e) as to of indorsements:—that the indorsements appearing upon a negotiable instrument were made in the in which they appear then on; (f) as to stamp:— that a lost promissory note, bill of exchange or cheque was duly stamped; (g) that holder is a holder in due course:—that the holder of a negotiable instrument is a holder in due course: provided that, where the instrument has been obtained from its lawful owner, or from any person in lawful custody thereof, by means of an offence or fraud, or has been obtained from the maker or acceptor thereof by means of an offence or fraud, or for unlawful consideration, the burden of proving that the holder is a holder in due course lies upon him.” Chapter XIII of the NI Act 1881, of which Section 118 is a part, lays down special rules for evidence to be adduced within the scheme of the Act herein. As the text of the said provision showcases, it raises a rebuttable presumption as against the drawer to the extent that the concerned negotiable instrument was drawn and subsequently accepted, indorsed, negotiated, or transferred for an existing consideration, and the date so designated on such an instrument is the date when the concerned negotiable instrument was drawn. It is also further presumed that the same was transferred before its maturity and that the in which multiple indorsements appear on such an instrument, that is the deemed thereon. Lastly, the holder of a negotiable instrument is one in its due course, subject to a situation where the concerned instrument while being obtained from a lawful owner and from his or her lawful custody thereof through undertaking of an offence as contemplated under any statute or through the means of fraud, the burden to prove him or her being a holder in due course, instead, lies upon such a holder.