Since the case was exclusively triable by the Sessions Court, the same came to be committed to the Sessions Court. 3.4 Charges came to be framed by the trial court for the aforesaid offences. The accused/appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 3.5 The prosecution examined 18 witnesses and exhibited 37 documents to bring home the guilt of the accused/appellants. The defence, on the other hand, did not examine any witness or exhibit any document. 3.6 At the conclusion of the trial, the trial Court found that the prosecution had proved the case against the appellants beyond [2024] 4 S.C.R. 563 Ravishankar Tandon v. State of Chhattisgarh reasonable doubt and accordingly convicted accused Nos. 1, 2 and 3 for the offences punishable under Sections 302 read with 34, Sections 120B and 201 of the IPC and convicted accused No. 4 for the offences punishable under Sections 302 read with 34 and 120B of the IPC and sentenced all of them to undergo imprisonment for life along with fine. 3.7 Being aggrieved thereby, the appellants preferred three Criminal Appeals before the High Court. The High Court vide the impugned dismissed the Criminal Appeals and affirmed the of conviction and sentence awarded by the trial Court. 4. Being aggrieved thereby, the present appeals. 5. We have heard Shri Manish Kumar Saran, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant in Criminal Appeal No. 3869 of 2023, Shri Chandrika Prasad Mishra, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in Criminal Appeal No. 2740 of 2023, appeals arising out of SLP (Criminal) Nos. 837 and 1174 of 2024, and Shri Praneet Pranav, learned Deputy Advocate General (‘Dy. AG’ for short) appearing on behalf of the respondent-State at length. 6. Shri Saran and Shri Mishra, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, submitted that the present case rests on circumstantial evidence. It is submitted that the prosecution has failed to prove any of the incriminating circumstances beyond reasonable doubt. It is submitted that, in any case, the prosecution has failed to establish the chain of proven circumstances which leads to no other conclusion than the guilt of the accused persons. They therefore submitted that the appeals deserve to be allowed and the s and s of conviction need to be quashed and set aside. 7. Shri Pranav, learned Dy. AG appearing on behalf of the respondent- State, on the contrary, submitted that both the High Court and the trial court have concurrently held that the prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. He submitted that the findings of the trial court and the High Court are based upon cogent appreciation of evidence and as such, no interference is warranted. 8. Undoubtedly, the prosecution case rests on circumstantial evidence. The law with regard to conviction on the basis of circumstantial 564 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports evidence has very well been crystalized in the of this Court in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra1, wherein this Court held thus: “152.