As per the ordainment of XX, the learned Judge would be perfectly justified in doing so. In such cases, it could roughly take any time between 20 minutes to a couple of/few hours or even more spilling over to the next day (in rare cases) to accomplish the task. This approach could result in the board (if it is heavy) getting choked and the remaining cases on the board having slim chances of being considered. As the saying goes, necessity is the mother of invention. The necessity to strike a balance, in turn, has led to an innovative approach (many a times followed even by this Court) which, though not strictly in tune with XX, has transitioned into a regular practice by passage of time. This contemplates a rough 2236 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports assessment made by a learned Judge of the time to be taken for dictating a after hearing in a matter is concluded and if, in such assessment, it is likely to take more than 20/25 minutes, the learned Judge proceeds to pronounce the operative part together with the outcome while expressing “reasons to/would follow” and then concludes the exercise of pronouncing the final by providing the reasons as soon as possible thereafter. Having regard to the exploding docket of a majority of the high courts, learned Judges consider it wise and prudent to make optimum use of judicial time by not dictating lengthy s in court. This practice, no doubt, seeks to serve a salutary purpose. People unversed with the functioning of the judicial system are perhaps unaware as to how development of this practice has contributed to saving of precious judicial time, which the learned Judges invariably devote and utilize for hearing more cases that are on board in the anxiety to consider and decide as many cases as are possible during the scheduled working s. Burdened though with immense pressure of work and brushing aside fatigue, which is quite likely to develop, the learned Judges after retiring for the day dictate the in their court chambers or in their residential offices either on the same day or within a few days thereafter. The hearing having concluded not too long back, the arguments remain fresh in the mind of the learned Judges and it becomes all the more easy to dictate the . While this approach without a doubt has its own benefits, recent happenings leave us to lament that reasons for the conclusion reached are being placed in the public domain much too late, as in the case of Balaji Baliram Mupade (supra) as well as this case. In an attempt to save time to attend to as many cases as possible, certain learned Judges unwittingly are contributing to justice being delayed in given cases which, concomitantly, have been giving rise to criticism of unpleasant flavours. Critics of such practice (to pronounce the operative part with the outcome and to provide the reasons later in detailed final s) could and do legitimately argue in favour of reserving s as required by the procedural laws if the particular case so demands but as Judges, we know, reserving too many s has its own pitfalls.