The parties have [2024] 7 S.C.R. 951 Kiran Jyot Maini v. Anish Pramod Patel vehemently argued and contested each other’s financial position, their individual incomes, and the assets owned by each other. In to establish the correct financial position of both the parties, they have filed their respective affidavits of income and assets as ed by this Court. 23. Before we go into the details of the financial position of the parties, we find it necessary to discuss the law laid down for adjudication and determination of one-time settlement in matrimonial disputes. This Court in a series of s has touched upon the question of one-time settlement and the factors that should be taken into consideration while determining fair amount of permanent alimony. While the cases deal with maintenance under different provisions of law, the principle for determination of maintenance by way of one-time settlement apply equally to all statutes and personal laws. 24. In Vinny Paramvir Parmar v. Paramvir Parmar,8 this Court held that there cannot be a fixed formula or a straitjacket rubric for fixing the amount of permanent alimony and only broad principles can be laid down. The question of maintenance is subjective to each case and depends on various factors and circumstances as presented in individual cases. This Court in the above stated that the courts shall consider the following broad factors while determining permanent alimony – income and properties of both the parties respectively, conduct of the parties, status, social and financial, of the parties, their respective personal needs, capacity and duty to maintain others dependant on them, husband’s own expenses, wife’s comfort considering her status and the mode of life she was used to during the subsistence of the marriage, among other supplementary factors. This was further reiterated by this Court in Vishwanath Agrawal v. Sarla Vishwanath Agrawal,9 while observing that permanent alimony is to be granted after considering largely the social status, conduct of the parties, the parties’ lifestyle, and other such ancillary factors. 25. A two-judge bench of this Court in Rajnesh v. Neha and Another,10 elaborated upon the broad criteria and the factors to be considered 8 [2011] 9 SCR 371 : (2011) 13 SCC 112 9 [2012] 7 SCR 607 : (2012) 7 SCC 288 10 [2020] 13 SCR 1093 : (2021) 2 SCC 32 952 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for determining the quantum of maintenance. This lays down a comprehensive framework for determining the quantum of maintenance in matrimonial disputes, particularly focusing on permanent alimony. The primary objective is to prevent the dependent spouse from being reduced to destitution or vagrancy due to the failure of the marriage, rather than punishing the other spouse. The court emphasizes that there is no fixed formula for calculating maintenance amount; instead, it should be based on a balanced consideration of various factors. These factors include but are not limited to: i. Status of the parties, social and financial. ii. Reasonable needs of the wife and dependent children. iii. Qualifications and employment status of the parties.