The operative portion reads as under: - “32. To conclude, we hold that the provisions of Part I would apply to all arbitrations and to all proceedings relating thereto. Where such arbitration is held in India the provisions of Part I would compulsorily apply and parties are free to deviate only to the extent permitted by the derogable provisions of Part I. In cases of international commercial arbitrations held out of India provisions of Part I would apply unless the parties by agreement, express or implied, exclude all or any of its provisions. In that case the laws or rules chosen by the parties would prevail. Any provision, in Part I, which is contrary to or excluded by that law or rules will not apply. xxx [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1181 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze 35. Lastly, it must be stated that the said Act does not appear to be a well-drafted legislation. Therefore the High Courts of Orissa, Bombay, Madras, Delhi and Calcutta cannot be faulted for interpreting it in the manner indicated above. However, in our view a proper and conjoint reading of all the provisions indicates that Part I is to apply also to international commercial arbitrations which take place out of India, unless the parties by agreement, express or implied, exclude it or any of its provisions. Such an interpretation does not lead to any conflict between any of the provisions of the said Act. On this interpretation there are no lacunae in the said Act. This interpretation also does not leave a party remediless. Thus such an interpretation has to be preferred to the one adopted by the High Courts of Orissa, Bombay, Madras, Delhi and Calcutta. It will therefore have to be held that the contrary view taken by these High Courts is not good law.” (Emphasis supplied) 33. In yet another decision of this Court in Venture Global Engineering v. Satyam Computer Services Ltd. reported in (2008) 4 SCC 190 it was held that Part I of the Act, 1996 and the provisions thereunder would apply to all arbitrations including international commercial arbitrations. It further clarified that although Part II of the Act, 1996 provides a special set of provisions that are applicable only to “foreign awards” passed pursuant to international commercial arbitrations held outside yet this in no manner means that by virtue of the same the Part I would be inapplicable. Part I of the Act, 1996 would apply to all arbitrations outside India including “foreign awards” passed pursuant thereto unless its application has been specifically excluded by the parties. The relevant observations read as under: - “19. Mr Nariman heavily relied on para 26 of Bhatia International which we have extracted supra. According to him, the said paragraph contains not only the submissions of Mr Sen, who appeared for Bhatia International therein but also the ultimate conclusion of the Bench. He reiterated that the Court concluded: 26. … Thus Section 44 (in Chapter I) and Section 53 (in Chapter II) define foreign awards, as being 1182 [2024] 11 S.C.R.