They were viewed as mere instructions to the legislature and executive, which lay outside the ambit of judicial inquiry. For instance, an early decision of this Court in State of Madras v Champakan Dorairjan118 declined to accord any weight to arguments that sought to invoke Directive Principles as a justification for allegedly abridging fundamental rights. In this case, the erstwhile State of Madras sought to justify caste-based affirmative action policies by invoking Article 46 of the Constitution.119 A seven-judge bench of this Court (speaking through Justice SR Das) rejected these arguments and opined: “15. […] The Directive Principles of the State policy, which by Article 37 are expressly made unenforceable by a court, cannot override the provisions found in Part III which, notwithstanding other provisions, are expressly made enforceable by appropriate writs, s or directions under Article 32. The chapter of Fundamental Rights is sacrosanct and not liable to be abridged by any legislative or executive Act or , except to the extent provided in the appropriate article in Part III. The Directive Principles of State policy have to conform to and run as subsidiary to the chapter of Fundamental Rights. In our opinion, 117 Ashok Kumar Thakur v Union of India (2008) 6 SCC 1 [173] : 2008 INSC 473 118 [1951] 1 SCR 525 : AIR 1951 SC 226 [15] : 1951 INSC 26 119 Article 46, Constitution of India: “The State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation.” 132 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that is the correct way in which the provisions found in Parts III and IV have to be understood. […]” (emphasis supplied) 141. A similar view is advanced by the distinguished constitutional scholar, HM Seervai in his treatise, ‘Constitutional Law of India’.120 Seervai adopts the view that Directive Principles have no role to play in constitutional adjudication by the court and are mere exhortations to the legislature and executive. In his opinion, the only body that can hold the government accountable in relation to Directive Principles is the electorate and the courts must steer clear of this domain. If this position of law was true, there would be some merit in the argument of the respondents that this Court should refrain from laying down an interpretation of Article 39(b) and leave it to the legislature (and the electorate) to evolve an interpretation for themselves. However, the jurisprudence of this Court with regard to the role of Directive Principles has evolved significantly, and the construction of Directive Principles plays a vital role in various forms of judicial inquiry. 142. Early signs of a shift in the approach of this Court were visible in Mohd Hanif Qureshi v State of Bihar.121 This Court held that attempts must be made to harmoniously interpret Directive Principles and fundamental rights. However, this Court stopped short of granting Directive Principles any further role vis-à-vis interpreting fundamental rights.