e) Notification No. 44/2011 dated 06.07.2011 specifically assigned the functions of the proper officers under Sections 17 and 28 to DRI officers. Such assignment of functions of assessment is sufficient for the DRI officers to fall in the category of “any other officer who has been assigned the function of assessment” as mentioned in Canon India (supra). f) Furthermore, as discussed previously, the functions of assessment and re-assessment under Section 17 and recovery [2024] 12 S.C.R. 323 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. of duty under Section 28 are distinct. Canon India (supra) held erroneously that Section 28(4) involves the function of re-assessment. The function of recovery of short-levy, non-levy, part-paid, non-paid and erroneous refund under Section 28 is not the same as the assessment or re-assessment of the bill(s) of entry. It necessarily has to be a process subsequent to the completion of functions under Section 17. Further, such function of determining duty to be recovered requires application of judicial mind and therefore, cannot be an administrative review of an act. This is especially so after the introduction of self-assessment in Section 17 vide the Finance Act, 2011. g) Therefore, the validating provision under Section 97 of the Finance Act, 2022 is a mere surplusage with respect to validation of the show cause notices issued by DRI officers under Section 28. It cannot be challenged on the ground that it does not cure the defect pointed out in Canon India (supra) when no defect can be made out therein as a result of this review petition. 164. The contention that Section 97 could not have overruled the finding of fact relating to the actual exercise of jurisdiction in Canon India (supra) is untenable for the following reasons: (a) The argument that once a particular officer has exercised the function of assessment, it is a jurisdictional fact that has occurred to the exclusion of all other groups in the Customs Department and therefore, only that officer or his superiors, who had undertaken assessment under Section 17 in the first place, shall have the jurisdiction to issue notices for recovery of duty under Section 28, does not hold water. (b) As discussed above, the functions of assessment and re-assessment under Section 17 and the recovery of duty under Section 28 are distinct. Therefore, the exercise of functions under Section 17 can only act as a “jurisdictional fact” for the purpose of excluding the jurisdiction of other proper officers empowered under that section for the exercise of the rest of the functions specified therein. Similarly, the exercise of the function of issuing show cause notices under Section 28 by a particular proper officer serves as a jurisdictional fact which would exclude the jurisdiction of other proper officers empowered under Section 28. 324 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (c) Canon India (supra) proceeded on an erroneous assumption that the jurisdiction of the proper officer under Sections 17 and 28 is linked. This is due to the erroneous understanding of the provisions of Act, 1962 that functions under Section 28 involve re-assessment.