2. The petitioners herein are the original plaintiffs and the respondents herein are the original defendants. 3. The petitioners have instituted a suit for specific performance of contract based on an agreement of sale dated 1st September, 2019, said to have been executed by the respondents(defendants) in their favour. 4. The respondents herein filed their written statement stating in para 6 thereof as under:- 648 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “6) That the averments in Para 6 of the Plaint that defendants though received the said letter dated 25/11/2019 sent by ordinary post, and knowing well in advance the contents of the Redg. Letter and the letter sent by courier they refused to receive are all dales and concocted stories of the plaintiff only to make a cause of action for the present proceedings. However when Plaintiffs and others tried to spread that the sale of the suit property has been finalized and Plaintiffs going to purchase it came to Knowledge of Defendants, they preferred to inform in writing about the cancelation of the said sham sale agreement dated 01/09/2019 about which well appraised before to Jami Polichetty and his son as aforementioned. As such the averments in Para 6 of the Plaint that but soon all the Defendants in response to said letter of Plaintiffs sent a joint letter by Redg post A/D to the Plaintiffs are is conceived and placed with a malafide intension and accordingly not correct. As the Defendants with ulterior motive began to insist creating gossips about sale agreement and sale of the property, the Defendants preferred to give the letter in writing to the Plaintiffs Instead of acting in good faith as initially the matter arose but could not take shape of actual agreement as placed above and coming forward to take refund of the token amount kept with Defendants, the Plaintiffs preferred to play foul with it” 5. In view of the specific stance of the defendants in their written statement referred to above, the petitioners herein as plaintiffs preferred an application before the trial court under XVIII Rule 1 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 (for short the “CPC”) with a prayer that as the defendants are not disputing the agreement of sale, the defendant should be asked to begin to lead oral evidence. 6. The trial court rejected the application. 7. The petitioners herein being dissatisfied with the passed by the trial court, rejecting such application invoked the supervisory jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution of India. The High Court also declined to interfere. 8. In such circumstances, the petitioners are here before this court with the present petition. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 649 Jami Venkata Suryaprabha and Anr. v. Tarini Prasad Nayak and Ors. 9. We have heard Mr. Niranjan Sahu, the learned counsel appearing for the petitioners. 10. XVIII Rule 1 of the CPC reads thus:- “The plaintiff has the right to begin unless the defendant admits the facts alleged by the plaintiff and contends that either in point of law or on some additional facts alleged by the defendant the plaintiff is not entitled to any part of the relief which he seeks, in which case the defendant has the right to begin.” 11.