(iii) Bhupendra Nath Dubey (since deceased) alighted from the Sumo car, which was also carrying 2-3 more persons. 2-3 other people also alighted from the Ambassador car. (iv) Bhupendra Nath Dubey (since deceased) pointed towards Brij Bihari Prasad and ed that he be killed, while he himself also started firing shots. Others joined him in the firing. (v) Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) specifically identified Satish Pandey (since deceased) as an occupant of the Ambassador car. (vi) Vijay Kumar Shukla @ Munna Shukla (A-8), who was a legislator from Lal Ganj, got down from the Ambassador car, while Mantu Tiwari (A-4), along with 1-2 more people, alighted from the Sumo. (vii) Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) saw Mantu Tiwari (A-4) but did not know his name. He came to know about the name subsequently from Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10) and Shashi Bhushan Singh (PW-42). (viii) Mantu Tiwari (A-4) was carrying a big firearm while Bhupendra Nath Dubey (since deceased) was carrying a small firearm. The other assailants were carrying either a revolver or a small firearm. (ix) Bodyguard Lakshmeshwar Sahu who was carrying a carbine, was also fired upon. (x) As a result of the firing, both Lakshmeshwar Sahu and Brij Bihari Prasad collapsed. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1325 Rama Devi v. The State of Bihar and Others (xi) While leaving, Bhupendra Nath Dubey (since deceased) took the carbine that belonged to Lakshmeshwar Sahu and raised the slogan “Jai Bajrang Bali”. (xii) After the assailants left, Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) and other visitors went near the dead bodies of Brij Bihari Prasad and Lakshmeshwar Sahu. (xiii) Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) identified both Mantu Tiwari (A-4) and Vijay Kumar Shukla @ Munna Shukla (A-8) in the court. (xiv) While Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) identified Rajan Tiwari (A-9) in the court, he testified that Rajan Tiwari (A-9) was not present at the place of occurrence. Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) had not seen Suraj Bhan Singh (A-1) and Shashi Kumar Rai (A-7) at the place of occurrence. (xv) Paras Nath Chaudhary (PW-1) establishes the presence of Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10), Arbind Singh (PW- 13), Shashi Bhushan Singh (PW-42), Ram Nandan Singh (PW-12), Mahanth Ashwani Das (PW-25), Rabindra Bhagat (PW-14), one Kanti, resident of Jamui, Kamakhya Narain Singh (PW-15), Ram Niranjan Chaudhary (A-6), Vijay Jha (PW-51) and 2-3 other persons at the IGIMS hospital. 12. The cross-examination of Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) brings the following aspects to light: (i) He accepted that Rama Devi (PW-24) was his sister and that she was present in the court on the day of the hearing but left while his evidence was being recorded. (ii) He affirmed that Brij Bihari Prasad was admitted to the hospital 10-12 days before the occurrence. (iii) Before the date of occurrence, he met Brij Bihari Prasad in the hospital on 4-5 occasions. (iv) Brij Bihari Prasad, being in judicial custody, was admitted to IGIMS hospital by the jail administration. (v) He accepted that his sister, Rama Devi (PW-24), had contested Lok Sabha elections in the past.