In that event, once the accused had succeeded in belaboring and killing Balwinder Singh (deceased), by entering into the chaubara in a clandestine manner using a ladder, there was no reason as to why the accused would come down the stairs, knock the door and alarm the other family members so as to expose himself. (vi) That the conduct of the first informant-Sharan Kaur(PW-5) and her family members in bringing back body of Balwinder Singh to their house even after the doctor at Civil Hospital, Tanda had declared him to be dead, brings the credibility of these witnesses under a grave shadow of doubt. He urged that admittedly, while coming back from Tanda, the Police Station at Dasuya falls on the way and thus, if at all, there was any truth in this version, the witnesses would have stopped at the police station to report the matter. Furthermore, the doctor at Civil Hospital would definitely have taken steps to report the matter to the police since it was a clear case of homicide. (vii) That the defence witnesses have categorically stated that after thorough investigation, the allegations set out by the first informant-Sharan Kaur(PW-5) were found to be false and hence, closure reports were submitted by the police in the concerned Court. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 715 Kirpal Singh v. State of Punjab (viii) That it is an admitted case as elicited in the testimony of Daljit Singh @ Goldy (PW-6), son of Balwinder Singh(deceased) and first informant-Sharan Kaur(PW-5), that four servants were sleeping with Balwinder Singh(deceased) in the chaubara of the house but they were not examined in evidence. Likewise, Gurmit Singh, the other son of deceased and the first informant, was also not examined by the prosecution for the reasons best known to them and hence, it is a fit case warranting/drawing of adverse inference against the prosecution. On these grounds, learned counsel implored the Court to accept the appeal and acquit the accused appellant. Submissions on behalf of the State: - 13. Per contra, Mr. Siddhant Sharma, learned counsel appearing for the State, vehemently and fervently opposed the submissions advanced by the counsel for the appellant. He conceded that the story of the prosecution qua involvement of accused-Kulwinder Singh has not found favour with the trial Court and the High Court but as per him, that by itself cannot be a valid reason so as to discard the entire prosecution case, qua the accused appellant as well who was named in the FIR and in the testimony of the material prosecution witness. He fervently contended that trivial contradictions in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses lend assurance that they are truthful witnesses and are not created witnesses. He submitted that the principle ‘falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus’ does not apply to the Indian criminal jurisprudence system and thus, merely because one of the two accused named by the prosecution witnesses has been acquitted by the trial Court, the accused appellant cannot get the advantage thereof. 14. He further submitted that the trial Court as well as the High Court, after appreciation and re-appreciation of the evidence have separated the chaff from the grain and have held the accused appellant guilty of the charges and thus, this Court should be loath to interfere in such concurrent findings of facts recorded by the trial Court and the High Court.