In deciding the question of bias, human probabilities and ordinary course of human conduct have to be taken into consideration. In case, the member of the group or board may be in a position to influence the other, then his bias is likely to operate in a subtle manner. 27. In the case of J. Mohapatra & Co. & Anr. (supra), this Court emphasised that the doctrine of necessity applies not only to judicial matters but also to quasi-judicial and administrative matters. While reiterating the principle of bias, it has been held that doctrine of necessity cannot be invoked because the members of the committee were appointed by a Government Resolution and some of them were appointed because they were holding official position. Such members, by virtue of the s or statutes were made a part of the selection committee, are required to inform their position to the Government, however, without taking such recourse they cannot take a plea to apply the doctrine of bias. 28. This Court in another Constitution Bench case of Ashok Kumar Yadav & Ors. (supra) has reaffirmed the principle of bias holding that if a selection committee is constituted for the purpose of selecting candidates on merits and one of the members of the selection committee is closely related to a candidate appearing for the selection, it would not be enough for such member merely to withdraw from participation in the interview of the candidate and ask the authorities to nominate another person in his place on the selection committee, because otherwise all the selections made would be vitiated on account of reasonable likelihood of bias affecting the process of selection. 29. In the case of Sk. Golap and others Vs. Bhuban Chandra Panda and others; 1990 SCC Online Cal 264, while dealing with the issue of likelihood of bias, applying the principle “justice should not only be done but it should be seen to have been done” the Court held as under: - 178 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “7. ……We have no hesitation in believing also that he had no personal contact with the writ petitioners who were his erst-while clients since the previous writ petition was not decided in the recent past. These considerations do not, however, detract from the validity of the legal objection raised on behalf of the appellants. It is not necessary for the appellants to establish that the learned single Judge actually had a bias and that the said bias was the cause of the adverse verdict. The test to be applied in such cases is not whether in fact a bias has affected the but whether there was a real likelihood of bias. The answer depends not upon what actually was done but upon what might appear to be done. Justice must be rooted in confidence; and confidence is destroyed when right minded people may have reason to go away thinking: “the Judge might have been biased.” 30. Similarly, in the case of Kirti Deshmankar (supra) this Court re- emphasised that if the mother-in-law of the selected candidate was interested in the admission of her daughter-in-law, her presence in the meeting of the council vitiates the selection and it was not necessary to categorically establish the bias.