This is for the simple reason that only the writ petitioners have been proceeded against, while even according to the respondent-Institute, there were around twelve thousand Chartered Accountants who had breached the Guideline and had undertaken tax audits over and above the specified number but no action whatsoever was initiated against of them. 46. In conclusion, we must also note the dictum in Malpe Vishwanath Acharya vs. State of Maharashtra, (1998) 2 SCC 1, (“Malpe Vishwanath Acharya”), wherein this Court, relying on Motor General Traders vs. State of A.P., (1984) 1 SCC 222, (“Motor General Traders”), reiterated that a provision which was/is reasonable may with the passage of time become unreasonable. In the context of restriction on the specified audits under Section 44AB of IT Act, 1961, Minutes of the Council of the respondent-Institute reflect that with the passage of time, the number of tax audits to be permitted have been repeatedly deliberated, re-evaluated and increased, subject to final decision taken by the Council. However, it also becomes apparent that decisions of the Council on whether to increase or maintain the status quo have been ad-hoc, influenced by several factors such as technological development, number of practicing Chartered Accountants, etc. Since the last revision to sixty tax audits was made a decade ago, we direct the Council to consider if the 860 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports time is ripe to enhance the specified number of tax audits and to delineate the factors that it may consider in taking such a decision 47. In that view of the matter, the respondent-Institute is at liberty to enhance the specified number of tax audits that could be undertaken by practicing Chartered Accountants under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961. For that purpose, liberty is reserved to the practising Chartered Accountants to make their suggestions to the respondent. 48. We wish to make certain observations before parting with these writ petitions. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India over a period of time, has received recognition as a premier accounting body, domestically and globally, for maintaining highest standards in technical, ethical areas and for sustaining stringent examination and educational standards. Since its inception in the year 1949, the profession of Chartered Accountancy and accounting has grown leaps and bounds in terms of the number of members, which now stands at over 3.5 lakhs. The respondent-Institute has also played a significant role in ensuring the dynamism of the Chartered Accountancy course curriculum and the credibility of the examinations. The financial skills of the aspirants are fairly consolidated, at the time of joining the profession itself- this is owing to the robust examination pattern. We commend that the respondent-Institute must be committed towards convergence of accounting, auditing and ethical standards with international practices and for its endeavour towards securing the highest standards of corporate governance. The true test however, lies in application and enforcement of these standards in the Indian context. 49. The power to control and impose taxes is a cornerstone of State sovereignty.