Besides the relief of specific performance, the respondent-plaintiff also sought permanent injunction for restraining the appellant-defendant from alienating the suit land and dispossessing the respondent-plaintiff from the same. In the alternative, respondent- plaintiff sought relief of recovery of Rs.19,00,000/- including the amount of Rs.16,00,000/- paid as earnest money on the date of execution of the disputed agreement along with the damages to the tune of Rs.3,00,000/-. 6. The respondent-plaintiff averred in the plaint that the appellant- defendant, being the owner of the suit land, had agreed to sell the same to the respondent-plaintiff vide the disputed agreement wherein, the rate of the land was fixed at Rs.5,00,000/- per Killa with a condition to get the sale deed executed and registered on 19th September, 2008. As per the recitals in the disputed agreement, the appellant-defendant received a sum of Rs.16,00,000/- by way of earnest money on the date of the execution of the agreement with a further stipulation that the balance consideration would be paid on 19th September, 2008, when both the parties would appear at the Registrar office. It was further stipulated that if on the said date, the appellant-defendant failed to execute the registered sale deed then, he would become liable to return the earnest money to the tune of Rs.16,00,000/- along with penalty of equal amount, totalling to Rs.32,00,000/- to the respondent-plaintiff. Even after receiving the money and the penalty, the respondent-plaintiff would be entitled to file a suit for getting the sale deed executed in his favour. This disputed agreement was attested by two witnesses namely, Major Singh (PW-4) and Balwinder Singh (PW-2). 6 ‘disputed agreement’. 7 ‘suit land’. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 83 Lakha Singh v. Balwinder Singh & Anr. 7. It was also averred in the plaint that a part of the property was under mortgage with respondent No. 2 i.e. The State Bank of Patiala. The respondent-plaintiff claimed that he reached the Office of Joint Registrar, Khem Karan on the date stipulated in the disputed agreement i.e. 19th September, 2008 and remained present there from 09:00 am to 05:00 pm waiting for the appellant-defendant to arrive. However, the appellant-defendant did not turn up to get the sale deed registered in favour of the respondent-plaintiff, thereby violating the terms and conditions of the agreement. As such, the respondent-plaintiff got an affidavit of attendance attested from the Executive Magistrate, Khem Karan, who was also discharging the duties of the Joint Sub-Registrar, Khem Karan. In this manner, the respondent-plaintiff claimed to have marked his presence before the Joint Sub-Registrar showing his readiness and willingness to get the sale deed executed and registered in his favour, in terms of the disputed agreement. 8. Respondent-plaintiff further averred in the plaint that the appellant- defendant had breached the terms of the disputed agreement and was not ready and willing to execute and get the sale deed registered despite numerous requests, being made. The respondent-plaintiff also averred that the possession of the land, was handed over to him at the time when the disputed agreement was executed and that the respondent-plaintiff continued to remain in possession of the suit land as a prospective vendee.