619 Rajesh Kumar v. Anand Kumar & Ors. to work out his right in the property. The left out three sisters as co-owners having undivided share in the whole property, the two brothers are incompetent to abide by the award. 30. Learned counsel makes a reference to Section 12 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 and submits that the arbitration agreement and consequent award should be allowed to be enforced to the extent of share of two brothers leaving the vendee to work out his right, if necessary, in case the sisters object to the sale, by a suit in accordance with Section 12 of the Specific Relief Act. 31. Section 12 of the Specific Relief Act, in our considered opinion, would be of no assistance in the situation obtaining here. In the absence of sisters being parties to the agreement, the vendee can at best obtain undivided interest of two brothers in the property. Section 12 of the Specific Relief Act cannot be invoked by the vendee to obtain sale of undivided share of the two brothers with a right to force partition on the sisters who were not parties to the agreement of sale. Such a relief under Section 12 cannot be obtained by a vendee, on purchase of an undivided share of the property of some of the co-owners, against other co-owners who were not parties to the sale agreement.” 8. Undisputedly, in the present case, the plaintiff failed to appear in the witness box. Instead, his Power of Attorney Holder – Parmod Khare has got himself examined as PW-1. This witness was examined on 05.09.2002 and the power of attorney was executed on 26.08.2002. It is not a case where the suit itself was filed by a Power of Attorney Holder. He appeared subsequently only for recording his evidence as the Special Power of Attorney Holder of the plaintiff. The legal position as to when the deposition of a Power of Attorney Holder can be read in evidence has been dealt with by this Court in several decisions. 9. In Janki Vashdeo Bhojwani & Anr. vs. Indusind Bank Ltd. & Ors.2, it is held that a Power of Attorney Holder cannot depose 2 [2004] Supp. 6 SCR 681 : (2005) 2 SCC 217 620 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for principal in respect of matters of which only principal can have personal knowledge and in respect of which the principal is liable to be cross-examined. It is also held that if the principal to the suit does not appear in the witness box, a presumption would arise that the case set up by him is not correct. This Court has discussed the legal position in the following words in paras 13 to 22: “13. 3 Rules 1 and 2 CPC empower the holder of power of attorney to “act” on behalf of the principal. In our view the word “acts” employed in 3 Rules 1 and 2 CPC confines only to in respect of “acts” done by the power-of-attorney holder in exercise of power granted by the instrument.