(2) No person being of full age shall be registered as a citizen of India under sub-section (1) until he has taken the oath of allegiance in the form specified in the Second Schedule. (3) No person who has renounced, or has been deprived of, his Indian citizenship or whose Indian citizenship has terminated, under this Act shall be registered as a citizen of India under sub-section (1) except by of the Central Government. (4) The Central Government may, if satisfied that there are special circumstances justifying such registration, cause any minor to be registered as a citizen of India. (5) A person registered under this section shall be a citizen of India by registration as from the date on which he is so registered; and a person registered under the provisions of clause (b)(ii) of article 6 or article 8 of the Constitution shall be deemed to be a citizen of India by registration as from the commencement of the Constitution or the date on which he was so registered, whichever may be later. (6) If the Central Government is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary to grant exemption from the residential requirement under clause (c) of sub-section (1) to any person or a class of persons, it may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, grant such exemption.” (emphasis added) For applicability of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 5 of the 1955 Act, Pranav will have to establish that he is a person of Indian origin who is an ordinary resident in any country or place outside [2024] 10 S.C.R. 749 Union of India v. Pranav Srinivasan undivided India. In view of explanation 2 to Section 5, a person shall be deemed to be of Indian origin if (i) he or either of his parents were born in undivided India or (ii) in any such other territory which was not part of undivided India, but became part of India after 15th August 1947. There is no third category mentioned in the explanation. If undivided India were to include India after independence, the legislature would not have included the category of the person or either of his parents being born in such other territory which became part of India after the 15th August 1947. Section 2(h) of the 1955 Act provides that “undivided India” means India as defined in the 1935 Act. If we read “undivided India” as India as on or after 15th August 1947, we would be doing violence to the plain language of the Explanation. We cannot read something that is not in the provision, especially when there is no ambiguity in the provision. Therefore, we cannot read Explanation 2 the way the learned senior counsel of Pranav wants us to read. Pranav and both his parents were not born in the undivided India. His parents were born after independence in independent India. They were not born in any part of undivided India or any territory that became part of India after 15th August 1947.