It is obvious that this Court should be fully convinced and satisfied that the marriage is totally unworkable, emotionally dead and beyond salvation and, therefore, dissolution of marriage is the right solution and the only way forward. That the marriage has irretrievably broken down is to be factually determined and firmly established. For this, several factors are to be considered such as the period of time the parties had cohabited after marriage; when the parties had last cohabited; the nature of allegations made by the parties against each other and their family members; the s passed in the legal proceedings from time to time, cumulative impact on the personal relationship; whether, and how many attempts were made to settle the disputes by intervention of the court or through mediation, and when the last attempt was made, etc. The period of separation should be sufficiently long, and anything above six years or more will be a relevant factor. But these facts have to be evaluated keeping in view the economic and social status of the parties, including their educational qualifications, whether the parties have any children, their age, educational qualification, and whether the other spouse and children are dependent, in which event how and in what manner the party seeking divorce intends to take care and provide for the spouse or the children. Question of custody and welfare of minor children, provision for fair and adequate alimony for the wife, and economic rights of the children and other pending matters, if any, are relevant considerations. We would not like to codify the factors so [2024] 5 S.C.R. 883 Jatinder Kumar Sapra v. Anupama Sapra as to curtail exercise of jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, which is situation specific. Some of the factors mentioned can be taken as illustrative, and worthy of consideration.” 6. Having prima-facie satisfied ourselves that the present dispute met the aforenoted parameters, we requested Shri P.S. Patwalia, Learned Senior Counsel, to assist this Court in putting a quietus to the present lis. On 22.03.2024, we were informed by Mr. Patwalia that despite his best efforts, the parties were not willing to arrive at an amicable settlement and that there was no possibility of the parties residing together. At our request, Mr. Patwalia placed on a record a short note outlining the details of his efforts including inter alia the deliberations between the parties in respect of the quantum of permanent alimony to be paid by the Appellant towards the Respondent. 7. We have given due consideration to submissions made by the respective counsels and the materials placed on record. The undisputed facts of the case reveal that the parties have separated 22 (twenty-two) years ago i.e., having cohabited last in January 2002. The children are now major and gainfully employed; elder son is an associate in a dental clinic; and younger son is a video/film editor. Thus, keeping in view the totality of circumstances, we are satisfied that the facts on record establish that the marriage between the parties has broken down and that there is no possibility that the parties would cohabit together in the future.