Digital Supreme Court Reports 136. In view of the above, the first consequence of the interpretation of Article 39(b) by this Court is linked to its reviewing role as a pre- condition to the protection of Article 31-C. Given that this Court may judicially review the question of whether a legislation bears a direct and reasonable nexus with the principles of Article 39(b), the interpretation of the provision cannot be left solely to the legislature. This Court must lay down a construction of the provision, which does not grant the legislature absolute authority to include any legislation within the fold of Article 39(b) without a governing principle. b. Article 39(b) as a Directive Principle 137. The unique consequence flowing from Article 39(b) as a pre-condition to receiving the protection of Article 31-C has been detailed above. However, the provision also has a special place in the Constitution, as a part of the Chapter on ‘Directive Principles of State Policy’. 138. Chapter IV of the Constitution is titled ‘ Directive Principles of State Policy’ and contains Articles 36 to 51. The preambular text of Chapter IV may be located in Article 37, which reads as follows: “37. Application of the principles contained in this Part.— The provisions contained in this Part shall not be enforceable by any court, but the principles therein laid down are nevertheless fundamental in the governance of the country and it shall be the duty of the State to apply these principles in making laws.” 139. From the text of Article 37, three major principles about the provisions contained in Chapter IV can be identified. Firstly, unlike fundamental rights and other provisions in the Constitution, they shall not be ‘enforceable’ by any court. In other words, a breach of a Directive Principle cannot ground a legal claim. Secondly, the principles laid down in the provisions are fundamental to the governance of the country. Thirdly, it is the ‘duty of the State’ to apply these principles in making laws. These principles raise questions about the purport of the term ‘fundamental’ in the context of Chapter IV and whether the duty of the state to apply these principles is a legal or merely a moral duty. It is undoubtedly true that Article 37 renders Directive Principles immune from judicial enforcement. However, such non- enforceability is predicated on the understanding that many of these principles require fiscal resources for implementation, and thus [2024] 11 S.C.R. 131 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. immediate accountability for their non-fulfilment would have burdened a nascent country. The non-justiciability of these principles does not diminish their significance and they remain significant despite their direct non-enforceability through judicial channels.117 140. The rest of the chapter, containing Articles 38 to 51 lays down the principles which constitute the Directive Principles. These principles range from equal pay for equal work to the organisation of village panchayats to humane conditions of work and maternity relief. Initially, between the 1950s and 1960s, the jurisprudence of this Court reflected the view that Directive Principles have no role to play in the decision- making of the courts – they are not directly enforceable, do not play a role in the interpretation of statutes, and cannot be used to abridge or interpret fundamental rights in any way.