161. The use of the expression “to the extent” under Entry 54 of List I carries the consequence that the Parliamentary legislation has to specify the subject matter or field over which it seeks to legislate. In M A Tulloch (supra), this Court held that the intention of the legislation to occupy a particular subject matter has to be gathered from the words of the provisions.225 As a consequence, the coverage of the fields by Parliament has to be express. The ambit of the MMDR Act has to be determined from the express words used in the provisions and not by mere implications or inference. This legal principle has already been accepted by this Court.226 162. In Ishwari Khetan Sugar Mills v. State of Uttar Pradesh,227 a Constitution Bench was called upon to interpret the ambit of Entry 52 of List I and Entry 24 of List II. The Industries (Development and Regulation) Act 1951228 was enacted by Parliament to assume 225 M A Tulloch (supra) [14]. [It reads: “14. […] In the present case, having regard to the terms of Section 18(1) it appears clear to us that the intention of Parliament was to cover the entire field and thus to leave no scope for the argument that until the rules were framed, there was no inconsistency and no supersession, of the State Act.”] 226 Ishwari Khetan Sugar Mills v. State of Uttar Pradesh (1980) 4 SCC 136; Rajasthan Roller Flour Mills Association v. State of Rajasthan (1994) Supp. 1 SCC 413 [14] 227 [1980] 3 SCR 331 : (1980) 4 SCC 136 228 “IDR Act” 1670 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports control over specified industries in pursuance of Entry 52 of List I. Section 2 of the IDR Act contained the legislative declaration to the effect that the Union shall take under its control the industries specified in Schedule I. The majority, speaking through Justice D A Desai, observed that the legislative declaration under the IDR Act has the effect of denying the legislative powers to the state legislature under Entry 24 of List II.229 Therefore, it was held that the legislative declaration contained under Section 2 of the IDR Act has to be construed strictly. The Court held that the legislative competence of state legislature would be eroded only to the extent to which control was assumed by the Union in terms of the legislative declaration under the IDR Act. A legislative declaration which has the impact of denuding or depriving the legislative power of the state legislature has to be construed strictly. 163. The inter-relationship between Entry 54 of List I and Entry 23 of List II can be formulated as follows: (i) The state legislatures possess plenary legislative power in respect of regulation of mines and mineral development under Entry 23 of List II; (ii) Entry 23 of List II is, however, subject to the operation of Entry 54 of List I; (ii) The field under Entry 23 of List II is subordinated to the extent to which Parliament has brought under its control the regulation of mines and development of minerals under the MMDR Act; (iii) The expression of the legislative intention to cover a particular field relating to mines and mineral development excludes or denudes the legislative powers of the State with respect to that particular field; and (iv) Parliamentary intention to cover a particular field relating to the regulation of mines and mineral development and the extent to which control of the Union is regarded to be in the public interest has to be ascertained from the language of the statute.