• Intention of the Parties: The intention, as explicitly stated in the mortgage deed and corroborated by DW1’s testimony, was that the property would become the absolute property of the defendant upon default of payment within the stipulated period. • Terms of the Mortgage Deed: The mortgage deed allowed the defendant to use the land and specified that the right of the mortgagor to reclaim the property would be extinguished upon default. 21. The permissive possession by the plaintiff in the present case does not alter the character of the transaction. Allowing the plaintiff to remain on the land was a matter of convenience and does not affect the rights and obligations established by the mortgage deed. It is also pertinent to note that permitting the plaintiff to enjoy both the possession of the property and the benefit of the ₹75,000 received from the defendant, without fulfilling her obligations under the mortgage agreement, would result in unjust enrichment at the expense of the defendant. Therefore, the courts below erred in relying heavily on the aspect of possession to conclude that the transaction was a simple mortgage. 22. It should also be noted that the plaintiff failed to repay the mortgage amount along with the agreed interest within the stipulated period of three years. There is no credible evidence to suggest that she 1140 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports attempted to tender the amount within the time frame. Her assertion that the defendant refused to accept repayment is unsubstantiated. 23. It is to be also considered that the plaintiff did not enter the witness box to testify regarding her claims, including her understanding of the mortgage deed and the alleged refusal by the defendant to accept repayment. Her husband, acting as her power of attorney holder, deposed on her behalf. However, matters within the personal knowledge of the plaintiff could not be adequately addressed by her husband. 24. The plaintiff also contends that the mortgage is invalid under Section 165(2) of the Code, which restricts the transfer of agricultural land by a Bhumiswami if less than 10 acres of unencumbered un-irrigated land would remain with the transferor. However, the defendant asserts that the suit land is not agricultural land, as residential structures have been constructed on it. This is supported by the testimony of DW-1. The plaintiff failed to provide concrete evidence, such as revenue records or land use certificates, to establish the agricultural nature of the land or to demonstrate that she was left with less than 10 acres of unencumbered un-irrigated land after the transaction. 25. In the absence of clear evidence, the applicability of Section 165 of the 1959 Code cannot be presumed. Moreover, even if the provision were applicable, it would render the transaction voidable at the instance of the State or the affected party. Neither the State has challenged the transaction, nor did the plaintiff seek to have the mortgage declared void on this ground at the earliest opportunity. 26. In light of the observations and findings made, we find that the mortgage deed dated 17.10.1990 constitutes a mortgage by conditional sale under Section 58(c) of the Act.