Digital Supreme Court Reports under Article 142 to direct the reopening of the assessment by an appropriate assessing authority. ii. The scope of Ashish Agarwal extended to all the reassessment notices issued between 1 April 2021 and 30 June 2021 under the old regime 89. In Ashish Agarwal (supra), this Court: (i) upheld the s of the High Courts; and (ii) deemed the notices issued under Section 148 of the old regime as show cause notices issued under Section 148A(b) of the new regime. By agreeing with the s of the High Courts, this Court laid down the law that the provisions of the new regime will be applicable for all the reassessment notices issued under Section 148 after 1 April 2021. As a result of this holding, all the reassessment notices issued in terms of Section 148 of the old regime would have been declared invalid. Therefore, this Court deemed the reassessment notices issued under the old regime after 1 April 2021 as show cause notices issued under Section 148A(b) of the new regime. 90. In Ashish Agarwal (supra), this Court rendered its decision on the premise that the Revenue issued approximately ninety thousand notices under the old regime and all of them were the subject matter of writ petitions before the High Courts: “4. At this stage, it is required to be noted that approximately 90,000 such reassessment notices under Section 148 of the unamended Income Tax Act were issued by the Revenue after 1-4-2021, which were the subject-matter of more than 9000 writ petitions before various High Courts across the country and by different s and s, the particulars of which are as above, the High Courts have taken a similar view and have set aside the respective reassessment notices issued under Section 148 on similar grounds.” Further, this Court directed that its directions “shall be applicable PAN INDIA”: “29. The present shall be applicable PAN INDIA and all s and s passed by the different High Courts on the issue and under which similar notices which [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1697 Union of India & Ors. v. Rajeev Bansal were issued after 1-4-2021 issued under Section 148 of the Act are set aside and shall be governed by the present and shall stand modified to the aforesaid extent. The present is passed in exercise of powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India so as to avoid any further appeals by the Revenue on the very issue by challenging similar s and s, with a view not to burden this Court with approximately 9000 appeals. We also observe that the present shall also govern the pending writ petitions, pending before various the High Courts in which similar notices under Section 148 of the Act issued after 1-4-2021 are under challenge.” (emphasis supplied) The purpose of this Court in deeming the reassessment notices issued under the old regime as show cause notices under the new regime was two-fold: (i) to strike a balance between the rights of the assesses and the Revenue which issued approximately ninety thousand reassessment notices after 1 April 2021 under the old regime; and (ii) to avoid any further appeals before this Court by the Revenue on the same issue by challenging similar s and s of the High Courts (arising from approximately nine thousand writ petitions).