This leads to auctions being aborted and issuance of fresh notices. Repetition of such a process of participation-withdrawal for a couple of times or more has the undesirable effect of rigging of the valuation of the immovable property. In such cases, the only perceivable loss suffered by a secured creditor would seem to be the extent of expenses incurred by it in putting up the immovable property for sale. However, what does generally escape notice in the process is that it is the mischievous borrower who steals a march over the secured creditor by managing to have a highly valuable property purchased by one of its henchmen for a song, thus getting such property freed from the clutches of mortgage and by diluting the 58 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports security cover which the secured creditor had for its loan exposure. Bearing in mind such stark reality, sub-rule (5) of rule 9 cannot but be interpreted pragmatically to serve twin purposes — first, to facilitate due enforcement of security interest by the secured creditor (one of the objects of the SARFAESI Act); and second, to prohibit wrong doers from being benefitted by a liberal construction thereof.” (Emphasis supplied) a. Forfeiture under the SARFAESI Rules: 59. We, first come to the aspect of applicability of Section 73 of the 1872 Act vis-à-vis the SARFAESI Act, more particularly Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules. In Madras Petrochem (supra) this Court made a pertinent observation that Sections 35 and 37 respectively of the SARFAESI Act form a unique scheme of overriding provisions, however the scope and ambit of Section 37 is restricted only to the securities law. The relevant portion is reproduced as under: - “39. This is what then brings us to the doctrine of harmonious construction, which is one of the paramount doctrines that is applied in interpreting all statutes. Since neither Section 35 nor Section 37 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 is subject to the other, we think it is necessary to interpret the expression “or any other law for the time being in force” in Section 37. If a literal meaning is given to the said expression, Section 35 will become completely otiose as all other laws will then be in addition to and not in derogation of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002. Obviously this could not have been the parliamentary intendment, after providing in Section 35 that the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 will prevail over all other laws that are inconsistent therewith. A middle ground has, therefore, necessarily to be taken. According to us, the two apparently conflicting sections can best be harmonised by giving meaning to both. This can only be done by limiting the scope of the expression “or any other law for the time being in force” [2024] 2 S.C.R. 59 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu contained in Section 37.