It is clear from the debates extracted above that the purpose of the reservation clause is to remedy the inadequate representation in public services of certain “classes”. The cause for inadequate 224 KM Panikkar: “I was responsible for the change from the word ‘minorities’. The reason which I gave was that minorities in India have come to have a specific meaning, that is to say, religious or political minorities, Muslims, Sikhs etc. Sikh, Muslim, Depressed Classes, either a political or religious minority. The meaning has come to that. There may be among the majority, among the Hindus for example, many classes who have not adequate representation in the services.” 225 CAD Vol 7. P. 701 226 Reddy J [694] “[…] In short, the objective behind Article 16(4) is empowerment of the deprived backward communities- to give them a share in the administrative apparatus and in the governance of the community.” Also see Paragraph 161 where Justice Pandian states that “inadequate representation is not confined to any specific section of the people, but all those who fall under the group of backwardness whether they are Shudras of Hindu community or similarly situated other backward classes of people in other communities, namely, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians etc. 1424 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports represented could be two-fold. First, it may be a result of laws that expressly excluded certain classes from accessing the good, that is posts in public service. Second, it may be the result of a class being excluded not expressly by law but through social exclusion. A class may be socially excluded from accessing skills which are relevant for acquiring the good. These restrictions could either be in the form of social and informal or legal and formal restrictions. 166. In Indra Sawhney (supra), Justice Jeevan Reddy observed that a class for the purpose of securing reservations under Article 16(4) should not only be a backward class but must also be inadequately represented in the services of the State.227 Thus, the beneficiary class is not to be determined solely on the basis of whether the class is a numerical minority or a majority in the services of the State. The focus instead is on identifying classes that have been excluded from public services not as a matter of chance or choice but because of the operation of the system of hierarchy. Thus, both the phrases, “backward” and “not adequately represented,” in Article 16(4) cannot be interpreted in a mutually exclusive manner in determining the beneficiary class under Article 16(4). The intent of Article 16(4) is to cover those classes which have been inadequately represented because of their backwardness. Thus, the requirement of inadequate representation cannot be detached from the requirement of backwardness. c. The requirement of “effective” representation 167. Conventionally, the State has assessed if the class is adequately represented by comparing the representation of the class in the services to the total population of the State.228 However, adequacy of representation when determined purely from a numerical perspective without accounting for factors such as representation vis-à-vis posts would dilute the purpose of the provision.