Civil Appeal No. 6567 of 2014 16. This Civil Appeal is preferred by the defendants in the suit against whom the plaintiff brought a suit for perpetual injunction on the pleadings, inter alia, that he and his brother Bhagwan Singh alias Nikka Singh were owners in possession of the suit land. Bhagwan Singh was issueless being unmarried. Since the defendant No. 1 was trying to dispossess the plaintiff forcibly, the suit for perpetual injunction was filed. The defendants did not deny that plaintiff and Bhagwan Singh were real brothers. However, he claimed to be the half-brother of Bhagwan Singh as they were given birth by same lady namely Mrs. Har Kaur who was earlier married to Sunder Singh but after his death, she was married to Mehar Singh and the defendant no. 1 was born out of the wedlock of Har Kaur with Mehar Singh. The defendant’s case rested on a Will allegedly executed by Bhagwan Singh on 17.01.1980. Prior to this, Bhagwan Singh had executed an unregistered Will on 17.08.1979. However, the defendant admitted that during the lifetime of Bhagwan Singh, the suit land was cultivated jointly by the plaintiff and Bhagwan Singh. In the alternative, the defendant pleaded that if plaintiff’s possession over the suit land is proved, the defendant nos. 2 to 6, the beneficiary of the Will, are entitled to joint possession of half share of the suit land. 17. On the strength of evidence adduced by the parties in course of trial, it was held by the trial court that the defendants have failed to prove the genuineness of the Will, therefore, the plaintiff is entitled to succeed by way of natural succession. It was found that the Will relied by the defendants is surrounded by suspicious circumstances, therefore, it is not a validly executed Will. The trial court held that the defendants’ case that they served the deceased Bhagwan Singh during the lifetime and out of love and affection for the services rendered, he executed the Will in their favour as they were also related to the deceased, has not been believed by the trial court. There is evidence that it was plaintiff who admitted Nikka Singh in [2024] 6 S.C.R. 403 Lehna Singh (D) By Lrs. v. Gurnam Singh (D) By Lrs. & Ors. hospital on 02.08.1979 when he was ill and his address was also shown as care of Lehna Singh (the ‘plaintiff’). 18. Upon careful marshalling of evidence, the trial court recorded a finding about active participation of Jagjit Singh (DW-3) in execution of the Will and the absence of mention in the Will as to why he disinherited his real brother, the plaintiff, from succeeding the property and more so when he was living with him and was attended to during his ill health. Since the defendant admit joint possession and cultivation of the land by Nikka Singh and plaintiff, a fact contrary to this mentioned in the Will was also highlighted by the trial court. Despite there being an earlier Will there was no mention that the said Will is cancelled and the name of father of Gurnam Singh was also wrongly mentioned.