87 and Ex. 112) submitted to the Zonal Officer. Furthermore, it rejected the defence that the prosecution failed to prove documentary evidence as the defence did not raise any objection to the exhibiting of said documents, including arrest reports recorded in compliance of Section 57 of the NDPS Act, arrest memo of Accused No. 04 and Accused No. 01 and intimation given to the next kin of the accused persons. 12. The High Court of Gujarat was of the opinion that except two minor inconsistencies, namely, apropos who called the panchas and the [2024] 4 S.C.R. 451 Smt. Najmunisha v. The State of Gujarat recording of statement of Accused No. 02, there was no reason to question the veracity of the depositions of the members of the raiding party. Those minor fallacies in the statements of the prosecution witnesses do not go to the root of the matter. Thereafter, while acquitting Accused No. 02, the High Court believed that there was no evidence implicating him to the criminality involved. In the same breath, the Court observed that such finding of acquittal does not throw prosecution’s case as against other accused persons, inter alia, Accused No. 01 and Accused No. 04, which is established beyond any reasonable doubts. 13. With respect to the objection that no independent witnesses were examined to prove joint possession of house by Accused No. 01 and Accused No. 04, the High Court of Gujarat placed reliance on the depositions of Defence Witness (brother of Accused No. 04), who testified that the said accommodation was occupied by the accused persons to entertain their guests. The fact of possession of the house by Accused No. 01 and Accused No. 04 is bolstered by their own confessional statements and corroborated by the testimony of an independent witness PW-01. Thereupon, perusing the statements of Mrs Chaube and PW-05, the High Court held that there was no infirmity regarding the receipt of muddamal with seals intact on the goods being sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for examination. 14. Delving into the question of compliance of Section 42(2) of the NDPS Act 1985, the High Court was inclined to accept the argument of the prosecution that the statement of Mrs Chaube with respect to recording of secret information and conveying it to her superior officer stood established by consistent testimonies of Mrs Chaube and Mr Tomar and clarified that the testimony of the former cannot be thrown on the premise that there was variation on the point that who called the panch witness. Considering the aforementioned, the High Court of Gujarat affirmed the case of conviction of the Accused No. 01 and Accused No. 04. 15. The learned Counsel for the appellants herein contends that the statement of the appellants/accused in the instant case recorded under the provision of Section 67 of the NDPS Act 1985 was not admissible and ought not to have been the basis of conviction of the Accused No. 01 and Accused No. 04. It has been brought to our attention that the High Court has critically scrutinized the said 452 [2024] 4 S.C.R.