The non-fulfilment of such obligations under the garb of industrial development, is not permissible for any welfare State as that would tantamount to uprooting a person and depriving them of their constitutional/human right. 47. That time is of the essence in determination and payment of compensation is also evident from this Court’s in Kukreja Construction Company & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors., 2024 SCC OnLine SC 2547 wherein it has been held that once the compensation has been determined, the same is payable immediately without any requirement of a representation or request by the landowners and a duty is cast on the State to pay such compensation to the land losers, otherwise there would be a breach of Article 300-A of the Constitution. 48. In the present case, the Government of Himachal Pradesh as a welfare State ought to have proactively intervened in the matter with a view to ensure that the requisite amount towards compensation is paid at the earliest. The State cannot abdicate its constitutional and statutory responsibility of payment of compensation by 1036 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports arguing that its role was limited to initiating acquisition proceedings under the MOU signed between the Appellant, JAL and itself. We find that the delay in the payment of compensation to the landowners after taking away ownership of the subject land from them is in contravention to the spirit of the constitutional scheme of Article 300A and the idea of a welfare State. 49. Acquisition of land for public purpose is undertaken under the power of eminent domain of the government much against the wishes of the owners of the land which gets acquired. When such a power is exercised, it is coupled with a bounden duty and obligation on the part of the government body to ensure that the owners whose lands get acquired are paid compensation/ awarded amount as declared by the statutory award at the earliest.” [Emphasis supplied] 70. This Court has also held in the case of N. Padmamma v. S. Ramakrishna Reddy, reported in (2008) 15 SCC 517 that: “21. If a right of property is a human right as also a constitutional right, the same cannot be taken away except in accordance with law. Article 300 A of the Constitution protects such right. The provisions of the Act seeking to divest such right, keeping in view of the provisions of Article 300 A of the Constitution of India, must be strictly construed. (See - Hindustan Petroleum Corpn. Ltd. v. Darius Shapur Chenai, [(2005) 7 SCC 627]” [Emphasis supplied] 71. Therefore, in our considered view, the notification under Section 52(1) is liable to be declared invalid on the ground that the compensation was not deposited and paid to the respondents within the timeline specified in Section 60A(4) as well as on the ground that the acquisition process was not fair and in accordance with law. The improper procedure being adopted by the State Government and the appellant Trust when it took possession of the Nangli Kota lands [2024] 12 S.C.R.