Noting that the lockdown was imposed on 24th March, 2020 and there was no impediment for the appellant in the aforesaid case to have filed the appeal before 18th March, 2020, this Court had refused to permit the party to take refuge of the dated 23rd March, 2020, passed in the Suo Moto Writ Petition and had opined that the said was intended to benefit those who were vigilant about their rights. 32.11 The decision in Rajat Infrastructure Private Limited (supra) alluded to by learned senior counsel for the appellant is also based on its own peculiar facts where successive applications were moved by the applicant – Auction Purchaser therein for extension of time to pay the balance sale price of the subject property. Despite a long rope given by the Court by granting [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1293 V.S. Palanivel v. P. Sriram, CS, Liquidator, Etc. enlargement of time, the applicant kept on dragging its feet and committing defaults. In view of the aforesaid conduct, the Court referred to sub-rule (4) and (6) of Rule 9 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules 200247 that prescribes time of sale, issue of sale certificate and delivery of possession and observed that even if a liberal construction is given to the said sub–rules, in view of successive s passed by the Court on applications moved by the applicant – Auction Purchasers, it was not permissible to extend the timeline under the substantive statutory provisions dealing with the subject. The facts of the present case being on a different footing, the appellant cannot take advantage of the aforesaid decision. 32.12 In the present case, as noticed above, the period of 90 days for depositing the balance sale consideration had expired just after the crucial date, i.e., 23rd March, 2020. We do not find any merit in the submission made by the appellant that the Tribunal ought not to have accepted the view taken by the Adjudicating Authority that Covid-19 lockdown was a valid reason for extension of time to deposit the balance sale consideration. 33. ALLEGATIONS REGARDING UNDER-VALUATION OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY 33.1 The contention of the learned senior counsel for the appellant is that the Liquidator ought not to have auctioned the subject property by fixing a reserve price below the valuation submitted by the Registered valuers. To consider the said submission, it is necessary to examine the scheme of the IBBI Regulation, 2016 that applies to the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. Chapter VI of the Regulations titled ‘Realisation of Assets’ includes a list of regulations relating to sale of assets (Regulation 32), sale of a Corporate debtor as a going concern (Regulation 32A), mode of sale (Regulation 33), preparation of an asset memorandum (Regulation 34), valuation of assets or businesses intended 47 SARFAESI Rules, 2002 1294 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to be sold (Regulation 35), preparation of the Asset Sale Report (Regulation 36), realization of security interest by secured creditor (Regulation 37), assignment of not readily realizable assets (Regulation 37A), distribution of unsold assets (Regulation 38), recovery of monies due (Regulation 39) and realization of uncalled capital/unpaid capital contribution (Regulation 40).