11. It is in this delicate context that the law of maintenance strikes a careful, just and fair balance between the husband’s sacrosanct duty towards his wife and children and the social imperative of not imposing oppressive or punitive financial hardship on the husband, vide Bhuwan Mohan Singh vs. Meena (2015) 6 SCC 353; Reema Salkan vs. Sumer Singh Salkan (2019) 12 SCC 303. Adequacy and sufficiency of maintenance: 12. One of the critical aspects of adjudicating claims for maintenance is ensuring adequate and sufficiency of maintenance so that the wife can maintain herself with dignity. The consistent emphasis of this Court’s jurisprudence upon sufficiency of maintenance amount and social protection of deserted women transcends the intricacies of our pluralist legal culture and personal laws. 13. I may also note the Kerala High Court’s Division Bench in Kunhi Moyin vs. Pathumma, 1976 KLT 87 (“Kunhi Moyin”) authored by Khalid, J. (as his Lordship then was). While dismissing a Muslim husband’s constitutional challenge to Section 125 of the CrPC, the High Court held that the salutary provision was enacted to achieve the ends of social welfare and reform. Therefore, no claim of violation of the fundamental right to practice religion under Article 25 could be sustained. Of particular relevance was the interpretation of Section 127(3)(b) of the CrPC. The High Court found that an 1280 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports attempt may be made to rely upon Section 127(3)(b) to ‘destroy the effectiveness of Section 125’ and deny its benefit to rightful claimants. For the sake of clarity, the said provision is extracted as under: “127. Alteration in allowance.- (1) On proof of a change in the circumstances of any person, receiving under section 125 a monthly allowance, for the maintenance or interim maintenance, or ed under the same section to pay a monthly allowance for the maintenance, or interim maintenance, to his wife, child, father or mother, as the case may be, the Magistrate may make such alteration, as he thinks fit, in the allowance for the maintenance or the interim maintenance, as the case may be. (2) Where it appears to the Magistrate that, in consequence of any decision of a competent Civil Court, any made under section 125 should be cancelled or varied, he shall cancel the or, as the case may be, vary the same accordingly. (3) Where any has been made under section 125 in favour of a woman who has been divorced by, or has obtained a divorce from, her husband, the Magistrate shall, if he is satisfied that – (a) the woman has, after the date of such divorce, remarried, cancel such as from the date of her remarriage; (b) the woman has been divorced by her husband and that she has received, whether before or after the date of the said , the whole of the sum which, under any customary or personal law applicable to the parties, was payable on such divorce, cancel such – (i) in the case where such sum was paid before such , from the date on which such was made; (ii) in any other case, from the date of expiry of the period, if any, for which maintenance has been actually paid by the husband to the woman; [2024] 7 S.C.R.