However, in cross-examination, the witness admitted that he had not stated the aforesaid details to the Sabarmati police which were being asked from him in the Court. He also feigned ignorance as to the nature of case filed against him by Babu Raja Ram. He also stated that he had not tried to move Jeeva or talk to him when they were taken out of their lockup. Selvin(PW-1) and Dhanlakshmi(PW-2) had come to the police station with breakfast on the next morning. He did not see Jeeva in a conscious state till he woke up in the next morning. He was released on bail at half past 3’o clock in the afternoon. He did not tell his advocate Mr. Pathan about the incident with Jeeva. He also admitted that he had not given the name of Mr. Patel in the statement recorded by the Sabarmati police. He explained that Sabarmati police had not recorded his statement willingly. He also admitted that he did not state at the police station that he was knowing Mr. Vyas and Mr. Patel previously. He tried to explain that he had not divulged at the Sabarmati Police Station that Mr. Patel had inflicted blow of stick on the chest of Jeeva as he was not asked about the same. 390 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 33. Considering the tenor of evidence of PW-3, it is evident that his version also suffers from grave infirmities, contradictions and omissions and thus, implicit reliance cannot be placed on his testimony. 34. Jeeva(deceased) expired around 36 hours after his surrender before the officials of the Amraiwadi Police Station and thus, the medical evidence assumes great significance in the case. Dr. Digant Kalidas Dixit(PW-5) who was working as a Medical Officer at the Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad deposed as below: - “On 12th June 1992 at 8/00AM to 2/00 PM I was on duty as Casualty Medical Officer at Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad. At about 8/30AM on that day Shri R.K. Thakur, Jailor of Sabarmati Central Prison, Head Constable Udaysinghbhai and police constable Maheshbhai of Central Prison, Ahmedabad had brought one Jeevabhai Vaiyapuri from Sabarmati Central Prison. I had examined him and I found that the patient was unconscious. His body was cold and calm. Pulse was not palpable and it was not possible to record Blood Pressure: respiration was absent; heart sounds were not heard by stethoscope; pupils were dilated, fixed and not reactive to light. All functions were suggestive that the patient is dead. As such I had made a note in the Register that the person is dead.” 35. Dr. Nayan Kumar-Medical Jurist(PW-9) conducted postmortem upon the dead body of Jeeva. The relevant excerpts from the evidence of the Medical Jurist(PW-9) are reproduced below: - “The injuries found by me externally were fresh in nature. The injuries were fresh and must have occurred within six to eight hours of the death. I have brought the case papers. A query was raised by the Police Inspector of Sabarmati Police Station and it was replied by my brother doctor Dr. Desai.