It was pleaded by the appellants that because of rusting of beams holding the tenanted structure, the roof of the rented property was damaged as a result of which it had become dangerous for the occupation of human beings. Demolition notice issued by Mahabaleshwar Giristhan Municipal Council to the landlords dated 23.01.2002 was relied upon in the plaint in this regard. So far as the suit forming the basis of Civil Appeal No.1544 of 2016 is concerned, the grounds for eviction were default in the payment of rent, demolition notice having been issued by the Municipal Council on 23.01.2002, as also for necessity of having the premises for the purpose of carrying out construction for residential purpose and hotel. This requirement, the appellant argued, constituted bona fide requirement by the landlord. On the finding of the Appellate Court that there was default in payment of rent, the High Court held:- “12(c) The Appeal Court has committed an error of law, apparent on face of record in interpreting Section 15 of the Rent Act, in the manner it has. The interpretation is contrary to both, the text as well as the rulings of this Court on the subject. This is a case where ·rents were regularly offered and dispatched by way of money s. 1120 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The rents were, however, refused by the landlords. In such circumstances, there is no obligation upon the tenants to comply with conditions prescribed in Section 15(3) of the Rent Act. It is always open to a tenant to establish and prove that the tenant was always ready and willing to pay rent and therefore, there was no cause of action to even initiate proceedings for eviction under Section 15(1) of the Rent Act. Besides, a careful perusal of the impugned s would indicate that concurrently the two Courts have accepted that there was no default in payment of rents. There is, in any case, ample evidence on record to establish that there was no default in payment of rent;” 11. The Revisional Court examining the question of reasonable and bona fide requirement of the landlords found eviction was sought for demolishing the suit premises and erecting a new building thereon. In the opinion of the High Court, it was incumbent on the part of the fact finding fora to come to a finding on that question and record satisfaction as required under sub-sections (4), (5), (6) and (7) of Section 16 of the 1999 Act. We have quoted above Section 16 of the 1999 Act. The High Court appears to have connected the claim based on reasonable and bona fide requirement to Sections 16 (1) (h) and (i) of the said statute. Though these two provisions apply in different contexts, sub-section (4) thereof requires the Court to carry out an exercise to determine which part of the rented-out premises ought to be vacated for carrying out the work of repair or erection. The first two fora did not address this question, which is a statutory requirement.