44) Accordingly, the Writ petition is allowed; the letter of intent issued on 21.09.2019 by respondent nos.2 to 4 to respondent no.5 is set aside; and the respondents are 1260 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports directed to consider the case of the petitioner for grant of the retail outlet dealership in the said village within six weeks. The respondent no. 2-4 together and the respondent no.5 shall pay costs of Rs.10,000/- each to the petitioner.” 15. It appears from the line of reasoning assigned by the High Court that the appellant – herein was found to be guilty of not disclosing few relevant facts before the Corporation for the purpose of allotment of the dealership. 16. Since the allotment in favour of the appellant – herein came to be cancelled by the impugned of the High Court, the appellant is here before this Court with the present appeal. 17. We have heard Mr. Jayant Bhushan, the learned Senior counsel appearing for the appellant, Mr. V. Giri, the learned Senior counsel appearing for the BHPL and Mr. Vikrant Narayan Vasudeva, the learned counsel appearing for the Respondent No.5 – herein who was the original petitioner before the High Court. 18. We take notice of the stance of the Corporation before the High Court as reflected from the reply. 19. The Corporation made itself abundantly clear that it had received all the relevant documents with necessary information from the appellant – herein for the purpose of processing the online application for allotment of dealership. 20. We quote Paras 17 and 18 respectively of the affidavit in reply filed by the Corporation before the High Court. “17. That the contents of this para are factually in correct, hence denied. The petitioner has deliberately indulged in mis-statement of facts regarding the out of court amicable settlement between the co owners of the land leading upto issuance of LOI in favor of respondent no.5. As mentioned earlier the selected candidate provided the replying respondents all the relevant land documents including consent from co-owners which were checked and verified by the concerned application scrutiny committee and after having found them to be in his case was processed further. Only after following all the guidelines and policies [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1261 Pawan Kumar v. Union of India & Ors. for allotment of retail outlet a Letter of Intent was finally issued in favor of respondent no.5. 18. Contents of this para are factually incorrect, hence denied. It is not understood as to on what basis the petitioner has come up with the claim as the selection process was to be completed within 41 days. It is submitted that the selected candidate Sh. Pawan Kumar had applied online under Group 2 for the retail outlet dealership. The intimation of selection post draw of lots and the list of documents to be submitted by the selected candidates was sent to Respondent no.5 over e-mail on 21.06.2019. He submitted all the relevant documents as required by the replying respondent including consent from the co- owners.