71420 of 2011 Appearances for Parties P.S. Patwalia, Sr. Adv., Ms. Ayshwarya Chandar, Advs. for the Appellant. Anil Kaushik, Sr. Adv., Ms. Arunima Dwivedi, Shashank Shekhar Singh, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Ahsanuddin Amanullah & Ujjal Bhuyan, JJ. Heard Mr. P.S. Patwalia, learned senior counsel for the appellant and Mr. Anil Kaushik, learned senior counsel and Mr. Shashank Shekhar Singh, learned counsel for the Respondents No.1 and 2 respectively. Leave granted. 2. The issue involved in this case is simple. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 807 Steve Kanika v. New Okhla Industrial Development Authority (Noida) & Anr. FACTUAL OVERVIEW: 3. The appellant’s father had applied for allotment of a plot under the Respondent No.1/New Okhla Industrial and Development Authority (hereinafter referred to as ‘NOIDA’) in the year 2006. Be it noted, the appellant had been authorised to apply as such in his own behalf for a company, pursuant to consent and no-objection by the other Directors of the company. After an open lottery held on 01.10.2009, the father of the appellant was allotted a plot on 26.10.2009, for which an allotment letter of even date was issued in favour of the appellant’s father. The allotment was of Plot No.144, Block-C, Sector-100, Noida, admeasuring 176.40 sqr. metres. 4. However, in the interregnum, the original allottee i.e. the father of the appellant had passed away on 08.11.2007. 5. In that view of the matter, NOIDA on 21.09.2011 cancelled the allotment on the ground that it was made in favour of a dead person on the day such draw of lots was held. Assailing the said action, the appellant filed a writ petition viz. Writ C No. 71420/2011 before the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, which was dismissed on 21.10.2019 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Impugned ’) by a Division Bench. SUBMISSIONS: 6. Learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that the application was made to NOIDA by the late father of the appellant in his individual capacity and there cannot be any denial of the fact that whatever civil right a person has passes on to the next generation/Legal Representatives upon his death. Thus, in the present case, it was contended that the moment the father passed away, the appellant stepped into his shoes. As such, it was submitted that all rights which had accrued in favour of the late father of the appellant i.e., a right to be considered in the draw of lots devolved to the appellant. Upon subsequently succeeding in the draw of lots, the allotment letter was also issued. Mr. Patwalia contends that the allotment was wrongly cancelled by NOIDA. 7. Per contra, learned senior counsel for NOIDA submits that the law does not require the allotment of the plot to flow merely upon being successful in the draw of lots. Mr. Kaushik submitted that success in the draw of lots does not create any right. Further, it was contended that the person in whose favour the allotment having been made 808 [2024] 8 S.C.R.