The names of Shankar Singh and Vishal Singhs sons of Bachha Singh, which I have written in the FIR, have been written by me falsely without collecting full information. My son Vijay Singh was murdered by Mahendra Singh s/o Chandrapal Singh Sachan of village Laukaha, Bacha Singh s/o Mohan Singh of village Raha and Sanjay Singh and Kallu Singh s/o Munna Singh of village Jalala. Shankar and Vishal sons of Bacha Singh were not involved in my son’s murder.” (emphasis supplied) 17.3 Even in the chargesheet, which was filed after investigation, the name of the appellants has not been mentioned as accused. 17.4 It is only in her deposition before the trial court that PW-1 has once again named the appellants. However, she has also stated that she has named them only on the basis of suspicion. The relevant portion of her deposition before the Trial Court is as follows: “In my report, I made Bachha Singh, Shankar, Vishal, Kallu Singh and Mahendra Sachan accused. I had an old enmity with these people.” In her cross-examination, PW-1 stated as follows:- “There were two-three outstation cases and two-three local cases from the village were pending against my son Vijay Singh, which are closed now. The said cases were closed/concluded during the lifetime of Vijay Singh. My old enmity with accused Bacha Singh has been going on for the last 11 years and on the basis of suspicion, I had written the names of Shankar and Vishal in the FIR.” 18. It is evident from the above that the appellants were named in the first information statement, however, in the statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C, PW-1 clarified that the names of appellants were written 18 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the FIR falsely and without full information. She has also stated that the appellants were not involved in the murder of her son. Even in the charge sheet, the names of the appellants were not mentioned as accused. It is only in her deposition before the Trial Court the names of the accused resurfaces again. 19. None of the other witnesses, being PW’s-2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 have deposed anything about the appellants. 20. On 31.07.2017, i.e. almost a year after the deposition of PW-1, the prosecution chose to file an application under Section 319 Cr.P.C. to the following effect:- “It is most respectfully submitted that in the above mentioned case, the first informant Mrs. Sheela Singh had written the names of Shankar Singh and Vishal Singh in the First Information Report and the names of Shankar Singh and Vishal Singh have also been mentioned by her in her examination in chief also. For this reason, it is necessary to summon Shankar Singh and Vishal Singh for trial in the said case. Therefore, the Hon’ble court is requested to kindly pass an thereby summoning accused Shankar Singh and Vishal Singh sons of Bachha Singh for trial in the said case. Yours faithfully, Sd/-illegible 31.7.2017” 21. At the first place, PW-1 has named the appellants in the FIR despite not being an eyewitness to the offence.