Against this, respondents have argued that the delay cannot be condoned merely based on broad assertions of equity. 49. We agree in principle with the respondents to the extent that deliberate, reckless or negligent delays ought not to be condoned, even if counterweighed by public interest since it may unfairly affect third-party rights that may have vested during the period of lapse. This simplistic framing would, however, not be apt for the present fact situation which is far more complex. 50. Although at first glance it might appear that this Court is merely tasked with balancing the interests of the public exchequer against that of individual respondents, however, a deeper examination would reveal that there are many other interests at stake and it might not be possible to undo the acquisitions without causing significant cascading harms and losses to public infrastructure. 1256 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 51. Most of the acquisitions here have reached finalization as possession had been taken over or compensation stood paid. Additionally, development projects have also begun on many of such lands. In numerous cases, the land has been deployed for essential public projects such as hospitals, schools, expansion of the metro, etc. Hence, the effect of non-condonation of delay would go beyond mere financial loss to the exchequer, and instead extend to the public at large. 52. Moreover, there would also be a significant unscrambling the egg problem, where compensation paid would have to be clawed back or possession taken would have to be reversed. Problematically, in many cases, the development projects might also have to be undone. In some instances—such as reversing the possession of one small plot lying on an under-construction metro corridor—it would be practically impossible. 53. As discussed in paragraphs 11 to 13 of this judgement, in addition to the bona fides of the condonation-seekers and the broader impact of condoning the delay, it is equally important to look at the effect of condonation on the opposite side, particularly in cases where rights have vested. As the facts speak for themselves, invaluable rights have been vested to the public at large, given the public infrastructure that has come up on a large number of these acquired lands—especially in those cases where the possession had been taken. 54. Furthermore, even if we were to settle the lis by not condoning delay, it is unlikely that the respondent-landowners would be able to keep their lands as the appellants are empowered under law to initiate acquisition proceedings afresh. Although there might be a difference in the quantum of compensation owed to the respondent-landowners, it would come at the expense of delaying the construction of critical public infrastructure in our national capital. When balancing public with private interest, the quantum and adequacy of compensation do not compel us much. Hence, we believe that the comparative impact on the respondent-landowners would be minimal. 55. We also cannot be oblivious to the fact that the multiplicity of contradictory judicial opinions on Section 24(2) of the 2013 Act within a relatively short span of time have made the present set of circumstances sui generis.