Digital Supreme Court Reports construction/encroachments on the land subject to acquisition. This stand was questioned by placing reliance on Radhy Shyam, wherein this Court observed that it is highly unlikely that the recorded tenure holders would encroach or allow encroachments on their own land when they are admittedly in the possession of the same. The relevant extract as relied upon is quoted hereinbelow: - “83. The apprehension of the respondents that delay in the acquisition of land will lead to enormous encroachment is totally unfounded. It is beyond the comprehension of any person of ordinary prudence to think that the landowners would encroach their own land with a view to frustrate the concept of planned industrial development of the district.” (v) That there was no material before the State Government to show the existence of any unforeseeable emergency warranting invocation of the urgency clause under Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act, thereby denying the landowners of their right to file objections against acquisition of their lands. (vi) That the lands under acquisition were to be utilized for commercial and residential purposes and such development work, would take ample time in planning and execution, thus there could have been no justification for the invocation of urgency clause. Reliance in this regard was placed on the following observations in Radhy Shyam:- “80......Even if planned industrial development of the district is treated as public purpose within the meaning of Section 4, there was no urgency which could justify the exercise of power by the State Government under Section 17(1) and 17(4). The objective of industrial development of an area cannot be achieved by pressing some buttons on the computer screen. It needs a lot of deliberations and planning keeping in view various scientific and technical parameters and environmental concerns. The private entrepreneurs, who are desirous of making investments in the State, take their own time in setting up the industrial units. Usually, the State Government and its agencies/ [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1081 Kali Charan and Others v. State of U.P. and Others instrumentalities would give them two to three years to put up their factories, establishments, etc. Therefore, time required to ensure compliance with the provisions contained in Section 5A cannot, by any stretch of imagination, be portrayed as delay that will frustrate the purpose of acquisition.” Reliance was also placed upon the decision of Anand Singh and Another v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others,19 wherein this Court observed as follows: - “46. As to in what circumstances the power of emergency can be invoked are specified in Section 17(2) but circumstances necessitating invocation of urgency under Section 17(1) are not stated in the provision itself. Generally speaking, the development of an area (for residential purposes) or a planned development of city, takes many years if not decades and, therefore, there is no reason why summary enquiry as contemplated under Section 5-A may not be held and objections of landowners/persons interested may not be considered. In many cases, on general assumption likely delay in completion of enquiry under Section 5-A is set up as a reason for invocation of extraordinary power in dispensing with the enquiry little realising that an important and valuable right of the person interested in the land is being taken away and with some effort enquiry could always be completed expeditiously.” (vii) That the of this Court in Radhy Shyam holds the field on the issue of invocation of urgency clause in acquisition proceedings for planned development for commercial, residential, industrial purposes and the decision in Kamal Sharma has been rendered while glossing over the law settled in Radhy Shyam.