Thus, the power to grant anticipatory bail is not to be exercised in a routine manner and the Courts are expected to use this provision with a great degree of circumspection. Once, a Court bearing in mind the strict parameters applicable to grant of anticipatory bail exercises such power, then in such a situation, giving a handle to the Investigating Officer to seek police custody remand of the accused, would virtually negate and frustrate the very purpose behind the 7 [2019] 14 SCR 450 : (2019) 9 SCC 24 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 283 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. of anticipatory bail. Hence, we have no hesitation in holding that the practice prevalent in the State of Gujarat that the Courts while dealing with the anticipatory bail application routinely impose the restrictive condition whereby, the Investigating Officers are granted blanket permission to seek police custody remand of the accused, in whose favour the of anticipatory bail is passed, is in direct contravention to the ratio of the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Sushila Agarwal (supra). The Division Bench of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Sunilbhai Sudhirbhai Kothari (supra) does not hold good in law as the same runs contrary to the ratio of Sushila Agarwal (supra) and thus, the same stands impliedly overruled. Conclusion: - 59. Having considered the rival submissions and upon a threadbare discussion of the material available on record, we conclude as below:- 59.1 Having considered the role attributed to contemnor-respondent No. 2, the Commissioner of Police, Surat, we find that there is not even a whisper of an allegation against the said officer other than the aspect relating to the non-functioning of the CCTV cameras at the Vesu Police Station. Thus, the said respondent cannot be held responsible for the non-compliance/ contempt of this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023 and hence, the contempt notice issued to the contemnor-respondent No.2 i.e, Ajay Kumar Tomar, Commissioner of Police, Surat, is discharged. 59.2 That contemnor-respondent No.3, Deputy Commissioner, Surat, is not directly responsible for non-compliance of this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023. However, his role in failing to ensure proper installation and maintenance of CCTV cameras in the police station can be made a subject matter of enquiry at a departmental level, if so desired. Thus, the contempt notice issued to contemnor-respondent No. 3, Vijaysinh Gurjar, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone-4, Surat, is discharged. 59.3 That the Investigating Officer, contemnor-respondent No. 4, Police Inspector acted in flagrant defiance and gross contempt of this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023 by applying for police custody remand of the petitioner herein. The portrayal 284 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports made by the Investigating Officer in the remand application to claim that the accused-petitioner was not cooperating in the investigation was totally cooked up and a clear attempt to draw wool over the Court’s eyes. During subsistence of this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023, there was neither any authority with the Investigating Officer to seek police custody remand of the accused nor was the prayer for remand justified in the backdrop of the fact that the FIR itself was lodged in relation to a civil dispute which arose from an oral agreement for sale of property.