Maximum Permissible Annual Production] restriction for each mining lease – The upper cap fixed at the district level is mandatory and binding – For the purpose of feasible annual production, the following factors would be kept in mind (a) mineral reserves in the lease area; (b) area available for overburden/waste dumps and subgrade dumps; (c) existing transport facilities vis-à-vis the traffic load of the mining lease and adjoining mining leases – The MPAP [Maximum Permissible Annual Production] is the minimum of the quantity that may be feasible based on the above three parameters – If the total of the lease-wise annual production from all the leases in the district exceeds the ceiling limit fixed for a specific District, then the MPAP for each mining lease is to be scaled down on a pro-rata basis, to ensure that the District level production ceiling is not breached – The CEC, with the Monitoring Committee was requested to aid and advice the Oversight Authority to undertake a complete exercise in the three districts, and submit a Report to the Court – The Report shall also examine whether sub-caps in particular areas should be fixed, or caps should be increased or decreased – The CEC, the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1293 Samaj Parivartana Samudaya & Ors. v. State of Karnataka & Ors. Monitoring Committee and the Oversight Authority will examine whether any regulation like e-auctioning is required for the sale of the mined material – They will also consider the date with regard to which royalty and other cess is to be required when e-auctioning was mandatory. [Paras 19-29] Environmental Law – Special Purpose Vehicle viz. Karnataka Mining Environment Restoration Corporation constituted to facilitate ameliorative and mitigative measures for mining – Plea for discontinuation of transfer of 10% levy imposed on sale of iron ore to the SPV i.e. Karnataka Mining Environment Restoration Corporation for implementing the Comprehensive Environment Plan for Mining Impact Zone [CEPMIZ], rejected by the Court. Held: Reference made to earlier in Samaj Parivartana Samudaya v. State of Karnataka [2017] 6 SCR 577 : (2017) 5 SCC 434 : 2017 INSC 241, dated 21.03.2017 wherein the Court rejected a plea for discontinuation of transfer of 10% levy imposed on the sale of iron to the SPV observing that the CEPMIZ is a scheme which can be divided into two broad categories (i) socio-economic development; and (ii) integrated mining and railway infrastructure, industrial infrastructure and medical infrastructure – Reference also made to an earlier dated 21.03.2018, whereby the Court rejected a similar prayer – The CEPMIZ Plan stated that a tentative expenditure of nearly Rs.25,000 crores is likely to be incurred in various sectors – Thus, at this stage, it will not be appropriate to withdraw the 10% levy imposed, as the CEPMIZ Plan is still at the initial stage of execution – The Hon’ble Court accordingly dismissed applications seeking discontinuation of transfer of 10% levy imposed on sale of iron ore to the SPV i.e. Karnataka Mining Environment Restoration Corporation for implementing the Comprehensive Environment Plan for Mining Impact Zone [CEPMIZ].