Thirdly, the ownership and possession may be united as they usually are, in the context of de jure and the de facto relation being co-existent or coincident. 14.2 In the first of the above, possession is a de facto relationship while the second is de jure ownership or relationship. In the second sense, the ownership of a right is opposed to the encumbrance of it. The owner of the right is he, in whom the right itself is vested, while the encumbrancer of it is he, in whom, is vested, not the right itself, but some adverse, dominant and limiting right in respect of it. In law, there are no separate names for every distinct kind of encumbrancer. However, an encumbrance is opposite to ownership; every encumbrancer is nevertheless himself the owner of the encumbrance, that is to say, he, in whom, an encumbrance stands in a definite relation, not merely to it, but also to the right encumbered by it. How is ownership acquired? : 14.3 Ownership is an important right vis-à-vis any property and more so immovable property. What are the modes of acquisition of ownership? Under the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, acquisition of ownership in relation to immovable property is by a transfer or conveyance. The expression “transfer” is defined with reference to the word convey which is an assurance inter vivos under the provisions of the said Act. Thus, the transferor must have an interest in the property before he can convey it. A person who has no interest in the property, cannot convey any interest in the property, in other words, he cannot sever himself from it and yet convey it. Further, there are various modes of transfer of [2024] 2 S.C.R. 893 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others immovable property known to law. Section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act defines a sale to be a transfer of ownership in exchange for a price paid or promised or part-paid and part-promised. The definition of sale itself indicates that in to constitute a sale, there must be transfer of ownership from one person to another, i.e., all rights and interests in the property which is possessed by a person are transferred by him with his free consent to another person for a price called consideration. The conveyance has to be regarded in accordance with law. Then only the transaction of sale is complete and title in the property passes from the seller to the buyer. The transferor cannot retain any part of his interest or right in that property or else it would not be a sale. On the other hand, any transfer by operation of law, or by or in execution of a decree or of a court within the meaning of Section 2(d) of the Transfer of Property Act are outside the scope of Section 54, and need not be registered. Thus, where the property is sold at a court auction, a certificate of sale issued by the court is enough as the purchaser’s document of title.