“As this Act is only a Consolidating Act, it is necessary that the objects and reasons of the Madras Act are incorporated so that the objects and reasons for this Act can as well be known. The Objects and Reasons of the Madras Act were published in Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, dated 06th July 1882 at page 17 as follows: Statement of Objects and Reasons: This Act is designed to supply the want which had long been felt of legislative enactment to enable Government to carry out effectually the conservancy of forests of the Presidency, and to systematic and regulate the action of the Forest Department. The first necessity is to provide for the constitution of the more important forests as State Reserves, and either to clear them under arrangement for due compensation of private rights which mitigate against forest conservancy, or to ascertain and define such rights so that future extension of them and fresh encroachments shall be impossible. To this end, the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 89 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. Act enables Government to empower officers to be called Forest Settlement officers to enquire into and to commit on record all private rights in areas to be elected for constitution as reserved forests. From the decisions of the officers appeal will lie, in the case of claims involving proprietary rights, to the District Courts, in the case of rights of way, and of rights to pasture to forest produce, or to the use of water to the Collector or other Revenue Officer of not less than such standing. When the enquiry is completed and all claims disposed of and settled, the forest will be declared by the Government to be reserved, and thereafter no fresh rights can accrue therein. The Bill also contains such provisions as are necessary for the protection of forests declared reserved…” (emphasis supplied) Section 2 of the A.P. Forest Act “2. Definitions:- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires- xxx xxx xxx (f) ‘forest officer’ means any person appointed by the Government or by any officer empowered by the government in this behalf,- [(i) to be the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Special Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Chief Conservator of Forests, Conservator, Deputy Conservator, Assistant Conservator, Divisional Forest Officer, Sub-Divisional Forest Officer, Ranger, Deputy Ranger, Forester or Forest Section Officer, Forest Guard or Forest Beat Officer, Assistant Beat Officer, Thanadar, Checking Officer or Plantation Watcher or any other person or authority as may be notified;] (ii) to perform any function of a forest officer under this Act or any rule or made thereunder; but does not include a Forest Settlement Officer appointed under Clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 4;” 90 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 4 of the A.P. Forest Act “4. Notification by Government:- (1) Whenever it is proposed to constitute any land as a reserved forest, the Government shall publish a notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette and in the District Gazette concerned in any; (a) specifying, as nearly as possible, the situation and limits of such land; (b) declaring that it is proposed to constitute such land as reserved forest; (c) appointing a Forest Settlement Officer to consider the objections, if any, against the declaration under Clause (b) and to enquire into and determine the existence, nature and extent of any rights claimed by, or alleged to exist in favour of, any person in or over any land comprised within such limits, or to any forest produce of such land, and to deal with the same as provided in this Chapter.