[2024] 7 S.C.R. 396 : 2024 INSC 491 Maharaj Singh & Ors. v. Karan Singh (Dead) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 6782 of 2013) 09 July 2024 [Abhay S. Oka* and Sanjay Karol,JJ.] Issue for Consideration Can the contention that the suit agreement was sham and bogus and not intended to be acted upon be allowed to be raised notwithstanding Sections 91 and 92 of the Evidence Act; Was the suit agreement sham and bogus and not intended to be acted upon; Were the second to fourth defendants bona fide purchasers for value without notice of the suit agreement; Whether, in view of the decision of Supreme Court in B. Vijaya Bharathi, the plaintiffs were not entitled to a decree of specific performance in the absence of any prayer for cancellation of the two subsequent sale deeds; Do the provisions of the Zamindari Abolition Act create a bar on the execution of the sale deed in terms of the suit agreement; Whether the plaintiffs were entitled to a decree of specific performance. Headnotes† Specific Relief Act, 1963 – s.19(b) – Relief against parties and persons claiming under them by subsequent title – Defendants- subsequent purchasers claimed under the sale deeds executed after the execution of the suit agreement, if can be subjected to decree of specific performance – Plea of the defendants that in view of the decision in B. Vijaya Bharathi case, plaintiffs not entitled to decree of specific performance in the absence of prayer for cancellation of the subsequent sale deeds: Held: In two Judges bench decision in B. Vijaya Bharathi, the attention of the Bench was not invited to binding precedent of larger bench in Lala Durga Prasad & Ors. – Hence, the decision in the case of B. Vijaya Bharathi is not a binding precedent and there was no requirement to make a prayer in the plaint for cancellation or setting aside the subsequent sale deeds – Furthermore, in view of s.19(b), the defendants claiming under the sale deeds executed after the execution of the suit agreement can be subjected to a decree of specific performance as the suit agreement can be * Author [2024] 7 S.C.R. 397 Maharaj Singh & Ors. v. Karan Singh (Dead) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. enforced specifically against such defendants unless they are bona-fide purchasers without the notice of the original contract – When, the defendants-subsequent purchasers fail to prove that they entered into the sale deed in good faith and without notice of the suit agreement, in view of s.19(b), a decree for specific performance can be passed against such defendants – Therefore, in such a case where s.19(b) is applicable, under the decree of specific performance, the subsequent purchasers can be directed to execute the sale deed along with the original vendor – There is no necessity to pray for the cancellation of the subsequent sale deeds – There are concurrent findings of the three Courts on the issue of the readiness and willingness shown by the first plaintiff – No reason to disturb the said findings – However, as the second plaintiff was not interested in getting the specific performance, the decree ought to have been restricted to the undivided one-half share in the suit property in favour of only the first plaintiff – Impugned decree modified.