The proviso to Section 418(1), Cr.P.C., together with the penal provision under Section 494 I.P.C., prescribing no minimum imprisonment, but only the maximum, would definitely make imposition of ‘imprisonment till the rising of the court’ intra vires. 18. This will take us to the next question as to whether such a flea-bite sentence is sufficient when a conviction is entered under Section 494 I.P.C., only because no minimum sentence is prescribed thereunder. We have already noted that in the matter of awarding sentence for conviction of an offence which may impact the society, it is not advisable to let off an accused after conviction with a flea-bite sentence. We may hasten to add that we are not oblivious of the decision of this Court in Adamji Umar Dalal v. State of Bombay,15 wherein this Court held that zeal to crush the evil should not carry the Court away from its judicial mind, and the sentence should not 15 [1952] 1 SCR 172 : AIR 1952 SC 14 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 793 Baba Natarajan Prasad v. M. Revathi be so unduly harsh as to defeat the ends of justice. But then, the decision in State of Karnataka v. Krishna alias Raju16 is also equally relevant. This Court, while enhancing the sentence observed, after characterising the punishment as unconscionably lenient or a ‘flea- bite’ sentence, that consideration of undue sympathy in such cases will lead to miscarriage of justice and undermine confidence of the public in the efficacy of the criminal justice system. In short, there cannot be any doubt with respect to the position that in imposing sentence the Court is to take into consideration the nature of the offence, circumstances under which it was committed, degree of deliberation shown by the offender, antecedents of the offender upto the time of sentence, etc., and, in the absence of any exceptional circumstances, impose sentence in tune with the rule of proportionality in providing punishment though it falls within the realm of judicial discretion. 19. Now bearing in mind all the aforesaid provisions and decisions, if the question whether accused Nos.1 and 2 are granted a proper sentence or what was granted was only a flea-bite sentence, we have no option but to hold that imposition of sentence of ‘imprisonment till the rising of the court’ upon conviction for an offence under Section 494 I.P.C., on them was unconscionably lenient or a flea-bite sentence. 20. Certain circumstances revealed from the evidence on record cannot go unnoticed while deciding the question of proper sentence. Earlier, the appellant herein filed HMOP 515/2012 before the Family Court, Coimbatore, seeking divorce. In the of the trial Court, taking note of the evidence adduced, it was noted that the first accused had filed a petition seeking interim maintenance in the above HMOP and based on a petition in that regard the Court had ed the appellant to pay Rs. 5,000/- per month to the first accused and she had received the maintenance till 13.07.2017. The evidence would further show that a child was born to the first and second accused in their wedlock in November, 2017.