This also indicates that the rights to mines and minerals continued to remain vested in private landowners long after India gained Independence and the divesting of their mineral rights happened in this case by the operation of legislation enacted by the State. 263. The decision in Thressiamma Jacob (supra) held that the MMDR Act does not declare the proprietary rights of the state in mineral wealth, nor does it contain a provision for divesting the owner of a mine of proprietary rights.324 Rights in minerals generally follow ownership 324 Thressiamma Jacob (supra) [55] 1712 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the land. The right of an owner of land extends to the sub-soil, including the minerals found underneath the soil, which continues until the State deprives the owner by a valid legal process. Importantly, Section 16(1)(b) of the MMDR Act also recognizes that the rights to minerals does not automatically vest in the State Government.325 264. Article 297 vests the proprietary rights in minerals within the territorial waters and the continental shelf in the Union Government. The provision reads: “297. Things of value within territorial waters or continental shelf and resources of the exclusive economic zone to vest in the Union – (1) All lands, minerals and other things of value underlying the ocean within the territorial waters, or the continental shelf, or the exclusive economic zone, of India shall vest in the Union and be held for the purpose of the Union. (2) All other resources of the exclusive economic zone of India shall also vest in the Union and be held for the purposes of the Union. (3) The limits of the territorial waters, the continental shelf, the exclusive economic zone, and other maritime zones, of India shall be such as may be specified, from time to time, by or under any law made by Parliament.” 265. Parliament has enacted the Offshore Areas Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act 2002326 to provide for development and regulation of mineral resources in the territorial waters, continental shelf, exclusive economic zone, and other maritime zones of India. Section 2 contains a legislative declaration to the effect that the Union is taking under its control the regulation of mines and mineral development in offshore areas to the extent provided under the statute. Similar to the MMDR Act, Chapter II of the OAMDR Act lays down general provisions for acquisition of operating rights in offshore areas. However, unlike the MMDR Act which empowers the 325 Section 16, MMDR Act. 326 “OAMDR Act” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1713 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. State Government to grant mineral concessions,327 the OAMDR Act mandates the Central Government to grant the operating rights.328 This difference is a result of the fact that the subsoil minerals are statutorily vested in the States, while the Constitution mandates the vesting of offshore minerals in the Union. Section 16 of the OAMDR Act deals with payment of royalty to the Central Government.