10. Ordinarily and in the normal course the judicial discipline would require the Bench to seek a reference of this matter by a Five Judges Bench. However, having regard to the background, as stated above, when the precise question was already referred to a Seven Judges Bench and was, however, not answered, we are of the view that the present question, set out above, should be referred to a Bench of Hon’ble Seven Judges. 11. Consequently, and in the light of the above, place these matters before the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India on the administrative side for appropriate s.” 79. Having understood the background of the challenge and the reference before this seven-judge bench, we shall now turn to the submissions made by the parties in support of their stance on the matter. II. contentIons of the partIes Appellant’s submissions: 80. Dr. Rajeev Dhavan, Mr. Kapil Sibal, Mr. Salman Khurshid, Mr. Nikhil Nayyar, and Mr. Shadan Farasat, Learned Senior Advocates, appeared for AMU. Their contentions are detailed hereinbelow: a. In the context of Article 30,the term ‘minority’ means a community that constitutes less than fifty percent of the population in the State where the educational institution is situated. This standard was laid down in TMA Pai (supra). Per this standard, Muslims are a minority in the State of Uttar Pradesh. Moreover, the status of Muslims as a minority was evident even before the Constitution came into force, as they were already being afforded reservation in legislative organs. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1801 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. b. To claim protection under Article 30, the minority community is only required to prove that it established the institution. The question of administration, on the other hand, is not relevant in determining the minority character of an institution. It is a right that flows once the institution is established as a minority institution, thus making it a consequence and not a pre-requisite. In other words, the test under Article 30 is not conjunctive, and the claimant is not required to necessarily prove that the institution was being administered by the minority community. c. The word ‘establish’ should be interpreted widely since it is the only protection available to minorities. ‘Establishment’, under Article 30, is the meeting of minds of the community for the purpose of taking forward the idea that ultimately results in the university being set up. Thus, the genesis of the institution must be considered while examining the word ‘established.’ In contrast, the word ‘established’ used in the AMU Act, 1920 refers to recognition for incorporation and is not the same as the term ‘establish’ used in Article 30. d. The term ‘administration’ does not mean cent percent control over the institution by the minority community. The State can prescribe reasonable regulations for the management of minority institutions. Administration merely requires overall control. The minority community, in this regard, has the choice to ask others to administer on their behalf. e. Under Article 30, the term ‘establish’ requires the genesis of the institution to be linked to the minority community.