It was further held that legislation which is excessive and disproportionate would also be manifestly arbitrary. In Joseph Shine (supra), one of us (D Y Chandrachud, J) held that an “adequate determining principle” is a principle that aligns with constitutional values. With respect to a piece of delegated legislation, an adequate determining principle is a principle that aligns with the legislative policy of the parent enactment as well as constitutional values. Delegated legislation that is forbiddingly excessive or disproportionate will also be manifestly arbitrary.103 94. As held in the preceding segments of this , the SBCs at the time of enrolment charge fees in contravention of Section 24(1)(f) and the legislative policy of the Advocates Act. Therefore, the excess enrolment fees charged by the SBCs are manifestly arbitrary. Further, the effect of charging exorbitant enrolment fees as a pre-condition for enrolment has created entry barriers, especially for people from marginalized and economically weaker sections, to enter into the legal profession. Thus, the current enrolment fee structure is manifestly arbitrary because it denies substantive equality. iii. Article 19(1)(g): unreasonableness 95. Section 30 of the Advocates Act inheres in every advocate whose name is entered in the State roll the right to practice in all courts throughout the territory of India. Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution provides that all citizens of India shall have the right to practice any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade, or business. Article 19(6) subjects the right under Article 19(1)(g) to reasonable restrictions. Further, the provision allows the State to make any law relating to the professional or technical qualifications necessary for practicing any profession or carrying on any occupation, trade or business. Thus, the right to practice law is not only a statutory right but also a fundamental right protected under Article 19(1)(g).104 However, the right of citizens to practice law can be regulated and 102 [2017] 9 SCR 797 : (2017) 9 SCC 1 [101] 103 Franklin Templeton Trustee Services (P) Ltd. v. Amruta Garg (2021) 9 SCC 606 [79] 104 N K Bajpai v. Union of India (2012) 4 SCC 653 [25] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1543 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. is not absolute.105 Under the Advocates Act, only those advocates who are admitted on the State roll have a right to practice throughout the territory of India.106 96. In Chintamanrao v. State of Madhya Pradesh,107 a Constitution Bench explained the purpose of the expression “reasonable restrictions” thus: “8. The phrase “reasonable restriction” connotes that the limitation imposed on a person in enjoyment of the right should not be arbitrary or of an excessive nature, beyond what is required in the interests of the public. The word “reasonable” implies intelligent care and deliberation, that is, the choice of a course which reason dictates. Legislation which arbitrarily or excessively invades the right cannot be said to contain the quality of reasonableness and unless it strikes a proper balance between the freedom guaranteed in Article 19(1)(g) and the social control permitted by clause (6) of Article 19, it must be held to be wanting in that quality.” 97.