The execution has to be effected by the Collector. Civil courts have under this Section, jurisdiction to try and decide suits for partition or separate possession of share of estates assessed to payment of revenue to Government but have no power to execute decree passed in such suits. The decree that may be passed by the civil court would declare the rights of the several parties interested in the property, but the decree should direct the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1931 Abdul Rejak Laskar v. Mafizur Rahman & Ors. actual partition to be made by the Collector or any officer subordinate to him authorized on that behalf. ii. XX Rule 18 of the CPC 37. XX Rule 18 of the CPC reads thus: “18. Decree in suit for partition of property or separate possession of a share therein.- Where the Court passes a decree for the partition of property or for the separate possession of a share therein, then,- (1) if and in so far as the decree relates to an estate assessed to the payment of revenue to the Government, the decree shall declare the rights of the several parties interested in the property, but shall direct such partition or separation to be made by the Collector, or any gazetted subordinate of the Collector deputed by him in this behalf, in accordance with such declaration and with the provisions of section 54; (2) if and in so far as such decree relates to any other immovable property or to movable property, the Court may, if the partition or separation cannot be conveniently made without further inquiry, pass a preliminary decree declaring the right of the several parties interested in the property and giving such further directions as may be required.” 38. The aforesaid rule allows the court to determine the rights of parties with respect to land in the civil court and to pass a preliminary decree, decree in the rights of several parties interested in the property. When actual partition is to be effected, in pursuance of the declaration of the rights of the parties in land, the civil court has to refer the matter to the Collector or any officer subordinate to him authorized to act on behalf of the Collector. 39. Sub-rule (1) refers to partition decrees relating to a “estate assessed to Government revenue” referred to in Section 54 of the Code, while sub-rule (2) deals with partition decrees relating to any other immovable property or movable property. 40. In a suit for partition, the court may issue three types of decrees to put the issue to rest: preliminary decree, composite decree (partly preliminary & partly final), and final decree. The purpose of a suit for partition or separation of a share is twofold: 1932 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports a. First, declaration of plaintiff’s share in the suit properties under the preliminary decree, and; b. Secondly, division of his share by metes and bounds which would take place under the final decree. 41. In a given case, the property may be put to sale and the proceeds would be shared among the shareholders which can be termed a final decree.