Therefore, it was prayed that the privilege of bail granted to him by the High Court be cancelled. SUBMISSIONS BY RESPONDENT NO.1/ACCUSED: 13. At the outset, learned counsel for the respondent no.1 submitted that the said respondent is innocent and not involved in the alleged crime. It was stated that he has been falsely implicated by the police. It was submitted that there is absolutely no evidence to incriminate [2024] 8 S.C.R. 759 Manik Madhukar Sarve & Ors. v. Vitthal Damuji Meher & Ors. Respondent No.1 in the subject-case. Therefore, in any event, on the basis of the allegations made, no case at all, as alleged vide Crime No.217/2019 is made out against respondent no.1. 14. It was submitted that there is no substantial material on record, except disclosure statements of witnesses in police custody, to prove any kind of agreement between respondent no.1 and the main accused/President of the Society. It was pointed out that the main accused, referred to as the President/Chairman of the Society in the charge-sheet, has been released on bail by the High Court vide dated 22.08.2022. Referring to this , it was urged that the High Court had raised doubts on the existence of material evidence relating to criminal conspiracy and held that “considering the number of witnesses and voluminous charge sheet there is no point in keeping the applicant in jail for an uncertain period.” 15. It was submitted that the alleged loan has never been transferred to the respondent no.1. There is no electronic evidence, except mere statements of the three witnesses. Learned counsel advanced that these statements could not be treated as gospel truth. It has not been proved that respondent no.1 was the beneficiary of the alleged scam. Moreover, there is no worthwhile evidence to suggest that respondent no.1/his family purchased the properties to the tune of the alleged loan amount or used the alleged loan amount to purchase any properties. Even according to the Forensic Audit Report, respondent no.1, including his family cumulatively, had received no more than a ₹1,28,00,000/- (Rupees One crore Twenty Eight Lakh) loan. Consequently, there are contradictions regarding alleged receipt of the loan amount in question. 16. It was further submitted that the authenticity of the aforesaid Forensic Audit Report is also under challenge as the handwriting/specimen of the respondent no.1 has been sent for forensic examination, report whereof is still awaited. Further, it was submitted that respondent no.1 was never associated in the affairs of the Society and had never held any position in the Society. 17. Lastly, it was submitted that respondent no.1 is a senior citizen and has complicated age-related medical issues, for which he is undergoing treatment due to the severity of the condition(s). Hence, it is submitted that there are no chances of his absconding. It was stated that investigation is complete and charge-sheet has been filed much prior in time to the grant of bail. Stating that no prejudice 760 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports has been caused to the smooth running of the trial so as to invoke the intervention of this Court, it was prayed that the instant appeal be dismissed.