dated 12.05.1983 was discussed. The erstwhile Clause 11 had slight differences but the purpose remained the same, i.e., for disposal of one or two plots. The following was noted by this Court whilst upholding allotment to be arbitrary: “According to the learned counsel the plot may not be in isolation but what is permitted under the Resolution is the disposal of the plot in isolation. In other words [2024] 12 S.C.R. 741 Proposed Vaibhav Cooperative Housing Society Limited v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. the contention is that it is not the situation of the plot but the procedure of disposal of the plot which can be in isolation of the operative part of clause 11 of the Resolution… Only when there is an isolated plot, the question of following any isolated procedure in disposing of the plot would arise. In the present case, there was neither an isolated plot nor was any isolated procedure followed. What was done was wholly arbitrary and as such cannot be sustained.” In this case as well, no documents have been placed on record by MRCHS or the State to show that when the Letter of Intent was issued in their favour, more plots were unavailable in the layout as prepared under Rule 24. Whereas, the appellants have brought on record Letter dated 15.11.2000 issued by the Collector noting that more plots were indeed available with the government for disposal. Further still, the plot that was allotted to MRCHS was divided into two from one large single plot. Thus, at the time of issuance of the Letter of Intent, there were two or more than two plots available. Further, MRCHS had applied for allotment of a different plot which is also at Village Bandra and part of the same Survey Number and hence at the very least there were more than two plots available for allotment in this layout when the Letter of Intent came to be issued in favour of MRCHS. The concerned plots instead should have been allotted by the Collector, under Clause 12(4) of GR 1999, by way of a public draw after inviting applications through Press Notes, in to bring transparency in the process of allotment. 11. In S.V. Asgaonkar v. MMRDA (2018) 17 SCC 467 this Court upheld the dismissal of the appellant society’s writ petition against the finding of ineligibility of its members. It was observed that “the Society was conscious of the fact that eligibility of members has to be seen as on 11-12-2003 that is the date on which letter of intent was issued in pursuance of allotment. The Society having accepted the aforesaid clause of eligibility and accepted the offer of allotment as given by the Authority, we fail to see that how the eligibility as on 11-12-2003 be permitted to be questioned”. However, in our case, not only were MRCHS’ proposed members found ineligible, but the society was allowed to change its members 742 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports frequently, starting from the point when it accepted the Letter of Intent in its favour.