36. In the present context, the difference of opinion referred to above hinges on who may constitute a membership of a thavazhi. The majority says a single person can be a thavazhi whereas the minority says not. The Madras Marumakkattayam Act, 1932 under Section 3(j)(i) defines thavazhi (in context of females) as a group of persons consisting of that female, her children and all her descendants in the female line. 37. Similarly, The Travancore Nayar Regulation, II of 1100 under Section 2(3) defines thavazhee of a female as a group of persons consisting of that female and her issue how-low-so-ever in the female line or such of that group as are alive. The same definition is employed in the Cochin Nayar Act, XXIX of 1113. 38. The common thread between the three definitions is that all of them refer to a group of persons, which includes the main female and her future generations. This necessarily implies that in for a thavazhi to be formed, there has to be at least one female and her successive generation, either male or female, in the generation immediately succeeding and thereafter progeny of the female line. 39. The majority, here in our view, falters for in their understanding one single female is sufficient to form a thavazhi. For the reason above discussed and another which we shall come to in the following paragraphs, we are unable to agree with this view. 40. The second reason is the amendment to Section 38 of the Marumakkattayam Act, 1932 (Madras) carried out in 1958. The same is reproduced hereunder: Prior to Amendment by Act 26 of 1958 : “38. (1) Any tavazhi represented by the majority of its major members may claim to take its share of all the properties of the tarwad over which it has power of disposal and separate from the tarwad: Provided that no tavazhi shall claim to be divided from the tarwad during the lifetime of an ancestress common to such tavazhi and to any other tavazhi or tavazhis of the tarwad except with the consent of such ancestress, if she is a member of the tarwad. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1033 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. (2) The share obtained by the tavazhi shall be taken by it with the incidents of tarwad property. Explanation — For the purpose of this Chapter, a male member of a tarwad or a female member thereof without any living child or descendant in the female line, shall be deemed to be a tavazhi if he or she has no living female ascendant who is a member of the tarwad.” Post Amendment “38. Right of member of tarwad or tavazhi to claim partition. - Any member of a tarwad or tavazhi may claim to take his or her share of all the properties of the tarwad or tavazhi over which the tarwad or tavazhi has power of disposal and separate from the tarwad or tavazhi. Explanation 1.- Nothing in this section shall be a bar for two or more members belonging to the same tarwad or tavazhi claiming their shares of the properties and enjoying the same jointly with all the incidents of tarwad property.