129 Jagmohan and Another v. Badri Nath and Others (2) ‘village immovable property’ shall mean immovable property within the limits of a village, other than agricultural land: (3) ‘urban immovable property’ shall mean immovable property within the limits of town, other than agricultural land. For the purposes of this Act a specified place shall be deemed to be a town (a) If so declared by the State Government by notification in the Official Gazette or (b) if so found by the Courts: xx xx xx 8. State Government may exclude areas from pre- emption- (1) Except as may otherwise be declared in the case of any agricultural land in a notification by the State Government, no right of pre-emption shall exist within any cantonment. (2) The State Government may declare by notification that in any local area or with respect to any land or property or class of land or property or with respect to any sale or class of sales, no right of pre-emption or only such limited right as that the State Government may specify, shall exist. xx xx xx 15. Persons in whom right of pre-emption vests in respect of sales of agricultural land and village immovable property. (1) The right of pre-emption in respect of agricultural land and village immovable property shall vest- (a) where the sale is by sole owner- First, in the son or daughter or son’s son or daughter’s son of the vendor; Secondly, in the brother or brother’s son of the vendor; Thirdly, in the father’s brother or father’s brother’s son of the vendor; Fourthly, in the tenant who holds under tenancy of vendor the land or property sold or apart thereof. 130 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) Where the sale is of a share out of joint land or property made by all the co-sharers jointly- First in the sons or daughters or sons’ sons or daughters’ sons of the vendor or vendors; Secondly, in the brothers or bother’s sons of the vendor or vendors; Thirdly, in the father’s brother or father’s brother’s sons of the vendor or vendors; Fourthly, in the other co-sharer’s; Fifthly, in the tenants who hold under tenancy of the vendor or vendor the land or property sold or a part thereof; (c) where the sale is of land or property owned jointly and is made by all the co-sharers jointly- First, in the sons or daughters or son’s sons or daughter’s sons of the vendors; Secondly, in the brothers or bother’s sons of the vendors; Thirdly, in the father’s brother’s or father’s brother’s sons of vendors; Fourthly, in the tenants who hold under tenancy of the vendors or any one of them the land or property sold or a part thereof. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1):- (a) where the sale is by a female of land or property to which she has succeeded through her father or brother or the sale in respect of such land or property is by the son daughter of such female after inheritance, the right of pre-emption shall vest:- (i) if the sale is by such female in her brother or brother’s son: (ii) if the sale is by the son or daughter of such female in the mother’s brother or the mother’s brother’s son of the vendor or vendors; [2024] 2 S.C.R.