We do not propose to undertake that exercise in this case, nor referring the matter to a larger Bench as we have held on facts in this case that time is the essence of the contract, even with reference to the principles in Chand Rani2 and other cases. Be that as it may. 43. Till the issue is considered in an appropriate case, we can only reiterate what has been suggested in K.S. Vidyanadam: (i) The courts, while exercising discretion in suits for specific performance, should bear in mind that when the parties prescribe a time/period, for taking certain steps or for completion of the transaction, that must have some significance and therefore time/period prescribed cannot be ignored. (ii) The courts will apply greater scrutiny and strictness when considering whether the purchaser was ‘ready and willing’ to perform his part of the contract. (iii) Every suit for specific performance need not be decreed merely because it is filed within the period of limitation by ignoring the time- limits stipulated in the agreement. The courts will also ‘frown’ upon suits which are not filed immediately after the breach/refusal. The fact that limitation is three years does not mean that 1116 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a purchaser can wait for 1 or 2 years to file a suit and obtain specific performance. The three-year period is intended to assist the purchasers in special cases, as for example, where the major part of the consideration has been paid to the vendor and possession has been delivered in part-performance, where equity shifts in favour of the purchaser.” (emphasis supplied) cOnsideratiOns in grant Or refusal: 15. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in Prakash Chandra v. Angadlal15 held, the ordinary rule is that specific performance should be granted. It ought to be denied only when equitable considerations point to its refusal and the circumstances show that damages would constitute an adequate relief. 16. This Court in N.P. Thirugnanam v. R. Jagan Mohan Rao (Dr)16 while reiterating that the remedy of specific performance is equitable in nature and that granting or refusing specific performance is within the discretion of the court, had the occasion to observe: “5. It is settled law that remedy for specific performance is an equitable remedy and is in the discretion of the court, which discretion requires to be exercised according to settled principles of law and not arbitrarily as adumbrated under Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (for short ‘the Act’). Under Section 20, the court is not bound to grant the relief just because there was a valid agreement of sale. Section 16(c) of the Act envisages that plaintiff must plead and prove that he had performed or has always been ready and willing to perform the essential terms of the contract which are to be performed by him, other than those terms the performance of which has been prevented or waived by the defendant. The continuous readiness and willingness on the part of the plaintiff is a condition 15 (1979) 4 SCC 393 16 [1995] Supp.