‘Reprieve’ means a stay of execution of a sentence, a postponement of a capital sentence. Respite means awarding a lesser sentence instead of the penalty prescribed in view of the fact that the accused has had no previous conviction. It is something like a release on probation for good conduct under Section 360 of the CrPC. On the other hand, remission is reduction of a sentence without changing its character. In the case of a remission, the guilt of the offender is not affected, nor is the sentence of the court, except in the sense that the person concerned does not suffer incarceration for the entire period of the sentence, but is relieved from serving out a part of it. Commutation is change of a sentence to a lighter sentence of a different kind. Section 432 empowers the appropriate Government to suspend or remit sentences. 30.2. Further, a remission of sentence does not mean acquittal and an aggrieved party has every right to vindicate himself or herself. In this context, reliance was placed on Sarat Chandra Rabha vs. Khagendranath Nath, AIR 1961 SC 334 (“Sarat Chandra Rabha”), wherein a Constitution Bench of this Court while distinguishing between a pardon and a remission observed that an of remission does not wipe out the offence; it also does not wipe out the conviction. All that it does is to have an effect [2024] 1 S.C.R. 829 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others on the execution of the sentence; though ordinarily a convicted person would have to serve out the full sentence imposed by a court, he need not do so with respect to that part of the sentence which has been ed to be remitted. An of remission thus, does not in any way interfere with the of the court; it affects only the execution of the sentence passed by the court and frees the convicted person from his liability to undergo the full term of imprisonment inflicted by the court even though the of conviction and sentence passed by the court still stands as it is. The power to grant remission is an executive power and cannot have the effect which the of an appellate or revisional court would have of reducing the sentence passed by the trial court and substituting in its place the reduced sentence adjudged by the appellate or revisional court. According to Weater’s Constitutional Law, to cut short a sentence by an act of clemency is an exercise of executive power which abridges the enforcement of the but does not alter it qua the . 30.3. Reliance was placed on Mahender Singh, to urge that a right to be considered for remission, keeping in view the constitutional safeguards of a convict under Articles 20 and 21 of the Constitution of India, must be held to be a legal one. Such a legal right emanates from not only the Prisons Act but also from the Rules framed thereunder. Although no convict can be said to have any constitutional right for obtaining remission in his sentence, the policy decision itself must be held to have conferred a right to be considered therefor.