There is no express provision in the Advocates Act empowering the SBCs to levy fees, except for the enrolment fee and stamp duty, if any, under Section 24(1)(f), at the time of admission of advocates on the State roll. The decision of the SBCs to charge miscellaneous fees is contrary to the legislative prescription of the Advocates Act. 71. On 26 June 2013, the BCI passed a resolution directing the SBCs to charge Rupees six thousand as enrolment fees for general candidates and Rupees three thousand for SC and ST candidates. Importantly, the resolution stated that the SBCs could charge other fees according to “their own suitability.” On 22 December 2016, the BCI addressd a letter to all the SBCs directing them to charge the revised enrolment fees. The BCI resolution dated 26 June 2013 prompted many SBCs such as the Odisha Bar Council to enhance their enrolment fees. Section 24(1)(f) stipulates the enrolment fee 79 See Global Energy Ltd. v. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (2009) 15 SCC 570 [25] 1532 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to be charged by the SBCs. In the face of the express stipulation of law, the BCI had no authority to pass a resolution revising the enrolment fees charged by the SBCs. The fact that the enrolment fee stipulated under Section 24(1)(f) has not been revised by the legislature does not clothe the BCI with any authority to direct the SBCs to charge revised enrolment fees. Since the BCI exercises general supervision and control over all the SBCs, it is incumbent upon it to ensure that the SBCs strictly follow the mandate of the Advocates Act. The resolution dated 26 June 2013 is devoid of legal authority and contrary to Section 24(1)(f) of the Advocates Act. G. All fees charged at the time of enrolment are ‘enrolment fees’ 72. In this batch of matters, we have transferred to this Court similar petitions pending before the Kerala High Court. In T Koshy v. Bar Council of Kerala,80 the SBC was charging special fees for enrolment from candidates who had retired from government service. A Single Judge of the Kerala High Court observed that the special fees were charged in addition to the enrolment fees and other miscellaneous charges such as application form fee, registration fee, enrolment certificate fee, and verification fee. The vires of the miscellaneous fees was not challenged before the High Court. The High Court construed the special fee charged by the SBC as an enrolment fee and held that the amount charged by the SBC was over and above the enrolment fee stipulated by Section 24(1)(f). In appeal, the Division Bench of the High Court upheld the of the Single Judge by holding that Section 28(2)(d) did not empower the SBC “to prescribe any fee for enrolment, either in the form of enrolment fee or special fee.”81 The Special Leave Petition filed by the SBC was dismissed by this Court on 4 June 2019.82 73. In adjudicating upon WP (C) No.