The petitioner would misbehave with 1364 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the respondent, his family, his staff, and not cooperate with the fact that the respondent had to take care of his octogenarian father and his children from his first marriage. It was also stated by the respondent that he had proposed the idea of an amicable separation to the petitioner but she created an even more hostile environment and threatened to implicate the respondent and his family in false criminal cases. Thus, the parties allegedly started living separately from February-March of 2022. It is stated that the petitioner asked for a sum of Rs.8 crores in lieu of filing for divorce by mutual consent, but upon the dismissal of the petition by the Trial Court, the petitioner’s demand increased to Rs.25 crores, along with threats of criminal complaints. This was all followed by the FIRs filed by the petitioner and the arrest of the respondent, thereby fracturing the relations between the parties beyond repair. Therefore, the respondent has prayed for a decree of divorce before this Court to be passed in this transfer petition by exercising jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution. 3.8 The petitioner herein filed her reply to the application filed by the respondent under Article 142(1) of the Constitution and opposed the relief prayed by the respondent. The petitioner stated that there is no irretrievable breakdown of marriage between the parties and the respondent is seeking to abuse the extraordinary power of this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution to escape the process of law under the HMA. The petitioner further stated that she had been constantly discriminated against by her husband and in-laws since the time she got married to the respondent, and it was under the pressure of the respondent’s ex-wife and children that he was attempting to seek divorce. The respondent had constantly tried to stall the process of taking the petitioner to USA with him, thus trying to systematically remove her from his life. 3.9 The father-in-law of the petitioner had also filed a complaint being Case No.838/B-121/2022-23 under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 before the SDM, Kolar, Bhopal, for eviction of the petitioner from the matrimonial home at Pune where she was residing. Thus, the petitioner sought the dismissal of the application filed by the respondent on the aforesaid grounds. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1365 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda 3.10 By dated 12.09.2023, this Court observed that it was just and necessary that the application under Article 142(1) filed by the respondent has to be considered in a larger canvas and not just on the question of whether there is an irretrievable breakdown of marriage in the instant case. Thus, it was directed that the case being RCS (HM) No.1379/2022 titled as “Sandesh Sharda vs. Rinku Baheti” pending on the file of the Court of Principal Judge, Family Courts, District Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh be transferred to the Principal Judge, Family Court, District Pune, Maharashtra, only for the limited purpose of determining the quantum of alimony or maintenance as well as other rights which the petitioner-wife would be entitled to, in the event the application filed by the respondent-husband for divorce in the main transfer petition is to be allowed.