…Since the acquirers under Ext.A2 mortgage namely Parukutty Amma and her minor children formed a natural group, the property would enure to all the members of the tavazhi of Parukutty Amma. It is pertinent in this connection to note that in Ext.B3 partition dated 28-10- 1981 as per which Karunakara Menon, Narayani Amma and Ammukutty Amma are alleged to have divided the property to the exclusion of the other tavazhi members including the plaintiffs, the title which is traced to plaint A schedule item No. 2 is ExtA2 mortgage and not ExtB 11 gift deed. This also re-inforces the plaintiffs’ case that this item was acquired by Parukutty Aroma and her children as per ExtA2 mortgage.” and then concluded that since the acquirers under mortgage deed, namely, Parukutty Amma and her children formed a natural group the property would enure to all the members of the thavazhy of Parukutty Amma. 18. In terms of the above, the decree of the Trial Court stood confirmed by the High Court. ARGUMENTS OF PARTIES 19. Learned Senior Counsel Mr. C.S. Vaidyanathan for the original- defendants/appellants submitted that the scheduled properties are [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1027 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. not thavazhy property. It is submitted that item No.1 is a co-ownership property and item No.2 is a Putravakasam property. In so far as scheduled properties under item No.1 are concerned, the learned senior counsel submitted that the minority view expressed by the full Bench of the Kerala High Court in Mary Cheriyan & Anr. v. Bhargavi Pillai Bhasura Devi & Anr.6 should, in fact, be held as the correct view having regard to the difficulties of law noted by this Court in Achuthan Nair (supra). 20. For properties mentioned under item No.2, it is submitted that the property originally belonged to Kadangad Sankaran Padmanabhan and his mother could only execute gift deed as well as mortgage deed only to the extent of her own share and not the share of Padmanabhan. 21. Learned Counsel Mr. M.P. Vinod for the original plaintiffs/respondents submitted that a new tharwad is formed when a female member and all her children jointly receive properties by gift from another Marumakathayee. With respect to item No.1, it is submitted that when a share was allotted to the natural thavazhy vide partition deed dated 01.11.1950, then such natural thavazhy will also have the characteristics of a tharwad property. For item No.2, reliance is placed on partition deed 6143/1981 wherein it is specifically stated that Parvathy Amma became the sole owner after the death of her son thus she could validly transfer her share to Parukutty Amma and her children. ISSUES 22. We have gone through the detailed pleadings of the parties. The bone of contention is the nature and character of the scheduled properties. After carefully going through the pleadings, the following two questions require adjudication : 1. Whether the property obtained by a female and her children after partition would be considered their separate property or would it belong to her tharwad?