(5) The Commissioner may, as a condition of the payment of a refund, demand security from the person pursuant to the powers conferred in section 25 of this Act within fifteen days from the date on which the return was furnished or claim for the refund was made. 342 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (6) The Commissioner shall grant refund within fifteen days from the date the dealer furnishes the security to his satisfaction under sub-section (5). (7) For calculating the period prescribed in clause (a) of sub- section (3), the time taken to – (a) furnish the security under sub-section (5) to the satisfaction of the Commissioner; or (b) furnish the additional information sought under section 59; or (c) furnish returns under section 26 and section 27; or (d) furnish the declaration or certificate forms as required under Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, shall be excluded (8) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, where – (a) a registered dealer has sold goods to an unregistered person; and (b) the price charged for the goods includes an amount of tax payable under this Act; (c) the dealer is seeking the refund of this amount or to apply this amount under clause (b) of sub- section (3) of this section; no amount shall be refunded to the dealer or may be applied by the dealer under clause (b) of sub- section (3) of this section unless the Commissioner is satisfied that the dealer has refunded the amount to the purchaser. (9) Where – (a) a registered dealer has sold goods to another registered dealer; and (b) the price charged for the goods expressly includes an amount of tax payable under this Act, [2024] 6 S.C.R. 343 Commissioner of Trade and Taxes v. FEMC Pratibha Joint Venture the amount may be refunded to the seller or may be applied by the seller under clause (b) of sub- section (3) of this section and the Commissioner may reassess the buyer to deny the amount of the corresponding tax credit claimed by such buyer, whether or not the seller refunds the amount to the buyer. (10) Where a registered dealer sells goods and the price charged for the goods is expressed not to include an amount of tax payable under this Act the amount may be refunded to the seller or may be applied by the seller under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of this section without the seller being required to refund an amount to the purchaser. (11) Notwithstanding anything contained to the contrary in sub-section (3) of this section, no refund shall be allowed to a dealer who has not filed any return due under this Act.” 7. Sub-section (1) provides that any amount of tax, penalty and interest that is in excess of the amount due from a person shall be refunded to him by the Commissioner. Sub-section (2) permits the Commissioner to first apply such excess to recover any other amount that is due under the Act or the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.