Attempts to sidestep the court’s jurisdiction or manipulate the course of litigation through dishonest or obstructive conduct or malign or distort the decision of the courts would inevitably tantamount to contempt sans any prohibitory or direction to such effect. 201. Thus, the mere conduct of parties aimed at frustrating the court proceedings or circumventing its decisions, even without an explicit prohibitory , constitutes contempt. Such actions interfere with the administration of justice, undermine the respect and authority of the judiciary, and threaten the rule of law. 202. However, at the same time, the power of contempt ought to be exercised sparingly and with caution and care. It operates with a string of caution and unless otherwise satisfied beyond doubt, it would neither be fair nor reasonable for the courts to resort to such powers. The standard of proof required before a person is held guilty of committing contempt of court must be beyond all reasonable doubt. 203. The courts while exercising its contempt jurisdiction must remain circumspect, more particularly, where there exists a possibility of the being amenable to more than one interpretation. In Jhareshwar Prasad Paul v. Tarak Nath Ganguly reported in (2002) 5 SCC 352 it was held that if an does not contain any specific direction regarding a matter or if there is any ambiguity in the directions issued therein then it would be appropriate to direct the parties to approach the court which disposed of the matter for necessary clarification of the instead of the court exercising its contempt jurisdiction thereby taking upon itself the power to decide the original proceeding in a manner not dealt with by the court passing the or . The relevant observations read as under: - “The contempt jurisdiction should be confined to the question whether there has been any deliberate 1730 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports disobedience of the of the court and if the conduct of the party who is alleged to have committed such disobedience is contumacious. The court exercising contempt jurisdiction is not entitled to enter into questions which have not been dealt with and decided in the or ... The court has to consider the direction issued in the or and not to consider the question as to what the or should have contained. At the cost of repetition, be it stated here that the court exercising contempt jurisdiction is primarily concerned with the question of contumacious conduct of the party, which is alleged to have committed deliberate default in complying with the directions in the or . If the or does not contain any specific direction regarding a matter or if there is any ambiguity in the directions issued therein then it will be better to direct the parties to approach the court which disposed of the matter for clarification of the instead of the court exercising contempt jurisdiction taking upon itself the power to decide the original proceeding in a manner not dealt with by the court passing the or .” (Emphasis supplied) 204.