As explained above, Article 29(1) confers the right to ‘conserve’ which means the right to take positive steps to protect culture and language. The petitioners ought to prove that the necessary effect of the law that promotes the presence of various ethnic groups in a State is that another ethnic group is unable to take steps to protect their culture or language. The petitioner also ought to prove that the inability to take steps to conserve culture or language is attributable to the mere presence of different groups. 101. Second, various constitutional and legislative provisions protect Assamese cultural heritage. The Constitution provides certain special provisions for the administration of Tribal Areas in Assam. The Constitution (Twenty-second Amendment) Act 1969 included Article 244A of the Constitution. Article 244A stipulates that notwithstanding anything in the Indian Constitution, Parliament may by law form an autonomous State within Assam comprising wholly or in part of all or any of the tribal areas. Parliament may by law also create a body to function as a Legislature for the autonomous State. Article 330 provides that seats must be reserved in the House of the People for the Scheduled Tribes in the autonomous districts of Assam. By the Constitution (Twenty-second Amendment) Act 1969, Article 371B was included in the Constitution which provides a special provision with respect to the State of Assam. According to the provision, the President may by an provide for the constitution and functions of a committee of the Legislative Assembly of the State consisting of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1297 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 the members of the Assembly elected from the tribal areas and such number of other members of the Assembly. The Sixth Schedule to the Constitution consists of provisions regarding the administration of tribal areas in the State of Assam, among other States. 102. Article 345 of the Constitution provides that the State Legislature may by law adopt any one or more language as the language to be used for official purposes in the State. In exercise of the power under Article 345, the Legislature of the State of Assam enacted the Assam Official Language Act 1960.169 The enactment adopts Assamese as the language for all official purposes of the State of Assam.170 The enactment further safeguards the use of languages on the basis of usage within the geographical limits. Section 4 provides that only languages which were in use immediately before the commencement of the Assam Official Language Act shall continue to be used for administrative and other official purposes up to and including the level of the Autonomous Region or the Autonomous District.171 The Assam Official Language Act also provides that the Bengali language would be used for administrative and other official purposes upto and including the “district of Cachar until the Mohkuma Parishads and Municipal Boards of the district.”172 In addition to the above, the State Government also has the power to direct the use of the language in such parts of the State of Assam through notification.173 The cultural and linguistic interests of the citizens of Assam are protected by constitutional and statutory provisions.