In a case of this nature, we are of the view that the Tribunal should be considered as invested with such incidental or ancillary 36 [1962] Supp. (1) S.C.R. 450 : AIR 1962 SC 527 37 [1981] 2 SCR 341 : 1980 Supp SCC 420 282 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports powers unless there is any indication in the statute to the contrary. We do not find any such statutory prohibition. On the other hand, there are indications to the contrary.” (Emphasis Supplied) In addition to above, recognising the difference between a procedural review and a review on merits, it was observed: 13…………The expression “review” is used in the two distinct senses, namely (1) a procedural review which is either inherent or implied in a court or Tribunal to set aside a palpably erroneous passed under a misapprehension by it, and (2) a review on merits when the error sought to be corrected is one of law and is apparent on the face of the record. …………. Obviously when a review is sought due to a procedural defect, the inadvertent error committed by the Tribunal must be corrected ex debito justitiae to prevent the abuse of its process, and such power inheres in every court or Tribunal.” 45. In State of Punjab vs. Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar38, while considering the bar imposed on a Court by Section 362 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 on review of a or final disposing of a case, it was observed: “46. If a has been pronounced without jurisdiction or in violation of principles of natural justice or where the has been pronounced without giving an opportunity of being heard to a party affected by it or where an was obtained by abuse of the process of court which would really amount to its being without jurisdiction, inherent powers can be exercised to recall such for the reason that in such an eventuality the becomes a nullity and the provisions of Section 362 CrPC would not operate. In such an eventuality, the is manifestly contrary to the audi alteram partem rule of natural justice. The power of recall is different from the power of altering/reviewing the . However, the party seeking recall/alteration has to establish that it was not at fault.” 38 [2011] 15 SCR 540 : (2011) 14 SCC 770 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 283 Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority v. Prabhjit Singh Soni & Anr. 46. The above passage was cited and approved by a three-Judge Bench of this Court in New India Assurance Co. Ltd. vs. Krishna Kumar Pandey39. 47. In Budhia Swain vs. Gopinath Deb40, after considering a number of decisions, a two-Judge Bench of this Court observed: “8. In our opinion a tribunal or a court may recall an earlier made by it if (i) the proceedings culminating into an suffer from the inherent lack of jurisdiction and such lack of jurisdiction is patent, (ii) there exists fraud or collusion in obtaining the , (iii) there has been a mistake of the court prejudicing a party, or (iv) a was rendered in ignorance of the fact that a necessary party had not been served at all or had died and the estate was not represented.