[Paras 49-51] Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 – s. 11(6) – Appointment of an arbitrator – Case of M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Aptech Ltd. on applicability of Limitation Act, 1963 to an application for appointment of arbitrator u/s. 11(6), and the power of the court to decline to make a reference u/s. 11 where the claims are ex-facie and hopelessly time barred – Clarification: Held: It is clarified that while determining the issue of limitation in exercise of the powers u/s.11(6) the referral court should limit its enquiry to examining whether s.11(6) application has been filed within the period of limitation of three years or not – Date of commencement of limitation period for this purpose shall have to be construed as per the decision in Arif Azim’s case – It is further clarified that the referral courts, at the stage of deciding an application for appointment of arbitrator, must not conduct an intricate evidentiary enquiry into the question whether the claims raised by the applicant are time barred and should leave that question for determination by the arbitrator – Such approach gives true meaning to the legislative intention underlying s.11(6-A), and also to the view taken in In Re: Interplay’s case – Observations made in Arif Azim’s case are accordingly clarified – Effect of the said clarification is only to streamline the position of law, so as to bring it in conformity with the evolving principles of modern-day arbitration, and to avoid the possibility of any conflict that may arise in future. [Paras 133-134] Arbitration and Conciliation Act; 1996 – s. 11 – Petition for appointment of an arbitrator – Preliminary objection that the arbitration clause as contained in the insurance policy not attracted as no admission of liability on the part of the appellant, whereas the said arbitration clause envisages [2024] 7 S.C.R. 845 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning reference to arbitration only in cases where liability is admitted, and there is a dispute as regards the quantum of liability: Held: No merit in the said plea – Appellant-insurer admitted its liability with respect to the first claim and had even disbursed certain amount in pursuance of the signing of the advance discharge voucher by the respondent-insured – Thus, a clear case of admission of liability by the appellant – However, the quantum of liability is in dispute as the amount claimed by the respondent is at variance with the amount admitted by the appellant – Thus, the dispute being one of quantum and not of liability, falls within the ambit of the conditional arbitration clause as contained in the insurance policy. [Paras 36, 37] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s. 11 – Petition for appointment of an arbitrator – Plea that the claim sought to be referred to arbitration is a deadwood claim and thus, the application for appointment of arbitrator ought to have been rejected: Held: Notice invoking arbitration was sent by the respondent- insured to the appellant-insurer on 02.03.2020 and the petition seeking appointment of arbitrator u/s.