The report also stated that there are no clear guidelines available to assess the disability with assistive devices. The report states as follows: 2194 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “The candidate was re-assessed with the assistive device (single hand crutch & motorised scooty). There was minimal to no change in most of the components for disability evaluation as per the GOI gazette (March 2024) with these assistive devices. The possibility of wheelchair usage was also explored which might be required for better efficiency in ambulation component in near future. However, there are no clear guidelines available to assess the disability with assistive devices as per the Govt. of India gazette guideline. Further it is to be noted that safety, efficiency and agility of movements are needed to independently use the devices and many times some manual support is also required which may not be available to the candidate at all times and may affect the safety of the candidate and the patients during the skills based training provided in the various setups in the labs and hospitals during the MBBS course training. The Board after careful evaluations of all possibilities concurs with the opinion of the previous medical board held at AIIMS Nagpur dated 13.08.2024 that the disability is above 80% even with consideration of assistive devices and also both upper limbs have significant involvement and hence the candidate is ineligible to pursue MBBS course.” 6. The appellant in his affidavit countering the AIIMS, Delhi report has elucidated his experience. He submits that he was made to wait for long hours on each date when he was asked to appear. He was not given clear directions or information about the steps to follow in his assessment. The first stage of the examination was conducted by an able bodied doctor from the PMR department who was unduly focused on the medical condition of the appellant. He underwent a large number of tests including climbing stairs and power assessment. When the appellant informed the Board that he used (i) a wheelchair, (ii) crutches, and (iii) an electric scooter for mobility, he was asked why he did not bring his wheelchair. To this, the appellant stated that bringing a wheelchair was not logistically possible given that he had travelled from his place of residence at Washim in Maharashtra to Delhi by air, on short notice. 7. The Board did not ask him any questions which would allow the appellant to counter the basis for the Board’s findings. He was [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2195 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. only asked (i) if he would be able to undertake his professional duties and (ii) if he could conduct his daily activities. He responded positively to both and stated that he had already completed his secondary education with the same disability and had managed to navigate adequately thus far. Eventually, the AIIMS, Delhi report dated 9 October 2024 fell into the error of being a mere benchmark evaluation report.