Note: Pagination as per the original . [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1749 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. namely, whether royalty as envisaged under Section 9 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (for short “MMDR Act, 1957”) is a tax or an exaction. At this stage itself, it must be made clear that the concept of royalty is being considered from the perspective of Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957 and not from any other context. My short answer is that viewed from the statutory framework of the MMDR Act, 1957 passed by the Parliament on the strength of Entry 54 – List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India and having regard to Section 2 of the said Act, royalty is in the nature of a “tax” or an “exaction”. Further, Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957 is a limitation within the meaning of Entry 50 – List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution and the States have no legislative competence to levy any other tax, impost or fee on the exercise of mineral rights. Entry 49 – List II is also not applicable to mineral bearing lands. Therefore, India Cement Limited vs. State of Tamil Nadu, (1990) 1 SCC 12 : AIR 1990 SC 85, (“India Cement”), has been correctly decided by a seven-judge Bench of this Court and that the majority in State of West Bengal vs. Kesoram Industries Limited, (2004) 10 SCC 201 (“Kesoram”), is incorrect and therefore, ought to be overruled. I propose to discuss in detail the reasons for the aforesaid view. 2. The genesis of this controversy insofar as the reference to the nine-judge Bench is concerned, emanates from the of the seven-judge Bench of this Court in India Cement. The said authored by Sabyasachi Mukharji, J. (as His Lordship then was) held that royalty is a tax and therefore, any levy of a tax/cess on royalty is impermissible in law, having regard to the constitutional framework, particularly the relevant Entries of List I and II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. The said dictum of the seven-judge Bench was doubted in Kesoram, by a majority of the five-judge Bench (Sinha, J. dissenting). The majority was penned by Lahoti, J. (as His Lordship then was). Consequently, the of a two-judge Bench in State of Madhya Pradesh vs. Mahalaxmi Fabric Mills Ltd., 1995 Supp (1) SCC 642 (“Mahalaxmi Fabric Mills”) following India Cement was overruled and it was observed that the matter required consideration by a larger Bench. 1750 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3. A similar view was expressed by a three-judge Bench in Mineral Area Development Authority vs. Steel Authority of India, (2011) 4 SCC 450, (“Mineral Area Development Authority”) wherein this Court was of the view that the matter has to be considered by a Bench of nine Judges and hence, the following questions of law were raised: "1.