They also made a request to the buyer to pay the sale consideration within 5 (five) days from receipt of the letter. j. The sellers had not handed over the “original parent documents” for perusal of the buyer; hence, the buyer directly spoke to one of the sellers (the fourth defendant) asking him to bring the “original parent documents” for inspection. The buyer also sent a notice dated 22nd April, 2006 to the counsel of the sellers requesting him to advise the sellers to bring the documents for the buyer’s verification. k. Vide letter dated 26th April 2006, the sellers deplored the buyer’s dilatory tactic of conjuring new demands at the eleventh hour. Despite this, the sellers said, that they attempted their best to satisfy the buyer’s demand and offered the buyer the chance to inspect the original parent documents (vide letter dated 6th April,2006), which offer the buyer showed no interest in availing. In view of the buyer’s failure to perform her part of the bargain despite multiple opportunities being given, the sellers declared that the Agreement finally stood cancelled,. l. Thereafter, vide letter dated 10th August, 2006, the buyer called upon the sellers to collect the pay dated 11th February, 2006 for Rs. 25 lakh from the buyer’s office, but the sellers did not collect the same. The buyer then enclosed the pay with her letter dated 10th August, 2006 and sent it to the sellers who, 1106 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports vide letter dated 14th August, 2006 replied that the Agreement had already been cancelled and that the buyer, who earlier was not ready and willing, is now trying to grab the property as the value of the property has gone up multiple times. 4. It is in this factual background that litigation between the buyer and the seller commenced with institution of the suit by the buyer before the Court of the District Judge of Coimbatore. The suit was later transferred by the District Judge to the Court of the Additional District Judge (Fast Track Court I).11 Based on the averments in the plaint, which refer to more or less what we have narrated above in paragraph 3, relief was claimed in the following terms: a. To pass a decree for specific performance of the Agreement dated 20th January, 2005 or in the alternate a decree for refund of advance amount of Rs. 25 lakh with 18% interest p.a. from the date of Agreement till realization. b. For permanent injunction restraining the sellers from alienating or encumbering the property. c. To direct the sellers to pay the costs of the suit. d. Any other relief that the court deems fit. 5. The sellers in their written statement refuted all the contentions raised in the plaint and pleaded that the buyer was never ready and willing to purchase the property and alleged that the buyer filed the suit with the intention to take benefit of the increase in price of the property by projecting a theory that time is not of the essence.