By then, much time was lost. The conditions stipulated in the agreements governing KPCL and KECML placed an obligation on KECML to supply washed coal with a definite GCV and specified parameters for the consumption of the Thermal Power Station at Bellary and failure to deliver coal within the stipulated time, attracted penalties. 15.2. It was in this background that KECML executed the MoU with GCWL for washing of the mined coal at its washery at Majri, transportation of the raw coal from the mines and washed coal to the Railway Siding for delivery to BTPS. Records reveal that the draft of MoU was duly deliberated upon by the Board of Directors of KECML and finally approved and ratified on 13th January, 2009. Subsequently, in the meeting held on 23rd February, 2010, the Board of Directors of KECML concluded that washing of raw coal was a prerequisite to meet the specified grade of coal with a defined GCV for generation of power at BTPS. The necessity of supplying washed coal to obtain the agreed parameter of coal quality was also recognized by the office of the Coal Controller in its letter dated 9th December, 2009. This fact finds mention in the detailed Report of the Board of KPCL that refused permission to the respondent-CBI to prosecute Mr. R. Nagaraja. 15.3. It is clear from the above that the decision of KECML to enter into a MoU with GCWL for washing of coal was actuated by 1238 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports compelling circumstance faced by it and KPCL had taken a calibrated decision in its commercial wisdom to duly concur with the said decision knowing very well that non-supply of a specified grade of washed coal by KECML would have serious consequences of stoppage of generation of power at BTPS and a cascading effect of resulting in a power crisis in the State of Karnataka. 15.4. We do not propose to Labour much on the contention of the respondent-CBI that allocation of the coal block was in favour of KPCL and not in favour of KECML as stands adequately explained on a perusal of the Notification dated 16th July, 2024 which shows that the Central Government did recognize the fact that it was KECML who was required to supply coal from the coal mines allocated to KPCL and end use of the said coal was specified for generation of Thermal Power Station at Bellary, Karnataka. In our view, having regard to the aforesaid notification, nothing much turns on the submission made by the respondent-CBI that the coal block allocation was only in favour of KPCL and it ought to have a right over the rejects to the exclusion of KECML and others. 16. DID THE COAL REJECTS HAVE ANY USEFLUL CALORIFIC VALUE MAKING IT A SALEABLE COMMODITY? 16.1. We find that the Detailed Washability Report of the Government Laboratory namely, CIMFR, Nagpur has been ignored by the respondent-CBI. It was the said Report that formed the basis of the information furnished by KECML with respect to production, stock, despatch of coal to the washery etc., as was demanded by the office of the Coal Controller, a department that falls under the MoC.