(2) The authority designated under sub-section (1) shall take measures for setting up suitable support arrangements [2024] 10 S.C.R. 683 Omkar Ramchandra Gond v. The Union of India & Ors. to exercise legal capacity by persons with disabilities living in institutions and those with high support needs and any other measures as may be required. 32. Reservation in higher educational institutions.- (1) All Government institutions of higher education and other higher education institutions receiving aid from the Government shall reserve not less than five per cent seats for persons with benchmark disabilities. (2) The persons with benchmark disabilities shall be given an upper age relaxation of five years for admission in institutions of higher education. 19. It is in pursuance of the 5% reservation provided for the persons with disabilities that the appellant applied for the MBBS course under the said category. He cleared the exam, however, was denied admission on the ground that his quantified disability was 44%/45%. 20. The Appendix H-I extracted above provides a peculiar scenario. While people with less than 40% disability are not eligible for PwD quota, though they can pursue the Medical Course, persons with equal to or more than 40% disability are not eligible for the medical course. Read literally, while persons with speech and language disability with less than 40% are not entitled to the reserved quota, if they have 40% or more disability they are rendered ineligible for the medical course. The column under the guidelines “Eligible for Medical Course, Eligible for PwD quota” is left blank reinforcing the absurd position that under this category no one is rendered eligible for the 5% reserved quota. Certainly that cannot be the legal position. 21. In any event, adopting a purposive interpretation of the RPwD Act and, more particularly, of the provisions extracted hereinabove, we are of the opinion that merely because of the quantification of the disability for speech and language at 40% or above, a candidate does not forfeit his right to stake a claim for admission to course of their choice. We say so for the reason that any such interpretation would render the clause in Appendix H-1 under the Graduate Medical Education Regulations of the Medical Council of India (precursor of the National Medical Commission) dated 13.05.2019, over broad for treating unequals equally. 684 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 22. In State of Gujarat and Another vs. Ambica Mills Ltd., Ahmedabad and Another (1974) 4 SCC 656, it was held that an over-inclusive classification includes not only those who are similarly situated with respect to the purpose but others who are not so situated as well. Among those with disability percentage of 40% or above in the category of speech and language disabilities, there will be individuals like the appellant to whom the disability may not come in the way of pursuing the particular educational course in question. Lumping together persons with benchmark disabilities who can pursue the educational course with those with the same disabilities who, in the opinion of the Medical Board, cannot pursue the course would tantamount to over inclusion.