Seen thus, the contention of the respondents that Section 110AA of the Act, 1962 amounts to an admission by the petitioner on the invalidity of the legal position existing prior to its introduction, deserves to be rejected. 99. Therefore, in our considered view, the scheme of Sections 17 and 28 of the Act, 1962 indicates that there cannot be a mandatory condition linking the two provisions and the interpretation of this Court in the cases of Sayed Ali (supra) and Canon India (supra) is patently erroneous. v. Use of the article ‘the’ in the expression “the proper officer” 100. This Court in Canon India (supra), while laying much emphasis on the use of the expression “the proper officer” observed that the Parliament had employed the article “the” instead of “a/an” in Section 28 of the Act, 1962 so as to give effect to its intention of specifying that the proper officer referred to in Section 28 is the same officer as the one referred to in Section 17. The Court further observed that the use of a definite article instead of an indefinite article is indicative of the fact that the proper officer referred to in Section 28 is not “any” proper officer but “the” proper officer assigned with the function of assessment and reassessment under Section 17. 101. However, there is an error apparent in the aforesaid view. Undoubtedly, a definite article “the” has been used before “proper officer” with a view to limit the exercise of powers under Section 28 by a specific proper officer and not any proper officer. But, in the absence of any statutory linkage between Sections 17 and 28 of the 280 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Act, 1962 respectively, there was no legal footing for this Court in Canon India (supra) to hold that “the proper officer” in Section 28 must necessarily be the same proper officer referred to under Section 17 of the Act, 1962. 102. As we have discussed in the foregoing parts of this , the statutory scheme of the Act, 1962 necessitates that a proper officer can only perform specific functions under the Act if he has been assigned as “the proper officer” to perform such functions by an appropriate notification issued by the competent authority. Seen thus, it becomes clear that an officer of Customs can only perform the functions under Section 28 of the Act, 1962 if such officer has been designated as “the proper officer” for the purposes of Section 28 by an appropriate notification. The use of the article “the” in the expression “the proper officer” should be read in the context of that proper officer who has been conferred with the powers of discharging the functions under Section 28 by conferment under Section 5. In other words, the proper officer is qua the function or power to be discharged or exercised. 103. Thus, the definite article “the” in Section 28 refers to a “proper officer” who has been conferred with the powers to discharge functions under Section 28 by virtue of a notification issued by the competent authority under Section 5.