Depending on gravity and seriousness of the offence alleged to have been committed by an accused, detention before conclusion of trial at the investigation and post-chargesheet stage has the sanction of law broadly on these reasonings. But any form of deprival of liberty results in breach of Article 21 of the Constitution of India and must be justified on the ground of being reasonable, following a just and fair procedure and such deprival must be proportionate in the facts of a given case. These would be the overarching principles which the law Courts would have to apply while testing prosecution’s plea of pre-trial detention, both at investigation and post-chargesheet stage. 39. As regards second part of Mr. Nataraj’s argument which we have noted in the preceding paragraph, we accept it with a qualification. The reasoning in Najeeb’s (supra) case would also have to be examined, if it is the Constitutional Court which is examining prosecution’s plea for retaining in custody an accused charged with bail-restricting offences. He cited the case of Gurwinder Singh (supra) in which the judgement of K. A. Najeeb (supra) was distinguished on facts and a of the High Court rejecting the prayer for bail of the appellant was upheld. But this was a in the given facts of that case and did not dislocate the axis of reasoning on constitutional ground enunciated in the case of Najeeb (supra). On behalf of the prosecution, another of a Coordinate Bench passed on 18.01.2024, in the case of Mazhar Khan -vs- N.I.A. New Delhi [Special Leave Petition (Crl) No. 14091 of 2023] was cited. In this , the petitioner’s prayer for overturning a bail-rejection of the High Court under similar provisions of the 1967 Act was rejected by the Coordinate Bench applying the ratio of the case of Watali (supra) and also considering the case of Vernon (supra). We have proceeded in this accepting the restrictive provisions to be valid and applicable and then dealt with the individual allegations in terms of the proviso to Section 43D (5) of the 1967 Act. Thus, the prosecution’s case, so far as the appellant is concerned, does not 306 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports gain any premium from the reasoning forming the basis of the case of Mazhar Khan (supra). 40. Two authorities have been cited by the appellant in which gross delay in trial was held to be a ground for granting bail in statutes in which there was restriction on such grant. These are the judgements of this court in the cases of Shaheen Welfare Association -vs- Union of India and Others [(1996) 2 SCC 616] and Angela Harish Sontakke -vs- State of Maharashtra [(2021) 3 SCC 723]. But each of these cases has been decided on their own facts and so far as the appellant’s case is concerned, we have examined the materials disclosed before us and given our finding as regards applicability of Section 43D (5) of the 1967 Act in her case. 41. Once we find that Section 43D (5) of the 1967 Act would not be applicable in the case of the appellant, we shall have to examine the case of the appellant in relation to accusation against her under Section 13 of the 1967 Act and also other offences under the provisions of the 1860 Code, which we have narrated earlier.