However, the applicant shall not be required to prove each day’s delay till the date of filing such appeal/application.30 15. With these broad yardsticks in mind, we shall now separately analyze each ground pleaded by the appellants on the anvil of sufficiency. D. Whether delay should be condoned in the present cases? D.1. Suppression of facts by the landowners 16. The appellants argued that the respondent-landowners had suppressed material facts from the High Court, including previous unsuccessful litigations. Acquisitions were in fact already complete in many of these cases, a fact that was deliberately not disclosed. Other respondent-landowners also concealed from the court how they were only subsequent purchasers who had acquired the lands after they had been notified for the acquisition. Similarly, in some cases, the landowners suppressed the fact that the acquired lands had already vested in their respective Gaon Sabhas. 17. In addition to highlighting the factum of suppression, the appellants have also demonstrated materiality. They urged that had these facts 27 Raheem Shah v. Govind Singh, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 910, para 6. 28 Sarpanch, Lonand Gram Panchayat v. Ramgiri Gasavi & Anr., 1967 SCC OnLine SC 105, para 4. 29 Ramlal v. Rewa Coalfields Ltd., 1961 SCC OnLine SC 3, para 8. 30 Ummer v. Pottengal Subida (2018) 15 SCC 127, para 14. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1245 Delhi Development Authority v. Tejpal & Ors. been disclosed before the High Court, the respondents would have been estopped from seeking the declaration that the acquisition proceedings had lapsed. The appellants have in this regard placed reliance on Meera Sahni v. Lt. Governor of Delhi31 and Section 3 of Delhi Lands (Restrictions on Transfer) Act, 1972, to fortify their contention that no bona fide sale transaction could take place in respect of the lands which were already the subject matter of acquisition process. These concealments, they submitted, amount to playing fraud on both the court and the public exchequer. Accordingly, the time spent in the discovery of such suppressions should be deducted from the overall quantum of delay. 18. In this regard, the appellants have cited Section 17 of the Limitation Act, which provides that: “…the period of limitation shall not begin to run until the plaintiff or applicant has discovered the fraud or the mistake or could, with reasonable diligence, have discovered it, or in the case of a concealed document, until the plaintiff or the applicant first had the means of producing the concealed document or compelling its production.” [emphasis supplied] 19. There can indeed be no quarrel that Section 17 of the Limitation Act is premised on the well-known principle that fraud vitiates the delay and provides a cause of action once discovered.32 The appellants’ contention, however, has to be evaluated keeping in view the stand taken on behalf of the respondent-landowners who have refuted the omnibus allegation of suppression of facts against all of them. We have already noticed in paragraph 6(a) above that according to the respondent-landowners there are only a few cases where the allegation of suppression of material facts merits consideration.