[2024] 11 S.C.R. 1647 : 2024 INSC 856 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 2286 of 2006) 08 November 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud,* CJI, Sanjiv Khanna, Surya Kant,* J.B. Pardiwala, Dipankar Datta,* Manoj Misra and Satish Chandra Sharma,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration The issues were: 1) ingredients, indicia or criteria for an educational institution to be considered a minority educational institution under Article 30 of the Constitution; 2) whether Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) is a minority educational institution; 3) whether the Constitution Bench decision in Azeez Basha was incorrect, and 4) Whether two-Judge Bench of Supreme Court in Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya erred in referring the correctness of the decision rendered in Azeez Basha directly to a Bench of seven Judges. Headnotes† A1. Educational Institution – No distinction between educational institutions established before and after commencement of the Constitution for purposes of Art. 30(1) – Right guaranteed by Article 30(1) is applicable to universities established before commencement of the Constitution – Constitution of India – Art.30. A2. Educational Institution – Minority institution – Indicia for ‘establishment’ of a minority educational institution – Meaning of word ‘establish’ as used in Art.30(1) – Effect of incorporation on minority character of an institution – Distinction between ‘incorporation’ and ‘establishment’ – Constitution of India – Art.30. * Author Ed. Note: There are four s in the matter. One was pronounced by Hon’ble Dr Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Chief Justice of India, on behalf of himself, Hon’ble Mr Justice Sanjiv Khanna, Hon’ble Mr Justice J B Pardiwala and Hon’ble Mr Justice Manoj Misra. Hon’ble Mr Justice Surya Kant, Hon’ble Mr Justice Dipankar Datta and Hon’ble Mr Justice Satish Chandra Sharma pronounced their separate s. 1648 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports A3. Educational Institution – Minority institution – Declaration of an institution as one of national importance does not amount to change in minority character of the institution. A4. Educational Institution – Minority educational institution – Whether Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) is a minority educational institution. A5. Constitution of India – Art.30 – Scope of – Purpose of Art.30(1) – Special protection guaranteed by Art.30(1). A6. Constitution of India – Art.30 – Article 30(1) can be classified as both an anti-discrimination provision and a special rights provision. A7. Words and Phrases – ‘establishment’ and ‘incorporation’ of educational institutions – The words ‘incorporation’ and ‘establishment’ cannot be used interchangeably. Held [per Dr D Y Chandrachud, CJI (for himself, Sanjiv Khanna, J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. )]: 1.1. A distinction between educational institutions established before and after the commencement of the Constitution cannot be made for the purposes of Article 30(1) – Article 30 will stand diluted and weakened if it is to only apply prospectively to institutions established after the commencement of the Constitution – The adoption of the Constitution reflects a break from the system of sovereign and potentate government under the colonial regime and the dawn of governance based on the rule of law – It secures to the minority educational institutions, rights under the Constitution from the date of its commencement.