He pointed out that this ‘equivalence’ principle had been applied to selections made for a variety of posts, such as Data Entry Operator, Typist Grade-II, Lower Division Clerk, Computer Operator and Confidential Assistant Grade-II. According to him, while finalizing the selections for the LDC posts, DCA/higher qualifications from institutions which were not recognized by the Government were [2024] 11 S.C.R. 335 Anoop M. and Others v. Gireeshkumar T.M. and Others Etc. rejected. He furnished the list of unrecognized institutions and said that about 120 institutions, offering DCA/PGDCA, were recognized by the Government. He gave the names of fifteen such institutions. He concluded by stating that 590 applications from candidates with DCA/higher qualifications from unrecognized institutions had been rejected, on the one hand, but more than 175 applications from candidates with DCA/higher qualifications from recognized institutions had been accepted. Reference was made to internal correspondence dated 13.06.2017 in relation to the selections for the post of Data Entry Operator in District Cooperative Banks, wherein the higher qualifications, which were to be accepted in lieu of a Certificate in Data Entry, were furnished. Reference was also made to File No. DR V(1)1223/13/GW, pertaining to the above mentioned post of Data Entry Operator, adverting to the acceptability of 38 qualifications and 8 experience certificates. 20. Notwithstanding this change in its approach, there is no getting over the fact that in the earlier round of this litigation, the KPSC was uncompromising in its refusal to consider DCA as an eligible qualification for appointment to the post of LDC in the Kerala Water Authority. So much so that it felt aggrieved by the direction of a learned Judge to the contrary and went to the extent of filing a review petition and also a writ appeal thereafter. The Memorandum of Grounds filed by the KPSC in the said writ appeal clearly demonstrated its adamant stand that DCA was not a qualification to be considered eligible for appointment to the subject post. It is apparent that the KPSC did a volte-face thereafter, be it for whatever reason, and now seeks to adopt a stand that DCA should be treated as a higher qualification which presupposes the lesser qualification of the prescribed Certificate in Data Entry and Office Automation. 21. However, no material has been placed before us to demonstrate that the KPSC undertook any exercise to study the curriculum of each of the courses in question to assess and decide whether any of the so-called ‘higher qualifications’ can be said to presuppose acquisition of the lesser qualification prescribed for the post. The qualification prescribed, being a Certificate in Data Entry and Office Automation from the named Institute or from a similar/equivalent government approved institution, it was necessary for the KPSC to ascertain the number of hours of actual data entry and office automation that is put in by a candidate who possesses the so-called higher qualification to 336 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports decide whether he/she can be treated as superior to a candidate with the prescribed qualification.