He cannot ask the driver not to drive a vehicle on a bad road. He or the driver could not possibly say that the vehicle would not be driven in the night. The purpose of requisition is to use the vehicle. For the period the vehicle remains under the control of the State and /or its officers, the owner is only entitled to payment of compensation therefor in terms of the Act, but he cannot exercise any control thereupon. In a situation of this nature, this court must proceed on the presumption that Parliament while enacting the 1988 Act did not envisage such a situation. If in a given situation, the statutory definitions contained in the 1988 Act cannot be given effect to in letter and spirit, the same should be understood from the common sense point of view.” (Emphasis supplied) 18. While observing as above, this Court noticed that the clause defining “owner” is prefaced with the expression “unless the context otherwise requires” and, therefore, in the light of an earlier decision of this Court in Ramesh Mehta v. Sanwal Chand Singhvi & Ors.,15 it was held that where the context makes the definition given in the interpretation clause inapplicable, the same meaning cannot be assigned. 19. What is clear from the decisions noticed above, is that ‘owner’ of a vehicle is not limited to the categories specified in Section 2(30) of the M.V. Act. If the context so requires, even a person at whose command or control the vehicle is, could be treated as its owner for the purposes of fixing tortious liability for payment of compensation. 15 [2004] Suppl. 1 SCR 418 : (2004) 5 SCC 409, paragraph 27 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 29 Vaibhav Jain v. Hindustan Motors Pvt. Ltd. In this light, we shall now examine whether at the time of accident the vehicle in question was under the command and control of the appellant (i.e., the dealer). 20. According to the Tribunal, M/s. Hindustan Motors was admittedly the manufacturer of the vehicle and there was no evidence that the vehicle was sold to the dealer. The finding is that no sale letter was produced from its side to show that the car was sold to M/s. Vaibhav Motors. At the time of accident only two persons were present in the vehicle, and they were none other than employees of M/s. Hindustan Motors, namely, Pranav Kumar Goswami (the deceased) and Shubhashish Pal (the driver). Based on that, the Tribunal observed: “………therefore, it is inferred that Hindustan Motors had given the Lancer car to Vaibhav Motors for the purpose of selling it. And the entire supervision was that of Pranav Kumar and Shubhashish Pal of Hindustan Motors. It is not proved that Hindustan Motors had sold the said Lancer car to Vaibhav Motors. Accordingly, the issue no.3 is held to be not proved.” 21. However, the Tribunal held all non-applicants, namely, Shubhashish Pal (i.e., driver of the vehicle); M/s. Hindustan Motors (owner of the vehicle); and M/s.