Reg.10(f)(iii) is, thus, liable to be declared ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution. 7. Significantly, apart from the emoluments aspect, neither have we been able to trace any other point that respondent 1 sought to urge to invalidate Reg.10(f)(iii), nor was any other part of the 2018 Regulations subjected to challenge. The Issue 8. Exception was taken by the High Court to the methodology adopted by Allahabad University and Allahabad Degree College in shortlisting candidates for interview for appointment on the post of Assistant Professor in Sanskrit in terms of Reg.10 of the 2018 Regulations. Since the High Court did not declare Reg.10(f)(iii) as ultra vires the Constitution or the parent enactment, i.e., the University Grants Commission Act, 195617 (in terms whereof the 2018 Regulations were framed) but read Reg.10 down, we are primarily tasked to decide whether the High Court was correct in reading it down in the manner it did. Should the answer be in the negative, allowing the appeal of Allahabad University and Allahabad Degree College is the logical conclusion; and since the appeals would thus succeed, as 17 UGC Act, hereafter 1810 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports a corollary, there would be no impediment for the appellants to be guided, inter alia, by Reg.10 of the 2018 Regulations for the purpose of shortlisting. On the contrary, if these appeals fail, all the universities and colleges across the country would be precluded from shortlisting candidates seeking appointment on the posts of Assistant Professor for interview in terms of Regs.4 and 10 read with Tables 3A and 3B of the 2018 Regulations. This is a conclusion that would logically follow from the view expressed in paragraph 22 of the decision of this Court in Kusum Ingots & Alloys Ltd. v. Union of India18 and the ramifications, to say the least, could be significant. obseRvaTIons/fIndIngs of The hIgh CouRT whIle ReadIng down Reg. 10(f)(iii) 9. To recapitulate, the Division Bench of the High Court proceeded to read down Reg.10 and held that the same would apply only where past services are required to be counted for direct recruitment and promotion under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS), i.e., to the posts of Associate Professor and Professor. The Division Bench took the view that marking candidates for their past teaching experiences in to shortlist them for interview for appointment on the post of Assistant Professor was a surplusage, since the eligibility for the post of Assistant Professor does not require any teaching experience. Therefore, counting of past services on such posts serves no tangible purpose. In the absence of such a requirement, the applicability of Reg.10 to direct recruitment on the posts of Assistant Professor would not arise, thus, restricting the operation of Reg.10 only to posts which demanded prior experience i.e. Associate Professor and Professor. 10. The Division Bench further opined that ‘Teaching experience’ as provided under clause 7 of table 3A has to be read in conjunction with ‘Post-doctoral experience’. They form a composite class. Resultantly, if ‘teaching experience’ is allowed to be conditioned by Reg.10, then ‘post-doctoral experience’ mentioned in the same clause will also necessarily have to be conditioned by the said regulation.