The Court had merely remarked that “there should be an objective method of testing the suitability of the subordinate judiciary”16, without making any observation about the desirability or otherwise of minimum cutoffs for viva voce generally. We do not read the decision of this Court in All India Judges’ Association (supra) as precluding the High Court from doing so based on the exigencies of the Service in the State. In any case, based on the discussion above, the three modes of recruitment have been reasonably classified and different requirements have been prescribed for each. As such, what may or may not have been held in respect of the viva voce in direct recruitments may not necessarily apply to the viva voce requirement in recruitments through promotions. 42. It is important to bear in mind that the Higher Judicial Services require the selection of judicial officers of mature personality and requisite professional experience. In-service judicial officers are expected to have a greater familiarity with the law and the procedure based on their experience as judicial officers. While an objective written examination can be the best gauge of the legal knowledge of a candidate, the viva voce offers the best mode of assessing the overall personality of a candidate. In Lila Dhar v. State of Rajasthan,17 this Court noted the importance of giving necessary weightage to the interview test in the following words: “6. Thus, the written examination assesses the man’s intellect and the interview test the man himself and “the twain shall meet” for a proper selection. If both written examination and interview test are to be essential features of proper selection, the question may arise as to the weight to be attached respectively to them. In the case of admission to a college, for instance, where the candidate’s personality is yet to develop and it is too early to identify the personal qualities for which greater importance may 16 All India Judges’ Association (supra), [27]. 17 [1982] 1 SCR 320 : (1981) 4 SCC 159 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1163 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors have to be attached in later life, greater weight has per force to be given to performance in the written examination. The importance to be attached to the interview-test must be minimal. That was what was decided by this Court in Periakaruppan v. State of Tamil Nadu [(1971) 1 SCC 38 : (1971) 2 SCR 430] , Ajay Hasia v. Khalid Mujib Sehravardi [(1981) 1 SCC 722; 1981 SCC (L&S) 258 : AIR 1981 SC 487] and other cases. On the other hand, in the case of services to which recruitment has necessarily to be made from persons of mature personality, interview test may be the only way, subject to basic and essential academic and professional requirements being satisfied. To subject such persons to a written examination may yield unfruitful and negative results, apart from its being an act of cruelty to those persons. There are, of course, many services to which recruitment is made from younger candidates whose personalities are on the threshold of development and who show signs of great promise, and the discerning may in an interview- test, catch a glimpse of the future personality.