1317 V.S. Palanivel v. P. Sriram, CS, Liquidator, Etc. cancelled if the payment is not received within the outer limit of 90 days. It is only on completion of the steps contemplated in Rule12 that Rule 13 can come in. Reference to Rule 13 that starts with the expression “on payment of the full amount” would naturally be understood to mean on payment of the full amount within the period prescribed in Rule 12. We have already held Rule 12 to be mandatory in character because non-payment within the timeline has consequences attached to it. However, in contrast thereto, there are no adverse consequences spelt out in Rule 13 for it to be treated as mandatory. The said Rule lays down the procedure for completion of the sale and would have to be treated as directory since some procedural steps have been set out for purposes of completion of the sale process, but nothing beyond that. We are therefore not inclined to accept the submissions made by the respondents that none of the activities as contemplated in Rule 12 could have been completed unless and until the attachment passed by the Income Tax Authorities was lifted or that the Liquidator was not in a position to complete the sale under Rule13 on that count. 36.10 In any event, the Liquidator had taken timely steps to move the Adjudicating Authority for appropriate permission which was obtained as long back as on 10th February, 2020, i.e. about a month and a half before the nationwide lockdown was declared. Moreover, the Auction Purchaser was well aware of the fact that the entire tax arrears amounted to ₹2,44,01,603/- (Rupees Two crore forty four lakh one thousand six hundred and three only), which could have easily been paid out of the earnest money of ₹2,95,59,638/- (Rupees Two crore ninety five lakh fifty nine thousand six hundred and thirty eight only) deposited by it, still leaving some surplus funds. The Liquidator had also taken steps to apprise the Auction Purchaser of the said position and the of priority that was to be given to the claim of the Income Tax Department. Yet the Auction Purchaser did not deposit the balance sale consideration. In view of the above, the plea taken by the Auction Purchaser that the income tax attachment was a serious and an insurmountable impediment in completion of the sale and the subject property could not have been validly transferred in its favour by the Liquidator, is rather tenuous and not persuasive 1318 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 36.11 The anxiety of the Auction Purchaser was adequately addressed on the Adjudicating Authority passing an on 10th February, 2020, lifting the attachment . This was communicated by the Liquidator to the Auction Purchaser well in time. Mere not receipt of a copy of the said cannot be a ground for the Auction Purchaser to have delayed deposit of the entire balance sale consideration. The spectre of Covid-19 was nowhere on the horizon at that time.