159 Chirag Bhanu Singh & Anr. v. High Court of Himachal Pradesh & Ors. in future. Except on the ground of want of consultation with the named constitutional functionaries or lack of any condition of eligibility in the case of an appointment, or of a transfer being made without the recommendation of the Chief Justice of India, these matters are not justiciable on any other ground, including that of bias, which in any case is excluded by the element of plurality in the process of decision-making.” [emphasis supplied] 12. Thereafter in Special Reference No. 1 of 1998, Re11 (for short “Third Judges case”), it was noted as under: “32. Judicial review in the case of an appointment or a recommended appointment, to the Supreme Court or a High Court is, therefore, available if the recommendation concerned is not a decision of the Chief Justice of India and his seniormost colleagues, which is constitutionally requisite. They number four in the case of a recommendation for appointment to the Supreme Court and two in the case of a recommendation for appointment to a High Court. Judicial review is also available if, in making the decision, the views of the seniormost Supreme Court Judge who comes from the High Court of the proposed appointee to the Supreme Court have not been taken into account. Similarly, if in connection with an appointment or a recommended appointment to a High Court, the views of the Chief Justice and senior Judges of the High Court, as aforestated, and of Supreme Court Judges knowledgeable about that High Court have not been sought or considered by the Chief Justice of India and his two seniormost puisne Judges, judicial review is available. Judicial review is also available when the appointee is found to lack eligibility.” 13. Subsequently, a two-judge bench speaking through S.H. Kapadia J laid down important principles in Mahesh Chandra Gupta (supra). This Court distinguished between ‘eligibility’ and ‘suitability’ and 11 [1998] Supp. 2 SCR 400 : (1998) 7 SCC 739 160 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports noted that Article 217(1) of the Constitution of India pertains to the ‘suitability’ of an individual, whereas Article 217(2) concerns the ‘eligibility’ of a person to become a Judge. While ‘eligibility’ is an objective criterion, ‘suitability’ is a subjective one. The bench further observed that decisions regarding who should be elevated, which primarily involve considerations of “suitability, are not subject to judicial review. It held as under: “44. At this stage, we may highlight the fact that there is a vital difference between judicial review and merit review. Consultation, as stated above, forms part of the procedure to test the fitness of a person to be appointed a High Court Judge under Article 217 (1). Once there is consultation, the content of that consultation is beyond the scope of judicial review, though lack of effective consultation could fall within the scope of judicial review. This is the basic ratio of the of the Constitutional Bench of this Court in Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Assn.