He further stated that these neighbours had got the door opened whereafter PW-3 and PW-4 came and took his deceased daughter X to the nursing home. Sarojamma and Mahesh had deposed as PW-8 and PW-9 but both were declared as hostile witnesses. Both stated that the police had not recorded their statements and that they did not know the cause of death of the deceased. Thus, only two of the neighbours were examined and even they were declared hostile. No other neighbours were examined by the police. There is no explanation by the prosecution for such glaring omission. Again, according to the informant PW-1, it was the neighbours who had first seen the deceased through the window lying on the floor in pain with the phone continuously ringing. It is not at all believable that when the receiver was hanging (as has come out from the evidence of PW-4 Shantha), how the phone could go on ringing continuously. Adverse inference has to be drawn from such glaring contradictions and omissions. Relevant legal provisions 31. In India attempt to commit suicide is an offence under Section 309 IPC. This section provides that whoever attempts to commit suicide and does any act towards the commission of such offence, he shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine or with both. But once the suicide is carried out i.e., the offence is complete, then obviously such a person would be beyond the reach of the law; question of penalising him would not arise. In such a case, whoever abets the commission of such suicide would be penalised under Section 306 IPC. Section 306 IPC reads as under: 306. Abetment of suicide- if any person commits suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine. 31.1 Thus, as per Section 306 of IPC, if any person commits suicide, then whoever abets the commission of such suicide, shall be [2024] 3 S.C.R. 347 Kumar @ Shiva Kumar v. State of Karnataka punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine. 32. The crucial word in Section 306 of IPC is ‘abets’. ‘Abetment’ is defined in Section 107 of IPC. Section 107 of IPC reads thus: 107. Abetment of a thing- A person abets the doing of a thing, who- First-Instigates any person to do that thing; or Secondly-Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in to the doing of that thing; or Thirdly- Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing. Explanation 1.- A person who, by wilful misrepresentation, or by wilful concealment of a material fact which he is bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to cause or procure, a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that thing.