b. The Act, 1989 was enacted with the object to prevent the commission of offences and atrocities against the members of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes. Section 3(1)(r) of the Act, 1989 underscores the crucial aspect of intentional insult and intimidation with the specific intent to humiliate a member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe. The primary aim of the Act, 1989 is to ameliorate the socio-economic conditions of the community as they have been historically deprived of numerous civil rights. Therefore, an offence under the Act, 1989 is established when a member of these vulnerable sections of society is subjected to humiliation and harassment. c. The appellant had wilfully disseminated the news against the complainant, containing false assertions, deliberately aimed at portraying the complainant in poor light in society on the ground that he was a member of a Scheduled Caste. d. The false and derogatory remarks were spread with full awareness of the complainant’s status as a person belonging to the Scheduled Caste, having been elected as an MLA in 2021 from a seat reserved for members of the Scheduled Caste community. The appellant’s deliberate actions of insult and humiliation undeniably constitute the offence under Section 3(1)(r) of the Act, 1989. e. The appellant himself has stated that the complainant is an MLA representing the Kunnathunad Constituency. This makes his intentions clear as it is common knowledge that the said constituency is reserved for members belonging to the Scheduled Castes. f. The complainant has been singled out by the appellant for the sole reason that he belongs to a Scheduled Caste. The Appellant 1104 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports has made unsubstantiated allegations and aspersions against the complainant and has gone to the extent of calling him a ‘murderer’ and ‘mafia don’. g. The appellant has not spared even the former Chief Justice of India who happens to be the father-in-law of the complainant and a person belonging to a Scheduled Caste. The appellant has intentionally humiliated the father-in-law of the complainant, assassinating his character as he also belongs to the Scheduled Caste community. The appellant has not even spared the judiciary by levelling defamatory allegations. h. The act of the appellant, as alleged, constitutes an offence under Sections 3(1)(r) and 3(1)(u) respectively of the Act, 1989 and anticipatory bail cannot be granted in view of the bar under Section 18 of the Act, 1989. i. Despite many notices issued by the investigating officers, the appellant has failed to turn up for the purpose of interrogation. j. The appellant could be said to have exhibited a pattern of wilful non-compliance of the court s, thereby showcasing a flagrant disregard for the courts. In a different case where anticipatory bail was granted to him, the appellant subsequently stopped attending the court proceedings and failed to cooperate in the investigation. The High Court took note of such behaviour and warned the appellant that his anticipatory bail could be revoked. Therefore, there is a substantial risk in granting anticipatory bail to the appellant.