Section 2(1)(r) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 to the extent it is relevant provides that unfair trade practice means a trade practice which for the purpose of promoting the sale, use or supply of any goods adopts any unfair method or unfair or deceptive practice including that the goods are of a particular standard and quality. It is alleged in the complaint that the opposite parties at the time of launching E-Class Model highlighted its safety system, including airbags while proclaiming the vehicle to be the safest place on the road. Obviously, the opposite parties were seeking to encash upon the safety features of the vehicle, including the airbags provided therein, for the purpose of selling the vehicle. Therefore, it would be necessary for them to disclose to the buyers as to what the predetermined levels, necessary for triggering the front airbags of the vehicle were. Highlighting the safety features including the airbags for selling the vehicle, without [2024] 7 S.C.R. 441 M/s Daimler Chrysler India Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s Controls & Switchgear Company Ltd. & Anr. such a disclosure, in my opinion, constituted an unfair and deceptive trade practice. It is only the opposite parties which knew what would be the level which would trigger the frontal airbags in the event of an accident. Therefore, the aforesaid material information ought not to have been withheld while selling the vehicle. The opposite parties therefore, indulged in unfair trade practice or the purpose or promoting the sale of their vehicle.” 35. The National Commission also considered the report of Mr. Lothar Ralf Schusdzarra, the Technical Expert and Senior Engineer working with the Appellant Company who had inspected the car after the accident, and the photographs forming part of the report of the technical expert, and observed that the vehicle that is the car in question, had frontal accidental with another vehicle stated to be a container truck which had a higher chassis, and that the front portion of the car was badly damaged as a result of the said accident. The said photographs also corroborated with the depositions of the driver Mr. Madhukar Shinde and the respondent-complainant no. 2 Mr. Mohan Trehan which established that the front portion of the vehicle was smashed when it was hit by the truck and the collision of car with the truck was quite impactful. 36. There was nothing on record produced by the appellants to show that they had disclosed either in the Owner’s Manual or in the Brochure about the limited functioning of the airbags, which according to them was an additional safety measure in the car. On the contrary, as per the case of the respondents-complainants a misrepresentation was made by the appellants at the time of promotion of the car in question that e-class car had a safety system which included front airbags, side-airbags and window airbags. Even if it is accepted that the airbags would deploy only when the seat belt was fastened by the passenger, in the instant case admittedly, the frontal airbags of the car were not deployed though the driver had already fastened the seat belt.