17. Learned ASG further submitted that the appellants were hired on a temporary basis to manage the SSD Fund, which is generated from the difference between the interest earned on the invested amount and the annual interest paid to subscribers. The recruitment, selection, and promotion process for SSD Fund employees (i.e. appellants) did not adhere to the procedures applicable to regular Central government employees. Since the appellants were hired temporarily, they were not subjected to probation or given confirmation letters as permanent employees and unlike Central government employees, there was no provision for the annual evaluation of their performance. The terms of engagement of these employees explicitly outlined their temporary status and the associated conditions, including the potential for termination without prior notice. This aligns with the fundamental nature of their employment, which does not confer upon them, the status or entitlements typically associated with regular government employees. 18. Learned ASG also submitted that the appellants’ salaries, which were finally increased by Rs. 3,000/- per month in September 2009, are paid from the SSD Fund, which is contributed by SFF personnel and involves no government money. Furthermore, following the 4th and 5th CPC, the Government examined and extended limited benefits thereof to the SSD Fund employees (i.e., appellants), but with specific reference to maintain the fund’s objectives. These conditions include not comparing their pay scales to those recommended by the 4th CPC in future references and considering pay increments or Dearness Allowance instalments on an ad hoc basis, when 526 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports necessary. He urged that the Commandant, SFF HQ Estt. No. 22, holds discretionary authority over the SSD Fund in accordance with the Cabinet Secretariat No. EA/EF-EST-13/75 dated 11th October, 1976. This underscores the fact that the fixation of pay for these employees is not mandated to adhere to scales applicable to Central government employees. 19. Learned ASG further submitted that the claim of benefits accorded under the 6th CPC and RP Rules relied upon by the appellants is totally unfounded. These benefits are expressly designed for and applicable exclusively to Central government employees and do not extend to individuals engaged in roles akin to those overseeing contributory schemes like the SSD Fund. While certain benefits were extended to the fund employees post the 5th CPC, the feasibility of aligning their compensation with the 6th CPC was constrained by the financial limitations of the SSD Fund. Any enhancements in pay, allowances, or promotions were dispensed judiciously as welfare measures, guided by the operational imperatives and financial health of the SSD Fund. 20. Learned counsel further submitted that the appellants’ entitlements, including any financial assistance and promotions, were provided in consideration of their service and the prevailing socio-economic conditions, and do not establish a precedent for future claims. The respondents maintain that these distinctions are essential to uphold the integrity and sustainability of the SSD Fund, which operates independently of governmental appropriations and is solely reliant on contributions from subscribing SFF personnel. On these grounds, the learned Additional Solicitor General implored the Court to dismiss the appeal and affirm the impugned s. Discussion and Conclusion: - 21.