The object is to eliminate any kind of political factors having a play in the matter of the disturbance in the Schedule so published by the President. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1609 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. Mr. President: 218A. Shri T. T. Krishnamachari: In reading it he has included that. Mr. President: 224. Pandit Thakur Das Bhargava: Sir, I move: “That in amendment No. 201 of List V (Eighth Week) in clause (2) of the proposed new article 300A the following be added at the end: — ‘for a period of ten years from the commencement of this Constitution.’” I also move: “That in amendment No. 201 of List V (Eighth Week) in clause (2) of the proposed new article 300B the following be added at the end: — ‘for a period of ten years from the commencement of this Constitution.’” I agree with the principle that for ten years to come no variation of the notification originally made by the President should be possible. Because now that special privileges of reservation, etc., have been given to the Scheduled Castes, I do not like the idea that the Executive, President or Governor or any other person may be able to tamper with that right, but after a period of ten years, when this privilege will no longer be available to the Scheduled Castes, there will be no difference between the Scheduled Castes and other backward classes which will be declared under article 301 of the Constitution. At that time there will be no meaning in taking away this power from the President in consultation with the Governor. Therefore, my humble submission is that the proposed amendment be accepted to make the point absolutely clear and free from ambiguity. Unless we add these words for a period of ten years from the commencement of this Constitution, you will be taking away the power of the President to include or exclude proper classes from the purview of the notification which will be issued under 300A and B. After the first ten years the privileges which will be open to these classes are probably under article 10 and under articles 296 and 299. I do not know of any other privileges 1610 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which have been specifically given to these Scheduled Castes. Whereas I am, very insistent and conscious that these provisions should not be tampered with, I do like that these castes may not become stereotyped and may not lose the capacity of travelling out of the schedule when the right occasion demands it. I, therefore, submit that if you put these words you will be making the whole thing elastic and the President will have the power of including or excluding after the lapse of ten years such tribes or castes within the notification. Mr. President: Mr. Chaliha—you have two amendments. Once is 205 and the other is 225. I do not know if 205 arises now. Shri Kuladhar Chaliha (Assam: General): Mr. President, I move; “That in amendment No.