18.2 It was further observed that land ceiling laws, laws providing for acquisition of land for providing housing accommodation, laws imposing ceiling on urban property etc. cannot be struck down by invoking Article 21 of the Constitution. Consequently, the of the High Court was set aside to the extent that sub-sections (3) and (4) of Section 44 of MHADA had been held unconstitutional and struck down and the appeal was allowed. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 253 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 18.3 What is significant about the in Basantibai is,firstly, the case was considered in light of only that portion of the of Krishna Iyer, J. which dealt with the aspect of distribution and it did not discuss other aspects of Krishna Iyer, J.’s which dealt with the question whether even private property can be equated as “material resources of the community”. Secondly, in this , it has been expressly stated that to test the validity of MHADA, the observations of this Court in Sanjeev Coke were to be kept aside. Venkataramiah, J. who was the author of the in Basantibai and a member of the five-Judge Bench in Sanjeev Coke distanced himself from the observations made by Chinappa Reddy, J. in Sanjeev Coke as well as the other observations of Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy. 18.4 However what is common in all these cases is the fact that nationalization of contract carriages in Ranganatha Reddy; nationalization of coal mines in Sanjeev Coke and reserving of land for public amenities under MHADA were all upheld and sustained on the touchstone of Article 39(b) and protected from attack by virtue of Article 31C. 18.5 While Krishna Iyer and Chinappa Reddy, JJ. supported their reasoning on the touchstone of the word “socialist” in the Preamble of the Constitution, Venkataramiah, J. in Basantibai considered the validity of the MHADA de hors the observations made by Chinappa Reddy, J. in Sanjeev Coke and selected only certain portions of the separate opinion of Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy. Thus, this Court was able to consider the validity of MHADA on the strength of Articles 39(b) read with Article 31C without taking note of many of the observations in Ranganatha Reddy and no observation in Sanjeev Coke made by the aforesaid learned Judges on their “socialist philosophy and on socialism”. Basantibai is a which was delivered in the year 1986, when Perestroika was taking place even in a country such as Union of Soviet Socialist Republics(USSR), the home to Socialism, and there was also a beginning of a new thinking in India too commencing with five technological missions leading to the Reforms of 1991 which I have discussed in the earlier part of my opinion. 254 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. This Court in Tinsukhia Electric Supply Co. Ltd. vs. State of Assam, (1989) 3 SCC 709; and Assam Sillimanite Ltd. vs. Union of India, 1992 Supp. (1) SCC 692, followed earlier s of this Court in Ranganatha Reddy and Sanjeev Coke.