Subramaniam,23 wherein it has been held that the provision must be understood in the “backdrop of the long-standing proliferation of litigation in the civil court which has placed an undue burden on the judicial system, forcing speedy justice to become a casualty.” 14.2 The observations in Afcons Infrastructure Ltd. v. Cherian Varkey Construction Co. (P) Ltd.,24 are also noteworthy- “26. Section 89 starts with the words “where it appears to the court that there exist elements of a settlement”. This clearly shows that cases which are not suited for ADR process should not be referred under Section 89 of the Code. The court has to form an opinion that a case is one that is capable of being referred to and settled through ADR process. Having regard to the tenor of the provisions of Rule 1-A of 10 of the Code, the civil court should invariably refer cases to ADR process. Only in certain recognised excluded categories of cases, it may choose not to refer to an ADR process. Where the case is unsuited for reference to any of the ADR processes, the court will have to briefly record the reasons for not resorting to any of the settlement procedures prescribed under Section 89 of the Code. Therefore, having a hearing after completion of pleadings, to consider recourse to ADR process under Section 89 of the Code, is mandatory. But actual reference to an ADR process in all cases is not mandatory. Where the case falls under an excluded category there need not be reference to ADR process. In all other cases reference to ADR process is a must. Further ahead in this , Raveendran J. writing for thisCourt, listed out the scenarios in which reference under Section 89 CPC should or should not be made. The same are not reproduced here but suffice it to say that the present dispute does not fall into any of the exceptions listed for the otherwise mandatory reference thereunder. 23 [2021] 1 SCR 552 : (2021) 3 SCC 560 24 [2010] 8 SCR 1053 : (2010) 8 SCC 24 888 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports A perusal of the above as also other s on the application and scope of Section 89 CPC nowhere correlates the settlement of disputes by alternate mechanisms to the amount of money that may be saved by the parties in so far as the court fee is concerned.The only purpose is the resolution of the dispute by the means prescribed therein, aiding the reduction of pendency and backlog of cases. The refund of court fees, either partial or complete, as the case may be, is a benefit, incidental to the resolution of the dispute. Undoubtedly, the added pecuniary advantage may serve as a reason to galvanize and buoy the position of ADR, leading an increasing number of persons involved in disputes to opt therefor, however, that aspect, is not in the realm of primary considerations when examining the growth of ADR, or the object and purpose of the introduction of Section 89 into the CPC.