3. At the outset, we must state that both, the learned single-judge bench and to some extent even the Division Bench of the High Court, in the present case, ought not to have decreed the suit of the landlord on the basis of alleged “admission” by the appellant no.1 which was made in another unconnected matter, as to our mind, it does not 1 6. on admissions.— (1) Where admissions of fact have been made either in the pleading or otherwise, whether orally or in writing, the Court may at any stage of the suit, either on the application of any party or of its own motion and without waiting for the determination of any other question between the parties, make such or give such as it may think fit, having regard to such admissions. (2) Whenever a is pronounced under sub-rule (1) a decree shall be drawn up in accordance with the and the decree shall bear the date on which the was pronounced. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 649 Rajesh Mitra @ Rajesh Kumar Mitra & Anr. v. Karnani Properties Ltd. pass muster the test of “admission” visualised in XII Rule 6 CPC. It is not that a court cannot pass a on the basis of an admission made in some other case. All the same, what has to be kept in mind is that XII Rule 6 is an enabling provision conferring wide discretionary powers on the courts which cannot be claimed by any party as a matter of right. Courts can invoke XII Rule 6 only in cases where admissions are unconditional, unequivocal and unambiguous or when admission is based upon undisputed inferences. (See: Charanjit Lal Mehra & Ors. v. Kamal Saroj Mahajan (Smt) And Anr. (2005) 11 SCC 279, Raveesh Chand Jain v. Raj Rani Jain (2015) 8 SCC 428, Uttam Singh Duggal & Co. Ltd. v. United Bank of India And Ors. (2000) 7 SCC 120) Here, we would like to reproduce that portion of the cross-examination of appellant no. 1, as quoted by the Single Judge of the High Court, which is alleged to be an admission on part of the appellant no.1 to deny him the right of occupying the disputed premises. It is as follows: “33. Flat No.208 in respect whereof you are an occupant- is it a tenancy? Yes, it is in my mother’s name. 34. Your mother is Usha Mitra- am I right? Yes, Late Usha Mitra. 35. When did Usha Mitra expire? On 3rd November, 2009” This deposition is the so called ‘admission’ on which the respondent- landlord relies to claim that only the mother (Usha Mitra) of the appellants was the tenant and not the appellants. The appellant no.1 had admitted that the tenancy was in the name of his mother. We have perused the examination-in-chief and cross-examination of appellant no.1 made in that ‘other case’ where this statement was made. Such questions and their answers are common place in depositions before courts, but every such statement cannot be considered as an ‘admission’ to invoke XII Rule 6 of CPC.