No. 13938 of 2013 was filed by the respondent company against M/s. Gee Pee Infotech Private Ltd. and appellant, under Section 138 of the NI Act. The crux of the complaint was as under: - The Accused No.1 is a Company incorporated under provisions of Companies Act 1956. The second accused is an authorised signatory/Director of the first accused company and he is incharge and responsible for the day today administrative affairs and functioning of the accused No.1 Company. The accused by representing that they are the Pan Indian circle licence holder for distribution of Electronic Pin Recharge BSNL, induced the complainant to pay advance amount of Rs.1,00,00,000/- and to become the Master Distributor for BS recharge pin for Karnataka State and accordingly entered in agreement with the complainant on 01/10/2011. By virtue of said Agreement, the accused appointed the complainant Master Distributor for BSNL E-recharge pin for Karnataka and collected the advance payment while undertaking liquidate/transfer BSNL E-recharge pin load to the complainant as to enable them to distribute through their constituents of the State of Karnataka. After entering into the Agreement accused supplied certain BSNL E-recharge pin to the complainant. However, to their utter shock, surprise and dismay, it came to the knowledge of the complainant through their constituents that 99% of the BSNL E-recharge pin supplied by the accused are fake and the talk time under the said BSNL E-recharge load supplied to them could not be uploaded to the Mobile Numbers of the customers. 1894 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. It was the further case that on being told that appropriate action would be initiated they executed a Memorandum of Understanding on 10.04.2012 and assured return of the amount advanced and issued five post-dated cheques. The cheque presented was dishonoured and thereupon the complainant caused legal notice. Pursuant to the same, the accused issued two fresh post-dated cheques each for a sum of Rs.25 lakhs in lieu of the old cheques. Later, cheque bearing No.955437 dated 24.04.2013 for a sum of Rs.25 lakhs was presented, but dishonoured and returned with the endorsement “payment stopped by the drawer”. The complaint was, thereupon, filed after complying with the requisite procedures and was taken on file as C.C. No.13938/2013 7. After appreciating the evidence, the trial Court arrived at the following finding as against issue No.2: 32. Point No.2:- Complainant Company paid a sum of Rs. 1,00,00,000/- to the accused Company for purchasing BSNL E recharge pins but was supplied fake E-recharge pins which the complainant Company demanded repayment, the accused not be uploaded to the Mobile numbers of the customers. W a sum of Rs.50,00,000/- and for the balance Company repaid amount it issued the cheque in question which came to be dishonoured on presentation. Complainant Company has been deprive of its money for all these years, i.e. for a period of more than years. Hence, accused Company shall adequately compensate the complainant for the same. 8. As relates the latter appeal, the complaint that was taken on file as C.C.