If the legislature intended [2024] 10 S.C.R. 837 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. to give the expression “plant or machinery” the same meaning as “plant and machinery” as defined in the explanation, the legislature would not have specifically used the expression “plant or machinery” in Section 17(5)(d). The legislature has made this distinction consciously. Therefore, the expression “plant and machinery” and “plant or machinery” cannot be given the same meaning. It may also be noted here that the expression ‘plant or machinery’ is used in dealing with a peculiar case of goods or services being received by a taxable person for the construction of an immovable property on his own account, even when such goods or services or both are used in the course of furtherance of business. Therefore, if the expression “plant or machinery” is given the same meaning as the expression “plant and machinery” as per the definition contained in the explanation to Section 17, we will be doing violence to the words used in the statute. While interpreting taxing statutes, it is not a function of the Court to supply the deficiencies. 45. Now, the question which arises is what meaning should be given to the expression “plant or machinery”. When the legislature uses the expression “plant and machinery,” only a plant will not be covered by the definition unless there is an element of machinery or vice versa. This expression cannot be read as “plant or machinery”. That is so clear from the explanation in Section 17, which says that plant and machinery means apparatus, equipment and machinery fixed to the earth by foundation or structural support that are used for making outward supply of goods or services or both. The expression includes such foundation and structural support fixed to the earth. However, the definition excludes land, buildings or any other civil structure. 46. The expression “plant or machinery” has a different connotation. It can be either a plant or machinery. Section 17(5)(d) deals with the construction of an immovable property. The very fact that the expression “immovable property other than “plants or machinery” is used shows that there could be a plant that is an immovable property. As the word ‘plant’ has not been defined under the CGST Act or the rules framed thereunder, its ordinary meaning in commercial terms will have to be attached to it. 47. There are few decisions relied upon on this aspect. The first is Commissioner of Central Excise, Ahmedabad v. Solid and Correct 838 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Engineering Works & Ors..35 The case arose from the demand for duty and penalty under the Central Excise Act, 1944 (Excise Act). The assessee was manufacturing parts and components for road and civil construction machinery and equipment like Asphalt Drum/ Hot Mix Plants, etc. One of the questions examined by the Tribunal was whether the plants so manufactured could be termed as goods. The issue before this Court was whether setting up an Asphalt Drum/Hot Mix Plant by using duty-paid components amounts to the manufacture of excisable goods within the meaning of the Excise Act.