Supreme Court Reports it is for him to prove the terms, in the contract, or circumstances in which he came to sign the documents, need to be established.20 Hence, the National Commission had no jurisdiction to re-write the said terms of the contract entered between the banks and the credit cardholders, which the parties have mutually agreed to be bound by. 66. Even otherwise, it is not the case of the Complainants or as adjudicated by the National Commission, that the decision by the Reserve Bank of India, being a statutory authority whilst imposing interest acts contrary to public good, public interest, unfairly, unjustly and unreasonably, in its contractual, constitutional or statutory obligations.21 67. In addition, thereto, the Hon’ble Court in the case of Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. Vs MRTP Commission [2003] 1 SCC 129, had laid down five ingredients before a trade practice could be an “unfair trade practice”, as under: (1) There must be a trade practice [within the meaning of Section 2(u) of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act]. (2) The trade practice must be employed for the purpose of promoting the sale, use or supply of any goods or the provision of any services. (3) The trade practice should fall within the ambit of one or more of the categories enumerated in clauses (1) to (5) of Section 36A (4) The trade practice should cause loss or injury to the consumers of goods or services. (5) The trade practice under clause (1) should involve making a statement whether orally or in writing or by visible interpretation.22 68. Thus, any trade practice which is adopted for the purpose of promoting the sale, use, or supply of any goods, or for the provision 20 Bharathi Knittting Company Vs Worldwide Express Courier Division of Airfrieght Ltd. (1996) 4 SCC 704 21 Directorate of Education vs Educomp Datamatics Ltd. (2004) 4 SCC 19 22 Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. Vs MRTP Commission (2003) 1 SCC 129 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1515 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd. v. Awaz & Ors. of any service, by adopting any unfair method or unfair or deceptive practice, has to be treated as ‘unfair trade practice’. Hence, whether an act can be condemned as an unfair trade practice, or not, the key is to examine the ‘modus operandi’ i.e. whether there is any false statement/misrepresentation, or deception. 69. In the present context, the pre-conditions of ‘deceptive practice’ and unfair method’ are manifestly absent. The Banks have in no manner made any misrepresentation, to deceive the credit card holders. Upon availing the facility of the credit cards, the customers, are made aware of ‘the most important terms and conditions’, including the rate of interest, that shall be charged by the Banks. Even on merits, the Reserve Bank of India, has made it clear that there exists no material on record, to establish that any bank has acted contrary to the policy directives issued by the RBI. Even otherwise, there is not even a single averment so as to establish how the charging of rates of interest upon the default by credit card holders, without a standardized rate, is usurious and constitutes an unfair trade practice.