4. We have heard arguments and counterarguments from both parties and have gone through the material on record. From the evidence which has been placed by the prosecution, there are certain facts that have been proved beyond any doubt which are: (i) That the deceased died within seven years of marriage; (ii) The death was by suicide in her matrimonial house; and (iii) There was harassment at the hands of her in-laws and particularly by the husband; (iv) And that there was marital discord between husband and wife. 5. As far as appellant no.1 (sister-in-law of deceased) is concerned, we are of the view that the prosecution has failed to place any credible evidence for the involvement of appellant no. 1 i.e. the sister of appellant no. 2 and sister-in-law of the deceased. Moreover, appellant no. 1 is a married woman and at the relevant point of time, admittedly, she was residing with her family at her matrimonial home. There is no specific evidence that has come in the form of any of the prosecution witnesses that may connect appellant no. 1 to the commission of the crime and the Trial Court as well as the appellate Court have not considered this aspect as it should have been considered on the weight of the evidence which was placed by the prosecution. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 801 Chabi Karmakar & Ors. v. The State of West Bengal Now, the only question left to be determined is regarding the guilt of appellant no.2 (husband). 6. After going through the evidence of PW-1, PW-3, PW-4 and P-16 (who are the brother, father, mother and cousin of the deceased respectively), it becomes clear that the deceased faced cruelty and harassment at the hands of her husband (appellant no.2) which compelled her to commit suicide. However, these witnesses did not state that such cruelty and harassment was in connection with the demand for dowry. With respect to the demand for dowry, they have just made some general statements which are not sufficient to convict the appellants under section 304B of IPC. 7. Trial Court raised a presumption under section 113B of Evidence Act to convict the appellants under section 304B of IPC. The High Court did not go into the question of whether the trial court was right in relying upon section 113B of the Evidence Act. In Charan Singh alias Charanjit Singh vs. State of Uttarakhand 2023 SCC OnLine SC 454, where there were allegations against the husband that he was subjecting the deceased therein on the demand of a motorcycle and some land, this Court in relation to Section 113B of Evidence Act and section 304B of IPC, had noted that: “21…………………It is only certain oral averments regarding demand of motorcycle and land which is also much prior to the incident. The aforesaid evidence led by the prosecution does not fulfil the pre-requisites to invoke presumption under Section 304B IPC or Section 113B of the Indian Evidence Act…… 22. XXXXXXX 23. On a collective appreciation of the evidence led by the prosecution, we are of the considered view that the prerequisites to raise presumption under Section 304B and Section 113B of the Indian Evidence Act having not being fulfilled, the conviction of the appellant cannot be justified.