807 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. the duties of the appellants as public servants. Therefore, sanction was not considered necessary. While observing so, the Court stated that the expression “any offence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty” must neither be construed narrowly nor widely and the right approach would be to arrive at a balance between the two extremes. Therefore, the sine qua non for the applicability of this section is that the offence charged, be it one of commission or omission, must be committed by the public servant either in his official capacity or under the color of the office held by him such that there is a direct or reasonable connection between the act and the official duty. The relevant observations are as thus: “17. The words “any offence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty” employed in Section 197(1) of the Code, are capable of a narrow as well as a wide interpretation. If these words are construed too narrowly, the section will be rendered altogether sterile, for, “it is no part of an official duty to commit an offence, and never can be”. In the wider sense, these words will take under their umbrella every act constituting an offence, committed in the course of the same transaction in which the official duty is performed or purports to be performed. The right approach to the import of these words lies between these two extremes. While on the one hand, it is not every offence committed by a public servant while engaged in the performance of his official duty, which is entitled to the protection of Section 197(1), an act constituting an offence, directly and reasonably connected with his official duty will require sanction for prosecution under the said provision. As pointed out by Ramaswami, J., in Baijnath v. State of M.P. [AIR 1966 SC 220, 227 : (1966) 1 SCR 210 : 1966 Cri LJ 179] , “it is the quality of the act that is important, and if it falls within the scope and range of his official duties, the protection contemplated by Section 197 of the Criminal Procedure Code will be attracted.” 18. In sum, the sine qua non for the applicability of this section is that the offence charged, be it one of commission or omission, must be one which has been committed by 808 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the public servant either in his official capacity or under colour of the office held by him.” (emphasis supplied) 54. This Court in State of Maharashtra v. Dr. Budhikota Subbarao reported in (1993) 3 SCC 339 elaborated on how the balance between a narrow and wide construction of Section 197 CrPC can be maintained. The Court opined that the section must be construed strictly while determining its applicability to any act or omission in the course of service and its operation has to be limited only to those acts which are discharged in the “course of duty”.