The respondent company has contended that, initially the chargeable distance for the route from Refinery Baad to Hisar was 444 km as provided in the old local distance table. Subsequently, the appellant vide its letter dated 05.07.2005 changed and reduced the chargeable distance to 334 km. The respondent enquired and found out that, there was neither any change in the actual route nor any change in the physical track length between the Refinery Baad and Hisar stations. 110. On such basis, the validity of the old chargeable distance of 444 km has come under cloud, and the respondent company has questioned how the chargeable distance came to be reduced by a difference of 110 km without there being any change in the actual distance in the route from Refinery Baad to Hisar. 111. The appellant railways, submitted that pursuant to the Ministry of Railway’s letter dated 07.04.2004, a new methodology of ‘Rationalization and Rounding-off” was adopted by the railways for calculating the chargeable distance between any two pair of stations. As per the new methodology, the chargeable distance was now to be calculated on the basis of the actual engineering distance of the various stations reckoned upto two decimal points. For determining the chargeable distance, the actual entering distance (upto two decimal) of each station in the route is first added up, and then the aggregate is rounded-off to the next kilometre only once at the end. 112. Furthermore, the new methodology had been adopted in to bring uniformity in the procedure for determining chargeable distance throughout the railway, and the policy itself contemplated that the change in methodology would likely result in variation from the existing freights and fares being levied under the old methodology. 113. The appellants have contended that owing to this change in policy and methodology, the earlier chargeable distance of 444 km came to be reduced to 334 km. The appellants have further submitted that the aforesaid letter dated 07.04.2004, specifically stipulates that the said change would only apply prospectively and that any variation from the old fares and freights will not be entitled to any refund. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1133 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. 114. We have gone through the aforesaid letter. Since the question before this Court pertains to the validity or correctness of the old chargeable distance of 444 km as per the old methodology and not one of refund of past freight charges solely on basis of a subsequent change in methodology. Thus, the prospective application of the change in methodology as per the letter dated 07.04.2004 has no bearing whatsoever, with the question that is before this Court. 115. The appellant railways has contended that the old chargeable distance of 444 km was valid and correct as per the old methodology and distance table that was prevailing at that time, and thus, the respondent company is not entitled to a refund. 116. Before, we proceed to determine the validity of the old chargeable distance of 444 km, we must try to understand the stance of the appellant railway in the present litigation, as discernible from their pleadings, which has left us quite perplexed.