As the party came to the possession by right, the law will esteem that right to continue either in point of estate or by the permission of the owner of the land till it is proved that the possession is held in opposition to the will of that person.” 17. Before adverting to the present facts and claims advanced by the parties it would be appropriate to refer to certain pronouncements of this Court where mesne profit, which is the mainstay of the interlocutory application(s) before us, have been awarded. 17.1 The respondent has referred to Atma Ram Properties (P) Ltd. v. Federal Motors (P) Ltd.6 to submit that the landlord’s claim for mesne profit is not maintainable, given that, no decree of ejectment stands passed by the concerned civil court. We may refer to the observations made in the said , which are, thus: “9…….The power to grant stay is discretionary and flows from the jurisdiction conferred on an appellate court which is equitable in nature. To secure an of stay merely by preferring an appeal is not a statutory right conferred on the appellant. So also, an appellate court is not ordained to grant an of stay merely because an appeal has been preferred 6 [2004] Supp. 6 SCR 843 : (2005) 1 SCC 705 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 869 Bijay Kumar Manish Kumar HUF v. Ashwin Bhanulal Desai and an application for an of stay has been made. Therefore, an applicant for of stay must do equity for seeking equity. Depending on the facts and circumstances of a given case, an appellate court, while passing an of stay, may put the parties on such terms the enforcement whereof would satisfy the demand for justice of the party found successful at the end of the appeal. In South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. v. State of M.P. [(2003) 8 SCC 648] this Court while dealing with interim s granted in favour of any party to litigation for the purpose of extending protection to it, effective during the pendency of the proceedings, has held that such interim s, passed at an interim stage, stand reversed in the event of the final decision going against the party successful in securing interim s in its favour; and the successful party at the end would be justified in demanding compensation and being placed in the same situation in which it would have been if the interim would not have been passed against it. The successful party can demand (a) the delivery to it of benefit earned by the opposite party under the interim of the High Court, or (b) compensation for what it has lost, and to grant such relief is the inherent jurisdiction of the court. In our opinion, while granting an of stay under 41 Rule 5 CPC, the appellate court does have jurisdiction to put the party seeking stay on such terms as would reasonably compensate the party successful at the end of the appeal insofar as those proceedings are concerned. x x x x 18.