Section 11 expressly uses the phrase “subject to any rules made under this Act” before “award in lieu of, or in addition to, suspension or dismissal any one or more of the following punishments”. Importantly, while prescribing punishment for “more heinous offences” and “less heinous offences” in Sections 9 and 10 respectively, the phrase “subject to any rules made under this Act” is not used. The expression “subject to” conveys the idea of a provision yielding place to another provision or other provisions subject to which it is made18. 29. G.P. Singh in his treatise “Principles of Statutory Interpretation” (13th Edition, Chapter 12 at page 1019, published by LexisNexis) writes: “The delegate cannot override the Act either by exceeding the authority or by making provisions inconsistent with the Act. But when the enabling Act itself permits its modification by rules, the rules made prevail over the provision in the Act. When provision A 18 P. Ramanatha Aiyer’s Advanced Law Lexicon 4th Edition Vol.4 at page 4640, see also Southern Petrochemical Industries Co. Ltd. v. Electricity Inspector & ETIO : (2007) 5 SCC 447, paragraph 68 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 449 Union of India & Ors. v. Santosh Kumar Tiwari in the Act is subject to other provisions of the Act, a valid notification issued under any other provision in the Act would in case of conflict with section A override its provisions.” 30. In light of the discussion above, we are of the view that while enacting the CRPF Act the legislative intent was not to declare that only those minor punishments could be imposed as are specified in Section 11 of the CRPF Act. Rather, it was left open for the Central Government to frame rules to carry out the purposes of the Act and the punishments imposable were subject to the rules framed under the Act. 31. In that context, one of the purposes of the Act could be gathered from Section 8, which vests the superintendence and control over the Force in the Central Government. The concept of “control”, as per P. Ramantha Aiyer’s Advanced Law Lexicon (4th Edition), inter alia, implies that the controlling authority must be in a position to dominate the affairs of its subordinate19. In State of West Bengal v. Nripendra Nath Bagchi20, a Constitution Bench of this Court had occasion to explore the true import of the expression ‘control’ as used in Article 235 of the Constitution of India. After considering the submissions, it was held that the word ‘control’ must include disciplinary jurisdiction. In Madan Mohan Choudhary v. State of Bihar & Ors.21 it was reiterated that the expression ‘control,’ as used in Article 235 of the Constitution, includes disciplinary control. It was also observed that transfers, promotions, and confirmations including transfer of District Judges or the recall of District Judges posted on ex-cadre post or on deputation or on administrative post etc. is also within the administrative control of the High Court. So also, premature and compulsory retirement is within the control of the High Court.