The Director (Discipline) forwarded a copy of the complaint to the firm [2024] 2 S.C.R. 199 Naresh Chandra Agrawal v. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and Others and called upon it to disclose the name(s) of the member/person(s) who was/were responsible for conducting the audit and preparing the report pertaining to the subject transaction. 5. On 15.02.2010, there was a letter communication received by the Director (Discipline) from the audit firm, in which it was stated that the Appellant was given the responsibility for reviewing the subject transactions. The Appellant filed his written statement on 02.04.2010. The Complainant bank submitted its rejoinder on 02.06.2010. Certain additional documents were sought by the Director (Discipline) from the Complainant on 10.12.2010. 6. On consideration of the complaint, the written statement and the other matters on record, the Director (Discipline) arrived at a prima facie conclusion that the Appellant was not guilty of any professional or other misconduct within the meaning of clause (7), (8) and (9) of Part 1 of the Second Schedule of the Chartered Accountants’ (Amendment) Act, 2006. 7. On such opinion of the Director being placed before the Board of Discipline, Respondent No.1 informed the Appellant that the Board of Discipline had disagreed with the prima facie opinion of the Director (Discipline) and the Board had decided to refer the matter to the Disciplinary Committee for further action under Chapter V of the Chartered Accountants’ (Procedure of Investigation of Professional and Other Misconduct and Conduct of Cases) Rules, 2007 (for short ‘Rules, 2007’). 8. The action of the Board in disagreeing with the prima facie opinion of the Director (Discipline) and referring the matter for further action before the Disciplinary Committee was impugned before the High Court of Delhi in W.P. (C) No.6488 of 2011. The prayer in the said writ petition was to declare Rule 9(3)(b) of the Rules, 2007 as invalid on the ground that the said rule was ultra vires section 21 A (4) of the Act. The Ld. Division Bench having repelled the said challenge, the Appellants are now before us. 9. According to the Ld. Counsel for the Appellant, when the Director (Discipline) was of the prima facie opinion that the Appellant was not guilty of the alleged misconduct, the Board had two options available to it according to Section 21 A (4) of the Act. It could either close the 200 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports matter at that very stage or direct the Director (Discipline) to further investigate and it could not have assumed the role of the Director and acted as the investigating agency by referring the matter to the Disciplinary Committee. It is submitted that there is no substantive basis in the parent Act for the action impugned in this appeal. The Ld. Counsel argued that the impugned Rule, being a delegated legislation, cannot provide for any action which is not contemplated under the parent Act. 10. Per contra, Ld. Counsel for the Respondent has sought to justify the correctness of the view taken in the impugned .