Acting purely on her own whims and fancies, the contemnor-Respondent No.7 concluded that ex facie the complaint was filed keeping grudge against the police and with the feeling of seeking revenge. The dated 6th January, 2024 passed by 6th ACJM(contemnor-respondent No.7) has been set aside by the High Court of Gujarat and rightly so, in our opinion, vide dated 22nd February, 2024 while accepting the revision petition filed by the petitioner, being R/Criminal Revision Application 254 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports No. 273 of 2024. Relevant observations made by the High Court are reproduced hereinbelow:- “11. As per Section 203 of the Code, the learned Magistrate ought to have recorded the statement on oath of the complainant and of the witnesses and when in-charge Magistrate has directed the complainant to remain present with his witnesses and the witnesses were present before the learned Magistrate, learned Magistrate without giving any reasons for not recording the statements of the witnesses has dismissed the complaint which is illegal and improper. That if the statements of the witnesses were recorded, learned Magistrate could have applied her mind and form the whether there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused or not. That learned Magistrate has acted erroneously and has passed the impugned which is illegal and improper and hence, the same is required to be set aside. 12. On perusal of the impugned , it appears that the complainant was directed to remain present with his witnesses and as per the submission of the learned senior advocate for the applicant, witnesses were present before the learned Magistrate, but their statements have not been recorded. No reasons have been given by the learned Magistrate for non-recording of the statements of the witnesses and hence, the applicant original complainant has not been given full opportunity for putting up his case before the learned Magistrate. That the impugned is improper and perverse and is required to be set aside. Learned(sic) 13. Under the circumstances, the application is allowed. The impugned dated 6.1.2024 passed below Exh.1 in Criminal Inquiry No.280 of 2023 is quashed and set aside. The learned Magistrate is directed to record the statements of the witnesses and then after applying judicial mind to the material placed before the Court, form the whether or not, there is sufficient ground to proceed.” 14. It is in the aforesaid backdrop, that the petitioner has approached this Court by way of the instant contempt petition with a prayer seeking [2024] 8 S.C.R. 255 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. prosecution of the respondents and to convict and sentence them for wilful disobedience and gross contempt of this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023. 15. Notice of the contempt proceedings was issued to the respondents on 10th January, 2024. 16. The High Court of Gujarat was subsequently impleaded in the matter vide dated 29th January, 2024. 17. Reply affidavits in response to the notice for contempt, have been filed on behalf of the respondents arraigned in the contempt petition.