That all convicts, by and large, surrendered themselves within the time after enjoying parole/furlough and participated in rehabilitation and corrective programmes. That the convicts still had substantial years of life remaining. Accordingly, the Sessions Judge applied the policy dated 09.07.1992 and gave an ‘affirmative’ opinion as regards the premature release of respondent Nos.3 to 13. 3.22. The Additional Director General of Police, Prisons and Correctional Administration, State of Gujarat, addressed a letter dated 09.06.2022 to the Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, Government of Gujarat, regarding the premature release of accused Kesarbhai Khimabhai Vahoniya. In the said letter, the details of the opinion given by the concerned authorities regarding the premature release of the said convict were also discussed. It was stated in the letter that the Superintendent of Police, Dahod, had given a positive opinion regarding premature release from jail; the Superintendent of Police, Special Crime Branch, Mumbai, however, had given a negative opinion about premature release from jail; the District Magistrate, Dahod, had given a positive opinion about the premature release from jail; the Sessions Court, Mumbai, which pronounced the sentence had given a negative opinion about premature release; however, the Jail Advisory Committee of Gujarat had given a positive opinion about the convict’s premature release and the Superintendent, Godhra Sub-Jail had also given a positive opinion about the premature release. Thus, the Additional Director General of Police, Prisons and Correctional Administration, State of Gujarat gave a positive opinion regarding the premature release of Kesarbhai Khimabhai Vahoniya to the Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, Government of Gujarat. So also, as regards the other convicts, namely, Salesh Chimanlal Bhatt, Pradip Ramanlal Modhhiya, Mitesh Chimanlal Bhatt, Bipinchand Kanhaiyalal Joshi, Rajubhai Babulal Soni, Bakabhai Khimabhai Vahoniya, Jaswantbhai Chaturbhai Nai (Rawal) and Ramesh Rupabhai Chandana. 772 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3.23. On 28.06.2022, the Department of Home Affairs, Government of Gujarat, addressed a letter to the Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, seeking sanction from the Government of India on the proposal for the premature release of the prisoners, respondent Nos.3 to 13. 3.24. By letter dated 11.07.2022, the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India conveyed its approval under Section 435 of the CrPC for the premature release of all 11 convicts, respondent Nos.3 to 13. 3.25. Pursuant to the concurrence of the Central Government, the State of Gujarat issued the impugned s dated 10.08.2022. 3.26. In the above background, these writ petitions have been filed, praying,inter-alia, for issuance of a writ, , or direction, quashing the s dated 10.08.2022. Counter affidavit of State of Gujarat: 4. Under Secretary, Home Department, State of Gujarat (first respondent) has filed his affidavit stating that he is acquainted with the facts of the case as appearing from the official records of the case. While denying every assertion, contention and statement made by the petitioner in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.319 of 2022, which was the first of the writ petitions filed before this Court, certain preliminary submissions have been advanced at the outset.