What is necessary is that the offence must be in respect of an act done or purported to be done in execution of duty, that is in the discharge of an official duty. It must purport to be done in the official capacity with which he pretends to be clothed at the time, that is to say under the cloak of an ostensibly official act, though, of course, the offence would really amount to a breach of duty. An act cannot purport to be done in execution of duty unless the offender professes to be acting in pursuance of his official duty and means to convey to the mind of another the impression that he is so acting. The section is not intended to apply to acts done purely in a private capacity by a public servant. It must have been ostensibly done by him in his official capacity in execution of his duty, which would not necessarily be the case merely because it was done at a time when he held such office, nor even necessarily because he was engaged in his official business at the time. For instance, if a public servant accepts as a reward a bribe in his office while actually engaged in some official work, he is not accepting it even in his official capacity, much less in the execution of any official duty, although it is quite certain that he could never have been able to take the bribe unless he were the official in charge of some official work. He does not even pretend to the person who offers the bribe that he is acting in the discharge of his official duty, but merely uses his official position to obtain the illegal gratification.” (emphasis supplied) 43. His Lordship, Sulaiman, J, clarified that it is not imperative for the very act which is at the center of the charge to be the official duty of 800 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the public servant. This would lead to the inference that an offence can never be part of one’s official duty and defeat the very intent behind the enactment of the provision. Instead, the essence of the provision was that the offence must be in respect of an act done or purported to be done in the execution of duty i.e., in the discharge of an official duty. Although the offence would really amount to a breach of duty, it must purport to be done in the official capacity with which the official pretended to be clothed at the time. However, it was made clear that the provision must not be applied to acts done purely in a private capacity by a public servant but only to those acts ostensibly done by him in his official capacity and in execution of his duty. Therefore, merely because the act was committed at a time when he held such office or when he was engaged in his official business would not make the section automatically applicable.