This is further so because while PW-1 speaks of being operated upon, none of the witnesses examined as medical witnesses corroborate such a statement. For emphasis, we may refer to the statement of PW-17, the medical officer in the Seahorse Hospital, at the relevant time. He stated that upon admission, PW-1 was fully conscious. The wound certificate was issued by Dr. Pon Shanthi, who has not been examined. 42. The delay therefore renders the circumstances questionable. Also, as we have alluded to earlier, there is a significant gap in the examination of PW-2 as well. For all the aforesaid reasons, it cannot be said that the prosecution had succeeded in establishing its case against the two accused persons beyond reasonable doubt warranting a conviction under Section 302 IPC. 43. We further examine the role of the I.O. The investigation officer of a case is the charioteer tasked with using the resources and personnel at his disposal to ensure law and as also that a person who has committed a crime is brought to the book. In other words, the role of an investigating officer is that of the backbone of the entire criminal proceeding in respect of the particular offence(s) he is charged with investigating. A perusal of his testimony reveals certain problematic statements. Nowhere has it come on record as to how the investigation reached the bus stand from where A-2 was arrested – who informed the authorities about A-2’s movement by bus? Further, he has deposed that he made two visits to the scene of the crime and that he also examined several witnesses. Then how is there a striking lack of independent witnesses to lend credence to the prosecution’s version of events? He does not know where D-1 had expired. How? He also did not conduct any scientific investigation at the spot of crime. Such an investigation carried out most casually and callously is sought to be made the basis by the police in seeking the conviction of the accused. 44. Another direct contradiction concerns his examination of the doctors who allegedly gave wound certificates for PWs 1 and 2. In the testimony of PW-17, it is clear that he was not the one who gave the wound certificate as he was only on duty from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., and 764 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports PW-1 was brought to the hospital at 10 p.m. The wound certificate was issued by Dr. Pon Shanthi, who had not been examined in the instant proceedings. 45. For the charges under Section 307 IPC, the learned Trial Court also considered the evidence of PWs 1, 2, and 3. We have considered the evidence of these three witnesses in detail and are of the opinion that for the reasons afore-stated, the said witnesses cannot be relied upon. 46. In addition to the person who led the investigation, we must consider the testimonies of the people who aided in it. 46.1. PW-20 was the Sub-Inspector, Kulithalai Police Station, at the relevant time.