The legislature having not done that, the provision with regard to the reference in Section 236(1) of the Code pertaining to Special Court as mentioned in Section 435 of the Companies Act, 2013 stood frozen as on the date of enactment of the Code. As such, the learned Judge of the High Court has erred in holding that in view of the subsequent amendment, the offences under the Code shall be tried only by a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the First Class. 45. We further find that the reasoning of the learned single judge of the High Court that in view of the 2018 Amendment only the offences under the Companies Act would be tried by a Special Court of Sessions Judge or Additional Sessions Judge and all other offences including under the Code shall be tried by a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the First Class is untenable. For a moment, even if it is held that the reference in Section 236(1) of the Code is a ‘legislation by reference’ and not ‘legislation by incorporation’, still the offences punishable under the Code having imprisonment of two years or more will have to be tried by a Special Court presided by a Sessions Judge or an Additional Sessions Judge. Whereas the offences having punishment of less than two years will have to be tried by a Special Court presided by a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the First Class. 46. In any case, the learned single Judge of the High Court has grossly erred in quashing the complaint only on the ground that it was filed before a Special Court presided by a Sessions Judges. At the most, the learned single judge of the High Court could have directed the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 35 Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India v. Satyanarayan Bankatlal Malu & Ors. complaint to be withdrawn and presented before the appropriate court having jurisdiction. 47. Shri Amir Arsiwala, learned Advocate-on-record for the respondent Nos.1 and 2, had submitted that in the event this Court holds that the Special Courts presided by a Sessions Judge or an Additional Sessions Judge will have jurisdiction to try the complaint under the Code, this Court should remand the matter to the High Court for deciding the matter afresh on merits. It is submitted that the respondents have a good case on merits and there has been no adjudication on merits of the matter. 48. In the result, we allow the appeal. The impugned and dated 14th February 2022, passed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Writ Petition No.2592 of 2021 is quashed and set aside. It is held that the Special Court presided by a Sessions Judge or an Additional Sessions Judge will have jurisdiction to try the complaint under the Code. However, since the learned single judge of the High Court has not considered the merits of the matter, the matter is remitted to the learned single judge of the High Court for considering the petition of the respondents afresh on merits.