Clause (b) thereof requires the Chief Wild Life Warden to take such steps as would ensure the security of wild animals in the sanctuary and the preservation of the sanctuary and wild animals therein. He is also authorized to take such measures, in the interests of wildlife, as he may consider necessary for the improvement of any habitat. He is also authorized to regulate, control, or prohibit, in keeping with the interests of wildlife, the grazing or movement of livestock. 35. Section 35 of the WLP Act deals with “Declaration of National Parks”. In view of sub-section (8) thereof, the provisions which are applicable under clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Section 33 of the WLP Act to the ‘sanctuary’ would also be applicable to a ‘National Park’. 36. Section 36A of the WLP Act deals with “Declaration and management of a conservation reserve”. In view of sub-section (2) thereof, the provisions under clauses (b) and (c) of Section 33 of the WLP Act, which are applicable to a ‘sanctuary’ shall, as far as may be, apply also in relation to a ‘conservation reserve’. 37. Section 36C of the WLP Act deals with “Declaration and management of community reserve”. In view of sub-section (2) thereof, the provisions under clauses (b) and (c) of Section 33 of the WLP Act, which are applicable to a ‘sanctuary’ shall, as far as may be, apply also in relation to a ‘community reserve’. 38. Section 38-O deals with “Powers and Functions of Tiger Conservation Authority”. Clause (a) thereof provides for approval of the TCP prepared by the State Government under sub-section (3) of Section 38V of the WLP Act. Under clause (b), it has to evaluate and assess various aspects of sustainable ecology and disallow any ecologically unsustainable land use such as setting up of mining, industry, and 226 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports other projects within the tiger reserves. Under clause (c), it is required to lay down normative standards for tourism activities and guidelines for ‘Project Tiger’ from time to time for tiger conservation in the buffer and core area of tiger reserves and ensure their due compliance. Under clause (d), it has to provide for management focus and measures for addressing conflicts of men and wild animals and to emphasize on co-existence in forest areas outside the National Parks, sanctuaries, or tiger reserves in the working plan code. Under clause (e), it has to provide information on protection measures including future conservation plans, estimation of the population of tigers and its natural prey species, status of habitats, diseases surveillance, mortality surveys, patrolling, reports on untoward happenings, and such any other management aspects as it may deem fit including future plans for conservation. Under clause (f), the Tiger Conservation Authority is required to approve, co-ordinate research and monitor on tigers, co-predators, prey, habitats, related ecological and socio- economic parameters, and their evaluation. Under clause (g), it is required to ensure that the tiger reserves and areas linking one protected area or tiger reserve with another protected area or tiger reserve are not diverted for ecologically unsustainable uses, except in public interest and that too, with the approval of the National Board for Wild Life and on the advice of the Tiger Conservation Authority.