To this limited extent the action of the Income Tax Officer in starting proceedings under Section 34 is open to challenge in a court of law. (See Calcutta Discount Co. Ltd. v. ITO). In R.S. Seth Gopikrishan Agarwal v. R.N. Sen, Assistant Collector of 2390 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Customs this Court repelled the challenge to the validity of the search of the premises of the appellant and the seizure of the documents found therein. The search was carried out under the authority of an authorisation issued under Rule 126(L)(2) of the Defence of India (Amendment) Rules, 1963 (Gold Control Rules) for search of the premises of the appellant. The validity of the authorisation was challenged on the ground of mala fides as also on the ground that the authorisation did not expressly employ the phrase ‘reason to believe’ occurring in Section 105 of the Customs Act. Negativing both the contentions, Subba Rao, C.J. speaking for the Court observed that the subject underlying Section 105 of the Customs Act which confers power for issuing authorisation for search of the premises and seizure of incriminating articles was to search for goods liable to be confiscated or documents secreted in any place, which are relevant to any proceeding under the Act. The legislative policy reflected in the section is that the search must be in regard to the two categories mentioned in the section. The Court further observed that though under the section, the officer concerned need not give reasons if the existence of belief is questioned in any collateral proceedings he has to produce relevant evidence to sustain his belief. A shield against the abuse of power was found in the provision that the officer authorised to search has to send forthwith to the Collector of Customs a copy of any record made by him. Sub-section (2) of Section 37 of the Act takes care for this position inasmuch as that where an officer below the rank of the Director of Enforcement carried out the search, he must send a report to the Director of Enforcement. The last part of the submission does not commend to us because the file was produced before us and as stated earlier, the Officer issuing the search warrant had material which he rightly claimed to be adequate for forming the reasonable belief to issue the search warrant.” This decision relates to the power of authorised officers to conduct search and seizure operations under Section 37 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973. The aforesaid observations would [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2391 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement be equally relevant, though in the context of the power to arrest, a power which is more drastic and intrusive. Thus, the nature of inquiry to be undertaken by the courts has to be in-depth and detailed. 31. In Barium Chemicals Ltd. and another v. Company Law Board and others,28 the Constitution Bench of this Court had referred to and quoted from the decision of the Privy Council in Nakkuda Ali v. Jayaratne,29 wherein Lord Radcliffe had observed: “After all words such as these are commonly found when a legislature or law making authority confers powers on a minister or official.