There is not an iota of material to show that any such steps much less expeditiously were taken by the petitioner which will show the real bonafides of the petitioner to undertake the scheme. 54. In fact the petitioner kept the slum dwellers/society in dark on any of the steps alleged to be taken by the petitioner. There was no transparency in the petitioner’s approach with the slum-dwellers whose anxious, impatient and painful wait of so many years for the slum scheme to start was continuously staring at the petitioner’s right from the word go. This was not what was expected of a diligent developer. The slum schemes are expected to be taken and pursued by the developers for genuine and bonafide object and purpose to redevelop the slums as reflected in the rules which is for the mutual benefit namely the benefit of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1453 Yash Developers v. Harihar Krupa Co-Operative Housing Society Limited & Ors. the slum dwellers of being provided a permanent alternate accommodation and so far as the developer, to exploit the free sale component, which is nothing but a business consideration for the developer. If this be the long and short of a slum scheme what can be the intention of a developer to sit tight on a slum scheme and not take expeditious measures to undertake and complete the scheme. The reasons can be innumerable, if the reasons are attributable to the authorities, the developer has certainly remedies in law to be immediately resorted. No forum competent to entertain such complaints would refuse to look into such grievances when the very right to livelihood of the slum dwellers who are living in inhuman conditions, being a concomitant of Article 21 of the Constitution, is involved and which becomes a matter of urgent concern and of utmost priority. A developer cannot shut his eyes to all these factors and attributes, once appointed by the society. For the developer, there has be relentless action on day to day basis as any delay in not implementing the slum scheme is not only detrimental to the slum dwellers, but to the society at large. Delay in effective implementation of the slum scheme would defeat the very goal, the ideals and the purpose of the slum redevelopment scheme. 55. A perusal of the record indicates that the society is correct in contending that during the period from 2006 to 2016 i.e. for about 10 years the petitioner did not take any concrete steps towards implementation of the slum rehabilitation scheme and the petitioner had clearly failed to obtain a LOI for such a long period. The society, thus, was constrained to file the application dated 15 March 2016, under Section 13(2) of the Slums Act, praying for change of the petitioner as the developer. It is correct that Annexure-II was originally issued by MHADA on 16 April 1998. The petitioner was appointed as developer in the month of June 2006 and it clearly took about seven to eight years for the petitioner to obtain revised Annexure-II which was obtained on 23 December 2013.