… 43. Parliamentary democracy envisages that matters involving implementation of policies of the government should be discussed by the elected representatives of the people. Debate, discussion and persuasion are, therefore, the means and essence of the democratic process. During the debates the Members put forward different points of view. Members belonging to the same political party may also have, and may give expression to, differences of opinion on a matter. Not unoften (sic) the views expressed by the Members in the House have resulted in substantial modification, and even the withdrawal, of the proposals under consideration. Debate and expression of different points of view, thus, serve an essential and healthy purpose in the functioning of Parliamentary democracy. At times such an expression of views during the debate in the House may lead to voting or abstinence from voting in the House otherwise than on party lines.” III. Courts and the House exercise parallel jurisdiction over allegations of bribery 109. Mr Raju Ramachandran, learned senior advocate on behalf of the Petitioner, has argued that bribery has been treated as a breach of privilege by the House which has used its powers to dispense discipline over bribe-taking members. He argues that immunity for a vote, speech or conduct in the House of Parliament does not in any manner leave culpable members blameless or free from sanction. Such members have been punished including being expelled by the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 535 Sita Soren v. Union of India House. Mr Ramachandran cites many examples of actions taken by the House against its members who were found to have received bribes. In our exposition of the history of parliamentary privileges in India, we have illustrated how bribery was initially deemed to be a breach of privilege by the House of Commons in the UK. Based on the position of law in the UK the British government was uncertain about the position in India but assumed it to be governed as a matter of breach of privilege in the absence of an express statutory enactment. The Report of the Reforms Enquiry Committee in 1924 had recommended bribery to be made a penal offence so that members may be prosecuted for crimes before a court of law. 110. The issue of bribery is not one of exclusivity of jurisdiction by the House over its bribe-taking members. The purpose of a House acting against a contempt by a member for receiving a bribe serves a purpose distinct from a criminal prosecution. The purpose of the proceedings which a House may conduct is to restore its dignity. Such a proceeding may result in the expulsion from the membership of the House and other consequences which the law envisages. Prosecution for an offence operates in a distinct area involving a violation of a criminal statute. The power to punish for criminal wrongdoing emanates from the power of the state to prosecute offenders who violate the criminal law. The latter applies uniformly to everyone subject to the sanctions of the criminal law of the land.