Sharma may be summarized as under: - (i) The Advocates Act, 1961 is a law dealing exclusively with the legal profession which provides a robust mechanism laying down professional standards for compliance and for determining professional misconduct. (ii) The legal profession is a noble profession and not a business or trade. It is an extension of system of justice, and the success of judicial process depends on the independence of the Bar. Hence, its autonomy is needed to preserve the democracy and to keep judiciary strong. (iii) A unique feature which distinguishes an Advocate from other professional is that an Advocate has a duty to the court and his peers, in addition to his duty to the client. He is not mere a mouthpiece but he has to exercise his own for upholding the interest of his client by all fair, legal and reasonable means, and by being respectful to the court. 496 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iv) The Bar Council of India and State Bar Councils are invested with the disciplinary powers. An error of or mere negligence may not be a professional misconduct. In any case, the professional misconduct which subsumes cases of negligence, which is covered by the special law i.e., Advocates Act, 1961. (v) The Advocates Act being special law would prevail over the CP Act so far as the conduct of Advocates are concerned. (vi) The law of negligence recognizes that a professional would be held liable in a civil action for negligence and includes professionals of varied fields who possess special skill in that profession generally. (vii) The legal professionals in United Kingdom can be sued for negligence by a way of regular civil action, however they would not be liable under the law dealing with consumer rights for trade/commercial activities. (viii) Allowing consumer protection law to apply to the Advocates would open floodgates of unnecessary litigations and it would not be in the larger public interest to do so. It would also lead to multiple proceedings before multiple forums, reagitation of issues decided by a judicial body including the Supreme Court with potentially conflicting decisions. (ix) The summary nature of proceeding under the consumer protection law with its accent on inexpensive and speedy remedy (though enacted with laudable objects for protection of consumers against trade and commercial activities), can become an easy tool for disgruntled litigants to knock at the doors of the consumer forums against the advocates. It would lead to speculative/vexatious claims, rather than seeking relief in respect of bona fide grievances against professional misconduct. (x) The legal profession is recognized as sui generis and stands out among other profession due to its distinctive nature, where the lawyers often find themselves operating in an environment where control is elusive. Unlike many other professions where practitioners may have a higher degree of control over their [2024] 6 S.C.R. 497 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr.