Thus, the etymological and evolutionary history and background of the nomenclature “Scheduled Castes,” coupled with the Presidential s published under Article 341 of the Constitution, make the “Scheduled Castes”, a homogenous class. The necessary corollary would be that all the members of all the castes, races and tribes enumerated in the Presidential List are deemed to be “Scheduled Castes” for the purposes of the Constitution and they all would be entitled to all the benefits granted or reserved for the “Scheduled Castes”. 46. A very pertinent observations in this regard have been made by a Seven-Judge Bench in State of Kerala and Another vs. N.M. Thomas and Other 20 which deserve to be reproduced. The issues 20 [1976] 1 SCR 906 : (1976) 2 SCC 310 1622 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports involved in the said case inter alia were whether Article 16(1) permits preferences to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and weaker sections on the basis of reasonable classification, or whether Article 16(4) is an exception to Articles 16(1) and 16(2). The majority of five Judges in their separate but concurring opinions opined as under: - Per A.N. Ray, J. “40. The Constitution makes a classification of Scheduled Castes and scheduled tribes in numerous provisions and gives a mandate to the State to accord special or favoured treatment to them. Article 46 contains a directive principle of State policy — fundamental in the governance of the country enjoining the State to promote with special care educational and economic interests of the Scheduled Castes and scheduled tribes and to protect them from any social injustice and exploitation. Article 335 enjoins that the claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes and scheduled tribes to the services and posts in the Union and the States shall be taken into consideration. Article 338 provides for appointment by the President of a Special Officer for the Scheduled Castes and scheduled tribes to investigate all matters relating to the safeguards provided for them under the Constitution. Article 341 enables the President by public notification to specify castes, races or tribes which shall be deemed to be Scheduled Castes in the States and the Union Territories. Article 342 contains provision for similar notification in respect of scheduled tribes. Article 366(24) and (25) defines Scheduled Castes and scheduled tribes. The classification by the impugned rule and the s is with a view to securing adequate representation to Scheduled Castes and scheduled tribes in the services of the State as otherwise they would stagnate in the lowest rung of the State services. 41. to 42………………………………. 43. Scheduled Castes and scheduled tribes are not a caste within the ordinary meaning of caste. In Bhaiyalal v. Harikishan Singh [AIR 1965 SC 1557 : (1965) 2 SCR 877] [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1623 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. this Court held that an enquiry whether the appellant there belonged to the Dohar caste which was not recognised as a scheduled caste and his declaration that he belonged to the Chamar caste which was a scheduled caste could not be premitted because of the provisions contained in Article 341.