Unfortunately, both NCLT and Nclat do not have sufficient members to deal with the flood of applications and appeals that is before them. The time taken in the queue by applicants who knock at their doors cannot, for no fault of theirs, be put against them.” 35.13 Nor can the decisions of the Tribunal in Standard Surfa Chem India Private Limited (supra) and Prakash Chandra Kapoor (supra) referred to by learned senior counsel for the Liquidator, be read in favour of the respondents. A sweeping observation that all the timelines prescribed in Regulation 47 are directory, is impermissible. The consequences of non- compliance of the specific rule would have to be individually examined to decide as to whether the said rule has a directory flavour or is mandatory in character. 35.14 In the present case, records reveal that when the Auction Purchaser had approached the Liquidator seeking extension of time to deposit the balance sale consideration. The Liquidator had rightly expressed his inability to do so and 1312 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports indicated that such a power vests only in the Adjudicating Authority. On receiving the aforesaid response, the Auction Purchaser did take steps to move the Adjudicating Authority for seeking extension of time for making the payments. It is a matter of record that the said application was allowed by the Adjudicating Authority on 5th May, 2020 and time was granted to the Auction Purchaser to pay the balance sale consideration on the Central Government/State Government lifting the lockdown. The aforesaid dated 5th May, 2020, was passed by the Adjudicating Authority in exercise of its inherent powers under Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules, 2016 which states as follows : “Rule 11 of NCLT Rules, 2016 Inherent Powers - Nothing in these rules shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the inherent powers of the Tribunal to make such s as may be necessary for meeting the ends of justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the Tribunal.” 35.15 The aforesaid Rule is not to be read in isolation but in conjunction with Section 35 of the IBC that deals with the powers and duties of the Liquidator and states that the Liquidator shall have the powers and duties specified in clauses (a) to (o) of sub-section 1 including the power to sell an immovable/movable property of the Corporate Debtor in liquation by public auction/private sale as per clause (f), subject to the directions of the NCLT. Pertinently, it has been observed in Arun Kumar Jagatramka v. Jindal Steel and Power Limited 54 that “the Liquidator exercises several functions which are quasi-judicial in nature and character. Section 35(1) itself enunciated that the powers and duties which are entrusted to the Liquidator are “subject to the directions of the Adjudicating Authority”. The Liquidator, in other words, exercises functions which have been made amenable to the jurisdiction of NCLT, acting as the Adjudicating Authority…..”. 35.16 In the facts of the present case, the Adjudicating Authority exercised statutory powers under Section 35 of the IBC read 54 [2021] 3 SCR 114 : (2021) 7 SCC 474 (Refer Para 81) [2024] 8 S.C.R.