Further, the Respondent No.1 relied on the pleadings stated in the writ petition filed by one Dr.F.Wadia, who claims to be in possession of a portion of the subject lands. The Respondent No.1, in paragraph 34 of the plaint stated that “…. One Advocate Shri Godge had appeared in the said matter. The said Advocate is well acquainted with the plaintiff. The said Advocate, after reading all the necessary related proceedings, informed the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1451 Shri Mukund Bhavan Trust and Ors. v. Shrimant Chhatrapati Udayan Raje Pratapsinh Maharaj Bhonsle and Another plaintiff of the mischief committed by the Defendants. The plaintiff thereafter collected all the necessary information and documents. The plaintiff then instructed his Advocates to file the present suit”. However, there is no averment as to when the Respondent No.1 was intimated by Mr.Godge. Thus, the cause of action alleged by the Respondent No.1 is purely illusory and has been stated with a view to get over the bar under VII Rule 11(d) of CPC. 7.3. It is also submitted by the learned counsel for the appellants that the limitation period for seeking cancellation of an instrument as per Article 59 of the Limitation Act, 1963, is 3 years from the date when the existence of document first becomes known to the plaintiff. In case of registered document, the date of registra- tion becomes the date of deemed knowledge. Accordingly, the Respondent No.1 and his predecessors are deemed to have implied notice of the contents of the registered sale deeds and as per Article 58, the period of limitation to obtain any declara- tion in the suit commences within 3 years from the date when right to sue accrues. However, the Respondent No.1 by clever drafting, attempted to circumvent the provisions of the Limitation Act. That means, the Respondent No.1 knowing fully well that a challenge to the registered sale deeds of the years 1938 and 1952 in and by which the Defendant No.1 Trust acquired the title over the subject lands, would be hopelessly barred by limitation, has attempted to question the title of the Defendant No.1 Trust by inventing an imaginary cause of action to sustain his suit. 7.4. The learned counsel for the appellants further submitted that according to Article 65 of the Limitation Act, 1963, the right to possess immovable property or any interest therein, based on title, must be asserted within twelve years from the date, when the possession of the defendant becomes adverse to the plaintiff. Admittedly, the Respondent No.1 did not assert any right over the subject lands prior to the year 2008 or 2009. Consequently, the relief sought for possession is also barred by the law of limitation. Ultimately, it is submitted that the Respondent No.1 being stranger, has no locus standi to seek a declaration that compromise decrees passed in Special Civil Suit Nos.152/1951 and 1622/1988 and Civil appeal No.787/2001 are void ab initio, null and void and be set aside. 1452 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 7.5.