46. We deem it fit to advert to the fine words of wisdom imparted to us by Hon’ble P.B. Mukharji, CJ., in ‘The New Jurisprudence: The Grammar of Modern Law’ where the learned author says: “The supreme requirement of a good is reason. is of value on the strength of its reason. The weight of a , its binding character or its persuasive character depends on the presentation and articulation of reason. Reason, therefore, is the soul and spirit of a good .” 47. It is one of the cardinal principles of the justice delivery system that any verdict of a competent judicial forum in the form of a / , that determines the rights and liabilities of the parties to the proceedings, must inform the parties what is the outcome and why one party has succeeded and not the other - the ‘why’ constituting the reasons and ‘what’ the conclusion. Apart from anything else, [2024] 1 S.C.R. 547 Asma Lateef & Anr. v. Shabbir Ahmad & Ors. insistence of the requirement for the reason(s) to support the conclusion guarantees application of mind by the adjudicator to the materials before it as well as provides an avenue to the unsuccessful party to test the reasons before a higher court. 48. All civil courts in the country have to regulate their judicial work in accordance with the terms of the provisions of the CPC. Any egregious breach or violation of such provisions, including the one noticed here, would be ultra vires. 49. Let us now examine whether there is a ‘decree’ within the scope of section 2(2), CPC. Section 2(2) is reproduced hereunder: (2) “decree” means the formal expression of an adjudication which, so far as regards the Court expressing it, conclusively determines the rights of the parties with regard to all or any of the matters in controversy in the suit and may be either preliminary or final. It shall be deemed to include the rejection of a plaint and the determination of any question within section 144, but shall not include - (a) any adjudication from which an appeal lies as an appeal from an , or (b) any of dismissal for default. (underlining ours, for emphasis) 50. The decree signed by the Trial Court on 11th November, 1991 is not on record. Nevertheless, at the cost of repetition, we record that examination of the dated 5th August, 1991 does not reveal any adjudication leading to determination of the rights of the parties in relation to any of the matters in controversy in the suit and, therefore, the decree since drawn up is not a formal expression of an adjudication/determination since there has been no adjudication/ determination so as to conform to the requirements of a decree within the meaning of section 2(2). In this regard, we express our concurrence with both the High Court and the Executing Court that there is no decree at all in the eye of law. 51. We, therefore, hold that a decree that follows a or an (of the present nature) would be inexecutable in the eyes of law and execution thereof, if sought for, would be open to objection in an application under section 47, CPC.