6. By the 1st impugned , the High Court disposed of the aforesaid Regular First Appeal, inter alia, directing the trial Court to frame a Scheme for the management of the temple and its institutions and to formulate Rules with respect to their functioning, after giving opportunity to all the parties to produce draft Scheme as expeditiously as possible, but not later than one year from the date of production of copy of the . Further, the High Court appointed Hon’ble Mr. Justice A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai, a retired Judge of the High Court of Kerala, as the Administrative Head of the subject temple and the Trust/ Managing Committee. It was further observed in the 1st impugned that the Administrative Committee (the bodies elected as per the bye-laws of the temple) shall be under the supervision and full control of the said Administrative Head; until such time the scheme is framed by the Trial Court; all decisions of the elected bodies shall require to be ratified by the Administrative Head before the decisions are put to implementation; the parties concerned would be at liberty to place within one month from the date of receipt of the , their suggestions before the Administrative Head regarding the draft Scheme, so as to enable the Administrative Head to settle the Scheme through consensus, if it is possible. 7. Seeking a direction to the Administrator to conduct election to elect a Pothu Bharana Samithi of the subject temple, the Respondent Nos.5 and 31 in the aforesaid RFA filed an Interlocutory Application viz., I.A.No.5 of 2022 in RFA No.562 of 2010. By the 2nd impugned , the High Court disposed of the said application by removing 362 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the elected Executive Committee of the temple and appointing an unelected Committee comprising persons of its choice contrary to the Bye-laws of the temple and the prevailing customs. Being aggrieved, the appellants who were the elected Secretary and President of the Executive Committee, are before this Court with these appeals. Along with these appeals, the appellants have also taken out various Interlocutory Applications. 8. The issues that arise for consideration in these Civil Appeals are: (i) When the entire proceedings in RFA was concluded by the 1st impugned , whether the High Court, which had become functus officio and coram non judice losing its jurisdiction upon disposal of the RFA, was correct in entertaining the interlocutory application No.5 of 2022 and passing the 2nd impugned ; and (ii) Contrary to the convention and practice being followed in the administration of the subject temple and its institutions thereunder that the elected bodies in vogue would continue till the next election, whether the High Court was justified in passing the 2nd impugned , removing the elected Executive Committee and appointing an unelected 5 member Committee of its choice, under the supervision of an Administrative Head and an Advocate Commissioner, on the application filed to allow the elected Committees in vogue to function until the next elections.