It is equivalent to saying that in spite of the provisions of the Act or any other Act mentioned in the non obstante clause or any contract or document mentioned the enactment following it will have its full operation or that the provisions embraced in the non obstante clause would not be an impediment for an operation of the enactment.” 1294 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports It was further observed in reference to ICICI Bank Ltd. vs. SIDCO Leathers Ltd. (2006) 10 SCC 452, that even if a non-obstante clause has wide amplitude, the extent of its impact has to be measured in view of the legislative intention and legislative policy. 25. Further, the utility of non-obstante clause is where there is a conflict between what is stated in a provision and any other law for the time being in force, or anything else contained in the said enactment. As already noted, only in the case of a conflict, the object is to give the enacting or operative portion of the section an overriding effect, not otherwise. In other words, only in a case of a conflict, a provision in an enactment containing a non-obstante clause, would be given its full operation and what is stated in the non-obstante clause will not be an impediment for the operation of the particular provision in the enactment. This would mean that what is stated in the non-obstante clause would not take away the effect of any provision of the Act which follows the same. 26. In Aswini Kumar Ghosh vs. Arabinda Bose, AIR 1952 SC 369, this Court speaking through Chief Justice Patanjali Shastri observed that only when there is any inconsistency between what is contained in a provision of an enactment and a non-obstante clause would make the latter in what is to yield to what is stated in the provision following the same. In other words, it is only when the enacting part of the statute cannot be read harmoniously with what is stated in the non-obstante clause, would the non-obstante clause result in yielding to what is stated in the enacting part. Similarly, in Municipal Corporation, Indore vs. Ratnaprabha, AIR 1977 SC 308, it was observed that there should be a clear inconsistency between a special enactment or rules and a general enactment. 27. Reference may also be made to an earlier of the Full Bench of the Bombay High Court in Karim Abdul Rehman Shaikh vs. Shehnaz Karim Shaikh, 2000 SCC OnLine Bom 446. Ranjana Desai, J, (as Her Ladyship then was) held that the purpose of the 1986 Act was not to take away a pre-existing right to seek maintenance under the extant statutory regime. Its intent could not be to ‘absolve Muslim husbands from their obligation to look after them after iddat period.’ The upshot of the reasoning was that the 1986 Act deliberately used two distinct expressions: maintenance and provision. These expressions allow sufficient interpretive amplitude to reconcile the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1295 Mohd.