In this case, the right which had accrued to the investigating agency to investigate the crime which took place prior to the coming into force of the new Act and which was covered by the 1947 Act remained, unaffected by reason of clause (c) of Section 6. Clause (e) says that the repeal shall not affect any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment and Section 6 further states that any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if the repealing Act had not been passed. Therefore, the right of CBI to investigate the crime, institute proceedings and prosecute the appellants is saved and not affected by the repeal of the 1947 Act. That is to say, the right to investigate and the corresponding liability incurred are saved. Section 6 of the GC Act qualifies the effect of repeal stated in sub-clauses (a) to (e) by the words “unless a different intention appears”. Different intention must appear in the repealing Act (see Bansidhar [(1989) 2 SCC 557] ). If the repealing Act discloses a different intention, the repeal shall not result in situations stated in sub-clauses (a) to (e). No different intention is disclosed in the provisions of the new Act to hold that the repeal of the 1947 Act affects the right of the investigating agency to investigate offences which are covered by the 1947 Act or that it prevents the investigating agency from proceeding with the investigation and prosecuting the accused for offences under the 1947 Act. In our opinion, therefore, the repeal of the 1947 Act does not vitiate or invalidate the criminal case instituted against the appellants and the consequent conviction of the appellants for offences under the provisions of the 1947 Act.” 602 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 27. In view of the afore-stated legal position, unless a different intention is disclosed in the new Act or repealing Act, a repeal of an Act would not affect the right of the investigating agency to investigate the offences which were covered under the repealed Act. If the offences were committed when the repealed Act was in force, then the repeal of such Act would neither affect the right of the investigating agency to investigate the offence nor would vitiate or invalidate any proceedings instituted against the accused. In the instant case also the offences under Section 13(1)(c) and 13(1)(d) were in force when the same were allegedly committed by the appellant. Hence, the deletion of the said provisions and the substitution of the new offence under Section 13 by the Amendment Act, 2018 would not affect the right of the investigating agency to investigate nor would vitiate or invalidate any proceedings initiated against the appellant. 28. Having considered the different contours of Section 17A, I am of the opinion that Section 17A would be applicable to the offences under the PC Act as amended by the Amendment Act, 2018, and not to the offences existing prior to the said amendment.