The non-recognition was non-justiciable as establishment of a Government recognised was only through a legislation and there existed no Article 30 or fundamental rights before 1950. The Court emphasized the importance of the recognition from the then Government as it made the value of degree being awarded by such an institution higher. The Court noted that it was only in the year 1956, that the University Grants Commission Act, 1956, prohibited establishment of a University without a statute. 180. In essence, in this critical part of the judgement, the Court noted the two important considerations as under : i. There was no law prohibiting establishment of a private institution which grants degree without Government intervention or legislation prior to 1956; ii. The educational institution established with Government intervention and legislation had a significant advantage of British Government’s recognition to the degree granted by the institution. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1999 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. It was this simple understanding of facts as prevalent in pre-Constitution India, that formed the fulcrum of the in Azeez Basha [supra]. 181. On the basis of the said observations, the Court held that the minority community was not prevented in any manner in 1920 from establishing a university if it was not interested in having such University and its degrees recognised by the British Indian Government. The Court also noted that in such a situation, the minority community could not insist that degrees granted by such a university should be recognised by Government. Therefore, on the said basis the Court remarked that when the AMU was established, by virtue of Section 6 of the 1920 Act, its degrees were recognised by Government and in that manner, an institution was brought into existence which could not be brought into existence by any private individual or body. 182. In the next portion, the Court referred to the MAO College as the ‘nucleus’ of AMU – an expression which has caused considerable controversy in the present proceedings. The Court thereafter notes that the Central Legislature established the AMU through the 1920 Act as the minority could not establish a university whose degrees were bound to be recognised by Government and that one circumstance was critical. The Court notes that the 1920 Act was passed as a result of the efforts of the Muslim minority but it would not mean that the AMU, as a University granting government recognised degrees in 1920, was established by the Muslim minority. 183. In the next part, the Court renders its opinion on the meaning of the word ‘establish’ to mean “to bring into existence”. On the basis of the said meaning, the Court thereafter again ventured into the history surrounding the establishment of the AMU. The Court notes through a historical analysis that the minority community approached the Government to bring into existence a university whose degrees would be recognised by Government. It was thereafter that the British Government took the decision to establish the university, whose degrees it would recognise, in the only manner known to law for establishing such a university at the said time – by passing a legislation.