However, the regular Bench disposed of the matters before it on 11 March 2003 without answering the question. 9. Separately, AMU proposed a policy for admission into its post- graduate medical course by which 50% of the seats were reserved for Muslim candidates. The proposal was accepted by the Union of India. Proceedings were initiated under Article 226 for challenging the constitutional validity of the reservation policy. 10. The petitioners argued that the reservation policy by which 50% of the seats were earmarked for Muslims was unconstitutional because AMU was not a minority educational institution in view of the of this Court in Azeez Basha (supra). They averred that the amendments to Sections 2(l) and 5(2)(c) of the AMU Act by the AMU (Amendment) Act 1981 attempted to overrule the in Azeez Basha (supra) without altering the basis of the decision in that case. In response, AMU contended that the AMU (Amendment) Act 1981 had the effect of changing the basis of Azeez Basha (supra) and that AMU was a minority institution after the amendment, and thus was entitled to reserve seats for candidates from the Muslim community. 13 (2002) 8 SCC 481 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1687 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 11. A Single Judge of the Allahabad High Court in the decision in Dr. Naresh Agarwal v. Union of India declared the reservation policy unconstitutional on the following grounds:14 a. The basis for the decision in Azeez Basha (supra) was Sections 3, 4, and 6. These provisions were not amended by the AMU (Amendment) Act 1981. The deletion of the word ‘establish’ from the long title and the preamble, and the amendment to the definition of the term ‘University’ in Section 2(l) are not sufficient to hold that AMU is a minority institution under Article 30; b. The Muslim community willingly surrendered the right to administer the University to statutory bodies; c. The amendment to Section 2(l) is a legislative action which encroaches on judicial power and is akin to Parliament functioning as an appellate court or tribunal. To prevent Section 2(l) from being struck down for overruling Azeez Basha (supra), it is necessary to read down the term “established” in the amended AMU Act as referring to MAO College; and d. AMU, not being a minority institution, is not entitled to the protection of Article 30 and shall not provide for reservation on the basis of religion as this would amount to a violation of Article 29(2). 12. The Court declared AMU’s reservation policy unconstitutional and directed the cancellation of the admissions made under this policy. It directed the University to conduct a fresh entrance examination without reservation on the basis of religion. 13. The judgement in appeal by a Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court was reported as Aligarh Muslim University v. Malay Shukla.15 The Division Bench affirmed the of the Single Judge, with some modifications. AN Ray, C.J. speaking for the Division Bench held that: a. When the minority status is not assumed or admitted, the factor of administration and control by non-minority groups becomes important.