These Regulations, in simple terms, effectively empowered NOIDA to authorise the designated developer to levy and collect the applicable fee, which would in turn, be based on a mutually agreed formula between the parties. This designated developer in the instant case would be NTBCL. 46. A plain reading of Section 6A makes it unequivocally clear that the ‘Authority’ is empowered to delegate the power to collect taxes or fees levied by it. However, under no circumstances does Section 6A authorize the delegation of the power to levy taxes or fees. Similarly, Section 19(2)(e) of the 1976 Act enables NOIDA to frame Regulations governing the levy of taxes or fees. This provision, however, cannot be interpreted as empowering NOIDA to delegate the power of levying taxes or fees through an agreement under Section 6A of the Act. It is, therefore, evident that while the power to levy taxes or fees remains exclusively vested in the Authority, from 14.08.1998 onwards, the power to collect such taxes or fees could be delegated to any person with whom an agreement for the maintenance of infrastructure or amenities has been executed. 2028 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 47. However, NOIDA overstepped its authority by delegating the power to levy fees to NTBCL through the Concession Agreement and Regulations, exceeding the scope of its powers. In this context, the High Court rightly noted that it is a well-established law that an authority vested with the power to frame subordinate legislation must act within the bounds of that power and refrain from exceeding its limits. It goes without saying that the power to delegate must be expressly discernible in the Principal Act itself and in the absence of such provisions, no circular method can be countenanced to extract such power. 48. In complete contradiction and violation of the scheme of the Statute, NOIDA in purported exercise of its power to formulate Regulations not only delegated the power to collect fee but also authorised NTBCL to revise and levy such charges. Such a delegation was totally in violation of the provisions of the 1976 Act. The responsibility to determine the amount and rate of fees lies with NOIDA; by delegating this function to NTBCL via the Concession Agreement and reinforcing it through the Regulations, NOIDA exceeded its authority moored under the 1976 Act. 49. It is pertinent to underscore herein that taxing statutes, being penal in nature, must be construed strictly. The power to levy a tax or fee cannot be inferred by implication but must be expressly conferred by Statute. Under our Constitutional framework, no private entity can be granted the authority to levy taxes or fees, for such powers are exclusively vested in public authorities. 50. Nevertheless, the collection of fees or toll can be assigned to a developer or contractor for a defined period, including for the purpose of recovery of the investment made in developing the infrastructure. Thus, we concur with the High Court’s conclusion that the Concession Agreement, in so far as it sub-delegates the power to levy and collect fees to NTBCL, is unlawful, and the Regulations justifying such sub-delegation undermine the objective of Section 6A of the 1976 Principal Act.