This will ensure that public officials do not act in a high-handed, arbitrary, and discriminatory manner. Further, if they indulge in such acts, accountability must be fastened upon them. V. RIGHTS OF THE ACCUSED UNDER THE CONSTITUTION 55. While we consider the issue in this case, we will have to reiterate that even the incarcerated individuals, whether accused, undertrial, or convicts, have certain rights, as any other citizen. They have a right to dignity and cannot be subjected to any cruel or inhuman treatment. The punishment awarded to such persons has to be in accordance with law. Such punishment cannot be inhuman or cruel. 56. This Court has protected the prisoners from excesses and arbitrariness of the State and its officials. In the case of Sunil Batra (I) v. Delhi Administration and others,29 the Court declared that the use of iron fetters, or the practice of solitary confinement and cellular segregation is inhuman. Speaking for the Court, Justice Krishna Iyer, in his inimitable style, states that: “I hold that bar fetters are a barbarity generally and, like whipping, must vanish. Civilised consciousness is hostile to torture within the walled campus. We hold that solitary confinement, cellular segregation and marginally modified editions of the same process are inhuman and irrational… The law is not abracadabra but at once pragmatic and astute and does not surrender its power before scary exaggerations of security by prison bosses... Social justice cannot sleep if the Constitution hangs limp where its consumers most need its humanism.” 29 [1979] 1 SCR 392 : (1978) 4 SCC 494 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 769 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures 57. Again in the case of Charles Sobraj v. Supdt., Central Jail, Tihar, New Delhi,30 while observing that the rights enjoyed by prisoners are not static and will rise to human heights when challenging situations arise, this Court observed thus: “12. … prisoners retain all rights enjoyed by free citizens except those lost necessarily as an incident of confinement. Moreover, the rights enjoyed by prisoners under Articles 14, 19 and 21, though limited, are not static and will rise to human heights when challenging situations arise.” 58. In Sunil Batra (II) v. Delhi Administration,31 the Court highlighted Article 21 protects the prisoners against several inflictions. It was held: “Inflictions may take many protean forms, apart from physical assaults. Pushing the prisoner into a solitary cell, denial of a necessary amenity, and, more dreadful sometimes, transfer to a distant prison where visits or society of friends or relations may be snapped, allotment of degrading labour, assigning him to a desperate or tough gang and the like, may be punitive in effect. Every such affliction or abridgment is an infraction of liberty or life in its wider sense and cannot be sustained unless Article 21 is satisfied.” 59. This Court recently in the case of Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors.,32 reiterated the constitutional rights of the accused in the following words: “The right to live with dignity extends even to the incarcerated.