We shall be subsequently examining the right to equitable set-off while examining the provisions of the IBC. 10. Rory Derham on the law of set-offs observes that insolvency set- offs should not be equated with equitable set-offs.25 This statement reflects the development of law in the United Kingdom, which has resulted in enactment of special provisions on set-off in case of insolvency. We need not examine in detail the law as applicable to insolvency set-off in the United Kingdom for the present decision, albeit it is relevant to state that they are broader and wider than the provisions of equitable set-off. Insolvency set-off under the law of the United Kingdom is permitted when there are mutual debts, mutual credits and other mutual dealings between the parties at the relevant cut-off time, which is essentially the stage of commencement of the liquidation process. We shall subsequently examine the term “mutual dealings” as applicable to liquidation proceedings in India. 22 Citibank Canada v. Confederation of Life Insurance Company, 42 CRB (3)(d) 288. 23 Ramdhari v. Premanand, 19 Cal WN 1183. 24 Maheswari Metals & Metal Refinery, Bangalore v. Madras State Small Industries Corporation, AIR 1974 Mad 39. 25 Rory Derham, Derham on the Law of Set-off (OxfOrd University Press 4th ed. 2010). 152 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS Analysis of the provisions of IBC relating to the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process, liquidation proceedings and application to the facts of present case. 11. In the present case we are examining and concerned with the provisions as applicable to the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process in Chapter II Part II of the IBC, which consists of the compendium of Sections from 6 to 32A of the IBC. In the course of our discussion, we would also be referring to Section 53 of the IBC, which is a part of Chapter III Part II, and relates to the liquidation process. 12. At the outset we should record, that there is a difference between the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process and the liquidation process of the IBC. The Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process focuses on and fosters rehabilitation, revival and resolution of the corporate debtor, whereas the liquidation process focuses on the constellation of assets of the company in liquidation, and distribution and payment to the creditors from the liquidation estate in terms of the of preference set out in the insolvency statute. 13. Unlike the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 or the Companies Act, 2013, IBC in the case of Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process does not give the indebted creditors the right to set-off against the corporate debtor. The earlier enactments – the Companies Act, 1956 vide Section 529, and the Companies Act, 2013 vide Section 325 (now omitted) – did permit set-off per the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, which enactment is now repealed. Accordingly, under the Companies Acts, in terms of the provisions of Section 46 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, indebted creditors’ right to set-off against the corporate debtor was statutorily recognised subject to satisfaction of certain conditions.