The appellant Company and its Directors cannot be made liable under Section 138 of the 1881 Act for a default committed by Respondent 11. An action in respect of a criminal or a quasi-criminal provision has to be strictly construed in keeping with the provisions alleged to have been violated. The proceedings in such matters are in personam and cannot be used to foist an offence on some other person, who under the statute was not liable for the commission of such offence.” (Emphasis supplied) 41. In Jugesh Sehgal v. Shamsher Singh Gogi reported in (2009) 14 SCC 683, this Court emphasised on the importance of the dishonoured cheque having been drawn by the accused person on an account held in his name for the offence to be made out and held thus: “22. As already noted hereinbefore, in Para 3 of the complaint, there is a clear averment that the cheque in question was issued from an account which was non- existent on the day it was issued or that the account from where the cheque was issued “pertained to someone else”. As per the complainant’s own pleadings, the bank account from where the cheque had been issued, was not held in the name of the appellant and therefore, one of the requisite ingredients of Section 138 of the Act was not satisfied. Under the circumstances, continuance of further proceedings in the complaint under Section 138 of the Act against the appellant would be an abuse of the process [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1975 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. of the court. In our , therefore, the decision of the High Court cannot be sustained.” (Emphasis supplied) 42. The aforesaid discussion makes it clear that as per the legislative scheme it is only the drawer of the cheque who is sought to be made liable for the offence punishable under Section 138 of the NI Act. Thus, the next question that requires consideration is whether a Director of a company, who is also the authorised signatory, to sign and issue cheques on its behalf could be said to be the drawer of a cheque drawn upon the bank account held in the name of the company. In other words, whether such an authorised signatory could be said to “maintain” the bank account upon which the dishonoured cheque has been drawn for the reason that such a person has the authority to enter into transactions using the bank account of the company and also look after the day-to-day functioning of the bank account of the company. ii. Whether authorized signatory of a company falls within the ambit of the expression “drawer”? 43. This Court in one of its recent decisions in the case of Shri Gurudatta Sugars Marketing (P) Ltd. v. Prithviraj Sayajirao Deshmukh and Others reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1800 had the occasion to consider the issue of whether the authorised signatory of a company who had signed a cheque drawn on the bank account of the company and which got dishonoured subsequently could be held to be liable for the payment of interim compensation under Section 143A of the NI Act.