Justice Venkatarama Reddi observed in his concurring opinion that there are two postulates which govern the right to vote : first, the formulation of an opinion about candidates, and second, the expression of choice based on the opinion formulated by casting votes in favour of a preferred candidate. A voter must possess relevant and essential information that would enable them to evaluate a candidate and form an opinion for the purpose of casting votes. The learned Judge observed that the Constitution recognises the right of a voter to know the antecedents of a candidate though the right to vote is a statutory right®' because the action of voting is a form of expression protected by Article 19(1)(a): “Though the initial right cannot be placed on the pedestal of a fundamental right, but, at the stage when the voter goes to the polling booth and casts his vote, his freedom to express arises. The casting of vote in favour of one 87 Section 33-A of the RPA required the candidate to furnish the following information: (a) He is accused of any offence punishable with imprisonment for two years or more in a pending case in which a charge has been framed by the court of competent jurisdiction; and (b) He has been convicted of an offence other than any offence referred to in sub-section (1) or sub- section (2), or covered in sub-section (3), of Section 8 and sentenced to imprisonment for one year or more. 88 [202 0SC3R ]113 6 : (2003) 4 SCC 399 89 [202 0SC3R ]113 6 : (2003) 4 SCC 399 [18, 27] 90 [202 0SC3R ]113 6 : (2003) 4 SCC 399 [96] 91 The right to vote is classified as a statutory vote because only citizens who fulfill certain conditions (such as the age) laid down in a statute can vote. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 492 Digital Supreme Court Reports or the other candidate tantamounts to expression of his opinion and preference and that final stage in the exercise of voting right marks the accomplishment of freedom of expression of the voter. That is where Article 19(1)(a) is attracted.” 72. In the context of the decision of this Court in ADR (supra), the learned Judge observed that the Court issued specific directions for the disclosure of certain information about candidates because of a legislative vacuum, and that the directions issued to the ECI will fill the vacuum until Parliament legislates on the subject. Thus, the five directions which were issued by this Court in ADR (supra) were not construed to be inflexible and immutable theorems. The learned Judge observed that though the voters have a fundamental right to know the antecedents of candidates, all the conceptions of this right formulated by this Court in ADR (supra) cannot be elevated to the realm of fundamental rights. 73. The majority was of the view that the voters have a fundamental right to all the information which was directed to be declared by this Court in ADR (supra).