R 120 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2387 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement the provision compliant with article 14. This is reinforced from the fact that only 313 arrests have been made under the PMLA in 17 years of operations of the PMLA. 16(lx). Canadian in Gifford v. Kelson was also relied on to state that “reason to believe” conveys conviction of the mind founded on evidence regarding the existence of a fact or the doing of an act, therefore, is of a higher standard than mere suspicion. Reliance has been further placed on Premium Granites v. State of T. N. to urge that the requirement of giving reasons for exercise of the power by itself excludes chances of arbitrariness…” 26. We will reproduce what has been held in Gifford (supra): “A suspicion or belief may be entertained, but suspicion and belief cannot exist together. Suspicion is much less than belief; belief includes or absorbs suspicion. xx xx xx When, we speak of “reason to believe” we mean a conclusion arrived at as to the existence of a fact. Of course “reason to believe” does not amount to positive knowledge nor does it mean absolute certainty but it does convey conviction of the mind founded on evidence regarding the existence of a fact or the doing of an act. Suspicion, on the other hand, rings uncertainty. It lives in imagination. It is inkling. It is mistrust. It is chalk. ‘Reason to believe’ is not. It is cheese.” 27. Gifford (supra) accurately explains the difference between the “reasons to believe” and “suspicion”. “Suspicion” requires lower degree of satisfaction, and does not amount to belief. Belief is beyond speculation or doubt, and the threshold of belief “conveys conviction founded on evidence regarding existence of a fact or doing of an act”. Given that the power of arrest is drastic and violates Article 21 of the Constitution, we must give meaningful, true and full play to the legislative intent.26 26 We would subsequently examine the expressions “reason to believe ”, “guilty of an offence punishable under this Act” and “material” in some detail. 2388 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 28. Providing the written “grounds of arrest”, though a must, does not in itself satisfy the compliance requirement. The authorized officer’s genuine belief and reasoning based on the evidence that establishes the arrestee’s guilt is also the legal necessity. As the “reasons to believe” are accorded by the authorised officer, the onus to establish satisfaction of the said condition will be on the DoE and not on the arrestee. 29. On the necessity to satisfy the preconditions mentioned in Section 19(1) of the PML Act, we have quoted from the of this Court in Padam Narain Aggarwal (supra) and also referred to and quoted from the Canadian in Gifford (supra). Existence and validity of the “reasons to believe” goes to the root of the power to arrest. The subjective opinion of the arresting officer must be founded and based upon fair and objective consideration of the material, as available with them on the date of arrest.