The provisions and relevant notifications are reproduced hereinbelow: Section 3 as introduced in 1962: “3. There shall be the following classes of officers of custom namely: — (a) Collectors of Customs; (b) Appellate Collectors of Customs; (c) Deputy Collectors of Customs; (d) Assistant Collectors of Customs; and (e) such other class of officers of customs as may be appointed for the purposes of this Act.” The provision was amended by the Finance Act, 1995 and underwent only one change wherein the expression ‘collector’ was replaced by the expression ‘commissioner’. The amended provision reads as under: [2024] 12 S.C.R. 223 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. “3. Classes of officers of customs.- There shall be the following classes of officers of customs, namely.- (a) Chief Commissioners of Customs; (b) Commissioners of Customs; (c) Commissioners of Customs (Appeals); (d) Deputy Commissioners of Customs;” 23. He submitted that Section 3 refers to the class of officers of customs. All officers of the same rank irrespective of the functions and roles they play would fall under Section 3 as class of officers of customs. Class in this sense would refer to the same rank. 24. Sections 4 and 5 of the Act, 1962 are extracted below: Section 4: "(1) The Board may appoint such persons as it thinks fit to be officers of customs. (2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (7), the Board may authorise a Commissioner of Customs or a Deputy or Assistant Commissioner of Customs to appoint officers of customs below the rank of Assistant Commissioner of Customs.” Section 5: "(1) Subject to such conditions and limitations as the Board may impose, an officer of customs may exercise the powers and discharge custom the duties conferred or imposed on him under this Act. (2) An officer of customs may exercise the powers and discharge the duties conferred or imposed under this Act on any other officer of customs who is subordinate to him. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, an Appellate Collector of Customs shall not exercise the powers and discharge the duties conferred or imposed on an officer of customs other than those specified in Chapter XV and section 108.” 224 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 25. Section 4 relates to appointment of officers of customs and Section 5 deals with the powers and duties of officers of customs. There is only one significant change carried out in Section 4 on 11.05.2002. Prior to that date, the appointing Authority was the Central Government and post 11.05.2002, the Board became the appointing Authority. 26. Some of the relevant notifications issued under Sections 4 and 5 of the Act, 1962 respectively are reproduced below: “G.S.R. 214 ̶In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), the Central Government hereby appoints— (a) the officers specified below to be Collectors of Customs within their respective jurisdictions, namely:— 1. Director, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence. 2. Collector of Customs and Central Excise, Cochin.