Digital Supreme Court Reports conferred by Article 19 and is not restricted by the exceptions contained therein. 64. Clause (2) of Article 105 has two limbs. The first prescribes that a member of Parliament shall not be liable before any court in respect of “anything said or any vote given” by them in Parliament or any committee thereof. The second limb prescribes that no person shall be liable before any court in respect of the publication by or under the authority of either House of Parliament of any report, paper, vote or proceedings. The vote given by a member of Parliament is an extension of speech. Therefore, the freedom of a member of Parliament to cast a vote is also protected by the freedom of speech in Parliament. In Tej Kiran Jain v. N Sanjeeva Reddy,41 a six-judge bench of this Court held that Article 105(2) confers immunity in respect of “anything said” so long as it is “in Parliament.” Therefore, the immunity is qualified by the fact that it must be attracted to speech during the conduct of business in Parliament. This Court held that the word “anything” is of the widest import and is equivalent to “everything”. It is only limited by the term “in Parliament”. 65. Clauses (1) and (2) explicitly guarantee freedom of speech in Parliament. Clause (1) is a positive postulate which guarantees freedom of speech whereas Clause (2) is an extension of the same freedom postulated negatively. It does so by protecting the speech, and by extension a vote, from proceedings before a court. Freedom of speech in the Houses of Parliament and their committees is a necessary privilege, essential to the functioning of the House. As we have noted above, the privilege of free speech in the House of Parliament or Legislature can be traced to the struggle of the Indian legislators and was granted in progression by the colonial government. This privilege is not only essential to the ability of Parliament and its members to carry out their duties, but it is also at the core of the function of a democratic legislative institution. Members of Parliament and Legislatures represent the will of the people and their aspirations. The Constitution was adopted to have a modernizing influence. The Constitution is intended to meet the aspirations of the people, to eschew an unjust society premised on social hierarchies and discrimination, and to facilitate the path towards an egalitarian 41 [1971] 1 SCR 612 : (1970) 2 SCC 272 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 511 Sita Soren v. Union of India society. Freedom of speech in Parliament and the legislatures is an arm of the same aspiration so that members may express the grievances of their constituents, express diverse perspectives and ventilate the perspectives of their constituents. Freedom of speech in Parliament ensures that the government is held accountable by the House. In Kalpana Mehta (supra) one of us (DY Chandrachud, J) had occasion to elucidate the importance of this privilege: “181. […] Parliament represents collectively, through the representative character of its Members, the voice and aspirations of the people.