As discussed earlier, the provisions of the Foreigners Act are far more effective in identification and deportation of foreigners who have illegally crossed the international b and have entered India without any authority of law and have no authority to continue to remain in India. For satisfying the test of Article 14, the geographical factor 1220 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports alone in making a classification is not enough but there must be a nexus with the objects sought to be achieved. If geographical consideration becomes the sole criterion completely overlooking the other aspect of “rational nexus with the policy and object of the Act” it would be open to the legislature to apply enactments made by it to any sub-division or district within the State and leaving others at its sweet will. This is not the underlying spirit or the legal principle on which Article 14 is founded. Since the classification made whereby the IMDT Act is made applicable only to the State of Assam has no rational nexus with the policy and object of the Act, it is clearly violative of Article 14 of the Constitution and is liable to be struck down on this ground also.” (Emphasis supplied) 192. There have been various s of this Court wherein directions were issued for reconsideration of the impugned provision on the ground that with the passage of time, the provision had become temporally unreasonable and rather than fulfilling the object with which it was enacted, the same was proving to be counter-productive. 193. In Narottam Kishore Deb Varman v. Union of India, reported in (1964) 7 SCR 55, a five-Judge Bench of this Court was called upon to decide a batch of petitions challenging the validity of Section 87B of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. The said section required that before a suit could be filed against a former ruler of a Princely State, prior sanction of the Union Government had to be obtained. This Court, relying upon its previous decision, stopped short from holding the provision as unconstitutional. However, it called upon the Government to examine if the provision was to be allowed to continue for all times. It further noted that Section 87B being a result of a political settlement reached between the Government and former rulers, its continuance forever was something that the Government ought to reconsider. The relevant observations read as under: "9. The legislative background to which we have referred cannot be divorced from the historical background which is to be found for instance, in Article 362. This article provides [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1221 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 that in the exercise of the power of Parliament or of any legislature of any State to make laws or in the exercise of the executive power of the Union or of a State, due regard shall be had to the guarantee or assurance given under any such covenant or agreement as is referred to in clause (1) of Article 291 with respect to the personal rights, privileges and dignities of a Ruler of an Indian State.