837 Kaushik Narsinhbhai Patel & Ors. v. M/s S.J.R. Prime Corporation Private Limited Agreement which relates to fixation of due date for possession. True that Schedule-E contained ‘Construction Linked Payment Plan’ and it provides for payment in 12 instalments on different levels of construction. Certainly, it was so incorporated to obligate the buyer to pay the due instalment depending upon the stage of construction. Hence, delay in effecting construction cannot be a reason for denying compensation, which was also contemplated under Clause 6 of the Construction Agreement. The effect of ‘Construction Linked Payment Plan’ is that it obligates the builder to complete construction up to a particular required level at the given point of time and upon such accomplishment, obligates the buyer to effect the due instalment. According to us, the non-furnishing of a date-wise payment schedule could not have been a reason for deviating from the formula followed in the matter of fixation of due date of possession in R.V. Prasannakumaar’s case (supra). That apart, in the case on hand, the fact is that the complainants have effected the payment of sale consideration and were handed over possession of flats. The compensation is claimed by the complainants for the considerable concutation in construction and in handing over possession of flats. At any rate, in the circumstances obtained in this case and especially taking note of the fact that owing to the forfeiture of the right to file a written statement, the first respondent-builder did not make out any exceptional circumstance, the NCDRC was not justified in not following the formula followed in R.V. Prasannakumaar’s case (supra) in the matter of fixing the due date for possession for the purpose of computing compensation for the delay. In this context, it is also to be noted that in R.V. Prasannakumaar’s case (supra), the NCDRC found that payment in the shape of interest at the rate of 6% per annum on the deposit of home buyers from the due date of possession till the offer of possession is the adequate method to compensate the buyers for the delay. This court only found the course of action adopted by NCDRC as just and reasonable. In the case on hand, NCDRC rightly followed the same method adopted in R.V. Prasannakumaar’s case (supra) and the claimants are entitled to compensation in the shape of interest at 6% per annum from the due date of possession till the date on which the respective complainant-buyers are offered possession. In the said circumstances and in view of the decision in R.V. Prasannakumaar’s 838 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports case (supra), on this issue, the only modification required is with respect to the method adopted for fixing the due date for possession, in the manner mentioned earlier. Though the complainants contended that they are entitled to be compensated in the manner provided under clause 6 of the agreement, in view of the decision in R.V. Prasannakumaar’s case (supra), we are of the view that compensation in the shape of interest at the rate of 6% per annum for the period mentioned earlier would be in tune with the formula followed in R.V.