There was a previous enemity between the said Vinod Sai (since deceased) and Raju Sharma alias Awadhesh Sharma alias Naresh Sharma. On 10.09.2004, a quarrel took place between the above parties and both lodged reports against each other. Driven by the same, [2024] 8 S.C.R. 931 Dinesh Sahu Alias Dinnu v. The State of Madhya Pradesh on 11.11.2006 at 07:00 p.m., when Kamal Sanwale (PW-6) and Vinod Sai (since deceased) were at the shop, the said Raju Sharma alias Awadhesh Sharma alias Naresh Sharma armed with sword and Dinesh Sahu alias Dinnu (the appellant herein) armed with a khukri, came on the spot. Both of them inflicted several blows on Vinod Sai. As a result, thereof, he fell down and died on the spot. 3. According to the further case of the prosecution, on hearing the ruckus, Kamal, Kalim, Anil, Salman and Santosh rushed to the spot to save Vinod Sai but the appellant- Dinesh Sahu alias Dinnu threatened them by showing khukri, and thereafter both the accused, namely, Raju Sharma and Dinesh Sahu, fled away from the spot. At that time, Shashi Bai (PW-13), the mother of Vinod Sai was coming to the shop of her son to take charge of the shop and she witnessed the entire incident. 4. At the instance of the informant Kamal Sanwale (PW-6), Dehati Nalisi (Ex.P/1) was prepared by Arvind Singh Raghuvanshi, who was the Investigating Officer of the case and a temporary Crime bearing No. 0/06 was registered for the offence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code. Dehati Nalisi was sent to the Police Station, Habibganj for registration, where it was registered as Crime No.1100/2006. After the completion of the investigation, charge-sheet was filed against both the accused. 5. The Trial Court, after recording the evidence of the witnesses examined by the prosecution and on appreciating the evidence on record, convicted the accused, namely, Raju Sharma alias Awadhesh Sharma alias Naresh Sharma for the offence punishable under Section 302 of the IPC and Dinesh Sahu alias Dinnu, for the offence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the IPC. 6. Being aggrieved by the said and of conviction and sentence, both the accused preferred the Criminal Appeal No.1867 of 2007 before the High Court, which dismissed the appeal and confirmed the and passed by the Trial Court. 7. The present appellant (Dinesh Sahu alias Dinnu), being aggrieved by the said and passed by the High Court, has preferred the instant appeal. 8. The learned counsel, Ms. Sangeeta Kumar, appearing for the appellant, taking the Court to the record of the case, more 932 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports particularly, the evidence of the witnesses, strenuously urged that all the material witnesses had turned hostile including the informant Kamal Singh (PW-6). She further submitted that neither the evidence of Pratap Singh (PW-14), in whose presence the alleged recovery of khukri was made from the house of the appellant, was reliable nor the evidence of the mother of the deceased, Shashi Bai (PW-13), was reliable.