A.P.J. Abdul kalam Technological University v. Jai Bharath College of Mngt. 13 UGC 1808 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports & Engg. Technology14 and Visveswaraiah Technological University v. Krishnendu Halder15 where it has been laid down that while dilution of published norms is not permissible, prescribing enhanced norms is permissible without defeating any right of an aspirant for a post; g. The decision of recent origin of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Tej Prakash Pathak v. Rajasthan High Court16 also puts beyond any shadow of doubt that any procedure that is transparent, non-discriminatory/non-arbitrary and having a rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved can be devised for taking a recruitment process towards its logical end by the recruiting bodies. submIssIons on behalf of RespondenT 1 5. Learned senior counsel for respondent 1 submitted that the Division Bench of the High Court has rightly read down Reg. 10(f)(iii) of the 2018 Regulations to save it from being struck down as arbitrary and hence there is no need for interference. He argued that: a. Emoluments-based distinction under Reg.10(f)(iii) violates Article 14 of the Indian Constitution as the distinction between Assistant Professors, who are serving on contractual basis, and those who are appointed on regular basis, has no direct nexus with the objective of ensuring quality education; b. Exclusion of candidates, who otherwise are qualified and have ample teaching experience (even though on contractual basis), undermines the objective of ensuring quality education; c. The Division Bench has rightly held that since ‘Assistant Professor’ is an entry level post, there is no need for any previous experience; d. Although respondent 1 has since lost the right to participate in the process initiated by Allahabad University due to passage of time, the impugned still holds good for the colleges where the process is yet to be concluded and it was urged that 14 (2021) 2 SCC 564 15 (2011) 4 SCC 606 16 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3184 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1809 Allahabad University Etc. v. Geetanjali Tiwari (Pandey) & Ors. Etc. Etc. a well-qualified candidate like respondent 1 should not lose the opportunity to compete with the whole lot of candidates aspiring for appointment in the manner directed by the Division Bench. pleadIng of RespondenT 1 In suppoRT of heR ClaIm ThaT Reg. 10(f)(iii) Is ultra vires aRTICle 14 of The ConsTITuTIon 6. In Writ-A No. 580 of 2023, respondent 1 prayed that Reg.10(f)(iii) be declared ultra vires since the same was in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. She submitted that the said regulation is discriminatory as it creates a hierarchy among teachers (in other words, creates class amongst class) on the basis of salary drawn by them. This adversely impacts other equally qualified and experienced candidates, as they do not get any marks for their past teaching experience just because they were not drawing salary equivalent to gross monthly salary of a regular Assistant Professor. She further submitted that the salary a teacher receives does not have any visible correlation with the teaching experience.