Under the Arbitration Act, the mandatory provisions must be deduced from their content. For instance, the use of the phrase “unless otherwise agreed by the parties” is an indicator of the fact that the provision is derogable because it gives priority to the agreement of the parties. In contrast, the use of the word “shall” in a provision is an indicator that the legislature intended to give it a mandatory effect. However, the use of “shall” is not the sole indicator to determine the mandatory nature of a provision. The provision must be interpreted by having regard to its text and the context to determine its nature.61 33. As opposed to the Indian approach, the UK Arbitration Act 1996 lists the mandatory provisions under Schedule I.62 In this context, Section 4 provides that the mandatory provisions have effect notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary.63 It further provides that the non- 58 Section 34(2)(a)(v), Arbitration Act. [It reads: “(v) the composition of the arbitral tribunal or the arbitral procedure was not in accordance with agreement of the parties, unless such agreement was in conflict with a provision of this Part from which the parties cannot derogate, or failing, such agreement, was not in accordance with this Part.”] 59 Report of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law on the work of its eighteenth session (3-21 June 1985) Supplement No. 17 (A/40/17) [290]. [The report states: “290. As regards the standards set forth in the subparagraph, it was understood that priority was accorded to the agreement of the parties. However, where the agreement was in conflict with a mandatory provision of “this Law” or where the parties had not made an agreement on the procedural point at issue, the provisions of “this Law”, whether mandatory or not, provided the standards against which the composition of the arbitral tribunal and the arbitral procedure were to be measured.”] 60 A/CN.9/246, para 135 61 State of UP v. Babu Ram Upadhya (1961) 2 SCR 679 [29]; Raza Buland Sugar Co. Ltd. v. Municipal Board, 1964 SCC OnLine SC 119 [8] 62 Schedule I, UK Arbitration Act 1996. [Section 33 which imposes a legal duty on the tribunal to act fairly and impartially is one of the mandatory provisions under the UK legislation.] 63 Section 4, UK Arbitration Act. [It reads: “4. Mandatory and non-mandatory provision. The mandatory provisions of this Part are listed in Schedule 1 and have effect notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary. The other provisions of this Part (the “non-mandatory provisions”) allow the parties to make their own arrangements by agreement by provide rules which apply in the absence of such agreement. The parties may make such arrangements by agreeing to the implication of institutional rules or providing any other means by which a matter may be decided. It is immaterial whether or not the law applicable to the parties’ agreement is the law of England and Wales or, as the case may be, Northern Ireland. 2212 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports mandatory provisions allow the parties to make their arrangements by agreement.