It is pertinent to mention here that on 19.03.2019 when Accused No. 1 had taken the abovenamed Vandana Sharma on a tour to Jaipur, Rajasthan at that time the first informant and her brother reached Khaskoti Hotel, Jaipur and there they found both of them in a compromising position and objected to it, Accused No. 1 slapped the first informant and said that why have you brought your family here. At that time the first informant and her family did not initiate any legal proceedings against the Accused No.1 because Accused No.1 had assured that after today he would not meet Vandana Sharma and after this the first informant went to her matrimonial house alongwith Accused No.1. 14. That even after this Accused No. 1 used to talk with Vandana Sharma on phone and also met with her. While the first informant was at her matrimonial house, Accused No.1 filed a Divorce Petition on 25.07.2019 and which was filed on the basis of false and baseless grounds. In the said case when on 10.08.2019 a summon came at 6:30 in the morning, Accused No. 1 and 2 forcibly got the summons signed by the first informant and said that now we do not need you anymore and when the first informant objected to this, they had beaten the first informant. Thereafter the first informant called her father on phone and called him at her matrimonial house. Thereafter my family members came to my matrimonial house. Thereafter on 10.08.2019 the first informant filed an application against the Accused persons at Ranholla police station, Delhi and after that the first informant came to her parental house alongwith her father. Thereafter as per the of the court the first informant again started living with Accused No. 1 at her matrimonial house. 15. That in March, 2020 during the pandemic of Covid-19, Accused No. 1 took the minor son with him and did not [2024] 6 S.C.R. 139 Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana & Anr. come home for so many days and before leaving the house Accused No. 1 had cut the water connection, and television connection of the house. Thereafter the first informant called her father on phone and called him at her house. Thereafter on 30.03.2020 the father of the first informant after getting the permission from police the father of the first informant brought her to her parental home from her matrimonial house. When the first informant informed Accused No. 1 over phone that I am going with my father then he said that who wants to keep you with him. Thereafter the family of the first informant held many meetings in the presence of elders and respectable members of the society and tried to convince the Accused persons that they should keep the first informant with them but the Accused persons were stubborn on their demands of dowry and had clearly refused to keep the first informant without fulfillment of their demand for dowry and when the first informant asked for her jewellery, stridhan and for her minor son, they clearly refused and threatened that if you file any complaint to the police against us we will kill the first informant.