Noting that remission policy would be changed from time to time and after referring to the various decisions of this Court, including Gopal Vinayak Godse and Ashok Kumar, this Court observed that, liberty is one of the most precious and cherished possessions of a human being and he would resist forcefully any attempt to diminish it. Similarly, rehabilitation and social reconstruction of a life convict, as an objective of punishment become a paramount importance in a welfare State. The State has to achieve the goal of protecting the society from the convict and also rehabilitate the offender. The remission policy manifests a process of reshaping a person who, under certain circumstances, has indulged in criminal activities and is required to be rehabilitated. Thus, punishment should not be regarded as the end but only a means to an end. Relevancy of circumstances to an offence such as the state of mind of the convict when the offence was committed, are factors to be taken note of. It was further observed as under: “46. At the time of considering the case of premature release of a life convict, the authorities may require to consider his case mainly taking into consideration whether the offence was an individual act of crime without affecting the society at large; whether there was any chance of future recurrence of committing a crime; whether the convict had lost his potentiality in committing the crime; whether there was any fruitful purpose of confining the convict any more; the socio- economic condition of the convict’s family and other similar circumstances.” 880 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) That the executive power of clemency gives an opportunity to the convict to reintegrate into the society. However, the power of clemency must be pressed into service only in appropriate cases. Ultimately, it was held that the case for remission has to be considered on the strength of the policy that was existing on the date of conviction of the accused. It was further observed that in case no liberal policy prevails on the date of consideration of the case of a convict under life imprisonment for premature release, he should be given the benefit thereof subject of course to Section 433-A of the CrPC. 48.8. At this juncture, it is relevant to refer to the following decisions of this Court, wherein s of remission have been quashed and set aside by this Court on various grounds: (a) In Swaran Singh vs. State of Uttar Pradesh, (1998) 4 SCC 75, a three-Judge Bench of this Court considered the question as to scope of judicial review of an of a Governor under Article 161 of the Constitution of India. In the said case, a Member of the Legislative Assembly of the State of Uttar Pradesh had been convicted of the offence of murder and within a period of less than two years, he was granted remission from the remaining long period of his life sentence. The son of the deceased moved the Allahabad High Court challenging the aforesaid action of the Governor and the same having been dismissed, the matter had been brought to this Court.