2. Tor B The sequence of testing should be carried out in of increasing environmental exposure required to perform the test. Tests should be done under the minimum conditions of exposure required for the test. The testing therefore proceeds in a progressive manner. 3. Tor C There is published evidence that the characteristics of a GMO can differ significantly depending upon whether it is grown in the greenhouse or in the field. It cannot be said that it is possible to replicate the conditions for testing under different agro-ecological regions and conditions in the greenhouse. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1911 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 4. Tor D Specific sites for conducting field trials need to be designated, certified and sufficient mechanisms put in place for monitoring the trials and ensuring restricted access, associated testing and other facilities. The trials should not be conducted on leased land. 5. Tor E There are several ways in which contamination can occur and it probably will not be possible to deploy the tests at a level that will preclude the possibility of escape. 6. Tor F Based on the review of the dossiers, the professional expertise and standards across the institutions appear unsatisfactory. The TEC has found in unambiguous terms that at present, the regulatory system has major gaps and these will require rethinking, investment and relearning to fix. 28.5. As noted above, the TEC consisted of six members, with Dr. Rajendra Paroda substituting Prof. VL Chopra on 09.11.2012 which is post submission of the interim report, the findings of which have been noted above. 28.6. Unable to agree with the conclusions of the majority, Dr. Paroda submitted his dissent to the final report of the majority, alleging various lapses in the decision-making process. Those lapses, as pointed out are: “…. • To my surprise, the TEC members were not willing to take cognizance of any objections/ submissions to the Interim Report made by different respondents, despite clear directive by the Hon’ble Supreme Court. As mentioned earlier, a compilation of all objections received was shared (Annex-IV) but members seemed to have serious reservations to discuss these on the plea that there was nothing new, including in fresh submissions by UOI, NAAS, NSAI, Prof. Deepak Pental etc. • On having gone through the minutes of the earlier meetings of TEC, prior to my becoming a 1912 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports member (Annex-Ill), and the submissions made by various respondents, it became apparent that TEC members had possibly taken one sided view in their Interim Report. • The TEC members seemed to take an ideological stance favouring an anti GM as well as an anti transnational approach and possibly believed that imposing moratorium on field trials of GM crops was the only way to move forward. On the contrary, any such move will harm Indian science enormously. • At the same time, members seemed to have proceeded with an assumption that the Indian regulatory system was faulty and full of lapses.