In such cases, the court must be circumspect in invoking its ‘inherent powers’ to deviate from the prescribed procedure. If such deviation is made, the court must justify why this was necessary to “prevent the abuse of the process of the Court”. 71. The need to be circumspect while invoking “inherent powers”, when there is an exhaustive legal framework is amplified in the context of a legislation like the IBC. In Ebix Singapore (P) Ltd. v. Educomp Solutions Ltd. (CoC), a two-judge bench of this Court, speaking through one of us (DY Chandrachud, J), affirmed this position and observed as follows: “Any claim seeking an exercise of the adjudicating authority’s residuary powers under Section 60(5)(c) IBC, NCLT’s inherent powers under Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules or even the powers of this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution must be closely scrutinized for broader compliance with the insolvency framework and its underlying objective. The adjudicating mechanisms which have been specifically created by the statute, have a narrowly defined role in the process and must be circumspect in granting reliefs that may run counter to the timeliness and predictability that is central to the IBC. Any judicial creation of a procedural or substantive remedy that is not envisaged by the statute would not only violate the principle of separation of powers, but also run the risk of altering the delicate coordination that is designed by the IBC framework and have grave implications on the outcome of the CIRP, the economy of the country and the lives of the workers and other allied parties who are statutorily bound by the impact of a resolution or liquidation of a Corporate Debtor.” (emphasis supplied) 162. However, the aforementioned decision should in no manner be read so as to restrict the exercise of plenary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution even while in deviating from the statutory procedure and [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2159 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. framework of the IBC, 2016 or the rules and regulations thereunder, if such deviation is very much necessary. This Court in Glas Trust (supra) only went so far as to say that, where there is a prescribed procedure in place for a particular purpose, then that particular thing must be done only in the manner prescribed. It no way lays a dictum that even where cogent reasons exist warranting such deviation, the court would be powerless to exercise such inherent powers. In other words, Glas Trust (supra) only went to the extent of saying that in the absence of any exceptional circumstances or extraordinary reasons necessitating a deviation from the procedure laid down, the court should refrain from invoking its inherent jurisdiction to do something which otherwise could have been validly done in accordance with the procedure. 163. We are of the considered view that where there exists extraordinary circumstances warranting the exercise of such powers in to ensure that the very salutary purpose of the Code, 2016 is not frustrated, then the Court would be well-within its prerogative to exercise them to secure the object of the IBC, 2016.