[2024] 10 S.C.R. 150 : 2024 INSC 749 Atul Kumar v. The Chairman (Joint Seat Allocation Authority) and Others (Writ Petition (Civil) No 609 of 2024) 30 September 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Matter pertains to Schedule caste category student who lost his admission to IIT since he was late in paying the online admission fee of Rs 17,500/- by a few minutes. Headnotes† Constitution of India – Art. 142 – Exercise of power under – Indian Institute of Technology IIT-Admission – Schedule caste category student allotted seat in Electrical Engineering course at IIT – Took all steps to comply with all formalities pursuant to the allotment to him of a seat for the course, however, lost his admission to IIT since he was late in paying the online admission fee of Rs 17,500/- by a few minutes – Challenge to: Held: Petitioner logged in as many as on six occasions and uploaded the documents, which evidently indicates that he was making earnest efforts to log into the portal – No conceivable reason why the petitioner would not have done so if he had the wherewithal to pay the fees of Rs 17,500 – Talented student like the petitioner who belongs to a marginalized group of citizens and has done everything to secure admission should not be left in the lurch – Power of this Court u/Art.142 to do substantial justice is meant precisely to cover such a situation – Petitioner to be granted admission to IIT Dhanbad against the seat which was allotted to him in the branch of Electrical Engineering – Supernumerary seat to be created for the petitioner, if so required. [Paras 6, 7] List of Acts Constitution of India. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 151 Atul Kumar v. The Chairman (Joint Seat Allocation Authority) and Others List of Keywords IIT-Admission; Schedule caste category; Electrical Engineering course; Made efforts to log into the portal; Lost admission to IIT; Late in paying online admission fee by few minutes; Marginalized group of citizens; Granted admission to IIT; Supernumerary seat. Case Arising From CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (Civil) No. 609 of 2024 (Under Article 32 of The Constitution of India) Appearances for Parties Amol Chitale, Sarthak Sharma, Mrs. Pragya Baghel, Advs. for the Petitioner. Sonal Jain, Ms. Kajal Sharma, Arjun Mitra, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court 1. The petitioner is a meritorious student. He belongs to the Scheduled Caste category. He appeared for the JEE (Advanced) 2024 Examination and secured a rank of 1455 in his category. He was allotted a seat at the Indian Institute of Technology Dhanbad for a four year Bachelor of Technology course in Electrical Engineering. This was the second attempt and, therefore, the last chance for the petitioner to secure admission since only two attempts are permissible. The petitioner has disclosed that his father is a daily wager. The petitioner completed his higher secondary education from Khatauli, District Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh.