Chapter II of the MV Act contains the provisions dealing with the necessity for a driving license, age limit, responsibility of owners of motor vehicles, restrictions on the holding of driving licenses and the restrictions on the grant of learner’s licenses for certain vehicles. Section 8 and Section 9 contain provisions concerning the application for grant of a learner’s license and driving license respectively. Section 10 which is important for our purpose deals with ‘forms and contents of licenses to drive’. Chapter II also contains provisions for additions to the driving license, the licensing and regulation of schools or establishments for imparting instruction in driving of motor vehicles, the validity period of license, renewal, and revocation. Additionally, it also contains provisions concerning s refusing or revoking driving licenses, driving licenses to drive motor vehicles belonging to Central Government, power of licensing authority to disqualify from holding a driving license or revoke such license, the power of Court to disqualify, suspend driving license in certain cases, the effect of the disqualification , endorsement, and the maintenance of National and State Registers of Driving licenses. Finally, it also contains provisions relating to the power of Central and State Government to make Rules. 22. The MV Rules contain the procedure concerning driving licenses in Chapter II. It covers, inter alia, general provisions, evidence as to the correctness of address and age, medical certificate, educational qualifications, preliminary test, application for a driving license, driving test, form of driving license, renewal, driving schools and establishments, duration of license, duplicate license as well as the training syllabus. 23. The MV Act and MV Rules work in tandem, like two wheels in the same axle, to form a comprehensive legal framework governing [2024] 11 S.C.R. 575 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. motor vehicles in India. While the Act provides the backbone, the Rules provide specific provisions for implementation. (III) Construing Section 2(21), Section 3 and Section 10 24. To understand the divergent interpretations on the core issue of whether a holder of a LMV license can operate a ‘transport vehicle’ weighing less than 7,500 kgs, it will be necessary to first consider the relevant definition(s) contained in Section 2 of the MV Act. The definitions deserving scrutiny are noted below for ready reference. The definition of Section 2 interestingly begins with the clarificatory preface, ‘unless the context otherwise requires’: 2(10) “driving licence” means the licence issued by a competent authority under Chapter II authorising the person specified therein to drive, otherwise than as a learner, a motor vehicle or a motor vehicle of any specified class or description.” 2(15) “gross vehicle weight” means in respect of any vehicle the total weight of the vehicle and load certified and registered by the registering authority as permissible for that vehicle;” 2(16) “heavy goods vehicle” means any goods carriage the gross vehicle weight of which, or a tractor or a road-roller the unladen weight of either of which, exceeds 12,000 kilograms;” 2(17) “heavy passenger motor vehicle” means any public service vehicle or private service vehicle or educational institution bus or omnibus the gross vehicle weight of any of which; or a motor-car the unladen weight of which, exceeds 12,000 kilograms;” 2(21) “light motor vehicle” means a transport vehicle or omnibus the gross vehicle weight of either of which or a motorcar or tractor or road-roller the unladen weight of any of which, does not exceed 7,500 kilograms;” 2(22) “maxicab” means any motor vehicle constructed or adapted to carry more than six passengers, but not more than twelve passengers, excluding the driver, for hire or reward; 2(23) “medium goods vehicle” means any goods carriage other than a light motor vehicle or a heavy goods vehicle;” 576 [2024] 11 S.C.R.