The relevant observations read as under: - "105. We are also unable to accept the submission made by Dr Singhvi that in this case the venue should be understood as reference to place in the manner it finds mention in Section 20(1), as opposed to the manner it appears in Section 20(3) of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1996. Such a submission cannot be accepted since the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1209 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze parties have agreed that curial law would be the Indian Arbitration Act, 1996. xxx 124. In Shashoua, such an expression was understood as seat instead of venue, as the parties had agreed that the ICC Rules would apply to the arbitration proceedings. In Shashoua, the ratio in Naviera and Braes of Doune has been followed. In that case, the Court was concerned with the construction of the shareholders’ agreement between the parties, which provided that “the venue of the arbitration shall be London, United Kingdom”. It provided that the arbitration proceedings should be conducted in English in accordance with the ICC Rules and that the governing law of the shareholders’ agreement itself would be the law of India. The claimants made an application to the High Court in New Delhi seeking interim measures of protection under Section 9 of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1996, prior to the institution of arbitration proceedings. Following the commencement of the arbitration, the defendant and the joint venture company raised a challenge to the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal, which the panel heard as a preliminary issue. The Tribunal rejected the jurisdictional objection. xxx 131. Upon consideration of the entire matter, it was observed in Sulamérica that “In these circumstances it is clear to me that the law with which the agreement to arbitrate has its closest and most real connection is the law of the seat of arbitration, namely, the law of England”. It was thereafter concluded by the High Court that the English law is the proper law of the agreement to arbitrate. xxx 133. We also do not find any merit in the submission of Dr Singhvi that the close and the most intimate 1210 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports connection test is wholly irrelevant in this case. It is true that the parties have specified all the three laws. But the Court in these proceedings is required to determine the seat of the arbitration, as the respondents have taken the plea that the term “venue” in the arbitration clause actually makes a reference to the “seat” of the arbitration.” (Emphasis supplied) 49. Thus, with the decision of Enercon (supra), the stage is now set to examine the decision of Roger Shashoua (1) (supra) to trace the evolution of the Shashoua Principle. b. The Shashoua Principle – ‘Venue’ to be construed as ‘Seat’ 50. In Roger Shashoua (1) a Queen’s Bench Division (Commercial Court) of the England & Wales High Court held that when there is an express designation of the arbitration venue as London and no designation of any alternative place as the seat, combined with a supranational body of rules governing the arbitration and no other significant contrary indicia, the inexorable conclusion would be that such venue in-fact is the juridical seat.