Inter alia, the Court expressed its agreement with the following observations made by Justice Mahajan in the said decision: “…In my opinion, if the suit is for specific performance and a decree for possession of the land sold is claimed, such a suit would certainly be a suit for land; but if the suit is simpliciter for specific performance, i.e., for the enforcement of the contract of sale and for execution of a conveyance, in that event there can be no good ground for holding that such a suit is a suit for determination of title to land or that the decree in it would operate on the land. …” 25. The Court further expressed agreement with a Full Bench decision of the Madras High Court in P.M.A. Velliappa Chettiar v. Saha Govinda Doss reported in AIR 1929 Mad 721 and observed thus: “[...] [I]t seems to me fairly clear that the expression ‘suit for land’ occurring in clause 12 Letters Patent, means a suit which is instituted with the object of establishing claims regarding title to the property or possession of it. Whether or not possession is claimed, if title to any immovable property is to be directly affected by the result of the decision, the suit would be a suit for land.” 26. Concluding on the basis of the aforesaid, the Court held the following as regards the meaning of the expression “suit for land”: “15. From the above discussion it follows that a “suit for land” is a suit in which the relief claimed relates to title to or delivery of possession of land or immovable property. Whether a suit is a “suit for land” or not has to be determined on the averments in the plaint with reference to the reliefs claimed therein; where the relief relates to adjudication of title to land or immovable property or delivery of possession of the land or immovable property, it will be a “suit for land”. We are in respectful agreement with the view expressed by Mahajan, J. in Moolji Jaitha case.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1305 Rohit Kochhar v. Vipul Infrastructure Developers Ltd. & Ors. 27. Further, on the aspect of Section 22 of the Specific Relief Act, the Court took the view that although the said provision is enabling in nature yet as per the mandate of sub-section (2), the relief of possession of immovable property which is the subject matter of the agreement for sale cannot be granted by the court unless the relief for possession is specifically prayed for. The relevant observations are extracted hereinbelow: “17. It may be seen that sub-section (1) is an enabling provision. A plaintiff in a suit of specific performance may ask for further reliefs mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) thereof. Clause (a) contains reliefs of possession and partition and separate possession of the property, in addition to specific performance. The mandate of sub- section (2) of Section 22 is that no relief under clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (1) shall be granted by the court unless it has been specifically claimed.