Chandrachud, C.J. observed that in Sanjeev Coke, this Court had opined that where Article 31C comes in, Article 14 goes out and therefore, there is no scope for treating Article 14 as included in the principle of Article 39(b). 250 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17.1 In paragraph 72, the expression “public purpose” was discussed and referring to Black’s Law Dictionary (Special Deluxe Fifth Edition) at page 1107, it was observed that the term is synonymous with governmental purpose which has for its objective the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, general welfare, security, prosperity and containment of a State. Discussing the expression “material resources of the community” in Article 39(b), it was observed that the argument of Sri Sen that material resources has to be first acquired by the State before they could be distributed and a law providing for acquisition was not a law for distribution was not an argument which could be appreciated. In my view, a law proving for acquisition is not strictly speaking a law providing for distribution but a law which provides for a public purpose for which acquisition of immovable property could be made. It is only after the vesting of the acquired immovable property with the State that the said property would be available for distribution as “material resources of the community”. This could be for either actual distribution to the eligible and deserving citizens or to be retained by the State for being utilised for a public purpose on the strength of the public trust doctrine. 17.2 There was also discussion on the various nuances of the expression “distribute” and “distribution” in the context of nationalisation and ultimately, it was held that nationalisation of State Carriages and Contract Carriages by way of an acquisition met the twin objects of Article 39 (b) and (c) and accordingly allowed the appeals of the State and set aside the of the Madras High Court. Basantibai: 18. In this case, this Court considered the correctness of the of the Bombay High Court by which the High Court had declared sub-sections (3) and (4) of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (hereinafter referred as, “MHADA”) as void and had given certain ancillary directions. It is not necessary to go into the discussion on the merits of the case. However, while considering the validity of the aforesaid provisions on the touchstone [2024] 11 S.C.R. 251 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. of Article 14 of the Constitution, this Court, at the outset, proceeded to observe in paragraph 13 of the as: “We shall proceed to test the validity of the argument keeping aside for the time being the observation in Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Co. vs. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., (1983) 1 SCC 147 : AIR 1983 SC 239”. Then reference was made to Kesavananda Bharati and Minerva Mills. On the basis of the aforesaid two decisions, it was observed that in to ascertain whether the enactment was protected by Article 31C of the Constitution, the Court has to satisfy itself about the character of the legislation by studying all parts of it.