As per Section 33 of the Karnataka Stamp Act, 1957, the court shall impound the said GPA even without the objections by the advocate for 1st defendant. His absence at the time of chief examination of PW1 is not intentional but as he was held up in another court. 3. The 1st defendant has also filed IA No. IX under Sec. 114, R/w. Sec. 151 of CPC to review the of marking Ex.P2 which is insufficiently stamped and to hear the objections regarding inadequacy of stamp duty on the similar grounds. 7. The points that arise for consideration are:- 1. Whether Ex.P2 GPA is insufficiently stamped and plaintiff is liable to pay deficit duty and penalty? 2. Whether the permitting the plaintiff to mark the document requires to be reviewed? 8. The points are answered in affirmative for the following: 330 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Reasons 9. *** The clauses are very specific that the power of attorney has been given powers to sell the properties and the power of attorney has acted upon the GPA and has execute the sale deed in favour of the plaintiff as per Ex.P3. Under Article 41(e), when the power of attorney is given for consideration and authorizing the attorney to sell the immovable property, the duty payable is same duty as a conveyance for a market value equal to the amount of the consideration. As stated above, no consideration has been mentioned in the GPA., but the GPA has been given authorizing to sell the immovable property. The GPA has been issued to a third party, … article 41(ab) is applicable. The learned counsel for plaintiff objected for considering these applications on the ground that document is already marked with out any objections and hence the question of reviewing the considering the question of stamp duty at this stage does not arise. As seen from the sheet, the plaintiff was examined on 6.6.2010 and document was marked on same day. Immediately on the next date of hearing the counsel has filed IA No. IX and X to consider the aspect of payment of stamp duty and penalty i.e., on the day on which the matter was posted for cross examination of PW1. It is certain that the senior counsel appearing for the plaintiff was not present at the time of examination of PW1 in chief as the court remembers that the junior counsel was present and probably being unaware of the question of stamp duty has not raised any objections. The court has marked the document as an exhibit and has put the seal for having marked the document as to who has produced the document and admitted through which witness and marked for plaintiff. No doubt, there is mention that the document is admitted through PW1 and Ex.P2, but the court has not applied its mind while marking the document as to whether document is sufficiently stamped or insufficiently stamped. 10. *** The circumstances under which the application is being filed and circumstances under which the document came to be marked, clearly show that the document was [2024] 7 S.C.R.