Consequently, on 05.02.2007 at about 9.45 A.M., the appellant forcibly entered the college premises along with sufficient number of police personnel with heavy machinery and equipment for the purpose of demolition and after vacating the campus of the staff and students, the demolition took place. The said action of the appellant was with a mala fide intention owing to non-payment of the bribe made previously; that an FIR was registered on the instructions of accused No.5 and the same was found to be false. Further, Writ Petition (C) No.16184/2001 had also been filed in which the High Court had appointed a Local Commissioner to inspect the college campus and he had submitted his report on 18.10.2007 stating that there was an existing building which was constructed prior to the year 2004 which was much before the notification being issued under the provisions of The Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction of Unregulated Development Act, 1963 (“the Act” for the sake of brevity). Therefore, the Notification issued under the said Act was not applicable to the subject building inasmuch as its construction was prior to 05.08.2005. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1607 Gurmeet Kaur v. Devender Gupta & Another 5. The aforesaid complaint was filed under Section 200 of the CrPC as a private complaint and on preliminary evidence and recording the statement of the complainant and witnesses namely CW-1 and CW-2 and documentary evidence at Ex.PA to PZ, Ex. PAA to Ex.PDD., the Trial Court issued a summoning on 20.11.2014 against the present appellant and two others only under Sections 323, 452, 506, 427, 384, 440, 166 read with Section 120-B of the IPC. 6. Being aggrieved by the summoning and also the very filing of the complaint against the appellant herein, the aforesaid petition was filed before the High Court. On considering the pleadings on record as well as the contentions, the High Court dismissed the said writ petition. Although there were two main facets of the said writ petition: one with regard to the quashing of the complaint itself on merits on the premise that no offence whatsoever was made out; the second aspect of the said case assumes significance inasmuch as the contention of the appellant before the High Court was that there was no sanction passed under Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (CrPC) and therefore, the very initiation of the criminal proceedings against the appellant herein were vitiated. 7. The High Court dismissed the said writ petition by stating that at that stage it could not categorically be opined whether there was an illegal act as such which was committed by the public servant namely the appellant herein which required sanction, or the requirement of sanction was unnecessary having regard to the nature of the acts complained against; that it required a detailed inquiry inasmuch as the Trial Court had held that there was a prima facie evidence against the appellant herein. In the above premise, the Writ Petition was dismissed. 8. Learned senior counsel Sri Mukul Rohatgi assisted by Sri Sameer Rohatgi, learned counsel submitted that taking into consideration the allegations against the appellant herein, it is a clear case where the appellant, during the course of the discharge of her official duties had carried out the demolition on the basis of the instructions of her superior officers and therefore, there was no malicious act, malice or any illegal act which could have been attributed to the appellant herein let alone any criminal act which could have been alleged against the appellant herein.