It is, therefore, clear that if there is mere reference to a provision of one statute in another without incorporation, then, unless a different intention clearly appears, Section 8(1) would apply and the reference would be construed as a reference to the provision as may be in force from time to time in the former statute. But if a provision of one statute is incorporated in another, any subsequent amendment in the former statute or even its total repeal would not affect the provision as incorporated in the latter statute. The question is to which category the present case belongs.” [Emphasis supplied] [2024] 5 S.C.R. 29 Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India v. Satyanarayan Bankatlal Malu & Ors. 34. This Court therefore held that if there was mere reference to a provision of one statute in another without incorporation, then, unless a different intention clearly appears, Section 8(1) of the General Clauses Act would apply and the reference would be construed as a reference to the provision in the former statute, as may be in force from time to time. However, if a provision of one statute was incorporated in another statute, then any subsequent amendment in the former statute or even its total repeal would not affect the provision as incorporated in the latter statute. 35. In the case of Girnar Traders (3) (supra), this Court was considering the question, as to whether the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, with particular reference to Section 11-A, can be read into and treated as part of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 (“MRTP Act, 1966” for short) on the principle of either ‘legislation by reference’ or ‘legislation by incorporation’? 36. It will be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in the said case: “86. At the very outset, we may notice that in the preceding paragraphs of the , we have specifically held that the MRTP Act is a self-contained code. Once such finding is recorded, application of either of the doctrines i.e. “legislation by reference” or “legislation by incorporation”, would lose their significance particularly when the two Acts can coexist and operate without conflict. 87. However, since this aspect was argued by the learned counsel appearing for the parties at great length, we will proceed to discuss the merit or otherwise of this contention without prejudice to the above findings and as an alternative plea. These principles have been applied by the courts for a considerable period now. When there is general reference in the Act in question to some earlier Act but there is no specific mention of the provisions of the former Act, then it is clearly considered as legislation by reference. In the case of legislation by reference, the amending laws of the former Act would normally become applicable to the later Act; but, when the provisions of an Act are specifically referred and incorporated in the later statute, then those provisions 30 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports alone are applicable and the amending provisions of the former Act would not become part of the later Act.