In the evidence led, they were found to be in possession as even the case set up by the appellants is that they issued notice to the respondents-plaintiffs under Section 92A of the 1959 Act. To prove the lease in their favour, the respondents-plaintiffs had produced in evidence Ex.1, claimed to be lease deed dated 13.12.1959 executed by the Gram Panchayat in favour of late Ganga Bai widow of Jai Shankar Menaria. In the stand taken by the appellants, the land being reserved for grazing cattles could not possibly be leased out by the Gram Panchayat. 17.1. On one side, the plea sought to be taken by the respondents is that the document being more than 30 years old, there was presumption of truth in terms of Section 90 of the 1872 Act. This section provides that if the document is more than 30 years old and is being produced from proper custody, a presumption is available to the effect that signatures and every other part of such document, which purports to be in [2024] 2 S.C.R. 659 The Tehsildar, Urban Improvement Trust And Anr. v. Ganga Bai Menariya (Dead) Through Lrs. And Others the handwriting of any particular person, is in that person’s handwriting and in case a document is executed or attested, the same was executed and attested by the persons by whom it purports to be executed and attested. This does not lead to a presumption that recitals therein are correct. (Reference can be made to the of this Court in Union of India v. Brahim Uddin and another9. 18. Nothing was referred to by learned counsel for the respondents from the record to show the reasons for producing copy of the document in Court and not summoning the record from the Gram Panchayat to prove execution of the alleged lease in their favour. The contents of the documents were required to be proved. Effort was made to prove the document by producing two witnesses. (PW4 and PW5 stated that the lease was granted in favour of the respondents). It was signed by the Sarpanch. There was no material on record to show that, except the oral statements of aforesaid two witnesses that at the relevant time, namely, in the year 1959, they were members of the Gram Panchayat otherwise the document Ex.1 (lease deed) placed on record by the respondents-plaintiffs as such does not contain their signatures. The document only contains signatures of some Sarpanch who had attested the same stating to be true copy. It was claimed that at the relevant time, Sarpanch was Kushal Singh, however before the evidence could be led, he expired and hence could not be produced in evidence. If the respondents-plaintiffs wished to prove the contents of the document in question, they could very well summon the record from the Gram Panchayat when a specific plea taken by the appellants was that the document was forged and the Gram Panchayat did not have competence to lease out the land. 19.