26. Similarly, Justice A K Sikri in the 2017 grounded the right to accessibility in the fundamental rights chapter of the Constitution, emphasizing that access to public spaces and services is an essential aspect of the right to life and dignity. This Court observed: “The vitality of the issue of accessibility vis-à-vis visually disabled person’s right to life can be gauged clearly by the Supreme Court’s judgement in State of Himachal Pradesh v Umed Ram Sharma (1986) where the right to life under Article 21 has been held broad enough to incorporate the right to accessibility.” 27. The inclusion of accessibility within the fundamental rights framework ensures that PWDs are entitled to full participation in society under Articles 14, 19, and 21 of the Constitution. Article 14 upholds equal access to spaces, services, and information; Article 19 guarantees the freedom to move and express oneself; and Article 21 ensures the right to live with dignity. Together, these provisions guarantee not only formal equality but also substantive equality, which requires the state to take positive steps to ensure that individuals can enjoy their rights fully, irrespective of disabilities. This Court in a plethora of s has repeatedly recognized that the right to dignity and the right to a meaningful life under Article 21 necessitate conditions that enable PWDs to enjoy the same freedoms and choices as others.34 Thus, the right to accessibility is foundational, enabling PWDs to exercise and benefit from other rights enshrined in Part III of the Constitution. 32 Disabled Right Group v Union of India (2018) 2 SCC 397. 33 Ibid. 34 See Jeeja Ghosh v Union of India, 2016 INSC 412; Rajive Raturi v Union of India, 2017 INSC 1243; Ravinder Kumar Dhariwal v Union of India, 2021 INSC 916; Vikash Kumar v Union Public Service Commission, 2021 INSC 78. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 987 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. C. Reaffirming Disability as a Social Model: Two-Pronged Approach 28. The Social Model of Disability challenges the traditional understanding of disability, which often views it through the lens of the Medical Model. In the Medical Model, disability is seen as an individual problem or impairment that needs to be treated or fixed. However, the Social Model, introduced by disabled academic Mike Oliver in 1983, shifts the focus from the person’s condition to the barriers they face in society.35 It argues that disability is not inherent in the person, but is created by external factors such as physical, organizational, and attitudinal barriers. These barriers prevent full participation in society and can be removed through societal change, promoting inclusion and equality for PWDs. 29. The Social Model directly relates to the concept of accessibility. By focusing on removing societal barriers rather than “fixing” individuals, it advocates for accessible environments, services, and opportunities. i. Integrating a Universal and Inclusive Model of Design 30. The goal of universal design is to create products and environments that are usable by all people, to the greatest extent possible, without the need for adaptation or specialised design.36 Universal design emphasizes the importance of creating environments, services, and products that can be accessed by everyone, regardless of their ability, age, or status.