15. It was further submitted that the Sessions Judge who conducted trial was not designated as a Children’s Court and thus, the trial of the accused appellant is vitiated. Without prejudice to this submission, learned counsel submitted that even assuming that the Sessions Court had been designated as a Children’s Court, the accused appellant could not have been tried by the said Court without preliminary assessment being conducted by the Juvenile Justice Board(hereinafter being referred to as ‘Board’) as postulated under Section 15 of the JJ Act. The section mandates an enquiry in form of preliminary assessment to be conducted by the Board wherein the CICL has a right to participate. Upon conclusion of enquiry, the Board has to pass an under Section 18(3) to the effect that there is a need to try the child as an adult and only thereafter, the Board can transfer the case to the Children’s Court for trial. The CICL has been given a right to appeal against such by virtue of Section 101(2) of the JJ Act. Even after the transfer of case under Section 15, the Children’s Court is required to apply its own independent mind to find out whether there is a genuine need for trial of the CICL as an adult as provided by Section 19(1)(i) of the JJ Act. However, none of these mandatory requirements were complied with and thus, the trial is vitiated. 16. Referring to the alleged confession of the accused appellant, the learned counsel criticised the manner in which the investigation was conducted and submitted that the confession recorded in presence of the police officer could not have been allowed to be exhibited and admitted in evidence. She submitted that the trial Court, not only allowed the confession to be exhibited but also placed implicit [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1235 Thirumoorthy v. State Represented by the Inspector of Police reliance upon it basing the conviction of the accused appellant on such inadmissible piece of evidence. The recording of confession of a CICL and placing implicit reliance thereupon is contrary to the general principles laid out under Section 3 of the JJ Act which provides the general principles to be followed in the administration of the Act. 17. It was further urged that (PW-10) and (PW-11) whose depositions have been relied upon to constitute the circumstance of last seen are as a matter of fact, totally unreliable witnesses. Had these witnesses seen the child being taken away by the accused, then their natural reaction would have been to promptly inform the child’s father, the informant Mr. G. (PW-1) about this important circumstance and the same would definitely have been incorporated in the FIR which was lodged on the next day of the incident. 18. It was also contended that the factum of recovery of the dead body from the aluminium vessel preceded by the disclosure statement of the accused appellant has not been proved by reliable evidence and hence, there does not exist cogent and convincing circumstantial evidence on the record so as to establish the guilt of the accused appellant.