Be that as it may, we will further consider the question whether the NCDRC is justified in reversing the concurrent in the complaint filed by the appellants in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction. 14. A perusal of the impugned would reveal, as noted earlier, that the reversal of the concurrent (s) of the forums below and the consequential rejection of the complaint made by the NCDRC after coming to a conclusion of non-existence of a concluded contract was by relying on a decision of this Court in Raja Vasireddy Komalavalli Kamba’s case (supra). It is true that in the said decision this Court held thus:- “15. Though in certain human relationships silence to a proposal might convey acceptance but in the case of insurance proposal, silence does not denote consent and no binding contract arises until the person to whom an offer is made says or does something to signify his acceptance. Mere delay in giving an answer cannot be construed as an acceptance, as, prima facie, acceptance must be communicated to the offerer. The general rule is that the contract of insurance will be concluded only when the party to whom an offer has been made accepts it unconditionally and communicates his acceptance to the person making the offer. Whether the final acceptance is that of the assured or insurers, however, depends simply on the way in which negotiations for an insurance have progressed. See in this connection statement of law in MacGillivray & Parkington on Insurance Law, Seventh Edn., p. 94, para 215.” [2024] 6 S.C.R. 461 Mrs. Bhumikaben N. Modi & Ors. v. Life Insurance Corporation of India 15. The factual position obtained in the case on hand tend us to hold that the NCDRC had failed to bestow proper consideration of the factual position which consequently led to the mis-application of the decision in Raja Vasireddy Komalavalli Kamba’s case (supra). In view of the decision in D. Srinivas v. SBI Life Insurance Co. Ltd. & Ors.4, wherein this Court distinguished the decision in Raja Vasireddy Komalavalli Kamba’s case (supra), we are of the view that NCDRC had misdirected itself in considering the relevant question involved, which was rightly considered by the District Forum. In the decision in D. Srinivas case, this Court held thus:- “12. Although we do not have any quarrel with the proposition laid therein, it should be noted that aforesaid s only laid down a flexible formula for the Court to see as to whether there was clear indication of acceptance of the insurance. It is to be noted that the impugned majority merely cites the aforesaid , without appreciating the circumstances which give rise to a very clear presumption of acceptance of the policy by the insurer in this case at hand. The insurance contract being a contract of utmost good faith, is a two- way door. The standards of conduct as expected under the utmost good faith obligation should be met by either party to such contract.” 16. Paragraph 11 of the decision in D. Srinivas case (supra) would reveal that the afore-quoted recital was made thereunder after considering the decision in Raja Vasireddy Komalavalli Kamba case (supra).