We have also examined the in Director General of Police, Tamilnadu, Mylapore vs. J. Raghunees, (2023) SCC OnLine SC 1379 and we find that the case of the appellant is more aligned with the facts in the of this Court in Pawan Kumar (supra), Sandeep (supra) and Ram Kumar (supra). Hence, we find that the in J. Raghunees (supra) is clearly distinguishable. 28. The nature of the office, the timing and nature of the criminal case; the overall consideration of the judgement of acquittal; the nature of the query in the application/verification form; the contents of the character verification reports; the socio economic strata of the individual applying; the other antecedents of the candidate; the nature of consideration and the contents of the cancellation/termination are some of the crucial aspects which should enter the judicial verdict in adjudging suitability and in determining the nature of relief to be ed. 29. Having discussed the legal position above, it is necessary to set out certain special features that obtain in the case at hand. i. The appellant hails from the small village Bagapar, P.O. Kataura, Police Station Gauri Bazar, District Deoria, U.P. ii. On the date of the application, there was no criminal case pending and there was no suppression in the application form. iii. The criminal case was registered when he was 21 years of age for the offences very similar to the one referred to in Sandeep Kumar (supra) and even in the criminal case he was acquitted. iv. No doubt, the multiple columns in the verification affidavit, questions were asked from him in different permutations and combinations. He must have been in a deep dilemma as there was an imminent prospect of losing his employment. v. Most importantly, we find from the verification documents fairly and candidly made available by the learned Additional Advocate General, that the verification report after noticing the criminal case and the subsequent acquittal stated that his character was [2024] 2 S.C.R. 741 Ravindra Kumar v. State of U.P. & ORS. good, that no complaints were found against him and that his general reputation was good. vi. Not stopping there, the person who visited the spot even wished him a bright future in the report. vii. The SHO, Gauri Bazar Police Station, who forwarded the report to the Superintendent of Police after reiterating the contents of the report observed that he was acquitted and no appeal was filed. Further, there was no other case pending and nor was any case registered against the candidate. viii. The SHO certified the character of the candidate as excellent and that he was eligible to do Government Service under the State Government. He annexed the report of the Police Station as well as the report of the Gram Pradhan and the Court documents. ix. The Superintendent of Police, in his letter to the Commandant, endorsed the report and reiterated that the character of the candidate was excellent. x. While examining whether the procedure adopted for enquiry by the authority was fair and reasonable, we find that the of cancellation of 12.04.2005 does not even follow the mandate prescribed in Clause 4 of the Form of verification of character set out in the earlier part of this .