The trigger for initiation of the collapse appears to have been unpredictable and sudden additional loading due to failure of supporting arrangement of the form traveller.” 9.2 Since this is a design-build “Turnkey Contract” which covers planning, investigation, design, construction and maintenance of the cable stayed bridge, the primary responsibility for the collapse lies with the Contractor, M/s Hyundai — Gammon (JV). The Contractors are responsible for allowing the structure to reach a vulnerable stage without taking adequate precautions with respect to stability and robustness of the partially completed structure and the short fall in the design. They are also responsible for deficiency in workmanship in the construction of span P3-P4. 9.3 The design for this bridge was prepared by M/s SYSTRA, the Design Consultants of the Contractor M/s Hyundai-Gammon (JV). Since there have been shortfalls 362 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in design, the responsibility for the same also lies with M/s SYSTRA. 9.4 The Supervision Consultants for this Project are M/s LBG-COWI whose duties include construction supervision along with the proof-checking of the design through M/s COWI While carrying out the proof-checking work M/s COWI have not highlighted the shortfalls in the design which have been observed subsequently by the Committee. Further, the Supervision Consultants have not been sufficiently proactive in preventing lapses in workmanship. They have also given tacit approval for major changes during construction without insisting on a proper review of the design by the Contractors / Design Consultants. As such, the Supervision Consultants are responsible for these lapses. 9.5 M/s Freyssinet acted as specialist Agency to M/s Hyundai for supply, installation and operation of the form traveller equipment for cantilever construction, post - tensioning work and installation of stay cables. Since the trigger for the collapse appears to be the failure of the Freyssibar and / or the supporting arrangement for the form traveller, the extent of their responsibility may be examined keeping in view the Contract Agreement between the concerned agencies. 9.6 Apportioning of extent of responsibility to the various agencies for the collapse of the structure could be examined further by the Employer (NHAI) keeping in view the contracts for this Project entered into between various agencies with each other and with NHAI.” 8. On 06.12.2010, NHAI issued a show-cause notice to the respondent nos. 1 and 2 calling upon them to justify as to why they should not be debarred. The respondents replied to the show cause notice, and after perusing the reply, the NHAI took a decision to permit them to carry out the remaining part of the contract. 9. In the meanwhile, the surveyor appointed by the appellant submitted its final report on 28.02.2011. While assessing the net loss at Rs. 39,09,92,828/-, the surveyor recommended to the appellant that the [2024] 6 S.C.R. 363 United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. M/s Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. Ltd. & Ors. insurance claim must be rejected as the respondents no. 1 and 2 had violated the conditions of the insurance policy.