[Para 217] 2.2. In the present lis, apart from the want of statutory notice period, no other challenge has been laid to the 9th auction proceedings on the ground of it being either collusive, fraudulent or vitiated by inadequate pricing or underbidding, thus, the auction cannot be said to suffer from any fundamental procedural error, and as such 1628 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports does not warrant the interference of this Court, particularly when the plea sought to be raised to challenge the same could have been raised earlier – Even if the 9th auction were to be held illegal and bad in law by virtue of the aforesaid S.A. No. 46 of 2022, it would not mean that the auction purchaser would by virtue of such finding lose all its rights to the secured asset, even after having the sale confirmed in its favour. [Paras 219, 220] Transfer of Property Act, 1882 – s.52 – s.52 does not render a transfer pendente lite void – However, the court while exercising contempt jurisdiction may be justified to pass directions either for reversal of the transactions in question by declaring the said transactions to be void or proceed to pass appropriate directions to the concerned authorities to ensure that the contumacious conduct on the part of the contemnor does not continue to enure to the advantage of the contemnor or anyone claiming under him. [Para 180] Contempt of Court – Contumacious conduct – Duty of the court – To issue appropriate directions for remedying or rectifying the things done in violation of its s – Power to take restitutive measures at any stage of the proceedings – Discussed. [Paras 221, 222] Doctrines / Principles – Doctrine of election – Once a party has elected to choose remedy under one forum, again the same cause of action cannot be challenged before another forum: Held: On facts, the Borrower decided to move the High Court for seeking the very same relief that it had sought in the securitization application u/s.17 of the SARFAESI Act before Debt Recovery Tribunal – As there was virtually no difference between either the scope of proceedings or the prayer sought before the DRT and that before the High Court, once the Borrower had chosen to espouse the same matter already sub-judice in one forum before another, in this case the High Court, it was the duty of the Borrower to bring within the fold of its case all issues and grounds in respect of the 9th auction proceedings in the proceedings arising from the writ petition, by virtue of the Doctrine of Election – Furthermore, by virtue of the Doctrine of Election, the Borrower cannot be permitted to pursue two inconsistent remedies, once the Borrower had availed the remedy to redeem its mortgage and [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1629 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. pay the dues sought to be recovered by way of the SARFAESI proceedings initiated by the Bank and having failed in doing so, it now cannot be permitted to challenge those very SARFAESI proceedings – A litigant cannot approbate or reprobate at the same time – Election is the obligation imposed upon a party by Courts of equity to choose between two inconsistent or alternative rights or claims in cases where there is clear intention of the person from whom he derives one that he should not enjoy both.