Only the wood for the purpose of cremation can be sourced from the Oran. Important Orans in Sirohi, a semi-desert district in Rajasthan, include ‘Pichheshwar Mahadeo’ near Pindwara, ‘Voreshwar Mahadeo’ near Pindwara, ‘Voresh Mahadeo’ in Sheoganj, ‘Sarneshwar Mahadeo’ near Sirohi, ‘Mochal Mataji’ in Sheoganj, ‘Baleshwari Mataji Oran’ in Pesua village and ‘Varada Hanuman ji’ which supports old Prosopis cineraria trees. 13. In toto, the sacred groves/Orans in Rajasthan play a very crucial role in conserving biodiversity, sustaining livelihoods, protecting water resources, and preserving the cultural and ecological balance in Rajasthan’s arid and semi-arid regions. III. BACKGROUND 14. This Court, in its dated 12.12.1996 in T.N. Godavarman Thirumalpad v. Union of India and Others,7 held that the Forest Conservation Act, 19808 is applicable to all forests, irrespective of their classification, and directed State Governments to identify forests through expert committees. In compliance with these directions, the State of Rajasthan constituted the State Level Expert Committee,9 which submitted its report dated 15.04.2004. The Kapoor Committee identified sacred groves, such as Orans, Bundhs, and Dev-vans, for classification as ‘forests.’ It recommended that ‘deemed forests’ would be “a compact of area of minimum 5 hectares and where naturally growing minimum 200 trees per ha. exist.”. 15. Subsequently, numerous interlocutory applications were filed including, I.A. No. 1254 in W.P. No. 202 of 1995 praying that sacred groves in the State of Rajasthan be classified as ‘deemed forests’. The matter 7 (1997) 2 SCC 267 8 Hereinafter being referred to as the ‘FC Act’ 9 Hereinafter being referred to as the ‘Kapoor Committee’ [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1847 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. was then referred to the Central Empowered Committee10 which in its report dated 01.06.2005, found that the Kapoor Committee’s criteria was inconsistent with this Court’s s and recommended classifying sacred groves as ‘forests,’ save for small, fragmented areas that are difficult to manage, which may be excluded under the FC Act. 16. Pursuant thereto, the State of Rajasthan had published the Rajasthan State Forest Policy, 2010, where the guidelines were laid down for Orans/Dev-vans. 17. By dated 03.07.2018, in I.A. No. 1254, this Court directed the State of Rajasthan to implement the recommendations of the CEC expeditiously, in letter and spirit. The relevant part of the dated 03.07.2018 is extracted below for the sake of ready reference: “The State of Rajasthan has accepted Recommendation Nos. (i) and (iii) given by the CEC which read as follows: (i) In respect of sacred groves such as Orans, De-vans etc. the Kapoor Committee has included only those areas in the category of ‘forest’ which also fulfill the criteria laid down for deemed forest i.e. having more than 200 trees per ha. A compact block of 5 ha. Or more. The remaining areas have been left out though they are recorded as Orans, De-vans etc. in government records. Traditionally Orans; Dev- vans and other sacred groves, irrespective of their size, have been treated as forest land in Rajasthan. This was also confirmed by the State of Rajasthan during the hearing held before the CEC.