S.11 empowers the Central Government or any person empowered under it with the power to take samples of air, water, soil or other substances and lays down detailed procedure to be followed for this purpose. 1872 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports viii. S.12 permits the Central Government to establish and recognise laboratories or institutes to carry out functions enumerated for such laboratories which have to be notified in the gazette in accordance with S.12(2). ix. S.25 empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out the purposes of the Act. In particular, under S.25(2): “(a) the standards in excess of which environmental pollutants shall not be discharged or emitted under section 7; (b) the procedure in accordance with and the safeguards in compliance with which hazardous substances shall be handled or caused to be handled under section 8; x x x (e) the form in which notice of intention to have a sample analysed shall be served under clause (a) of sub section (3) of section 11; (f) the functions of the environmental laboratories, the procedure for the submission to such laboratories of samples of air, water, soil and other substances for analysis or test; the form of laboratory report; the fees payable for such report and other matters to enable such laboratories to carry out their functions under sub-section (2) of section 12;” 15. The 1989 Rules were enacted by the Central Government under the EPA, 1986 with a view to protecting the environment, nature and health, in connection with the application of gene-technology and micro-organisms. i. Rule 2 specifies the application of these rules. Clause 2 specifies that “These shall apply to genetically engineered organisms micro-organisms and cells and correspondingly to any substances and products and food stuffs, etc. of which such cells, organisms or tissues hereof form part.” ii. Rule 3(3) defines Gene Technology as “the application of the gene technique called genetic engineering, include self-cloning and deletion as well as cell hybridisation.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1873 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. iii. Rule 3(4) defines Genetic Engineering as “the technique by which heritable material, which does not usually occur or will not occur naturally in the organism or cell concerned, generated outside the organism or the cell is inserted into said cell or organism. It shall also mean the formation of new combinations of genetic material by incorporation of a cell into a host cell, where they occur naturally (self-cloning) as well as modification of an organism or in a cell by deletion and removal of parts of the heritable material.” iv. Rule 4(4) of the aforesaid rules, provide for setting up of the GEAC as a body under the Department of Environment, Forests and Wildlife, for approval of proposals relating to release of genetically engineered organisms and products into the environment, including experimental field trials. These proposals are to be examined from the environmental angle. Other committees therein, the membership of the GEAC and other aspects will come to be discussed in the foregoing paragraphs.