In my view, the inquiry does not merely relate to only the resource and its characteristics; the impact of the resource on the well-being of the community; the scarcity of the resource; and the consequences of such a resource being concentrated in the hands of private players. In my view, these are not the only factors which have to be thought of while considering whether a privately owned material resource is a material resource of the community or not. In my view, a privately owned material resource can be transformed and can indeed acquire a status of “material resource of the community”. What are the material resources owned by private persons which can be material resources of 210 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the community? They would not include what can be termed as “personal effects” of an individual such as movables in the form of an individual’s apparel, household articles of daily use such as furniture, personal jewellery, kitchenware and such other articles. These are articles which are of daily need and use as submitted by learned senior counsel Sri Rakesh Dwivedi. They are resources no doubt but not “material” resources within the meaning of Article 39(b). However, there could be other types of resources privately owned, such as immovable property, which could become “material resources”. The expression “of the community” would in my view include all those privately owned “material resources” which have the potential to be transformed as “material resources of the community” excluding personal effects. According to Black’s Law Dictionary, Ninth Edition, the expression “personal effects” is defined to mean items of a personal character. In P. Ramanatha Aiyar’s Advanced Law Lexicon, Volume 3, 6th Edition, “personal effects” has been defined to mean things required for satisfying daily necessities but does not include jewellery. This would generally mean such tangible property as is worn or carried about the person, or the designate articles associated with the person, as property having more or less intimate relation to person of possessor or such tangible property as attends the person vide H.H. Maharaja Rana Hemant Singhji vs. CIT, (1976) 1 SCC 996, 999, para 12. 7.7 Thus, to constitute an article as part of “personal effects”, it is necessary that the article must be associated with the person of the possessor, must more or less have intimate relation with the possessor. Thus, any privately owned “material resources”could be transformed as “material resource of the community”. How would this happen? Essentially by four different modes, namely, (i) by nationalisation; (ii) by acquisition;(iii) by vesting of the said resource in the state, by operation of law under specific statutes and (iv) by the owner of a materialresource converting such a resource into a “material resource of the community” by way of donation or a gift, a creation of a charitable endowment, a grant or a dedication so that the said material resource is useful for the community and used or distributed as to subserve the common good. I shall discuss this aspect later.