3.6. On the charge-sheet being filed, the trial court took cognizance of the charges and initiated criminal proceedings against the accused persons vide Special Case (SC/ST) No. 01 of 2021. 3.7. Being aggrieved thereby, the accused persons preferred a petition under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. before the High Court, praying for quashing of the proceedings pending before the trial court. The High Court, by the impugned , allowed the petition and quashed the afore-stated proceedings in respect of all the accused persons. 952 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4. Being aggrieved thereby, the present appeal has been filed by the original complainant. 5. We have heard Shri Naman Dwivedi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant and Shri M. Yogesh Kanna, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents. 6. Shri Dwivedi submitted that the learned Single Judge of the High Court has grossly erred in quashing the proceedings. It is submitted that the learned Single Judge almost conducted a mini-trial while considering a petition filed under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. It is submitted that the learned Single Judge of the High Court ought to have taken into consideration that the exercise of powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. was permissible only when the material placed on record along with the charge-sheet was sufficient enough to come to a conclusion that the case, even if it went to trial, would not culminate into conviction. It is submitted that from the statement of the prosecutrix as well as the witnesses, the prosecution has prima facie shown that accused No.1, on the false promise of marriage, had entered into a forcible relationship with the victim. It is submitted that the material placed on record was also sufficient to prima facie point out that accused No. 1 had forced the complainant to undergo abortion when the complainant had become pregnant. 7. Per contra, Shri Kanna submitted that the learned Single Judge of the High Court has considered the material placed on record to come to a conclusion that the prosecution case, even if taken at its face value, does not constitute the ingredients of the offences charged with. The learned counsel submitted that the learned Single Judge of the High Court, relying on the s of this Court in the cases of Dr. Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar v. State of Maharashtra and Others1 and Shambhu Kharwar v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another2, has rightly held that there was no material placed on record to constitute the offences punishable under Section 376 of IPC. He submitted that no error could be found with the finding of the High Court that permitting the continuation of the proceedings would become an abuse of process of law and result in miscarriage of justice. It is submitted that the prosecutrix has gone to the extent 1 [2018] 13 SCR 920 : (2019) 18 SCC 191 2 [2022] 7 SCR 156 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1032 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 953 Ms. X v. Mr. A and Others of dragging the entire family only in to harass the accused persons.