This provision pre-supposes the existence of a mining lease granted by the State Government prior to the Central Government acquiring it under the CBA, 1957. No relationship of a lessor and lessee shall come into existence between the State Government and the Government Company if there did not exist any mining lease under the Mineral Concession Rules, at the relevant point of time, when such right is being vested in the Government Company. Simply put, when there is no pre-existing lease at the time of acquisition by the Central Government and the rights are subsequently vested in a Government Company, then such Government Company does not become a deemed lessee of the State Government. 13. Having clarified the legal position and interpretation of the two provisions, we now move to the factual analysis of our case. It is undisputed that by virtue of the notification in the Official Gazette dated 05.12.1981, the land and rights vested absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances under Section 10(1) of the CBA,1957. This means that the Central Government became the absolute owner of the land and rights over the land from 05.12.1981 onwards. 14. Further, the Government dated 02.11.1982 published by the Government of India, which was produced as Annexure P-1 before us, clearly provided that in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11(1) of the CBA, 1957, the Central Government had directed the vesting of such land and rights in the Government Company, with effect from 05.12.1981. It is to be noted that the rights in the Government Company were vested specifically by virtue of sub- section (1) of Section 11 and at that time, there did not exist any mining lease as provided under sub-section (2). As explained above, [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1929 State of U.P. & Anr. v. Northern Coal Fields the rights under Section 11(1) are vested in the Government Company in the exact nature as they existed in the Central Government at the time. Therefore, when the Central Government’s right was free from all encumbrances and completely absolute, the Government Company also acquired an absolute right over the land. No question of a qualified right in the capacity of a deemed lessee of the State Government arises in such a situation. This is by virtue of the fact that when Central Government acquired such rights and also when it was further vested in the Government Company, there was no pre-existing mining lease in favour of any person and, therefore, Section 10(2) and Section 11(2) become inapplicable in the given case. Thus, the land vested in the Government Company free from all encumbrances, subject to the conditions imposed by the Central Government. Therefore, the State Government is not entitled to claim itself as a deemed lessor of the Government Company in the given situation and the demand for “lease rent” becomes completely unwarranted. 15. The findings of the Patna High Court in Paragraph 7 of the in the case of Managing Director, National Coal Development Corporation (supra) is in lines with our analysis as even in that case, it was held that Section 10(2) is not attracted because there existed no mining lease prior to acquisition.