[2024] 7 S.C.R. 474 : 2024 INSC 500 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 7254 of 2024) 09 July 2024 [J. B. Pardiwala* and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Matter pertains to the legality, validity and propriety of the auction proceedings conducted by the Tahsildar of the subject property, originally owned by the respondent No. 1; whether the provisions of XXI r. 90 CPC would apply to the writ proceedings u/Art. 226 of the Constitution; and whether the Additional Commissioner, had the jurisdiction to decide the two appeals filed by the respondent nos. 1 and 6 respectively u/s. 247 of the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966. Headnotes† Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966 – ss. 194, 195, 212 – Auction sale – Matter pertaining to auction proceedings conducted by the Tahsildar of the subject property originally owned by the respondent No. 1 – Respondent no. 1 mortgaged its property in favour of the Bank and obtained loan – Bank assigned the debts due and payable to it in favour of the respondent no. 6 – Respondent no. 1 was in arrears of land revenue and despite issuance of demand notices failed to make the payment and as such the property owned by him was put to auction under the provisions of the Land Revenue Code – Appellant declared the successful bidder and sale certificate issued by the Additional Collector in his favour – Legality, validity and propriety of the auction proceedings conducted by Tahsildar of the subject property originally owned by the respondent No. 1: Held: There was gross violation of the mandatory provisions of the Revenue Code as regards the conduct of the auction sale – Sale of the property took place before the expiry of the mandatory 30 days’ notice, thus, the sale was conducted in breach of the provisions of s. 194 – Sale certificate was issued on the same day, * Author [2024] 7 S.C.R. 475 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. i.e., on the date of the auction itself, much before the confirmation of sale by the Additional Collector, thus, the sale was conducted in breach of the provisions of s. 212 – Appellant-purchaser was put in possession of the property much before the sale came to be confirmed and that too prior to the cheque being realised, thus, breach of the provisions of ss. 212 and 208 respectively – Undue haste was exhibited by the Tahsildar in completing the sale in favour of the appellant – Tahsildar supressing an important fact before the Additional Collector as regards the objections received by him from IFCI itself indicates that there was some collusion between the Tahsildar and the appellant – Said lapses, cannot be termed as irregularity – Various illegalities were committed even in confirming the sale – If all the illegalities taken note of were to be condoned or overlooked, applying the provisions of Ord. XXI r. 90 CPC, the same would result in nothing but gross travesty of justice – No interference warranted with the impugned of the High Court – Having taken the view that the High Court committed no error, much less any error of law, the appeals could have been dismissed – However, the appellant having running an oxygen cylinder manufacturing plant on the suit property, for almost 15 years after investing a huge amount wherein 200 employees are working, it is fit to give one opportunity to the appellant to save its industrial unit set up on the subject land – Appellant to deposit a sum of Rupees Four Crore Only with the respondent no.