D. The Context of speech 26. We are dealing with cinematic speech. In a slightly different context of anti-hate speech and group-defamation laws, Professor Ronald Dworkin argued that freedom of speech and expression extended even to hate speech. While he conceded the need to protect certain groups from violence and discrimination, he believed society could adopt laws to offer such protection. He regarded hate speech as protected speech and necessary, so that anti-discrimination laws could gain political legitimacy and enforceability among their opponents. His argument was that “if we want legitimate laws against violence or discrimination, we must let their opponents speak”.34 John Stuart Mill on the other hand, argued that such speech served a public-education function by promoting public debate, and to sustain constant questioning of the truth35. Disagreeing with Dworkin’s legitimacy argument as well as Mill’s public debate argument, Jeremy Waldron argued in The Harm in Hate Speech that on certain issues, society is past the point where it needs to debate fundamental aspects of issues such as race. Waldron argued that if hate speech were to be allowed because of its ability to sustain a public debate, such debate would come at the cost of the dignity of racial minorities, who have had to bear humiliating attacks on their objective social standing due to such speech.36 This affront to one’s dignity and objective treatment by society, rather than the 33 KA Abbas (supra) [40] 34 Ronald Dworkin, Foreword, in Hare and Weinstein, eds., Extreme Speech and Democracy, v–ix.as cited in Jeremy Waldron, The Harm in Hate Speech, Harvard University Press Cambridge, Massachusetts London, England (2012), Pg 175. 35 John Stuart Mill, On Liberty (Penguin Books, 1982) [99, 106] as cited in Jeremy Waldron, The Harm in Hate Speech, Pgs 194, 197. 36 Jeremy Waldron (supra), Pg 195. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 265 Nipun Malhotra v. Sony Pictures Films India Private Limited & Ors. more subjective notion of the ‘effect on one’s feelings’ by way of such speech must be curbed.37 27. Even though Waldron was writing in a different context, he highlights the importance of the ‘context’ of speech as paramount in deciding the validity of restraints on it. Derogatory speech and stereotypes usually target the marginalised. The impact of the speech on human dignity; the identity of the speaker and the target; and the linguistic connotations of the speech may be considered in deciding issues around stereotypical speech. The standard of the ‘overall message’ of a film, in some ways, furthers this emphasis on the importance of context and manner of portrayal in visual media.38 I. Disabling imagery: stereotypical portrayal of persons with disabilities in the media. 28. Media portrayals of persons with disabilities have been historically oppressive. Consistent with the understanding that disability was ‘anomalous’ in a normative framework of ability, persons with disabilities were represented in disparaging ways. They were portrayed as evil, as objects of pity, violence, curiosity and ridicule, as burdens on society, sexually abnormal, and overall, as people incapable of community participation39.