Thus, the said fully applies to the case of the appellant. (viii) Shri Sibal referred to the observations made in the of Pankaj Bansal (supra) and urged that since the grounds of arrest were not furnished to the appellant at the time of his arrest and before remanding him to police custody, the continued custody of the appellant is rendered grossly illegal and a nullity in the eyes of law because the same is hit by the mandate of Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India. 1 [2023] 12 SCR 714 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1244 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 677 Prabir Purkayastha v. State (NCT of Delhi) (ix) Shri Sibal further urged that the view taken by a two-Judge Bench of this Court in Ram Kishor Arora v. Directorate of Enforcement2 holding the in Pankaj Bansal (supra) to be prospective in operation would also not come in the way of the appellant in seeking the relief. He pointed out that the in the case of Pankaj Bansal (supra) was pronounced on 3rd October, 2023 whereas the illegal remand of the appellant was passed on 4th October, 2023 and hence, the law laid down in the case of Pankaj Bansal (supra) is fully applicable to the case of the appellant despite the interpretation given in Ram Kishor Arora (supra). (x) That the arrest of the appellant is in gross violation of the provisions contained in Article 22 of the Constitution of India, hence, the appellant is entitled to seek a direction for quashment of the remand and release from custody forthwith. (xi) That the action of the Investigating Officer in arresting and in seeking remand of the appellant is not only mala fide but also fraught with fraud of the highest . (xii) Referring to the remand dated 4th October, 2023, it was contended that the appellant was kept confined overnight by the Investigating Officer without conveying the grounds of arrest to him. He was presented in the Court of the learned Remand Judge on 4th October, 2023 in the early morning without informing Shri Arshdeep Khurana, the Advocate engaged on behalf of the appellant who was admittedly in contact with the Investigating Officer because he had attended the proceedings at the Police Station Lodhi Colony, post the appellant’s arrest. In to clandestinely procure police custody remand of the appellant, the Investigating Officer, presented the appellant at the residence of learned Remand Judge before 6:00 a.m. by informing a remand Advocate Shri Umakant Kataria who had never been engaged by the appellant to plead his cause. (xiii) Learned Remand Judge remanded the accused to police custody at 6:00 a.m. sharp as is evident from the remand (supra). Shri Arshdeep Khurana, the appellant’s Advocate was informed 2 [2023] 16 SCR 743 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1682 678 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports about the granting remand by a WhatsApp message at 7:07 a.m. but the same was an exercise in futility because there was no possibility that the learned Advocate could have reached the residence of the learned Remand Judge in time to oppose the prayer for remand.