These guidelines, including specific provisions for persons with disabilities provided a comprehensive framework for film certification. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 259 Nipun Malhotra v. Sony Pictures Films India Private Limited & Ors. C. Legislative Framework 11. We have heard Mr Sanjoy Ghose, senior counsel and Mr Jai Anant Dehadrai, counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant; Mr Parag Tripathi, senior counsel appearing on behalf of Sony Pictures and Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India who has appeared to assist the Court on its request. The issues that arise for our consideration include the impact of the provisions of the RPwD Act 2016 on the certification of films under the Cinematograph Act. 12. The appellant has alleged that the Board has violated its duties under the statute for film certification in granting a certificate to the film. The Cinematograph Act 1952, the Cinematograph (Certification) Rules 19834 and the Guidelines for Certification of Films for Public Exhibition 19915, constitute the framework for certification of films. These provide for certification of films for exhibition and for regulation of the exhibition of such films. Every film must obtain a prior certificate for exhibition from the Board under Section 5A of the Act. The Board is constituted under Section 3 by the Central Government and consists of a chairperson and a minimum of twelve, and a maximum of twenty-five members6. An application for the grant of a certificate has to be in the format prescribed in the Rules7. 13. Once an application is made, it is assessed by an Examining Committee, which makes recommendations to the relevant authority, which could be the Chairperson of the Board or the Regional Officer concerned. The authority, acting on the Board’s behalf may act on the recommendations or refer the application to the Revising Committee which includes members of the Board or of advisory panels.8 14. Section 5 provides for Advisory Panels9 consisting of persons qualified to judge the effect of the films on the public. The Advisory panels are appointed to facilitate the efficient functioning of the Board. The Board may consult the panel in respect of any application for the 4 “1983 Rules”. The 1983 Rules have been superseded by the Cinematograph (Certification) Rules, 2024 (“2024 Rules”). 5 “Guidelines” 6 Cinematograph Act 1952, Section 3. 7 Cinematograph Act 1952, Section 4; Cinematograph (Certification) Rules 1983, Rule 21. 8 Cinematograph (Certification) Rules, 1983, Rule 24. 9 Cinematograph Act 1952, Section 5. 260 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports certification of a film. The panel has to examine the film and make its recommendations to the Board in accordance with the applicable rules. 15. Section 8 empowers the Central Government to make rules. The 1983 Certification Rules (and the 2024 Rules which superseded them) were framed under the rule making power. Under the Rules, the Regional Officer appoints an Examining Committee consisting of members of the Advisory Panel (constituted under Section 5) and an Examining Officer10. The Examining Officer submits recommendations of the Examining Committee to the authority prescribed in the Rules, based on the type and length of the content, and takes personal responsibility for compliance with every guideline.11 The Chairperson of the Board can require the Regional Officer to act on behalf of the Board, in conformity with the recommendations of the Examining Committee.