After hearing the parties at length and having considered all the documents placed on record, the Scrutiny Committee accepted the caste claim of Appellant vide 03.11.2017 predominantly on the basis of two documents, i.e., (i) 126 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports bona-fide certificate dated 11.02.2014 issued by Khalsa College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the name of Appellant’s grandfather mentioning his caste as ‘Sikh-Chamar’; and (ii) the Indenture of Tenancy of 1932 which corroborated the Appellant’s claim of her forefathers having migrated to Maharashtra from Punjab back in 1932 itself along with proof of residence. Aggrieved from above, the parties filed respective Writ Petitions and hence, the instant appeals. ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY APPELLANT 4. Learned Senior Counsel Mr. Dhruv Mehta at the outset contended that High Court erred in upsetting the detailed findings of Scrutiny Committee in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226 of Constitution of India. High Court by invoking its jurisdiction to issue a writ of certiorari ought not to have interfered in the matter since the Committee arrived at such conclusion after having conducted extensive fact-finding exercise. He further submitted that the scope of exercise of jurisdiction in such cases is limited to examination of s passed by the Courts/Forums below to see if such s have been passed without jurisdiction, or in excess of the jurisdiction or due to failure of exercise of jurisdiction. Undisputedly, Scrutiny Committee in the instant case, being a quasi-judicial authority exercised its jurisdiction under ‘Maharashtra Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, De-Notified Tribes (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes and Special Backward Category (Regulation of Issuance and Verification of) Caste Certificate Act, 2000’, (hereinafter referred to as ‘2000 Act’) and adjudicated the claim. The fact-finding exercise and assessment of documents fell within the exclusive domain of the Scrutiny Committee and High Court in supervisory jurisdiction dealt with the petitions akin a statutory appeal. The roving inquiry conducted by High Court was uncalled for, particularly when in the instant case there is no allegation to the effect that Scrutiny Committee lacked jurisdiction. The procedure as prescribed was duly followed by the Scrutiny Committee and after due application of mind, the claim of Appellant was validated. [See ‘Nagendra Nath Bora Vs. The Commissioner of Hills Division and Appeals, Assam and Others., AIR 1958 SC 398’ – Para 30 to 39 and 41; ‘Rajendra Diwan Vs. Pradeep Kumar Ranibala, (2019) 20 SCC 143’ – Para 85 to 87; ‘Indian Overseas Bank Vs. I.O.B. Staff Canteen Workers’ Union and Another, 2000 (4) SCC 245’ – Para 17; Mah. Adiwasi Thakur Jamat Swarakshan [2024] 4 S.C.R. 127 Navneet Kaur Harbhajansing Kundles @ Navneet Kaur Ravi Rana v. State of Maharashtra and Other Samiti Vs. State of Maharashtra and Others, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 326 – Para 28] 5. So far as question of inadmissibility of documents submitted by Appellant before Scrutiny Committee is concerned, it was argued by the learned Senior Counsel that those documents carried a statutory presumption under Indian Evidence Act as they were related to forefathers of Appellant and belonged from pre-independence era.