Having received multiple injuries in the assault laid by the accused appellants, Mohammad Sohail fell down on the road just outside the petrol pump. A policeman was present near the petrol pump who came running towards Mohammad Sohail and on seeing him, the three assailants started running away with their weapons. In the intervening period, Mehboob Abdul Rehman Memon and Irfanbhai Memon, colleagues of Mohammad Sohail also arrived at the spot. Accused Allarakha Habib Memon and Amin @ Lalo Aarifbhai Memon threw down their weapons whereas, Mohmedfaruk @ Palak ran away carrying the knife held by him. The first informant (PW-11) noticed large number of injuries on the body of Mohammad Sohail. Someone stopped a rickshaw wherein; Mohammad Sohail was boarded, and 360 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports he was taken to Anand Nagar Palika Hospital for treatment. On reaching the hospital, they came to know that the doctor was on leave on which, the first informant (PW-11) gave a call to his uncle Mohammed Iqbal Memon (father of the deceased) who came to the Anand Nagar Palika Hospital with a Maruti van. Mohammad Sohail was placed in the van and was taken to Krishna Medical Hospital, Karamsad for treatment where the duty Doctor examined him and declared that he had expired. The first informant (PW-11) stated that when Mohammad Sohail was being taken in the van, at that time, he, Mohammad Sohail’s father Mohammed Iqbal Memon, Sikander Abdul Karim Chokshi, Munafbhai Farooqbhai Memon and Mustaq Mohammad Siddiqbhai Memon were also present in the vehicle. The aforesaid oral statement was treated to be the complaint (Exhibit P-79) and came to be registered as the formal FIR. 14. Apparently, going by the allegations made in the FIR (Exhibit P-79), there were two eyewitnesses to the incident, namely, the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11), and the Police Constable, Demistalkumar (PW-12) who were present at the petrol pump. 15. Before dealing with the evidence of the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11), we would like to allude to the testimony of the Police Constable, Demistalkumar (PW-12) who is indisputably an independent witness having no interest either in the complainant party or the accused party. The relevant extracts from the evidence of Demistalkumar (PW-12) are reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of ready reference: - Examination-in-Chief: “Since last 3 years I am discharging duty at Anand Town Police Station at L.R. Police constable. On 4/5/11, I was having my duty at Shah Petrol Pump which is situated towards Anand at Bhalej bridge between morning hours 10 to 2400 (sic). At 8:30 o’ clock in the night, I came to know that some scuffle has taken place opposite Radhaswami Chamber. Hence I came on road from Shah Petrol Pump. Once person was found lying there in bleeding condition. He had fallen down at small garden near Mahendra Shah Petrol Pump and 3 persons were running towards him to beat him. They were having weapons like knife and Gupti. Upon seeing me, 2 persons [2024] 8 S.C.R.