In that case, the total vacancies for which recruitment was to be made was 231 and 61,179 candidates were found to be eligible. The first Committee which enquired found that there were serious irregularities including cheating and impersonation in the course of both Tier 1 Screening examination and Tier 2 Main examination. The Secretary (Vigilance) had also pointed out in his opinion there was a huge difference between the 38 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS number of applications received, namely, 62056 and the number of candidates who had appeared in the Tier 1 examination i.e. 8224, indicating thereby that proper information regarding the exam was not given to the candidates. The second Committee had observed that no irregularity was found in the documents of the 281 candidates. The Tribunal holding that 281 candidates were free from blame, set aside the cancelling selection process, clarifying that the appointments to be offered would be subject to the ACB investigation. The High Court had held that the scope of the of the Tribunal should be confined to the six applicants who have moved the Tribunal. The High Court had also held that it was possible to determine that at least in respect of 281candidates there was no evidence of use of unfair means and that it was a case where separation of the tainted from the untainted was possible. 32. Reversing the of the Tribunal and the High Court, this Court held that the irregularities were not confined to acts of malpractice or unfair means on the part of specific group of persons and that the report of the Committee found deficiencies of a systemic nature which cast serious doubts on the legitimacy of the entire process of recruitment. This Court held that in such a situation where a decision is taken by the government to cancel the entire process, the decision cannot be held to be irrational or arbitrary. 33. This in Sachin Kumar (supra) is clearly distinguishable from the case at hand. First of all, Sachin Kumar (supra) involved the cancellation of the selection process before any appointments were made. No rights were crystallized to any of the candidates. The issue was about the validity of the cancellation of the selection process. Sachin Kumar (supra) falls in that genre of cases concerning validity of cancellation of the selection process due to largescale irregularities. The Case at hand is proximate to the facts and ratio in Suresh Raghunath Bhokare (supra) and cases of that ilk set out hereinabove. 34. We feel that the appellants were not at fault and the State could not have abruptly stopped their salaries. Accordingly, we set aside the s of the High Court dated 15.09.2021 in Special Appeal Nos. 1435/2013 and 1445/2013 and direct that the State shall pay the salaries of the appellants for the period from 25.06.1999 till January, 2002 in full. We also direct that insofar as the period from October, [2024] 1 S.C.R. 39 RADHEY SHYAM YADAV & ANR. ETC. v. STATE OF U.P.