A landlord who seeks eviction of his tenant, on the ground of his “bona fide” need and a purchaser seeking specific performance who has to show his “readiness and willingness” fall under this category. There is however a recognised exception to this requirement. Where all the affairs of a party are completely managed, transacted and looked after by an attorney (who may happen to be a close family member), it may be possible to accept the evidence of such attorney even with reference to bona fides or “readiness and willingness”. Examples of such attorney-holders are a husband/wife exclusively managing the affairs of [2024] 5 S.C.R. 625 Rajesh Kumar v. Anand Kumar & Ors. his/her spouse, a son/daughter exclusively managing the affairs of an old and infirm parent, a father/mother exclusively managing the affairs of a son/daughter living abroad.” 11. In a more recent of this Court in the matter of A.C. Narayanan vs. State of Maharashtra & Anr.4, this Court again considered the earlier s, particularly, Janki Vashdeo Bhojwani (supra) and having noticed that Janki Vashdeo Bhojwani relates to Power of Attorney Holder under CPC whereas in the matter of (A.C. Narayanan) the Court was concerned with a criminal case. It was observed that since criminal law can be set in motion by anyone, even by a stranger or legal heir, a complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 preferred by the Power of Attorney Holder is held maintainable and also that such Power of Attorney Holder can depose as complainant. 12. Having noticed the three s of this Court in Janki Vashdeo Bhojwani (supra), Man Kaur (supra) & A.C. Narayanan (supra), we are of the view that in view of Section 12 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, in a suit for specific performance wherein the plaintiff is required to aver and prove that he has performed or has always been ready and willing to perform the essential terms of the contract, a Power of Attorney Holder is not entitled to depose in place and instead of the plaintiff (principal). In other words, if the Power of Attorney Holder has rendered some ‘acts’ in pursuance of power of attorney, he may depose for the principal in respect of such acts, but he cannot depose for the principal for the act done by the principal and not by him. Similarly, he cannot depose for the principal in respect of the matter of which only the principal can have personal knowledge and in respect of which the principal is entitled to be cross-examined. If a plaintiff, in a suit for specific performance is required to prove that he was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract, it is necessary for him to step into the witness box and depose the said fact and subject himself to cross-examination on that issue. A plaintiff cannot examine in his place, his attorney holder who did not have personal knowledge either of the transaction or of his readiness and willingness.