(iv) In (a) to (d) above, the provision of Article 300A which is a constitutional right to property has to be complied with. (v) The “material resources of the community” have to be “distributed as best to subserve the common good”. Distribution could be in two ways: Firstly, by the State itself retaining the material resource for a public purpose and/or for public use; and Secondly, privately owned material resources when converted as “material resources of the community” can be distributed to eligible and deserving persons either by way of auction, grant, assignment, allocation, lease, sale or any other mode of transfer known to law either temporarily or permanently depending upon the mode adopted and unconditionally or with conditions depending upon: 258 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) nature of the resource and its inherent characteristics; (b) the impact of the resource on the well-being of the community; (c) the scarcity of the resource; (d) the consequences of such a resource being concentrated in the hands of the private owners; and (e) any such factors. (vi) The expression “common good” would, inter alia, mean that the distribution of the “ownership and control of material resources of the community” would not lead to concentration of the wealth and means of production in the hands of few which is a Directive Principle in clause (c) of Article 39. Thus, “distribution of material resources of the community” cannot violate the Directive Principle in clause (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution. IV. The majority of this Court in Ranganatha Reddy and the in Abu Kavur Bai relate to nationalisation of contract carriages/State carriages which were upheld by this Court. Nationalisation of coking coal mines was upheld by this Court in Sanjeev Coke. In Bhim Singhji and Basantibai, certain provisions of the Urban Land Ceiling Act and the provisions of MHADA respectively were upheld on the touchstone of Article 39(b) of the Constitution. The nine-Judge Bench in Mafatlal referred to the s of this Court in Ranganatha Reddy, Abu Kavur Bai etc. in the context of the submission made before,i.e., the Indian Constitution envisages Justice – social, economic and political, to all citizens of India as enshrined in the preamble. This was by way of an obiter but having persuasive value. My Views to the Conclusions arrived at by the learned Chief Justice: 23. My views in response to the conclusions arrived at by the learned Chief Justice to the reference before this Court are summarized as under: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 259 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. a. Article 31C to the extent that it was upheld in Kesavananda Bharati vs. Union of India remains in force. My view: I agree. b. The majority in Ranganatha Reddy expressly distanced itself from the observations made by Justice Krishna Iyer (speaking on behalf of the minority of judges) on the interpretation of Article 39(b). Thus, a coequal Bench of this Court in Sanjeev Coke violated judicial discipline and erred by relying on the minority opinion.