If this is allowed, the accused may be given an un-merited advantage in the criminal process. Also because of the legal presumption, when the cheque and the signature are not disputed by the appellant, the balance of convenience at this stage is in favour of the complainant/prosecution, as the accused will have due opportunity to adduce defence evidence during the trial, to rebut the presumption.” (Emphasis supplied) 185. From the above exposition of law, it is clear that there is no bar for the High Court to invoke the statutory presumption at the stage of deciding the quashing petition in respect to any offence to which such a presumption is applicable. Rather, any failure to give due weightage to the same, may result in dire consequences such as premature quashing of the criminal proceeding or allowing the accused to completely bypass the statutory presumption which otherwise would have been applicable in the trial. In light of our earlier discussion and without again referring to a plethora of decisions in this regard, it is clear how the statutory presumption plays a vital role when it comes to offences such as those under the POCSO. 186. This Court in Attorney General (supra) specifically held that considering the objects of POCSO, its provisions, more particularly, pertaining to sexual assault etc should be construed viz-a-viz the other [2024] 10 S.C.R. 269 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. provisions of the Act more meaningful and effective. Any selective reference to a particular provision in complete ignorance of the other provision would result in a mutilation of the entire scheme and purport of the legislation and thereby defeat the purpose with which it was enacted. The High Courts as a matter of choice should not shy away from referring to the statutory presumption that has been incorporated in the Act, whilst deciding a quashing petition. The High Courts must not deal with a particular offence under any enactment devoid or in disregard of the rest of the statutory framework, it must recognize and refer to the legislation in toto. 187. Otherwise, it would give an undue advantage to an accused by allowing him to mischievously prefer a quashing petition before the trial commences and completely bypass the statutory presumption provided by the legislature and walk right away from the criminal proceedings, thereby setting the entire legislation at naught. It is imperative for the courts to discourage any such attempts on part of the accused to short circuit the statutory provisions and procedure laid in a particular Act and evade trial entirely. In such situations, the statutory presumption becomes all the more important to effectively ensure that criminal process is not manipulated by any devious accused. 188. As has been held in Prakash Nath Khanna (supra) and Rathis Babu Unnikrishnan (supra), any defence of the accused for the purpose of rebutting the said statutory presumption should ordinarily be left to the trial court to be looked into at-least when it comes to quashing petitions.