1871 Nisar Ahmad & Ors. v. Sami Ullah (Dead) Through Lrs. & Anr. deal with the grant of substantive rights to the tenure-holders. While substantive rights are governed by the provisions contained in U.P. Act No. 1 of 1951, the 1953 Act is only procedural with regard to consolidation of holdings. 19. Section 3 of the 1953 Act contains the definitions of various words and expressions used in the said Act. As per Section 3(1A), chak means the parcel of land allotted to a tenure-holder on consolidation. Consolidation has been defined in Section 3(2) to mean re- arrangement of holdings in a unit amongst several tenure-holders in such a way as to make their respective holdings more compact. Section 3(2A) defines consolidation area to mean the area in respect of which notification under Section 4 has been issued. Section 3(4C) defines holding to mean a parcel or parcels of land held under one tenure by a tenure-holder singly or jointly with other tenure-holders. Land has been defined in Section 3(5) to mean land held or occupied for purposes connected with agriculture, horticulture and animal husbandry, including pisciculture and poultry farming. Rectangulation as defined in Section 3(8A) means the process of dividing the area of a unit into rectangles and parts of rectangles of convenient size with a view to regulating the allotment of chaks during consolidation. Tenure-holder has been defined in Section 3(11) to mean a bhumidhar either with transferrable rights or with non-transferrable rights. Unit has been defined in Section 3(11A) to mean a village or part thereof or two or more villages or parts thereof for which a single scheme of consolidation is to be framed. 19.1. Section 4 deals with declaration and notification regarding consolidation. As per sub-Section 1(a), the State Government, where it is of opinion that a district or part thereof may be brought under consolidation operations, may make a declaration to that effect to be published in the official gazette whereupon it shall be lawful for any empowered officer or authority to enter upon the declared land and carry out survey etc. Thus, consolidation proceedings start in a district or part thereof with the issuance of notification under Section 4 which besides being published in the official gazette is also to be published as a public notice at convenient places of the district or part thereof. 19.2. The consequences which would ensue following publication of notification under Section 4 are enumerated in Section 5(2). 1872 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Amongst the various consequences, it is important to note that once a declaration is notified, every proceeding for correction of records and every suit or proceedings in respect of declaration of rights or interest in any land lying in the area or for declaration or adjudication of any other right at any stage of the proceedings would stand abated. Ofcourse, such abatement would have to be preceded by notice and hearing. That apart, such abatement would be without prejudice to the rights of the persons affected to agitate the rights or interest in dispute in the said suits or proceedings before the appropriate consolidation authorities under and in accordance with the 1953 Act.