Digital Supreme Court Reports authority for public purposes” because: (i) the compulsion stems from the contractual conditions of the mining lease agreed between the lessor and lessee; (ii) the demand is not made by a public authority, but the lessor (which can either be the State Government or a private party); and (iii) the payment is not for public purposes, but a consideration paid to the lessor for parting with their exclusive privileges in the minerals. Moreover, the fact that Section 25 allows recovery of royalty due to the Government under the MMDR Act or “under the terms of the contract” as arrears of land does not make royalty “an impost enforceable by law.” Section 25 is a standard recovery provision allowing the government to recover any dues payable to it, flowing from statute or the terms of a contract. Pertinently, contractual payments due to the government cannot be deemed to be a tax merely because the statute provides for their recovery as arrears. 126. There are major conceptual differences between royalty and a tax: (i) the proprietor charges royalty as a consideration for parting with the right to win minerals, while a tax is an imposition of a sovereign; (ii) royalty is paid in consideration of doing a particular action, that is, extracting minerals from the soil, while tax is generally levied with respect to a taxable event determined by law;178 and (iii) royalty generally flows from the lease deed as compared to tax which is imposed by authority of law. 127. Under the MMDR Act, the Central Government fixes the rates of royalty, but it is still paid to the proprietor by virtue of a mining lease. In case the minerals vest in the government, the mining lease is signed between the State Government (as lessor) and the lessee in pursuance of Article 299 of the Constitution. Through the mining lease, the government parts with its exclusive privilege over mineral rights. A consideration paid under a contract to the State Government for acquiring exclusive privileges cannot be termed as an impost. Since royalty is a consideration paid by the lessee to the lessor under a mining lease, it cannot be termed as an impost. 128. This Court has held that royalty is not a tax, in several decisions. In State of H P v. Gujarat Ambuja Cement Ltd,179 a three judge 178 Goodyear India Ltd v. State of Haryana (1990) 2 SCC 71 [27] 179 [2005] Supp. 1 SCR 684 : (2005) 6 SCC 499 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1653 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. Bench of this Court held royalty not to be a tax. The subsequent decision in Indsil Hydro Power & Manganese Ltd. v. State of Kerala180 brought out the distinction between tax and royalty in the following terms: “56. Thus, the expression “royalty” has consistently been construed to be compensation paid for rights and privileges enjoyed by the grantee and normally has its genesis in the agreement entered into between the grantor and the grantee.