The relevant part of the resolution is extracted hereinbelow:- “(C) Letter No. 423/S.T.98 dated 26.07.1998 of the Collector, Chhatarpur was read over by Chief Executive Officer, in which it has been mentioned that at the time of recruitment of teachers those members and officers also take part in the interview whose close relatives are the candidates due to which the entire selection process is likely to be affected. Therefore, the directions are given to immediately examine whether any candidate is the close relative of the member of the Committee in the interview. If any near relative of the member or the officer is the candidate, then such member or officer should not be present on the date of interview and any impartial person should be kept in his place. The Committee unanimously decided that if any close relative of any member, officer or subject expert appears for interview then the marks to be given by that member, officer or subject specialist should be given by Chief Executive Officer and that member, officer or subject expert shall not be present at the venue of interview. This resolution has been passed unanimously.” (Emphasis supplied) Appointment of the appellants: 13. The Janpad Panchayat, Gaurihar, after conducting the process of selection by direct recruitment, published the select list on 16.09.1998 and 249 candidates were notified for appointment. s of appointment were issued on 17.09.1998. The appellants joined duties and started discharging their functions. This is an undisputed fact. Proceedings by R-4 – without impleading the appellants: 14. On 29.09.1998, Archana Mishra (R-4), who did not qualify, filed an Appeal (though called an appeal it is in the nature of an original proceeding challenging the selection) to the Collector, Chhatarpur. Only three people ex-officio, were made the respondents, namely, i) The Chief Executive Officer, Janpad Panchayat, Gaurihar; ii) Block Development Education Officer, Janpad Panchayat, Gaurihar 196 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and iii) the President, Education Committee, Development Block Gaurihar. The appointed candidates were not impleaded. What is of importance to note is in para 9 of the memo of appeal, few of the selected candidates were named and the appointments challenged. Archana Mishra (R-4), inspite of having knowledge did not implead them. Para 9 is extracted hereunder:- “9. That the nepotism has been adopted during the selection process by violating the principles of natural justice by misusing the post by the President of the Select Committee and other members by appointing their relatives, for example the candidates who have been selected at Serial No. 56 and 57 of the Selection List are Shyama Dvivedi daughter of Shiv Dass Dvivedi who is the sister-in-law (Nanad) of Educational Committee’s President Smt. Pushpa Dvivedi and her sister-in-law (Devrani) Smt. Vibha Dvivedi wife of Kailash Dvivedi, her nephew (sister’s son) Devender Kumar Avasthi and her niece (sister’s daughter) Rekha Avasthi daughter of Bran Bhushan Avasthi. In the same way, by misusing his post, the member of the Committee namely Swami Singh Senger has got selected his son Shamsher Singh (112), his daughter-in-law Ramrani wife of Rudra Pratap Singh (195), nephews Rajesh Singh Chauhan and Om Prakash Singh Chauhan and the Member Shri Harsh Vardhan Tripathi has got selected his real nephew Ravinder Singh son of Shri Jitender Singh Tripathi.” It will be clear that at least five of the appellants were named in the body of the appeal memo.