361 Allarakha Habib Memon Etc. v. State of Gujarat out of the 3 had thrown away their weapons and 3rd person ran away towards the bridge. Thereafter the person who was having bleeding was made to sit in the rickshaw and was sent for treatment. His relative came and the weapons were deposited at police station. I came to know that the person who was having bleeding had passed away at Shri Krusna hospital. Police had taken my statement once only. I had presented one big knife and Gupti at police station and I can recognise those weapons if I am shown those weapons.” … “I can identify 3 persons which I have mentioned. Upon being asked to 1st identified 2 accused out of the persons present in the court today, he identifies 2 accused. One of them is Amin Arif Memon and another one is Farooq Safi Memon.” Cross-examination: “One person told me that something wrong is going on and hence I came to know about the things because of which I went to the road and thereafter people got together. Within 3-4 minutes people got together.” … “There was one person in the rickshaw along with the injured person.” … “It was approximately 6 minutes between my having seen the injured person and the injured person having gone in the rickshaw. I had tried to help in keeping the injured person in the rickshaw. That person was having severe bleeding. During placing the injured person in the rickshaw, my clothes got blood stains. Those clothes I had not handed over to the police. Police had not asked those clothes. After that injured person was taken to hospital, at about 9:15 o’ clock I had gone to the police station. I had gone to Anand Town Police Station. I had gone with the weapons. I had not gone with the weapons not covered. 362 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Those weapons were given to Saheb. I was enquired by the Saheb. I had not lodged any complaint. Reason for not giving complaint was that, there was one person sitting over there for giving the complaint. He was sitting there at 9:15 o’ clock. I do not know what proceeding was carried out after I had deposited those weapons. I stayed at police station for nearly 20 minutes. It is true that, in this regard I had not made any report to the police. On the day I had gone to the police station my statement was not taken. It is true that, my statement was taken the next day and in that statement there is no description about the persons whom I have seen or about their clothes.” 16. Demistalkumar (PW-12) was portrayed by the prosecution to be an eyewitness of the incident. He categorically stated that on 4th May, 2011 at 8:30 pm, he came to know that a scuffle had taken place opposite the Radha Swamy chamber and hence, he went to the said location.