Constitutional enactment of fundamental duties, if it has to have any meaning, must be used by courts as a tool to tab, even a taboo, on State action drifting away from constitutional values.” (Emphasis supplied) 38.2 Similarly, in Charu Khurana v. Union of India (2-Judge Bench),45 this Court observed: “32. The purpose of referring to the same is to understand and appreciate how the directive principles of State policy and the fundamental duties enshrined under Article 51-A have been elevated by the interpretative process of this Court. The directive principles have been regarded as the soul of the Constitution as India is a welfare State. At this juncture, it is apt to notice the view expressed by a two-Judge Bench of this Court in Ashoka Smokeless Coal India (P) Ltd. v. Union of India [(2007) 2 SCC 640] wherein it has been laid down that: (SCC p. 683, para 106) “106. … the directive principles of State policy provide for a guidance to interpretation of fundamental rights of a citizen as also the statutory rights.” (Emphasis supplied) 39. The Union of India has submitted that comprehensive risk assessment qua GMOs cannot be done at the initial research stage and all consultations cannot take place for each application on GM crops at an early stage. It was further submitted that toxicology studies are varied on product by product basis, as per international best practices and therefore toxicity studies are undertaken as per guidelines on a case-by-case basis. 45 [2014] 12 SCR 259 : (2015) 1 SCC 192 1948 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 40. The experimentation in respect of GMOs, i.e. field trials, lab testing etc. would be in line with the development of a scientific temper along with the precautionary principle which has found its place within Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Field trials are a significant step in the development of crop varieties as the data representing the plant’s response to a particular agro-ecological environment can be collected only when such plant is grown outside in confined field trials. Without field trials, the performance of the plant in the field or environmental safety of such plant cannot be known. Studies, being conducted in open environment is necessary for studying the impact on human health and biodiversity, for the performance of a GM crop is dependent on a host environment. This would be essential to developing appropriate biosafety mechanisms as well. 41. The s referred above recognise fundamental duties as an important guide to interpretation of the Constitution, which obviously would apply to the understanding of Article 21 as well. In Ramlila Maidan Incident, In re (2-Judge Bench),46 the interdependency of the three parts of the constitution was highlighted by Swatanter Kumar J. (as he then was) in the following words: “22. Thus, a common thread runs through Parts III, IV and IV-A of the Constitution of India. One Part enumerates the fundamental rights, the second declares the fundamental principles of governance and the third lays down the fundamental duties of the citizens.