The complainant (PW-1) also admitted that he had been warned by the appellant (AO1) that he would book a case against his wife Manjula. 35. The pivotal extracts drawn above from the cross-examination of the complainant (PW-1) clearly indicate that the tainted currency notes were not given by the complainant (PW-1) to the appellant (AO1) in his hands presumably, because he had shown reluctance to accept the same. After the complainant (PW-1), his companion PW-2, and the appellant (AO1) had taken coffee, the appellant (AO1) started moving out towards the cellar followed by the complainant (PW-1) and PW-2. While the complainant (PW-1) was proceeding towards the cellar, he noticed that the rexine bag of the appellant (AO1) had been left behind in the coffee shop and thus, he picked it up and handed the same to the AO1 (appellant). Nevertheless, he denied the defence suggestion that he had planted the tainted currency notes in the rexine bag left behind by the accused. 36. PW-2 in examination-in-chief, virtually repeated what was stated by the complainant (PW-1) in his deposition. However, in his cross- examination, PW-2 feigned ignorance to the fact that the complainant (PW-1) picked up the rexine bag from the coffee shop and handed over the same to the appellant (AO1). He admitted being a friend of the complainant (PW-1). 658 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 37. Kathi Srinivas Rao (PW-3) was one of the panch witness associated in the trap proceedings. He stated in his examination-in-chief that he, along with the other mediator and Inspector N. Chandrashekar (PW-11) had occupied a table in the coffee shop near the one on which the complainant (PW-1) and the accompanying witness (PW- 2) were sitting. At about 10:45 am, the appellant (AO1) entered the coffee shop and started talking to the complainant (PW-1). He also took out some papers from the rexine bag and showed the same to the complainant (PW-1). At about 11:15 am, the complainant (PW- 1) and the accompanying witness (PW-2) along with the appellant (AO1) left the coffee shop and moved towards the cellar of the hotel. The witness (PW-3) deposed about the recovery of the tainted currency notes from the bag held by the appellant (AO1) in the cellar of the hotel. 38. What is significant to note from the evidence of the witness (PW-3) is that he did not make a whisper that he observed or overheard the appellant (AO1) demanding any bribe from the complainant (PW-1) while they were all sitting in the coffee shop. 39. A. Balachithari (PW-4) being the Forest Beat Officer, stated that acting on the direction of the AO1 (appellant), the flying squad proceeded towards a saw-mill at Vanasthalipuram on the suspicion that teakwood was illegally stocked therein. A worker M. Ashok was present in the mill. Upon finding illegal and unlicensed teakwood in the saw-mill, the appellant (AO1) issued a money receipt in the name of M. Ashok after receiving a sum of Rs.50,000/- as compounding fee. A panchnama was also drawn regarding these proceedings.