it would be advisable that the Purchase s placed on the claimant by R-2 for supply and erection of ACC Unit be substituted/ replaced by Purchase s in the name of OPG. In addition to above, OPG pleaded that the substitution/ replacement of purchase s maintained the continuity of the rights and obligations undertaken from 4 March 2013. 79. Based on the above-noted facts, and the evidence brought on record during the arbitral proceedings, the Tribunal concluded that the ‘Group of Companies’ doctrine is applicable, as OPG and R-2 have represented themselves as a single economic entity which could switch duties and obligations from one to the other. The Tribunal held that – (a) R-2 is a proper party; (b) both OPG and R-2 were bound by the arbitration agreements, which gave rise to the arbitral proceedings; and (c) OPG and R-2 were jointly and severally liable to the claimant for complying with the award. 80. In Cox & Kings Ltd. v. SAP India (P) Ltd.,63 a Constitution Bench of this Court held that by interpreting the express language employed by the parties in the record of agreement, coupled with surrounding circumstances of its formation, performance, and discharge of the contract, a Court or Arbitral Tribunal is empowered to determine whether a non-signatory is a party to an arbitration agreement. It was held that ‘Group of Companies’ doctrine is premised on ascertaining 63 [2023] 15 SCR 621 : (2024) 4 SCC 1 554 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the intention of the non- signatory to be party to an arbitration agreement. The doctrine requires the intention to be gathered from additional factors such as direct relationship with the signatory parties, commonality of subject matter, composite nature of the transaction, and performance of the contract. 81. In the instant case, the Arbitral Tribunal has found that: (a) Gita Power is the holding company of OPG; (b) Gita Power had issued the Purchase s and had actively participated in the formation of the contract even though the ACC unit of Gummudipoondi was of OPG; (c) initial 10% of the purchase price was provided by Gita Power (R-2); (d) the subsequent Purchase s issued by OPG were on similar terms and were issued by way of affirmation to obviate technical issues. In our view, the above circumstances had a material bearing for invocation of “Group of Companies doctrine” to bind Gita Power (R-2) with the arbitration agreement and fasten it with liability, jointly and severally with OPG, in respect of the Purchase s relating to ACC Unit of Gummudipoondi project. Thus, bearing in mind that an arbitral tribunal has jurisdiction to interpret a contract having regard to the terms and conditions of the contract and conduct of the parties including correspondences exchanged, and, further, taking into account the provisions of sub-section (2-A) of Section 34 of the 1996 Act limiting the scope of interference with a finding returned in an arbitral award, we do not find a good reason to interfere with the above findings of the Arbitral Tribunal more so when it is based on a possible view of the matter.