This is because the recognition of degrees was and is essential not only to the success of the university but more importantly, to the success of its graduates. Recognition of the degrees or qualifications held by persons who have completed courses from universities is essential to professional development. It is impossible to avail of employment opportunities if the degree that one holds is not recognised. 102. This interpretation has also found support in numerous s of this Court. s of this Court have previously expounded on the importance of recognition or affiliation of a College. It is only with the affiliation of the college with the University that a student could be awarded a degree upon the completion of the course of study. The degree, beyond being a testament of a personal achievement, is necessary for their professional growth. In in re the Kerala Education Bill 1957 (supra), this Court expounded on the importance of recognition and observed as follows: “32. […] Without recognition, therefore, the educational institutions established or to be established by the minority communities cannot fulfil the real objects of their choice and the rights under Article 30(1) cannot be effectively exercised. The right to establish educational institutions of their choice must, therefore, mean the right to establish real institutions which will effectively serve the needs of their community and the scholars who resort to their educational institutions. There is, no doubt, no such thing as fundamental right to recognition by the State but to deny recognition to the educational institutions except upon terms tantamount to the surrender of their constitutional right of administration of the educational institutions of their choice is in truth and in effect to deprive them of their rights under Article 30(1). We repeat that the legislative power [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1735 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. is subject to the fundamental rights and the legislature cannot indirectly take away or abridge the fundamental rights which it could not do directly and yet that will be the result if the said Bill containing any offending clause becomes law.” 103. In Rev. Sidhajbhai (supra), this Court reiterated that regulations which may impose conditions for the recognition of the educational institution must be directed towards making the institution effective, while retaining its character as a minority institution. The dual test laid down in this case to assess the validity of such regulations is that the regulations must be reasonable and regulate the educational character of the institution while being conducive to making it an effective vehicle of education. An educational institution does not lose its minority character merely because it subjects itself to regulatory measures essential to avail the benefit of recognition/affiliation, or grant in aid, provided these controls are designed to maintain the standards of education and larger public interest. 104. The decision of the seven Judge Bench in In re the Kerala Education Bill (supra)was followed by a six Judge Bench in Rev. Sidhajbhai Sabhai (supra). This aspect was overlooked in Azeez Basha (supra) which was decided by a bench of five judges.