Imposition of appropriate punishment is the manner in which the courts respond to the society’s cry for justice against the criminals. Justice demands that courts should impose punishment befitting the crime so that the courts reflect public abhorrence of the crime. The courts must not only keep in view the rights of the criminal but also the rights of the victim of crime and the society at large while considering imposition of appropriate punishment.” (emphasis supplied) Swamy Shraddananda (2) v. State of Karnataka, (2008) 13 SCC 767 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 721 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. “48. That is not the end of the matter. Coupled with the deficiency of the criminal justice system is the lack of consistency in the sentencing process even by this Court. It is noted above that Bachan Singh [(1980) 2 SCC 684 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 580] laid down the principle of the rarest of rare cases. Machhi Singh [(1983) 3 SCC 470 : 1983 SCC (Cri) 681] , for practical application crystallised the principle into five definite categories of cases of murder and in doing so also considerably enlarged the scope for imposing death penalty. But the unfortunate reality is that in later decisions neither the rarest of rare cases principle nor the Machhi Singh [(1983) 3 SCC 470 : 1983 SCC (Cri) 681] categories were followed uniformly and consistently. xxx xxx xxx 50. The same point is made in far greater detail in a report called “Lethal Lottery, The Death Penalty in India” compiled jointly by Amnesty International India and People’s Union for Civil Liberties, Tamil Nadu & Puducherry. The report is based on the study of the Supreme Court s in death penalty cases from 1950 to 2006. One of the main points made in the report (see Chapters 2 to 4) is about the Court’s lack of uniformity and consistency in awarding death sentence. 51. The truth of the matter is that the question of death penalty is not free from the subjective element and the confirmation of death sentence or its commutation by this Court depends a good deal on the personal predilection of the Judges constituting the Bench. 52. The inability of the criminal justice system to deal with all major crimes equally effectively and the want of uniformity in the sentencing process by the Court lead to a marked imbalance in the end results. On the one hand there appears a small band of cases in which the murder convict is sent to the gallows on confirmation of his death penalty by this Court and on the other hand there is a much wider area of 722 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cases in which the offender committing murder of a similar or a far more revolting kind is spared his life due to lack of consistency by the Court in giving punishments or worse the offender is allowed to slip away unpunished on account of the deficiencies in the criminal justice system.