(vi) On 23.08.2021, the appellant herein (Original Respondent No.1-Returned Candidate) filed an application under VII Rule 11, CPC read with Section 86 of the RP Act for rejection of the Election Petition, which was registered as I.A (Civil) No. 1278 of 2021 in the said Election Petition. (vii) On 26.04.2023, the High Court passed the impugned dismissing the said I.A. filed by the appellant. Hence, the present Appeal has been filed. 3. The Appeal has been contested by the respondent no. 1 and the respondent no. 13 by filing their respective counter affidavits. 4. We have heard the learned Senior Counsel Mr. Kapil Sibal for the appellant and Mr. Jaideep Gupta for the respondent no.1 at length. 5. Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Kapil Sibal appearing for the appellant vehemently submitted that the respondent no. 1 has sought to upset the election results by filing the baseless, motivated and malafide election petition, based on mere bald allegations that the information disclosed in Form No. 26 filed by the appellant along with his nomination form was inaccurate. None of the allegations made in the Election Petition is supported by either primary documents or reliable source of information. The pleadings in the Election Petition are not the averments of material facts but are facts based speculation and do not disclose any triable issue. He further submitted that the Election Petition does not disclose a complete cause of action, nor does it contain all “material facts” as required under Section 83(1) (a) and also does not plead “full particulars” of the alleged corrupt practice of undue influence, as required under Section 81(1)(b) of the RP Act. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 527 Karim Uddin Barbhuiya v. Aminul Haque Laskar & Ors. 6. Mr. Sibal taking us to the particulars disclosed by the appellant in Form No. 26 submitted that there was neither suppression of educational qualification nor suppression of bank loan details or of un-liquidated provident fund dues, as alleged by the respondent no.1. He further submitted that the respondent no. 1 had admittedly not raised any objection in writing at the time of scrutiny of the nomination papers by the Returning Officer, and therefore it could not be said that there was improper acceptance of nomination of the appellant. He pressed into service various provisions contained in the RP Act, particularly Section 100 and Section 123 to submit that the allegations and averments made in the Election Petition could never constitute “undue influence” much less “corrupt practices” as contemplated in Section 123, for declaring the Election to be void under Section 100 of the RP Act. Much reliance has been placed by him on the decision of this court in case of Kanimozhi Karunanidhi Vs. A. Santhana Kumar and Others1 to submit that the Election Petition filed by the respondent no. 1 be dismissed at the threshold under VII Rule 11, CPC read with Section 83 of the RP Act. 7. The learned Senior Advocate Mr. Jaideep Gupta per contra submitted that the election of the appellant is liable to be set aside firstly on the ground that the nomination paper of the appellant was improperly accepted, as the affidavit in the Form-26 filed by the appellant along with his nomination paper, contained false statements with regard to his educational qualification and his liability in respect of the loan and his default in the deposit of employer’s contribution of provident fund as the partner of the Partnership firm.