The relevant observations read as under: - “14. The background of the provision set out above was indicated by one of us (Beg, J.,) in Jayaram Mudaliar v. Ayyaswami [(1972) 2 SCC 200, 217 : AIR 1973 SC 569]. There, the following definition of the lis pendens from Corpus Juris Secundum (Vol. LIV, p. 570) was cited: “Lis pendens literally means a pending suit, and the doctrine of lis pendens has been defined as the jurisdiction, power, or control which a court acquires over property involved in a suit pending the continuance of the action, and until final therein.” It was observed there: “Expositions of the doctrine indicate that the need for it arises from the very nature of the jurisdiction of Courts and their control over the subject-matter of litigation so that parties litigating before it may not remove any part of the subject-matter outside the power of the Court to deal with it and thus make the proceedings infructuous.” (Emphasis supplied) 1712 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 162. In the present case, it has been canvassed on behalf of the Subsequent Transferee that it is a bona-fide third party purchaser of the Secured Asset since it was neither arrayed as a party to proceedings in the Main Appeals nor issued a notice of the said proceedings either by the petitioner or by the Bank. 163. In Sanjay Verma v. Manik Roy reported in (2006) 13 SCC 608 this Court held that the principle of lis pendens enshrined in Section 52 of the TPA is not only based on equity, good conscience and justice but is also a principle of public policy and as such no party can claim exemption from the application of this doctrine on the ground of bona fide or good faith. The relevant observations read as under: - “12. The principles specified in Section 52 of the TP Act are in accordance with equity, good conscience or justice because they rest upon an equitable and just foundation that it will be impossible to bring an action or suit to a successful termination if alienations are permitted to prevail. A transferee pendente lite is bound by the decree just as much as he was a party to the suit. The principle of lis pendens embodied in Section 52 of the TP Act being a principle of public policy, no question of good faith or bona fide arises. The principle underlying Section 52 is that a litigating party is exempted from taking notice of a title acquired during the pendency of the litigation. The mere pendency of a suit does not prevent one of the parties from dealing with the property constituting the subject-matter of the suit. The section only postulates a condition that the alienation will in no manner affect the rights of the other party under any decree which may be passed in the suit unless the property was alienated with the permission of the court.” (Emphasis supplied) 164. In another decision of this Court in Guruswamy Nadar v. P. Lakshmi Ammal reported in (2008) 5 SCC 796 it was held that the principle of lis pendens incorporated in Section 52 of the TPA will apply irrespective of whether the subsequent purchaser had bought the property, which is a subject matter of a pending proceeding, in good faith or not.