If the person is found guilty in the course of trial, benefit of S.3 or S.4 of the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958, may be given to the accused. 3.3.13 UTPs who are of unsound mind and must be dealt with Chapter XXV of the Code: UTRC may recommend the trial court to take appropriate steps in accordance with Chapter XXV of the Code and provide adequate treatment to such inmates. 3.3.14 UTPs eligible for release under Section 437(6) of Cr.P.C., wherein in a case triable by a Magistrate, the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1791 Suhas Chakma v. Union of India & Ors. trial of a person accused of any non-bailable offence has not been concluded within a period of 60 days from the first date fixed for taking evidence in the case: UTRC may request the trial court to consider granting bail to such UTPs under Section 437(6) of Cr.P.C. 23. The Under Trial Review Committee meetings have resulted in the recommendation for release of 3,13,888 prisoners and the actual release of 1,52,570 prisoners across India. Acknowledging that there could be unintended lapses in the identification of prisoners, NALSA has taken corrective steps. NALSA also acknowledges the huge gap between the total number of persons identified and number of persons recommended for release and further the difference in the number of inmates recommended for release and the number of bail applications filed on their behalf. NALSA acknowledges that there has been continued detention of persons even when they are eligible for statutory bail under Sections 436A, 436, 167(2) CrPC, the continued detention of persons with mental illness despite statutory safeguards; the continued arrest and detention of persons under offences carrying less than 7 years punishment despite the directives of this Court. Limited use of liberal bail provisions for women and sick or infirm persons are some of the reasons, according to NALSA, for large number of persons continuing to remain behind bars. Pre-Litigation Assistance 24. One of the important areas where legal aid, was in the initial days found wanting was in the pre litigation arena. NALSA has risen to the occasion by introducing “Early Access to Justice at Pre-Arrest, Arrest and Remand Stage Framework”, under which all DLSAs upon receiving the intimation of request of the suspect/arrestee to have free legal assistance during interrogation, shall inform the deputed lawyer as per the duty roster. The assigned lawyer is to then to go to the concerned Police Station to provide legal assistance to such persons. Specific duties have been cast on legal aid lawyers to challenge the arrests made in violation of the statutory framework or binding precedents; to move bail application expeditiously and keep the client informed about their status. More importantly, the legal aid lawyers have been asked to move applications, wherever necessary, for modification of bail conditions such as suretyship amount. 1792 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 25. In a recent case, this Court in Girish Gandhi vs. State of UP, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 2142 had the following to say on how excessive bail conditions virtually defeats the bail:- 23.