The High Court is directed to ensure uniform compliance of the directions and furnish information on the same. (iii) In terms of the directions issued in 100.7, the High Court is directed to take steps to ensure compliance of the same and furnish information. (iv) The directions issued in Para 100.8 as well as 100.9 are noted to have been only partly complied with in most districts barring a few. The High Court is directed to take steps to ensure compliance of the directions issued in their entirety and furnish information on the same. (v) The High Court is directed to provide complete information regarding the compliance of the directions issued in Para 100.11, and ensure compliance of the same. (vi) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of judicial academy. 37. Union of India -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of the direction contained in para 100.1, the Union is directed to inform the Court as to whether any Bail Law is in contemplation or under preparation. (ii) To inform the Court as to whether any assessment has been done to ascertain the requirement of creating further Special 1116 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Courts (CBI) in districts with high pendency of cases, with requisite data. (iii) To inform the Court as to whether or not the investigative agencies (other than CBI) under its ambit are following the directions of this Court as laid down in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). 38. Central Bureau of Investigation -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing /Criminal Manual is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) To circulate the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) (b) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 39. NALSA -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of the dated 02.05.2023, NALSA shall supply updated information with regard to para 100.8 and 100.10 in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) (ii) NALSA shall inform the follow-up action taken by NALSA and State Legal Services Authorities of the States and Union Territories as provided to NALSA by various authorities including the State governments and Union Territories. (iii) In to provide to this Court adequate updated information, we deem it appropriate to direct all the States and Union Territories to cooperate with NALSA. G. In view of the above referred report and affidavits, we direct all the States, Union Territories, High Courts, Union of India, CBI and NALSA to file their updated compliance affidavits on the above referred aspects within a period of 8 weeks from today, [2024] 2 S.C.R.