[Paras 54.3-54.4] Constitution of India – Art. 32 – Bilkis Bano matter – Remission by the State of Gujarat granting remission and early release of 11 convicts held guilty of committing heinous crimes of gangrape, murder and rioting armed with deadly weapons during the large-scale riots in Gujarat in the aftermath of the Godhra train burning incident – 11 convicts granted liberty and released from imprisonment by virtue of the s – Said has been declared and quashed as wholly without jurisdiction and non est – Effect of, on the beneficiaries of the remission : Held: Rule of law means wherever and whenever the State fails to perform its duties, the Court would step in to ensure that the rule of law prevails over the abuse of the process of law – Such abuse may result from, inter alia, inaction or even arbitrary action [2024] 1 S.C.R. 749 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others of protecting the true offenders or failure by different authorities in discharging statutory or other obligations in consonance with the procedural and penal statutes – Breach of the rule of law, amounts to negation of equality u/Art. 14 – On facts, convicts have been the beneficiaries of the s passed by an incompetent authority inasmuch as the impugned s are not passed by the appropriate Government within the meaning of s. 432 – Art. 142 cannot be invoked in favour of the convicts to allow them to remain out of jail as that would be an instance of this Court’s imprimatur to ignore rule of law and instead aid persons who are beneficiaries of s which are null and void and therefore non est in the eye of law – Furthermore, respondent No.3 abused the process of law and the court in obtaining remission – Thus, in complying with the principles of rule of law which encompasses the principle of equal protection of law as enshrined in Art. 14, ‘deprivation of liberty’ vis-à-vis 11 convicts is justified in as much as the said respondents have erroneously and contrary to law been set at liberty – They were released pursuant to the impugned remission s which have been quashed – Impugned s of remission having been set aside, the natural consequences must follow – Thus, 11 convicts directed to report to the concerned jail authorities within the stipulated period. [Paras 62, 70] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – ss. 432 and 433 – Expression ‘appropriate government’ – Meaning of – ‘Appropriate government’ when can assume power to grant remission: Held: Expression “appropriate Government” used in s. 432 as well as in s. 433, is defined in sub-section (7) of s.432 – It clearly indicates that the Government of the State within which the offender is sentenced, is the appropriate Government to pass an of remission – Expression “appropriate Government” also finds place in sub section (1) of s. 432 which states that when any person has been sentenced to punishment for an offence, the appropriate Government may, at any time, without conditions or upon any condition which the person sentenced accepts, suspend the execution of his sentence or remit the whole or any part of the punishment to which he has been sentenced – Sub-section (1) of s. 432 deals with a power vested with the appropriate Government which is an enabling power – Discretion vested with the appropriate Government has to be exercised judiciously in an appropriate case and not to abuse the same – However, when an application is made 750 [2024] 1 S.C.R.