My son asked me whether the 1st accused Siva had given idli to me. I told him Siva did not give idli. Immediately thereafter he said that he will go and ask Siva why he did not give idli and went from there. Thereafter, after sometime we heard a sound from the side of Siva’s house. I ran and saw there. By that time, the 1st accused Siva had cut my son with the billhook. That cut fell on the index finger. Immediately my son escaped and ran towards the tract of Karunanidhi. Immediately Siva and Manikandan chased my son and ran behind him and Manikandan had held my son. Siva had cut my son on his neck. My son inclined and fell down. I ran and screamed ‘Ayyo, Ayyo’. By hearing my noise, Annappattu, Ganesan, Arivazhagi, Velayudham came there running. The accused had thrown the billhook in their hands. After I saw my son, and lifted him, I came to know that my son was dead.” 6. In her examination-in-chief, she attempted to make out a case that the accused had spoken ill about her daughter-in-law. Admittedly, she did not say so in her statement recorded by the police. Most importantly, in the cross-examination by the advocate for accused [2024] 4 S.C.R. 239 Manikandan v. State by the Inspector of Police no.1, she stated, “Yesterday, I, my husband and other witnesses went to Haridwarmangalam Police station. There, the police authorities taught us how to adduce evidence.” It is pertinent to note that the evidence of PW-1 to PW-5 was recorded on 20th November 2008. Thus, it is apparent that on 19th November 2008, the first five interested witnesses, PW-1 to PW-5, who were closely related to the deceased, were called to the Police Station and were taught by the police how to depose against the accused. It is pertinent to note that the prosecution did not put questions to the witness by way of re-examination on this aspect. The investigation officer did not offer any explanation for this. Therefore, we must proceed on the footing that the first five witnesses were “taught” at the Police Station how to depose. This happened a day before the day their evidence was recorded before the Court. 7. PW-3 is the brother-in-law of the deceased. He deposed that he was residing near the house of the accused no.1. His version in the examination-in-chief about the incident is the same as the version of PW-2. PW-4 knew the family of the deceased and the accused, as he stated that the accused were residing in the same colony in which he was residing. His version of the incident in the examination-in-chief is the same as that of PW-2 and PW-3. PW-5 also knew the accused and the family of the deceased as he was also staying in the same colony in which the accused were staying. His version of the actual incident of the assault is the same as the other three prosecution eyewitnesses. PW-3 to PW-5 were admittedly the relatives of the deceased.