2257 Kazi Akiloddin v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. that perhaps that was why no attempt to convert the land to non- agricultural use was made. It relied on Exh.67 dated 25.02.2000 which was a communication by the Assistant Director, Town Planning, Akola to the Land Acquisition Officer. That letter mentioned in para 2 that the acquired land in the appeal fell in a no development zone and as such was not eligible to be converted to non-agricultural purpose. 16. Thereafter, the High Court concluded that the suit land was not having non-agricultural potential unlike Survey Nos. 5/2, 6, 7 and 8. It held that the award @ of Rs. 100/- per sq. ft. was incorrect. It rejected the contention about the proposed layout of 43 plots since the land could not be converted. 17. In spite of noticing that certain areas claimed by the appellant as developed areas were reckoned and excluded from the computation of market value, the High Court still held that the value required for carrying out development ought to be deducted. Holding so, it held that deduction to the extent of 70% area was required to be made and as such went on to allow the appeal of the State and restored the award of the Land Acquisition Officer. It further ed refund by the appellant of the compensation withdrawn with interest @ 9% p.a. Ultimately, the Appeal of the appellant was dismissed and that of the State allowed. Aggrieved, the appellant is in Civil Appeal Nos. 6776-6777 of 2013 before us. D. Contentions: 18. Mr. Himanshu Chaubey, learned counsel, diligently presented the case for the appellant. Learned Counsel contended that Exh.141 was prepared on the basis of another map and admittedly the original map was never produced in Court; that under Section 83 of the Indian Evidence Act, plans made for the purpose of any cause must be proved to be accurate; that DW-1 K.S. Bhoyar (Sub Divisional Engineer) deposed that Exh.141 was prepared as part of joint measurement to show the exact situation of the land and hence presumption of Section 83 is not available to the State; that Exh.141 was at best a secondary evidence and is admissible only if it is proved that the original has been destroyed or lost or when the party offering evidence of its contents cannot, for any other reason not arising from his own default or neglect, produce it in a reasonable time and as such argued that the ingredients for admitting secondary evidence has not been established. 2258 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. Learned counsel further argued that there was no notification or brought on record by the respondent to prove that the subject land was specified as a ‘Blue Zone’ and that the development plan, as placed on record by the appellant, showed that no markings were present. Learned counsel relied on Section 14(j) and 22(j) of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘MRTP Act’) to contend that the master plan must show the flood control area as the ‘Blue Zone’ and contended that no such marking was in the master plan.