[2024] 10 S.C.R. 801 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. 7. Assessees have submitted that clauses (c) and (d) and sub-section (5) of Section 17 are violative of Articles 14, 19(1)(g) and 300A of the Constitution of India. The submissions concerning the challenge to constitutional validity can be summarised as follows: a. Section 17(5)(d) is violative of Article 14 since it classifies assessees engaged in the business of constructing immovable properties and then renting/leasing/letting out etc. premises within the said immovable properties on the same footing as assessees engaged in the business of constructing immovable properties and then selling the immovable properties or premises within the said immovable properties, by denying them ITC for their business expenditure, i.e., the expenditure incurred in constructing the immovable properties. Therefore, it is submitted that the provision treats unequals as equals and contravenes the principle of GST Law, i.e., to allow ITC for business expenditure. Therefore, the provisions are arbitrary, irrational and unreasonable. b. There is no intelligible differentia on the basis of which such classification is done. Creation of an immovable property is not a differentia. The contention is that works contracts, namely the contracts for the construction of immovable property wherein transfer of property is involved, are treated as a supply of services. Therefore, de jure, they are treated as a supply of services notwithstanding the immovable character of the deliverable. It is submitted that there are cases where a transaction may seemingly appear to involve a supply of goods, but in essence, it is a transaction involving something else. An illustration is given of a lawyer drafting a legal contract. In such a case, the deliverable may be in the form of documents handed over to the client and, therefore, apparently may appear to be a supply of goods. However, it is a legal service rendered, which is what the bargain was for. In short, the dominant intention test, as laid down in the case of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors.,2 must be applied. It is submitted that under the CGST Act, a works contract involving the creation of immovable property is treated as a supply of 2 [2006] 2 SCR 823 : (2006) 3 SCC 1 802 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports services. Thus, the nature of the deliverable, namely, building, etc., has no relevance to the levy of GST. Under the CGST Act, the immovable character of the deliverables, such as buildings, etc., under a works contract is entirely disregarded. Therefore, such immovable property cannot be said to exist under the architecture of GST. In short, the submission is that the differentia canvassed by the State, which is an immovable characteristic of the deliverable under the works contract, is artificial and non-existent in the eyes of the law. As intelligible differentia does not exist, the first condition of the twin test can be said to be satisfied; c. Break in the credit chain is also not a differentia, since, in the assessees’ case, unlike in the case of assessees selling immovable properties, there is no break in the credit chain.