In fact presently, judges are seen to be paying increasing attention to the possible effects of their decision one way or the other…… Such an approach is to be welcomed, but it also warrants two comments. First, judicial inquiry into the general effects of a proposed decision tends itself to be of a fairly speculative nature. 64 Anuj Bhuwania, ‘Courting the People— Public Interest Litigation in Post-Emergency India’ (Cambridge University Press 2017). 65 P.J. Fitzgerald(Ed), ‘Salmond on Jurisprudence’ (12th edn, Sweet and Maxwell 1966) 636 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Secondly, Too much regard for policy and too little for legal consistency may result in a confusing and illogical complex of contrary decisions; and while it is true that ‘the life of the law has not been logic, it has been experience’ and that we should not wish it otherwise, nevertheless we should remember that ‘no system of law can be workable if it has not got logic at the root of it” [emphasis supplied] 119. What follows from the above is that wherever possible, the Court must attempt to be consistent in its approach. The principle of stare decisis, which mandates that courts adhere to established precedents, plays a crucial role in maintaining legal stability and predictability. The finding in Mukund Dewangan (2017) need not be disturbed owing to speculative concerns of road safety that intersect with broader policy issues. 120. We may recall that during the course of the present proceeding, the Central Government was arrayed and the learned Attorney General was requested to obtain instructions on whether the legislative wing would wish to examine and undertake an appropriate amendment on the legal question of whether a person holding a driving license for a light motor vehicle is entitled to legally drive a ‘transport vehicle’ of a specified weight. An to this effect was passed in light of the possible social impact of the reference, particularly on road safety and the livelihood issue. Pursuant to this, the learned Attorney General submitted a note, inter alia, suggesting multiple amendments including a further classification of LMVs into LMV Class 1 and LMV Class 2, each with different weight thresholds. 121. Had the Parliament acted sooner to amend the MV Act and clearly differentiated between classes, categories and types, much of the uncertainty surrounding driving licenses could have been addressed, reducing the need for frequent litigation and an unclear legal terrain. The confusion and inconsistency in judicial decisions continued to persist for 25 years starting from the 1999 decision in Ashok Gangadhar Maratha (supra). 122. Road safety is a serious public health issue globally. It is crucial to mention that in India, over 1.7 lakh persons66 were killed in road 66 Dipak K Dash, Accidents killed 474 on daily average in 2023 (October 20, 2024) <https://timesofindia. indiatimes.com/india/accidents-killed-474-daily-on-average-in-2023/articleshow/114384171.cms> [2024] 11 S.C.R. 637 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. accidents in 2023. The causes of such accidents are diverse, and assumptions that they stem from drivers operating light transport vehicles with an LMV license are unsubstantiated.