9. Upon the FIR referred to above being registered, the police carried out the investigation & proceeded to file chargesheet dated 13.10.2021, only against the Appellant herein. A closure report was filed against the remaining 4 accused. The filing of the chargesheet culminated in the Criminal Case No. CHI/1856/2021in the court of Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Hisar. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 141 Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana & Anr. 10. The Appellant herein went before the High Court, with a quashing petition for the purpose of getting the criminal proceedings quashed. The High Court vide its & dated 05.04.2022 (‘impugned ’), declined to quash the criminal proceedings in exercise of its inherent powers under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (for short, the “Cr.P.C.”). The High Court made the following observations: - “I have heard learned counsel for the petitioner at length and have gone through the record carefully. The main thrust of the arguments raised by counsel for the petitioner is that the complainant had never been interested in living in the matrimonial home and she kept on pressurizing the petitioner for living separately from his family members. In to achieve her objective she kept on causing harassment to the petitioner and his family members. However, a perusal of the allegations in the FIR would show that the petitioner and the family members gave taunting to the complainant for lowering down their image in the society. Demand of a car was also made. Complainant was taunted for not having been incurred sufficient expenditure on marriage by her parents. There are allegations of beating the complainant by her husband and the other family members. It has been specifically alleged that the petitioner is an alcoholic and has illicit relations with one Vandana Sharma. The Hon’ble Supreme Court has settled the law time and again regarding exercising the jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C. for quashing of FIR. A reference in this regard may be made to the law settled in case of State of Haryana vs Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335, wherein following parameters have been given:- “102. In the backdrop of the interpretation of the various relevant provisions of the Code under Chapter XIV and of the principles of law enunciated by this Court in a series of decisions relating to the exercise of the extraordinary power under Article 226 of the inherent powers 142 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under Section 482 of the Code which we have extracted and reproduced above, we have given the following categories of cases by way of illustration wherein such power could be exercised either to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice, though it may not be possible to lay down any precise, clearly defined and sufficiently channelized and inflexible guidelines or rigid formulae and to give an exhaustive list of myriad kinds of cases wherein such power should be exercised:- (1) where the allegations made in the First Information Report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused; (2) where the allegations in the First Information Report and other materials, if any, accompanying the F.I.R.