It was held that the Arbitration Act does not disqualify a former employee from acting as an arbitrator, provided there are no justifiable doubts as to their independence and impartiality.214 Thus, in India, the sanctity and integrity of the arbitral process are held to the same standard of bias as that applicable to judicial authorities. v. Bias and doctrine of necessity in the context of the Arbitration Act 110. In comparison to other jurisdictions, the Arbitration Act has adopted a different approach to deal with the issue of arbitrator bias. Through 213 (2019) 3 SCC 505 214 GF Tolls Road Private Ltd. (supra) [23] [“23. An arbitrator who has “any other” past or present “business relationship” with the party is also disqualified. The word “other” used in Entry 1, would indicate a relationship other than an employee, consultant or an advisor. The word “other” cannot be used to widen the scope of the entry to include past/former employees.”] 2250 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the 2015 amendment, the Arbitration Act provides an extensive list of circumstances which may give rise to justifiable doubts as to an arbitrator’s independence or impartiality. The enumeration of categories under the Fifth and Seventh Schedules is inspired by the Orange and Red List of the IBA Guidelines on Conflicts of Interest in International Arbitration.215 In HRD Corporation (supra) this Court observed that the categories listed under the Fifth and Seventh Schedules must be construed by taking a “broad commonsensical approach” without restricting or enlarging the words. 111. Section 12 of the Arbitration Act places a duty on a person who is approached for appointment as an arbitrator to disclose in writing any direct or indirect circumstances such as: (i) the existence of any direct or indirect past or present relationship with any of the parties; (ii) interest in any of the parties; or (iii) interest in relation to the subject-matter in dispute, whether financial, business, professional, or other kind. The disclosure of circumstances made by an arbitrator is a procedural safeguard which allows the parties to assess whether disqualification of the arbitrator is required for a case.216 Disclosure allows an arbitrator to overcome an appearance of bias. The parties may challenge the appointment of an arbitrator if the circumstances give rise to “justifiable doubts” as to their independence or impartiality. 112. In Voestalpine (supra), this Court explained the distinction between independence and impartiality thus: “22. Independence and impartiality are two different concepts. An arbitrator may be independent and yet, lack impartiality, or vice versa. Impartiality, as is well accepted, is a more subjective concept as compared to independence. Independence, which is more an objective concept, may, thus, be more straightforwardly ascertained by the parties at the outset of the arbitration proceedings in light of the 215 IBA Guidelines on Conflicts of Interest in International Arbitration (25 May 2024) available at: https:// www.ibanet.org/document?id=Guidelines-on-Conflicts-of-Interest-in-International-Arbitration-2024 216 Koulis v. Cyprus, Application No. 48781/12. [“63. Given the importance of appearances, however, when such a situation (which can give rise to a suggestion or appearance of bias) arises, that situation should be disclosed at the outset of the proceedings and an assessment should be made, taking into account the various factors involved in to determine whether disqualification is actually necessitated in the case.