After comparing the documents, the High Court has recorded a finding that the convening Annexure R-I (produced by the appellant before the High Court) has been altered after the same was dispatched and received by the Headquarters Artillery Centre, Hyderabad. The High Court noted that Annexure P-I is identically worded, but in the second page, the words “in my opinion having due regard to the exigencies of public service an officer of equal or superior rank to the accused is not available to act as Judge Advocate” are additional. The High Court specifically observed that once a document has been put in the course of transmission by the General Officer Commanding, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala area, the same could not be changed/altered or modified except after recording that there was a mistake, which needs correction. Once dispatched by the officer signing the same, the communication of the document is complete and any alteration in the document is unauthorised. 9. In the above circumstances, it is quite apparent that the reason for culling out exception as held permissible by this Court in Charanjit [2024] 9 S.C.R. 191 Union of India & Ors. v. Lt. Col. Rahul Arora Singh Gill (supra), was not mentioned in the document while the same was dispatched by the issuing authority and supplied to the respondent. Subsequent mentioning of the reason in the other document, after putting signatures by the issuing authority, was unauthorised and impermissible, the High Court has correctly held that the convening suffers from incurable defect as held by this Court in Charanjit Singh Gill (supra) in the following words: “16. It is true that a Judge Advocate theoretically performs no function as a Judge but it is equally true that he is an effective officer of the Court conducting the case against the accused under the Act. It is his duty to inform the Court of any defect or irregularity in the charge and in the constitution of the Court or in the proceedings. The quality of the advice tendered by the Judge Advocate is very crucial in a trial conducted under the Act. With the role assigned to him a Judge Advocate is in a position to sway the minds of the Members of the Court Martial as his advice or verdict cannot be taken lightly by the persons composing the Court who are admittedly not law-knowing persons. It is to be remembered that the Courts Martial are not part of the judicial system in the country and are not permanent courts. 18. In view of what has been noticed hereinabove, it is apparent that if a “fit person” is not appointed as a Judge Advocate, the proceedings of the Court Martial cannot be held to be valid and its finding legally arrived at. Such an invalidity in appointing an “unfit” person as a Judge Advocate is not curable under Rule 103 of the Rules. If a fit person possessing requisite qualifications and otherwise eligible to form part of the General Court Martial is appointed as a Judge Advocate and ultimately some invalidity is found in his appointment, the proceedings of the Court Martial cannot be declared invalid.