35 Har Narayan Tewari (D) Thr. Lrs. v. Cantonment Board, Ramgarh Cantonment & Ors. the suit land and the issue therein was not directly or indirectly and substantially the same as in the present suit. 16. In view of the above, we are of the opinion that the High Court manifestly erred in dismissing the second appeal in limine on the ground that there was no substantial question of law involved therein. 17. As stated earlier, the substantial question of law arising in the second appeal was - Whether the suit as setup by the plaintiff-appellant was barred by principle of res judicata in view of the decision in the earlier Suit No. 8 of 64 wherein rights of the co-defendants in respect of the suit land were never adjudicated and non-acceptance of the claim of Maharani was not sufficient so as to decide the rights of the co-defendants. 18. There are no factual disputes which may require consideration of any evidence so as to answer the above substantial question of law. Therefore, we consider it appropriate to decide the above substantial question of law ourselves instead of leaving it for the High Court to adjudicate it. 19. It is an admitted position that the suit land i.e., portions of plot Nos. 432 and 438 were part of the Estate of Raja who had acquired about 5.38 acres of additional land of village Ramgarh. Maharani had claimed title over the entire aforesaid land of village Ramgarh but her claim was not accepted by the court in her Title Suit No.8/64. It means that she was unable to establish her right, title and interest over the said land on the basis of the alleged maintenance grant made in her favour by the Raja, but it does not mean that the suit land was not settled by the Raja in favour of the plaintiff-appellant or that the suit land had come to be settled with Cantonment Board, Ramgarh in any manner. 20. The lis in the previous suit i.e. Suit No.8/64 was regarding ownership and entitlement of Maharani over the entire 5.38 acres of land of village Ramgarh qua the Cantonment Board, Ramgarh; the plaintiff-appellant and other defendants in the said suit; whereas the controversy in the present suit is quite distinct with regard to only 0.30 acres of the suit land vis-à-vis the plaintiff-appellant and the Cantonment Board, Ramgarh. 21. The and of the previous suit which is final and conclusive, in no specific terms adjudicates upon the right, title 36 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and interest of either of the plaintiff-appellant or of the Cantonment Board, Ramgarh with regard to the suit land. In the said suit, there was no issue with regard to the right, title and possession of either the plaintiff-appellant or of the Cantonment Board, Ramgarh and no finding in this connection was returned by the court in dismissing the said suit. In simple words, the suit, as filed by Maharani claiming right, title and interest over 5.38 acres of land of village Ramgarh was dismissed simpliciter without adjudication of any rights of the plaintiff-appellant over the suit land vis-à-vis the Cantonment Board, Ramgarh.