This was not accepted and it was held that in view of Section 9(2) of the MMDR Act, 1957 the field was fully covered by the said Act which is a Central legislation. In paragraph 33, it was further observed that royalty is directly relatable only to the minerals extracted and on the principle that the general provision is excluded by the special one, royalty would be relatable to Entry 50 - List II and not Entry 49 - List II. That as the field is covered by the Central legislation i.e. the MMDR Act, 1957, the impugned provisions of the State legislation cannot be upheld. Ultimately in paragraph 34 of the of this Court, it is observed as under: “34. In the aforesaid view of the matter, we are of the opinion that royalty is a tax, and as such a cess on royalty being a tax on royalty, is beyond the competence of the State legislature because Section 9 of the Central Act covers the field and the State legislature is denuded of its competence under Entry 23 of List II. In any event, we are of the opinion that cess on royalty cannot be sustained under Entry 49 of List II as being a tax on land. Royalty on mineral rights is not a tax on land but a payment for the user of land.” 1788 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports A reading of paragraph 34 would indicate as follows: (i) Cess on royalty being a tax on royalty, is beyond the competence of the State legislature because Section 9 of the Central Act ie., MMDR Act, 1957, covers the field. (ii) As a result, the State Legislature is denuded of its competence under Entry 50 - List II to impose any cess on royalty which is collected under Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957. (iii) Cess on royalty cannot be sustained under Entry 49 - List II as being a tax on land. (iv) Royalty on mineral rights is not a tax on land but a payment for the user of land. (v) However, under the Tamil Nadu legislation, royalty paid under the provisions of MMDR Act, 1957 was construed to be “land revenue” on which cess was levied, which was beyond the competence of the State Government as royalty is paid by a holder of a mining lease under the MMDR Act, 1957, a Central Act as a tax. (vi) Thus, royalty is a tax. 15.9 The aforesaid conclusion was so arrived, inter alia, because the Explanation to Section 115 of the aforesaid amended Tamil Nadu Act defined ‘land revenue’ to include royalty, lease amount or any other sum payable to the Government in respect of land held direct from the Government on lease or licence. Local cess on every rupee of “land revenue” was payable as per the above definition which meant royalty. This meant that on royalty payable on mining leases in respect of mineral bearing lands in the State of Tamil Nadu, which was included in the definition of land revenue, a further local cess was payable.