[Paras 201, 202 and 203] 3.1. On facts, it is true that this Court in its decision rendered in the Main Appeals had not issued any specific direction either 1620 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports to the Borrower or the Subsequent Transferee as regards the handing over of physical possession and the original title deed to the Secured Asset, or the proceedings pending before the DRT in S.A. No. 46 of 2022 – However, the same would not mean that the decision of this Court in the Main Appeal was bereft of any direction as to the outcome of its findings – This Court in the operative portion of the Main Appeals stated in unequivocal terms that the confirmation of the sale by Bank under Rule 9(2) of the SARFAESI Rules had vested the petitioner herein with a right to obtain the certificate of sale of the Secured Asset – It further held categorically that the Borrower herein could not have redeemed the mortgage upon publication of the 9th auction notice – Furthermore, this Court explicitly directed the Bank to not only issue the Sale Certificate to the petitioner herein in accordance with Rule 9(6) of the SARFAESI Rules but also directed the refund of the amount of Rs. 129 crore paid by the Borrower – Moreover, the impugned of the High Court had been set-aside by this Court in toto. [Para 204] 3.2. Where a decision is rendered and the impugned is set- aside, it behoves any logic that an express direction to act must be given in respect of every aspect of the decision – The parties are duty bound to act in accordance with common sense – If at all the parties are in doubts over the and of a court, the correct approach is to prefer a miscellaneous application for seeking clarification rather than proceeding to presume a self- serving interpretation of the decision. [Paras 205, 206] 3.3. On facts, both the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee made several attempts to prevent the effective implementation of the judgement and dated 21.09.2023 passed by this Court and thereby thwart the attempts of the Bank to hand over the physical possession and the original title deeds of the Secured Asset to the petitioner – Both the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee committed contempt of this Court’s and dated 21.09.2023 in the Main Appeals – The acts of the contemnors are nothing more than a gamble on their part to circumvent and undermine the findings and directions passed by this Court in the Main Appeals – Similarly, the lame excuses offered by them for explaining their conduct are also nothing more than a calculated attempt in the hope that they would get away with legitimizing the illegal Assignment Agreement even after the decision of this Court, and is equally contemptuous – However, on an overall conspectus [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1621 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. of the facts of the present case, while the initial acts of the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee are in violation of this Court’s and dated 21.09.2023, yet the efforts on their part to take steps and make amends by withdrawing the Special Civil Suit No.