Thus, the earlier was never expressly repealed and hence if the later was struck down, the earlier continued to be in force. However, beyond this distinction, Justice Bhargava went on to explain what in his view was the reason for the holding in ATB Mehtab Majid, namely that the process of substitution had two distinct steps, first,an omission and second,an insertion. According to Justice Bhargava, the reason for the outcome in ATB Mehtab Majid was that where an amending rule is struck down, only the second step of inserting new words is invalidated but the first step of omitting old words continues to have legal effect. The appellants rely on this reasoning to contend that when Minerva Mills stuck down the Forty-Second Amendment, only the newly inserted language expanding Article 31-C’s exemption to cover all Directive Principles was struck down. However, the Amendment’s function of omitting the words “the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39” still stands. Hence, it was urged that even after the decision in Minerva Mills, these words stand omitted from Article 31-C. This is in essence the heart of the argument of the appellants. As a matter of interpreting precedent, it is important to note that the two-step process of substitution relied on by the appellants is only found in the three-judge bench decision in Koteswar Vittal Kamath, and not in the Constitution Bench decision in ATB Mehtab Majid. Further, Justice Bhargava’s explanation of the process of substitution as having two steps after he had already distinguished ATB Mehtab Majid on facts is at best an obiter dictum. However, ultimately neither of these s is binding on us, sitting in a composition of nine, and we must independently evaluate the correctness and completeness of the view taken regarding the legal effect of invalidating an amendment. 55. The Respondents resist the reasoning of a two-step substitution process set out in Koteswar Vittal Kamath by relying on a second line of decisions, beginning with the 1951 decision of the High Court of Nagpur in Laxmibai v State of Madhya Pradesh.52 The case concerned the Central Provinces & Berar Regulation of Letting 52 AIR 1951 Nag 94. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 71 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Accommodation Act, 1946 which, when originally enacted, stipulated that the statute would expire at the end of one year. However, by an Ordinance, and later a validating legislation, the lifespan of the statute was extended till such date as the provincial government may specify. The Ordinance and validating legislation were challenged on the grounds of excessively delegating legislative functions (concerning the lifetime of a statute) to the executive. A Full Bench of the Nagpur High Court upheld the Ordinance and the validating legislation extending the operation of the 1946 Act.53 Justice Hidayatullah, as the learned Chief Justice then was, speaking for the majority of the Full Bench went on to discuss the question of whether, if the amending Ordinance had been void, the original text would have been revived or not.