14. On the Second Impugned , learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the Division Bench went wrong in not appreciating that the appellant had never authorized his counsel to represent him in the OSA and his vakalatnama was confined to the MP filed by the respondent seeking condonation of delay of 176 days. The MP was allowed by the Division Bench vide dated 18.04.2011. Thereafter, the appellant, claims learned counsel, was not served with any notice in the OSA. The appellant submits that he was neither informed by his counsel, Mr. V. Manohar or by the Registry of the High Court about the status of the appeal. 15. It was further submitted that the Division Bench gravely erred in holding that the vakalatnama was given to Mr. V. Manohar for appearing in the MP for condonation of delay, the main appeal as also this Court. It was submitted that Mr. V. Manohar, counsel, was practicing only in the High Court. There was no question of the appellant authorizing any counsel for taking up the case in this Court as and when a case would come up. It was urged that a blanket printed statement on a vakalatnama can never constitute the intention of a litigant authorizing his/her/their counsel to represent the litigant in question in all courts and all proceedings. 16. Learned counsel contended that the appellant’s advocate Mr. Sukumar, who was appearing for the appellant in the Court at Tiruvannamalai, called the appellant and informed him that a showing the appellant’s name was published in one of the law reports under the citation 2017 (3) MLJ 521 and it also showed that he went unrepresented therein. The appellant categorically submits that it was only then that the appellant came to know that the OSA arising from the suit had been decided against him ex-parte. Prayer was made to allow the appeals. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1009 A.B. Govardhan v. P. Ragothaman SUBMISSIONS BY THE RESPONDENT-DEFENDANT: 17. Per contra, learned senior counsel for the respondent submitted that there is no merit in the present appeals and the impugned s do not call for any interference by this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India (hereinafter referred to as the “Constitution”). It was submitted that the Agreement does not refer to any mortgage having been created, since the recitals therein make it clear that the Agreement was to sell the schedule property to the appellant, and for the said purpose alone, the title deed of the property was handed over to the appellant. It was submitted that when the very genesis of the suit is the Agreement and the Agreement per se does not disclose the creation of any mortgage, a suit for foreclosure cannot be maintained and the Division Bench had rightly held so. The findings in the First Impugned that no mortgage has been created, stands justified in view of the contents of the Agreement. 18. Next, it was advanced that the plaint claims that Rs.23,96,000/- (Rupees Twenty Three Lakhs Ninety Six Thousand) was due as per the Agreement by including interest @ 36% p.a.