On this ground alone, the present Petition is liable to be dismissed. iv. The present petition is not bona fide and the petitioners have suppressed material facts from this Court • The present proceedings are a belated and misconceived attempt on the part of the petitioner to inflate amounts that it claims are due from respondent no. 1 and respondent no. 2. This is sought to be done by the petitioner to portray and provide a false view of its financial position to the creditors and subvert the due process of law through colourable actions. The petitioner is indulging in forum-shopping by once again attempting to appoint an arbitrator under the GTC agreement, a right which both the Bombay High Court and this Court, in two separate lengthy proceedings, under Sections 11 and 14 respectively of the Act, 1996, had decisively held to be forfeited by the petitioner for all times to come. • The petitioner failed to disclose that respondent no. 1 had challenged the notice of arbitration before the NCLT, Mumbai. E. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE INTERVENOR, UNCITRAL NATIONAL COORDINATION COMMITTEE FOR INDIA (UNCCI) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 211 Cox & Kings Ltd. v. Sap India Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. 26. Mr George Pothan Poothicote and Ms Manisha Singh, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the intervenors in I.A. no. 69863 of 2023, made the following submissions: i. UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (“model law”) was amended in 2006 to address the concerns about the formal requirements necessary for constituting an arbitration agreement. The amendment was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly vide Resolution 61/33 dated 04.12.2006. Post the amendment, Article 7 of the model law provides two options to the member states – the first option requires the arbitration agreement to be in the form of a clause in a contract or a separate agreement, both of which must be in writing; the second option is silent on the requirement of a written agreement and thus the contract law applicable in a specific jurisdiction remains available for the determination of the level of consent necessary for a party to become bound by an arbitration agreement allegedly made by reference. Section 7 of the Act, 1996 is similar to (but not the same as) the first option. ii. As per the Constitution Bench decision in Cox and Kings (supra), the court, at the referral stage, is not bound to go into the merits of the case to decide if the non-signatory is bound by the arbitration agreement. On the contrary, the referral court should leave it to the arbitral tribunal to decide such an issue. F. ANALYSIS 27. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the short question that falls for our consideration is whether the application of the petitioner for the appointment of an arbitrator deserves to be allowed. 28. On the scope of powers of the referral court at the stage of Section 11(6), it was observed by us in Lombardi Engg.