873 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning discuss some important decisions touching upon the contours of the power of the referral court under Section 11 of the Act, 1996 as they directly affect the issue at hand. 68. The role to be played by the Chief Justice or his designate in the appointment of an arbitrator has been at the heart of number of decisions of this Court. In Konkan Railway Corpn. Ltd. v. Rani Construction (P) Ltd. reported in (2002) 2 SCC 388, a five-Judge Bench of this Court observed that the power exercised by the referral court under Section 11 of the Act, 1996 is an administrative power and thus the Chief Justice or his designate do not have to decide any preliminary issue at that stage. Accordingly, it held that any issues pertaining to non-arbitrability, validity and existence of the arbitration agreement are to be decided by the arbitrator. 69. The aforesaid view occupied the field till a seven-Judge Bench of this Court in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd. reported in (2005) 8 SCC 618, characterised the power conferred upon the Chief Justice or his designate under Section 11 of the Act, 1996 as a judicial power and not merely administrative power. This Court held that the Chief Justice or his designate had the right to decide all preliminary issues at the referral stage under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996. The Court took such view on the premise that Section 16 of the Act, 1996, which empowers the Arbitral Tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction, applies only when the parties go before the Tribunal without having taken recourse to Sections 8 or 11 respectively of the Act, 1996 first. 70. In Boghara Polyfab (supra), this Court examined the extent of judicial interference at the stage of referral under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 as laid down in SBP & Co. (supra) and elucidated three categories of issues which could arise before the referral court as follows: “22.1. The issues (first category) which the Chief Justice/ his designate will have to decide are: (a) Whether the party making the application has approached the appropriate High Court. (b) Whether there is an arbitration agreement and whether the party who has applied under Section 11 of the Act, is a party to such an agreement. 874 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 22.2. The issues (second category) which the Chief Justice/ his designate may choose to decide (or leave them to the decision of the Arbitral Tribunal) are: (a) Whether the claim is a dead (long-barred) claim or a live claim. (b) Whether the parties have concluded the contract/ transaction by recording satisfaction of their mutual rights and obligation or by receiving the final payment without objection. 22.3. The issues (third category) which the Chief Justice/ his designate should leave exclusively to the Arbitral Tribunal are: (i) Whether a claim made falls within the arbitration clause (as for example, a matter which is reserved for final decision of a departmental authority and excepted or excluded from arbitration).