174. From a perusal of the scheme of Section 6A sub-section (3), it is evident that the procedure prescribed therein leaves the possibility of differential application on similarly situated persons wide open. From any view of the matter, the way in which the provision is worded doesn’t effectively serve either the purpose of granting citizenship to the immigrants belonging to the 1966-71 category, nor does it effectively serve the object of the expeditious deletion of the same category of immigrants from the electoral rolls. On the contrary, as discussed in the foregoing paragraphs, Section 6A, in the absence of any temporal limit to its application, with the efflux of time is rather counter-serving the object with which it was enacted. 175. The mechanism doesn’t permit an immigrant of the 1966-71 stream to voluntarily seek citizenship and such an immigrant has to wait, indefinitely, for a reference to be made to the foreigners tribunal. 176. Similarly, in the absence of any specified date for availing the benefit of citizenship under Section 6A sub-section (3), the object of expeditious deletion of immigrants from the electoral roll is not met. 177. Manifest arbitrariness also encompasses the aspect of temporal unreasonableness that a statute may acquire with the efflux of time. As was held by this Court in Joseph Shine v. Union of India reported in (2019) 3 SCC 39, the arbitrariness present in the mechanism devised under Section 6A has evidently been brought to light with efflux of time, and the provision can no longer serve the purpose with which it was enacted. The very objective of having a category of immigrants who are to be deleted from the electoral rolls for a period of ten years has disappeared with more than 40 years [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1215 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 having passed since the enactment of the provision. The relevant observations read as under: - “103. Further, the real heart of this archaic law discloses itself when consent or connivance of the married woman›s husband is obtained — the married or unmarried man who has sexual intercourse with such a woman, does not then commit the offence of adultery. This can only be on the paternalistic notion of a woman being likened to chattel, for if one is to use the chattel or is licensed to use the chattel by the “licensor”, namely, the husband, no offence is committed. Consequently, the wife who has committed adultery is not the subject-matter of the offence, and cannot, for the reason that she is regarded only as chattel, even be punished as an abettor. This is also for the chauvinistic reason that the third-party male has “seduced” her, she being his victim. What is clear, therefore, is that this archaic law has long outlived its purpose and does not square with today’s constitutional morality, in that the very object with which it was made has since become manifestly arbitrary, having lost its rationale long ago and having become in today’s day and age, utterly irrational.