11.2 The Directive Principles of State Policy including Articles 39(b) and (c) though not justiciable but inclined towards social and economic justice have a goal of the Constitution as enshrined in the Preamble to be achieved by way of making laws and implementing them. Thus, the Directive Principles of State Policy including Articles 39(b) and (c) have to be implemented through legislation and administrative action in to carry out the policy laid down in the legislation. 220 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11.3 In Kesavananda Bharati, it was observed that there is no disharmony between the Directive Principles of State Policy and the fundamental rights, because they supplement each other in aiming at the same goal of bringing about a social revolution and the establishment of a welfare State, which is envisaged in the Preamble so as to make social and economic democracy a truism in the Country. The Directive Principles are the core of the Constitutional goals and they are complementary to each other and sometimes reference is made to them as the “conscience of the Constitution”. 11.4 The objectives of the Directives are to remove inequality in the society and to attempt to achieve a fair division of wealth among the members of the society in to achieve a just and equal society. In a way, a law made to ensure implementation of the Directive Principles is in to achieve distributive justice in a welfare State.This goal is enshrined in Article 38 of the Constitution which states that the State shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and protecting, as effectively as it may, the social in which justice - social, economic and political – shall, inform all institutions of national life. 11.5 Article 39 (b) states that the State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing – the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good. This Directive Principle has to be read in the context of Article 39(c) which states that the State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of the production to the common detriment. Therefore, the Indian State must ensure that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed to subserve the common good with the object of eliminating concentration of wealth and means of production in the hands of a few. What is of significance in Article 39(b) are the following expressions which shall be discussed: (i) ownership and control; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 221 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. (ii) material resources; (iii) of the community; (iv) so distributed; and (v) as best to subserve the common good. Ownership and Control: 11.6 While analysing the above, it can be observed that the expression “ownership and control” is expansively used and must be given a wide connotation even as the expression “ownership and control” sometimes may overlap vis-à-vis a material resource.