Ltd. & Ors SLP(Civil) No. 18636/2019 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1507 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd. v. Awaz & Ors. 47. A direction by the National Commission or any other Court, must be based on material or evidence and not on surmises, and bald averments made by complainants. Any such directions issued otherwise is unsustainable. We are thus unable to subscribe to the view adopted by the National Commission, that ‘any complaint under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 to curb unfair trade practice(s) adopted by the banks is maintainable’. ii. Whether the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, has the jurisdiction to interfere with banking operations, which is the exclusive statutory domain of the Reserve Bank of India? iii. Whether the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission had the jurisdiction to fix a maximum ceiling rate of interest to be charged by banks from their credit card holders for their failure to make full payment on the due date, at the behest of the Reserve Bank of India & unilaterally direct banks/non-banking financial institutions to charge rates of interest not beyond the 30% p.a., in absence of an instruction/directive of the Reserve Bank of India? 48. The Reserve Bank of India is the prime banking institution of the country, and a statutory authority entrusted with the supervisory role over banking and conferred with the authority of issuing binding directions, having statutory force.13 No other entity or banking institution has been conferred by the legislature, the power of subordinate legislation to formulate and enact new directives/ guidelines in public interest and for the growth of the Indian economy. 49. The Reserve Bank of India has time & time again acted on its salient duty and issued master directions/circulars which are clear, unambiguous and specific instructions to banking institutions to carry out their operations in a transparent and fair manner, and the banks across the country are bound to follow. It is the Reserve Bank of India alone which enacts the mandate for the banks. In this sphere, the only function of the Courts is to examine that the lawful authority is not abused, and not to appropriate itself the task 13 (2002) 1 SCC 367 1508 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports entrusted to that authority. However, the National Commission has done just that. 50. The National Commission has assumed jurisdiction and expertise over the Reserve Bank of India, whilst observing that a ceiling on the rates of interest, is the purported solution to the alleged exploitation of credit card holders. It has made observations, that are contrary to the legislative intent of Section 21A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 that provides for a statutory bar on any court/tribunal to re-open transactions, that the rate of interest charged by the banking company in respect of such transaction is excessive. 51. Although, the National Commission has recorded that by virtue of its decision, it is not re-opening any transaction between the banking company and its debtor on the ground that the rate of interest is excessive, as barred under section 21A; and has only decided the limited question on “whether a bank has adopted any unfair trade practice, as defined under section 2(1)(r)(I)”; we do not subscribe to this rationale.