There are obvious errors and lacunae, which have been pointed out in the preceding discussion. It may also be imperative for a court to have an assessment to be made by an independent authority on the conduct and behaviour of the accused for the purpose of deciding the sentence. The guidelines which have been proposed by this Court may also be considered. This would include the creation of a competent authority tasked to give a report and its composition. Manoj v. State of M.P., (2023) 2 SCC 353 “230. The strength of “precedent” and “consistency” is perhaps, therefore, lowest when it comes to matters of sentencing, as long as it is within the confines of legality and resulting in “principled sentencing”. In other words, the judicial incongruence when it relates to sentencing, would in fact be a positive indicator, rather than a negative one, provided it is still within the well-defined contours of 688 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “principled” sentencing. For sentencing in capital offences, discretion to arrive at individualised sentences is encouraged, but must be constrained by the “rarest of rare” principle, wherein the court considers aggravating circumstances of the crime, and mitigating circumstances of the criminal (a “liberal and expansive” construction of the latter), which in turn must inform their consideration of whether the option of life imprisonment is unquestionably foreclosed owing to an impossibility [ Held to be “probability” and not “impossibility” in Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik v. State of Maharashtra, (2019) 12 SCC 460 : (2019) 4 SCC (Cri) 420] to reform. xxx xxx xxx 233. Therefore, “individualised, principled sentencing” — based on both the crime and criminal, with consideration of whether reform or rehabilitation is achievable (held to be “probable” in Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik [Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik v. State of Maharashtra, (2019) 12 SCC 460 : (2019) 4 SCC (Cri) 420] ), and consequently whether the option of life imprisonment is unquestionably foreclosed — should be the only factor of “commonality” that must be discernible from decisions relating to capital offences. With the creation of a new sentencing threshold in Swamy Shraddananda (2) [Swamy Shraddananda (2) v. State of Karnataka, (2008) 13 SCC 767 : (2009) 3 SCC (Cri) 113] , and later affirmed by a Constitution Bench in Union of India v. V. Sriharan [Union of India v. V. Sriharan, (2016) 7 SCC 1 : (2016) 2 SCC (Cri) 695] , of life imprisonment without statutory remission (i.e. Articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution are still applicable), yet another option exists, before imposition of death sentence. However, serious concern has been raised against this concept, as it was upheld by a narrow majority, and is left to be considered at an appropriate time. xxx xxx xxx Practical guidelines to collect mitigating circumstances 248. There is urgent need to ensure that mitigating circumstances are considered at the trial stage, to avoid [2024] 5 S.C.R. 689 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. slipping into a retributive response to the brutality of the crime, as is noticeably the situation in a majority of cases reaching the appellate stage.