60. It was then submitted that the institution ICWA was singled out and though there were several other institutions run by societies or other organizations which were in the grip 478 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of more serious mismanagement and maladministration, they were not even touched and Parliament chose to legislate as to one institution only. This submission too holds no merit. Firstly, no other institution is named or particularized so as to be comparable with ICWA. Secondly, there can be a legislation in respect of a single institution as is clear from the language itself of Entries 62 and 63 of List I. A single institution is capable of being treated as a class by itself for the purpose of legislation if there are special circumstances or reasons which are applicable to that institution and such legislation would not incur the wrath of Article 14. In S.P. Mittal [(1983) 1 SCC 51] the impugned legislation brought with the object and purpose of taking away the management of Auroville from the Aurobindo Society and to bring it under the management of the Central Government under the provisions of the impugned Act was held to be valid. The exercise of legislative power by Parliament was sought to be justified as falling within the field of Entry 63 of List I. Their Lordships referred to several decisions wherein the constitutional validity of similar legislations was upheld. In Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Justice S.R. Tendolkar [AIR 1958 SC 538 : 1959 SCR 279] legislation relating to a single “individual”, in Raja Bira Kishore Deb v. State of Orissa [AIR 1964 SC 1501 : (1964) 7 SCR 32] legislation in respect of a single “temple” and in Charanjit Lal Chowdhury v. Union of India [1950 SCC 833 : AIR 1951 SC 41 : 1950 SCR 869] a separate law enacted for one company were held not to offend Article 14 of the Constitution on the ground that there were special reasons for passing such legislation.” [emphasis supplied] 46. It can thus clearly be seen that in the said case also, the Court took note of the successive Parliamentary Committees finding substance in the complaints received that an institution of national importance was suffering from mismanagement and maladministration. It was found that the Central Government acted on such findings. It was also found that the circumstances warranted an emergent action. Relying on the case of S.P. Mittal (supra), the Court found that a single institution was capable of being treated as a class by itself [2024] 10 S.C.R. 479 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another for the purpose of legislation if there were special circumstances or reasons which were applicable to that institution and in such circumstances, the legislation would not incur the wrath of Article 14 of the Constitution. 47. In the case of P. Venugopal v. Union of India,17 this Court was considering the proviso to Section 11 (1-A) of the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences Act, 1956 vide which the tenure of the petitioner therein was sought to be curtailed.