4. In view of the above, we are not inclined to release the appellant on bail, more particularly, when the trial is at the fag end. 5. Before parting, it may be noted that on 17.07.2023, this Court (Coram- Mr. Justice Sanjiv Khanna and Ms. Justice Bela M. Trivedi) had passed the following : - “The learned counsel for the State of Jharkhand states that Sections 34 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 have been SLP(Crl.) No. 2874/2023 invoked against the petitioner - Dablu Kujur. Having gone through the chargesheet, we must observe that it is bereft of any details and particulars. The Director General of Police (DGP), State of Jharkhand will examine whether the said chargesheet is in accordance with law, and if such chargesheets are being filed, appropriate steps should be taken in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. The DGP, State of Jharkhand will file an action report within a period of four weeks from today. We are told that similar chargesheets bereft of details and particulars are being filed in the States of Bihar and [2024] 3 S.C.R. 619 Dablu Kujur v. The State of Jharkhand Uttar Pradesh. A copy of this will also be sent to the relevant DGPs for the States of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, who will submit their respective reports on the steps taken by them within four weeks from today. Keeping in view the facts of the present case, we are inclined to direct the trial court to examine the public witnesses within a period of four months from today, without fail. Status report along with copy of the sheets will be filed immediately upon completion of four months. List for consideration and s in the first half of December 2023”. 6. In compliance with the said , the affidavits are filed on behalf of the State of Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar with regard to the steps taken/being taken by them for submitting the Chargesheets/ Police Reports in accordance with law. 7. The Police Report submitted by the police under Section 173(2) being very important piece of document from the view point of the prosecution, the defence and the court, we deem it necessary to elaborately deal with the various aspects involved in the said provision. For the reasons stated hereinafter, we are of the opinion that it is incumbent on the part of the Investigating Officer to strictly comply with the requirements of the said provisions, as non-compliance thereof gives rise to many legal issues in the court of law. 8. As per Section 2(r) of Cr.P.C, “Police Report” means a report forwarded by a Police Officer to a Magistrate under sub-section (2) of Section 173. 9. Section 173 reads as under: - “173. Report of police officer on completion of investigation. — (1) Every investigation under this Chapter shall be completed without unnecessary delay. [(1A) The investigation in relation to [an offence under sections 376,376A, 376AB, 376B, 376C, 376D, 376DA, 376DB or 376E] from the date on which the information was recorded by the officer in charge of the police station.]