Relying on the in PTC (supra), a two-Judge Bench of this Court held that tariff determination being a quasi-judicial function, the Commission could not have preferred an appeal against the of the Appellate Tribunal.90 The of the two-Judge Bench in GRIDCO (supra) also dealt with the nature of function of the Appropriate Commission under Section 62 of the Electricity Act which was already settled by the of the Constitution Bench in PTC (supra) that it was adjudicatory. vi. Tariff determination for aeronautical services by AERA is a regulatory function 53. The question that falls for our consideration is whether AERA in exercise of its power under Section 13(1)(a) of the AERA Act is discharging an adjudicatory function. The issue of whether AERA is a necessary or a proper party must be determined based on whether 90 “31. There is one more aspect of the matter. As held by the Constitution Bench [PTC (India) Ltd. v. CERC (2010) 4 SCC 603], under Section 62, the Commission exercises quasi-judicial powers. There are appeals preferred by the Commission against the s of the Appellate Tribunal in appeals under Section 111 of the Electricity Act. The Appellate Tribunal in appeals has dealt with the legality and validity of the decisions of the Commission rendered in the exercise of quasi-judicial power. In short, the Appellate Tribunal has tested the correctness of the s of the Commission. The Commission is bound by the s of the Appellate Tribunal. Therefore, we have serious doubt about the propriety and legality of the act of the Commission of preferring appeals against the s of the Appellate Tribunal in appeal by which its own s have been corrected. The Commission cannot be the aggrieved party except possibly in one appeal where the issue was about the non-compliance by the Commission of the s of the Appellate Tribunal. If the Commission was exercising legislative functions, the position would have been different.” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1441 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. the AERA is an aggrieved/interested party or merely an expert body whose views would be necessary for the effective adjudication of the appeal. 54. A simplistic conclusion that AERA regulates tariff and does not adjudicate it cannot be arrived at merely because the long title to the AERA Act states that AERA is established to, inter alia, “regulate tariff”. An analysis of the statutory provisions must indicate the regulatory character of tariff determination by AERA. 55. Before we proceed to analyse the statutory provisions of the AERA Act, we deem it appropriate to refer to the reasons for creating an independent Airport Economic Regulatory Authority. On 30 November 2003, the Committee on a Road Map for the Civil Aviation Section published a report which highlighted the underlying economic rationale for establishing an Airport Economic Authority. The Report noted that an independent economic regulator must be established to prevent the abuse of monopoly power in airport activities. The Report further notes that the Airport Authority of India acts both as an operator and regulator of airports and thus, there is an inherent conflict of interest.