Times have changed. Human values and ethics in public functionaries have degraded to a considerable extent. Corruption is on a rampage. Having regard to the same and in to protect and uphold the rule of law, the courts have a duty to ensure that the State authorities have conducted public auctions in a fair and transparent manner and have not done anything by which public exchequer has suffered. It would be too much to say that although the writ court may find an auction sale conducted by a public functionary to be in gross violation of the mandatory provisions of law and the action of such public functionary to be arbitrary, yet the aggrieved party complaining about the same should be told to establish the dual conditions stipulated in XXI Rule 90 of the CPC. Once the action of the State is found to be unfair and arbitrary, then that is the end of the matter so far as a writ court is concerned. The first and the foremost aspect that the writ court should look into is fairness and transparency on the part of the State in conducting the auction sale so as to be in conformity with Article 14 of the Constitution. 56. The litigation at hand is one of gross violation of the mandatory provisions of the Revenue Code in so far as conduct of the auction sale is concerned. In terms of Section 194 of the Revenue Code, no [2024] 7 S.C.R. 523 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. sale shall take place until after the expiration of at least 30 days from the latest date on which any of the notice shall have been affixed as required by Section 193 of the Revenue Code. The materials on record reveal that the auction of the property was conducted before the expiry of 30 days’ time as prescribed under Section 194 of the Revenue Code. At the cost of repetition, Section 194 of the Revenue Code is reproduced hereunder:- “Section 194: (1) Sale shall be made by auction by such persons as the Collector may direct. (2) No such sale shall take place on a Sunday or other general holiday recognised by the State Government¸ nor until after the expiration of at least thirty days in the case of immovable property, or seven days in the case of movable property, from the latest date on which any of the said notices shall have been affixed as required by section 193.” 57. Further, in terms of Section 195 of the Revenue Code, a fresh notice is required to be issued if the sale is postponed for any reason beyond 30 days and a fresh proclamation and notice has to be issued unless the defaulter consents to waive it. In this regard, it is relevant to note that a fresh proclamation was made on 23.11.2008 in furtherance of Section 195 of the Revenue Code. At the cost of repetition, Section 195 of the Revenue Code is reproduced hereunder:- “Section 195.