Nor are those with any knowledge of human nature who pause to think for a moment likely to underestimate the feelings of resentment of those who find that a decision against them has been made without their being afforded any opportunity to influence the course of events.” [Emphasis supplied] 37. This Court has held that the principles of natural justice reinforce the maxim that justice should not only be done but should be seen to be done. It has been held that non-observance of natural justice is itself prejudice to any individual. [S.L. Kapoor vs. Jag Mohan and Others, (1980) 4 SCC 379]. It has been held that the principle that no one can be inflicted with an adverse without being afforded a minimum opportunity of hearing was a constant lode star that has lit the judicial horizon of this country. [See Daffodills Pharmaceuticals Limited and Another (supra)]. Even the Division Bench, in the impugned , recognizes the fact that it was imperative to implead affected parties though ultimately it rested the case on certain exceptions which did not apply. This aspect has been elaborated hereinbelow. 38. In the light of the specific rule namely, Rule 9 of the A&R Rules, there was no escape from the fact that the affected parties, like the appellants, ought to have been impleaded by the Collector. Even de hors Rule 9, if civil consequences are to result to a party, opportunity ought to be given. 39. One of the two reasons given to justify the violation of the audi alteram partem rule is the finding that prejudice caused due to non-grant 212 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of hearing has not been established. Reference has been made to S.K. Sharma (supra) to justify this conclusion. 40. It is time to have a closer look at the facts in S.K. Sharma (supra) to understand as to in what circumstances that exception was carved out. The grievance raised by the delinquent employee in S.K. Sharma (supra) was not that there was total absence of notice. The grievance was that a set of nine documents including the statements of three individuals was not supplied to him. The delinquent was advised to peruse, examine and take notes of the said documents/statements half an hour before the commencement of the enquiry proceedings. It was admitted that the list of documents/statements was supplied. This Court found that though the copies of the statements were not supplied, the delinquent was permitted to peruse the same more than three days prior to the examination of the witnesses. In that background, the Court examined the question whether under the circumstances there was substantial compliance of the clause in the regulations, providing for supply of copies of statements, not later than three days before the commencement of the examination by the witness before the enquiring authority. It was expressly noticed in the that the records of the case did not disclose that the delinquent had protested about denial of adequate opportunity to cross-examine.