Notes: i. For the purpose of Financial Capacity, the Bidder can choose any 3 (three) financial years from the 4 (four) immediately completed consecutive financial years as on the date of invitation of Bids. However, the 3 (three) financial years chosen by the Bidder shall be the same for each Member (in case of Consortium) and the Associate(s), whose Financial Capacity is furnished and relied upon by the Bidder. ii. In case the Bidder is a Consortium, the above documents are to be submitted in respect of all the Members. iii. The Bidder shall submit the documents reflecting the Net Worth of the Associate(s) whose Technical Capacity and/or Financial Capacity is furnished and relied upon. 3. Integrity pact Duly signed and witnessed integrity pact as per proforma provided at Appendix VIII of RFB. Note: In case the Bidder is a Consortium, the integrity pact is to be signed by all the Members. 4. Authorization a) If the Bidder itself is the DSC holder for Digital bidding online, then self-declaration of the Signature Bidder to this effect; or Certificate b) If the DSC holder is bidding online on (“DSC”) behalf of the bidder then the power of attorneyβ granted by the Bidder, evidencing authorization granted to the DSC holder to submit the Bid on behalf of the Bidder. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 435 Banshidhar Construction Pvt. Ltd. v. Bharat Coking Coal Limited & Others 5. Undertaking An undertaking is to be given by the Bidder in Support as per the format given at Enclosure I of of the this NIT, confirming the genuineness of the authenticity information furnished online, authenticity of of submitted scanned copy of documents uploaded and information such other declarations. and Note: In case the Bidder is a Consortium, documents the undertaking is to be signed by all the and other Members. (Original undertaking shall be commitments submitted as per the provisions of NIT) 6. Any other document to support the qualification information as submitted by the Bidder online. Note: Only one file in .pdf format can be uploaded against each qualification criteria. Any additional/ other relevant documents to support the information/declaration furnished by Bidder online against qualification criteria may also be added by the Bidder in the same file (in .pdf format) to be uploaded against respective qualification criteria. Part-1/Cover-1-Other Important Documents (“OID”) Sl. Criteria Scanned copy of documents (self-certified No. and notarized/ certified® ) to be uploaded by Bidder in support of information/ declaration furnished online by the Bidder against each criteria (CONFIRMATORY DOCUMENT) 1. Legal status Documents to be submitted as applicable: of the 1. Affidavit or any other document to prove Bidder the proprietorship/ individual status of the Bidder (applicable only where the Bidder is an individual or sole proprietor); 2. Partnership deed/ agreement containing name of partners and Certificate of Incorporation (applicable only where the Bidder is a partnership firm or a limited liability partnership); 3. Memorandum and Articles of Association with certificate of incorporation containing name of Bidder or any similar charter/ constitutional documents (applicable where the Bidder is a company); 4.