Sometimes this is done by providing for jurisdiction where jurisdiction had not been properly invested before. Sometimes this is done by re-enacting retrospectively a valid and legal taxing provision and then by fiction making the tax already collected to stand under the re-enacted law. Sometimes the Legislature gives its own meaning and interpretation of the law under which tax was collected and by legislative fiat makes the new meaning binding upon courts. The Legislature may follow any one method or all of them and while it does so it may neutralise the effect of the earlier decision of the court which becomes ineffective after the change of the law. Whichever method is adopted it must be 326 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports within the competence of the legislature and legal and adequate to attain the object of validation. If the Legislature has the power over the subject-matter and competence to make a valid law, it can at any time make such a valid law and make it retrospectively so as to bind even past transactions. The validity of a Validating Law, therefore, depends upon whether the Legislature possesses the competence which it claims over the subject-matter and whether in making the validation it removes the defect which the courts had found in the existing law and makes adequate provisions in the Validating Law for a valid imposition of the tax.” [Emphasis supplied] c) We are of the opinion that the introduction of Section 110AA was a valid exercise of legislative power to amend the provisions of the Act, 1962 and it was done with the objective of following the principle of comity to give effect to the suggestions of this Court in Sayed Ali (supra) and Canon India (supra). However, we clarify that a change in law, which the legislature was competent to enact, having prospective application cannot be a ground for the writ petitioners to question the sanctity and wisdom of the legislature in following a different mechanism to assess/ re-assess bills of entry(s) and recover duty under Sections 17 and 28 respectively. d) No occasion arises for us to discuss the validity of Section 97 with respect to the test of reasonable classification as the introduction of Section 110AA does not create a class of assessees to whom the law would apply differentially to, at the same point in time. The differential mechanism for the exercise of functions under Section 28 is not for a different class of assessees but rather for the show cause notices issued during different periods of time that is, prior to the Finance Act, 2022 and after its enactment. e) On the strength of such reasoning, we are of the view that Section 97 is not manifestly arbitrary and discriminatory and is not disproportional to the object sought to be achieved by it. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 327 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. 166. It is also the contention of the writ petitioners that Section 97(iii) gives retrospective effect to the amendments made in Section 5 thereby making previous show cause notices subject to the provisions of the newly inserted provisions, i.e., sub-sections (4) and (5) of Section 5.