Areference was made when the Tenth Schedule was included in the Constitution by the Constitution (Fifty-Second) Amendment Act 1985. However, even though the Constitution on its adoption did not make a reference to political parties, statutory provisions relating to elections accorded considerable importance to political parties, signifying that political parties have been the focal point of elections. 81. The ECI notified the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) 19689 in exercise of the powers conferred by Article 344 of the Constitution read with Section 29A of the RPA and Rules 5° and 10% of the Conduct of Election Rules 1961. In terms of the provisions of the Symbols , the ECI shall allot a symbol to every candidate contesting the election. The Symbols classifies political parties into recognised political parties and unrecognised political parties. The difference in the procedure under the Symbols for allotting symbols to recognised political parties, registered but unrecognised political parties and independent candidates indicates both the relevance and significance of political parties in elections in India. 95 “Symbols 1968” 96 Rule 5 provides the ECI the power to specify by notification, the symbols which may be chosen by candidates at elections in parliamentary or assembly constituencies. 97 Rule 10 deals with the preparation of list of contesting candidates. Rule 10(5) states that the allotment of the returning officer of any symbol to a candidate shall be final except where it is inconsistent with the directions issued by the ECI, in which case the ECI may revise the allotment. Rule 10(6) states that every candidate shall be informed of the symbol allotted to the candidate. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 497 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 82. A party is classified a National®® or a State recognised party” based on the total percentage of votes secured at the last general elections and (or) the number of candidates who have been returned to the Legislative Assembly. Symbols are reserved for allocation to recognised political parties. '°° All candidates who are being set up by a national or a State recognised party are to be allotted the symbol reserved for that party for the purpose of contesting elections.’ 83. Symbols other than those reserved for recognised political parties shall be available for allotment to independent candidates and candidates set up by political parties which are not recognised political parties in terms of the Symbols . '” Candidates set up by a registered but unrecognised political party may also be allotted a common symbol if they fulfil certain conditions laid down in the Symbols . '® 84. Thus, the Symbols creates a demarcation between candidates set up by political parties and candidates contesting individually. Political parties are allotted a Symbol such that all candidates who are set up by that political party are allotted the Symbol of their political party while contesting elections. Even within candidates who are set up by political parties, the Symbols creates a distinction between unrecognised but registered political parties and recognised political parties.