The Stakeholders’ Consultation Committee is to be drawn from the list of stakeholders on a category-wise basis, as prescribed under Regulation 31. The purpose of constituting a Stakeholders’ Consultation Committee is to advice the Liquidator on matters relating to appointment of professionals and their renumeration as also in relation to sale of assets under Regulation 32. However, it was observed by this Court in R.K. Industries (Unit-II) LLP v. H.R. Commercials Private Limited and Others,49 that the advice offered by the Stakeholders’ Consultation Committee is not binding on the Liquidator. The safeguard provided in the Regulation is that if the Liquidator arrives at a decision which is at variance with the advice given by the Stakeholders’ Consultation Committee, he must record in writing reasons for doing so and mention it in the next progress report. We may usefully extract the following para of the captioned case: “55. On a conjoint reading of the aforesaid provisions of IBC and the Liquidation Regulations, it is evident that the liquidator is authorised to sell the immovable and movable property of the corporate debtor in liquidation through a public auction or a private contract, either collectively, or in a piecemeal manner. The underlying object of the statute is to protect 48 No. IBBI/2019-20/GN/REG047 49 [2022] 12 SCR 667 : (2024) 4 SCC 166 1298 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and preserve the assets of the corporate debtor in liquidation and proceed to sell them at the best possible price. Towards this object, the provisions of IBC have empowered the liquidator to go in for a public auction or a private contract as a mode of sale. Besides reporting the progress made, the liquidator can also apply to the adjudicating authority (NCLT) for appropriate s and directions considered necessary for liquidation of the corporate debtor. The liquidator is permitted to consult the stakeholders who are entitled to distribution of the sale proceeds. However, the proviso to Section 35(2) IBC makes it clear that the opinion of the stakeholders would not be binding on the liquidator. Regulation 8 of the Liquidation Regulations refers to the consultative process with the stakeholders, as specified in Section 35(2) IBC and states that they shall extend all necessary assistance and cooperation to the liquidator for completing the liquidation process. Regulation 31-A has introduced a stakeholders’ Consultation Committee that may advise the liquidator regarding sale of the assets of the corporate debtor and must be furnished all relevant information to provide such advice. Though the advice offered is not binding on the liquidator, he must give reason in writing for acting against such advice.” 34.3 By virtue of the Notification dated 28th April, 2022, an Explanation was appended at the foot of Regulation 31A which clarifies that the requirement of constituting a Stakeholders’ Consultation Committee shall apply only to those liquidation processes that were to commence on/after the date of commencement of the IBBI Regulation, 2016. In the present case, the liquidation process in respect of the company had commenced on 17th July, 2019 and therefore, the submission made by the appellant that the Liquidator has breached Regulation 31A of the IBBI Regulations, 2016 by not constituting a Stakeholders’ Consultation Committee, is devoid of merits.