475 Crore. Specific attention was drawn to the expression in Clause 6.3.1(d) which states that “such payments will be settled upfront in full in first 180 days from the effective date and without any conditions (including not being staggered payments spread across a period of time) so that flying can start immediately without any future disputes and concerns with such claimants for past dues”. The respondents, however, have not remitted any amount towards the airport dues nor have they allowed the Resolution Plan to be implemented. As a result of the several extensions/exclusions given by the NCLT and NCLAT to the SRA, the airport dues as on date stand at a staggering figure of Rs. 1100 Crore approx., which amount, again, is to be paid by the respondents alone. 2094 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 43. The ASG submitted that, when the aforesaid is the position in the Resolution Plan, the NCLAT in its impugned dated 12.03.2024 vide Paras 53-55 respectively has chosen to restrict the Airport dues to a mere Rs. 25 Crore and has erroneously construed it to be a part of the CIRP cost. The counsel drew specific attention to Para 53 of the impugned wherein the NCLAT had referred to Clause 6.4.1(h) and stated that “…CIRP cost of the Corporate Debtor (excluding parking charges, rental charges, employees dues, taxes etc.) Accordingly, the Resolution Applicant has set aside a sum of Rs 25 crores as CIRP cost towards payment of any such cost until the approval date…”. Thus, despite the fact that Clause 6.4.1(h) on treatment of Outstanding CIRP Costs excludes the parking charges, rental charges, employees’ dues, taxes etc., the NCLAT has surprisingly read the same to mean as “inclusive of/included in” the CIRP costs while directing the payment of a mere Rs. 25 Crore. Therefore, this is an error apparent on the face of it which requires interference by this Court. 44. It was submitted that, in case the argument of the SRA that a maximum of only Rs. 475 Crore is to be paid by the SRA under the Resolution Plan, is accepted, then the entire amount of Rs. 475 Crore shall go towards the airport dues and as a consequence, nothing would become payable to the financial creditors, operational creditors, workmen etc. The amount of Rs. 240 Crore was a mere estimate of the dues payable in the year 2020. Due to non-payment and non- commencement of flying operations, the same amount in the year 2024 has increased multi-fold. To contend that such an increased amount does not fall under the Resolution Plan and therefore, is not payable, will cast a further burden on the CoC of the Corporate Debtor. Further, it would be unfair to accept that, for the reason of the Respondent’s default in payment, the CoC would have to bear the Airport dues of Rs. 1100 Crore and none of the creditors or workmen would get anything out of this plan. This misconceived contention which intentionally makes the plan unworkable needs to be outrightly rejected.