Nuli & Nuli, Devvrat, Ms. Harshita Sharma, Ms. Swati Setia, Ms. Charu Sangwan, Anup Kumar, Abhijit Banerjee, Devesh Kumar Agnihotri, Nitin Jain, Ms. Tanya Swarup, Shivam Singh, Manish Kumar, Ms. Bahuli Sharma, Ishwar Singh, Ms. Shaswati Parhi, Suyash Vyas, Divyansh Mishra, Gopal Singh, Subhro Sanyal, Kaustubh Shukla, C.B. Gururaj, Prakash Ranjan Nayak, Animesh Dubey, Debasis Jena, Apoorv Nautiyal, Anuj Bhandari, Rajat Gupta, Gaurav Jain, Mrs. Disha Bhandari, Mrs. Anjali Doshi, Sharanagouda Patil, Mrs. Supreeta Patil, M/s. S-legal Associates, K.R. Karthik, Pradeep Gaur, Amit Gaur, Ms. Sweta Sinha, Rameshwar Prasad Goyal, Ms. Fauzia Shakil, Vivek Mathur, Siddharth Agarwal, Ms. Mohini Priya, Ms. Namrata Sarah Caleb, Ms. Parita, Ms. Ayushma Awasthi, C. George Thomas, P.B. Suresh, Advs. for the appearing parties. 552 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court Hrishikesh Roy, J. Title* Page No. A. Background … 6 B. Submissions on behalf of Insurance Companies … 15 C. Submissions on behalf of Claimants … 22 D. Issues … 26 E. Discussion … 27 (i) The Purpose of MV Act (ii) Brief Overview of MV Act & MV Rules (iii) Construing Section 2(21), 3 & 10 of MV Act (iv) Whether the interpretation in Mukund Dewangan (2017) renders most provisions of the MV Act & MV Rules otiose? (a) Harmonious Construction (b) Interpretation must not lead to impractical outcomes (v) Discussion on the 8 Conflicting s (vi) Is Mukund Dewangan (2017) per incuriam? F. Impact on Road Safety … 114 G. Conclusion … 121 1. On the perception of the capability of drivers on the road, the comedian George Carlin made the humorous observation to the effect that: ‘Have you ever noticed that anybody driving slower than you is an idiot, and anyone going faster than you is a maniac?’.1 Concerns about road safety are often shaped by individual biases without the opinion being founded on any empirical data. It is easy to overlook the full spectrum of factors that contribute to road safety. In this context, * Ed. Note: Pagination as per the original . 1 George Carlin, ‘Carlin on Campus’ (HBO, 1984) <https://www.primevideo.com/detail/George-Carlin- Carlin-On-Campus/0ND548YT8ZBNFE9A56MJWHZ8PK> accessed 2 November 2024 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 553 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. the pivotal legal issue that this Constitution bench of five judges has to decide is whether under the existing legal framework of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 (for short “MV Act”) and the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 (for short, “MV Rules”), a person holding a license for a ‘Light Motor Vehicle’ class, can drive a ‘Transport Vehicle’ without a specific endorsement, provided the ‘Gross Vehicle Weight’ of the vehicle does not exceed 7,500 kgs?. Besides road safety, the livelihood concern of a large number of drivers of transport vehicles in India also requires an answer from the bench. In this , let us name our driver Sri, who is a ‘Transport Vehicle’ driver. As can be appreciated, Sri spends maximum hours behind the driving wheels and is arguably the most experienced one amongst Indian drivers, carrying goods and people, from destination A to B and so on.