Pursuant to Section 45A and Section 129A (which empowered the Governor-General to make further provisions for the regulation of certain matters by rules), the Governor-General prescribed the Devolution Rules. The Devolution Rules prescribed the distribution of the subject-matter of the regulation of mines and mineral resources in the following manner: “Part I Central Subjects 25. Control of mineral development in so far as such control is reserved to the Governor General in Council under rule made or sanctioned by the Secretary of State, and regulation of mines. Part II Provincial Subjects 24. Development of mineral resources which are Government property; - subject to rules made or sanctioned by the Secretary of State, but not including the regulation of mines.” 24. The primary aim behind the introduction of the Devolution Rules was to transfer certain responsibilities to provincial legislative assemblies.14 However, the colonial state reserved to itself almost the entirety of 12 Government of India, Ministry of Mines, ‘National Mineral Policy 2019’ 13 “GOI Act 1915” 14 See Debates in the House of Commons on the Government of India Act 1919 (3rd December 1919) 1606 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the subject matter relating to mineral development and regulation of mines. The provincial legislatures were given limited power to the extent of development of mineral resources which were Government property. The Government of India Act 193515 retained the distribution of legislative powers between the Centre and Provinces. Section 100 of the GOI Act 1935 demarcated the legislative powers of the Federal and Provincial Legislatures.16 The relevant entries relating to mines and mineral development were as follows: “List I. – Federal Legislative List 36. Regulation of mines and oilfields and mineral development to which such regulation and development under a Federal control is declared by Federal law to be expedient in the public interest. List II. – Provincial Legislative List 23. Regulation of mines and oilfields and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under Federal control. 44. Taxes on mineral rights, subject to any limitations imposed by any Act of the Federal Legislature relating to mineral development.” 25. During the debates in the House of Commons on the above entries, the then Solicitor General stated that the provinces could enact their own regulations if there was any “inaction” by the Federal Legislature.17 Thus, legislative power in relation to regulation of 15 “GOI Act 1935” 16 GOI Act 1935, Section 100. (It read: Subject matter of Federal and Provincial Laws: (1) Notwithstanding anything in the two next succeeding subsections, the Federal Legislature has and a Provincial Legislature has not, power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule to this Act (hereinafter called the “Federal Legislative List”). (2) Notwithstanding anything in the next succeeding sub-section, the Federal Legislature, and subject to the preceding sub-section, a Provincial Legislature also, have power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III in the said Schedule (hereinafter called the “Concurrent Legislative List”).