The obvious purpose behind such an unfair trade practice is to draw the potential viewers to the cinema hall by luring them with the song which forms part of the promo and thereby making gain at the cost of the viewer if the song does not form part of the movie for which consideration is paid by the viewer. The exclusion of the song from the movie will also constitute a deficiency, as defined in Section 2(1)(g) of the C.P. Act, if the song is impliedly promised, but is later omitted while exhibiting the movie.” 4. Before we proceed to delineating and applying the test for ‘deficiency of service’ and ‘unfair trade practice’ under the Consumer Protection Act, 19863, it is necessary to set out the context in which a promotional 1 Hereinafter ‘NCDRC’. 2 In Revision Petition No. 156 of 2018, dated 18.02.2020. 3 Hereinafter ‘the Act’. 148 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports trailer would or would not create a contractual relationship or any other right or liability between the producer and the consumer. 5. A promotional trailer is an advertisement for a film. It is a settled position of law that commercial speech, which includes advertisements, is protected through freedom of speech under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, subject to the reasonable restrictions in Article 19(2).4 It is also a settled position that commercial speech that is deceptive, unfair, misleading, and untruthful is excluded from such constitutional protection and can be regulated and prohibited by the State.5 Subject to these restrictions, the producer/ advertiser has the freedom to creatively and artistically promote his goods and services. 6. Information dissemination is one of the primary purposes of advertising: an advertisement informs existing and potential consumers about the presence and availability of certain goods and services in the market, their features and qualities, and their uniqueness and comparability with market competitors and substitutes. However, that is not the only purpose of an advertisement. An advertisement is not only informational but also a means of creative and artistic expression. It can allure, entice, capture the attention, and pique the interest of consumers through features that may not directly relate to information about the product or service. Advertisements build brand loyalty and reputation, and promote an image and ethos of not only the product being advertised but also the manufacturer/ service provider. Advertisements contain unique taglines, jingles, visuals, etc. that are intended to grab the attention of the viewer and become associated and synonymous with the product or service itself. 7. A song, dialogue, or a short visual in a promotional trailer may be seen in the context of the multifarious uses of advertisements. These could be used to popularise or to create a buzz about the release of the film, rather than to purely represent information about the contents of the film. Viewers could associate these with the film and may be interested or encouraged to watch the film. However, the kind of right or liability a promotional trailer creates would entirely 4 Tata Press Ltd v. Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited [1995] Supp.