59. The Court further observed that the occupations of citizens may also contribute to making classes of citizens socially backward. It has been observed that there are some occupations which are treated as inferior according to conventional beliefs and classes of citizens who follow these occupations are apt to become socially backward. It has been observed that the place of habitation also plays a role in determining the backwardness of a community of persons. It therefore held that the problem of determining who are socially backward classes is very complex. It has been held that sociological, social, and economic considerations come into play in solving the problem, and evolving proper criteria for determining which classes are socially backward. However, it observed, that is the function of the State which purports to act under Article 15(4) of the Constitution of India. 60. In the facts of the said case, the Court found that the State had applied the sole criteria of caste without regard to the other factors. It was therefore held that the criteria of social backwardness of the communities to whom the impugned therein was applied was not permissible under Article 15(4) of the Constitution of India. 61. Insofar as the educational backwardness of the classes of citizens is concerned, the State had applied the formula that all castes whose average student population in the last three High School classes of all High Schools in the State was less than the State average of 6.9 per thousand should be regarded as backward communities. Insofar as more backward communities are concerned, the criteria applied was that if the average of any community was less than 50% of the State average, it should be regarded as constituting the more backward classes. 62. The Court held that the State was not justified in including in the list of Backward Classes, castes, or communities whose average of [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1479 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. student population per thousand was slightly above, or very near, or just below the State average. B. State of Kerala vs. N.M. Thomas 63. Coming next to one of the most important s dealing with the affirmative action which is the 7-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of State of Kerala and another vs. N.M. Thomas and others.6 In the said case, out of the 7 Learned Judges, 5 Learned Judges upheld the provisions made by the Kerala Government for providing affirmative action to ameliorate the situation of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 64. It will be apposite to refer to the following observation made by A.N. Ray, C.J. : “21. Articles 14, 15 and 16 form part of a string of constitutional guaranteed rights. These rights supplement each other. Article 16 which ensures to all citizens equality of opportunity in matters relating to employment is an incident of guarantee of equality contained in Article 14. Article 16(1) gives effect to Article 14. Both Articles 14 and 16(1) permit reasonable classification having a nexus to the objects to be achieved.