35. It is also a fact that the defendants earlier took up a contention that there occurred an oral partition of the properties between the family of plaintiff and defendants in the year 1976 whereunder they received the suit land and the bangle shop at Raipur. The First Appellate Court after considering the said case declined to accept the claim regarding oral partition and held the oral partition as not proved and that finding of the First Appellate Court was also permitted to become final by the appellants herein. 36. Now, we will revert back to the claim of adverse possession raised by the appellants. In this context, it is also relevant to refer to the decisions of this Court relied on by the High Court to reject their claim of the adverse possession. In Indira’s case (supra), whereunder this Court held that once the plaintiff proved his title, the defendant in to claim ownership had to establish on the basis of relevant documents and other evidence to prove the plea of adverse possession for the prescriptive period and unless it is so proved, the plaintiff could not be non-suited. 730 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 37. We have already taken note of the fact that the High Court had duly taken note of Ext.P4 application submitted by the defendants, and also the evidence of DW-1, while being cross examined which were not given due weight by the Courts below. We have also found that the High Court has rightly reached the conclusion that the appellants herein had only permissive possession over the scheduled land and it was not adverse possession. In the contextual situation the following decisions including the one in Saroop Singh v. Banto,10 relied on by the High Court, assume much relevance. Paragraphs 28, 29 and 30 of Saroop Singh’s decision read thus: - “28. The statutory provisions of the Limitation Act have undergone a change when compared to the terms of Articles 142 and 144 of the Schedule appended to the Limitation Act, 1908, in terms whereof it was imperative upon the plaintiff not only to prove his title but also to prove his possession within twelve years, preceding the date of institution of the suit. However, a change in legal position has been effected in view of Articles 64 and 65 of the Limitation Act, 1963. In the instant case, the plaintiff- respondents have proved their title and, thus, it was for the first defendant to prove acquisition of title by adverse possession. As noticed hereinbefore, the first defendant- appellant did not raise any plea of adverse possession. In that view of the matter the suit was not barred. 29. In terms of Article 65 the starting point of limitation does not commence from the date when the right of ownership arises to the plaintiff but commences from the date the defendant’s possession becomes adverse. (See Vasantiben Prahladji Nayak v. Somnath Muljibhai Nayak [(2004) 3 SCC 376].) 30. “Animus possidendi” is one of the ingredients of adverse possession.