Similarly, an arrest can be made by a police officer either without a warrant or with a warrant issued by a court. Thus, the following possibilities emerge: a. If an accused is arrested without a warrant while he is free and not in custody, then he has to be produced before the nearest Magistrate, who may remand him to police or judicial custody or may grant bail if applied for by the accused. b. If an accused is arrested with a warrant while he is free and not in custody, then Section 81 of the CrPC permits the production of such a person before the court issuing the warrant. c. If an accused is arrested with or without a warrant while he is already in custody in one offence, then it is only under Section 267 of the CrPC that he can be removed from such custody and produced before the Magistrate under whose territorial jurisdiction the other offence is registered. 45. Section 46(1) of the CrPC reads as under: “46. Arrest how made.—(1) In making an arrest the police officer or other person making the same shall actually touch or confine the body of the person to be arrested, unless there be a submission to the custody by word or action. Provided that where a woman is to be arrested, unless the circumstances indicate to the contrary, her submission to custody on an oral intimation of arrest shall be presumed and, unless the circumstances otherwise require or unless the police officer is a female, the police officer shall not touch the person of the woman for making her arrest.” [2024] 9 S.C.R. 301 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. 46. Thus, the plain reading of the aforesaid makes it clear that arrest involves actual touch or confinement of the body of the person sought to be arrested. However, arrest can also be effected without actual touch if the person sought to be arrested submits to the custody by words or action. 47. The term ‘arrest’ is not defined either in the procedural Acts or in the various substantive Acts, though Section 46, CrPC, lays down the mode of arrest to be effected. Black’s Law Dictionary (5th Edition, 1979) defines arrest as follows: “To deprive a person of his liberty by legal authority. Taking, under real or assumed authority, custody of another for the purpose of holding or detaining him to answer a criminal charge or civil demand. Arrest involves the authority to arrest, the assertion of that authority with the intent to effect an arrest, and the restraint of the person to be arrested. All that is required for an ‘arrest’ is some act by officer indicating his intention to detain or take person into custody and thereby subject that person to the actual control and will of the officer, as formal declaration of arrest is required.” 48. Similarly, the term ‘custody’ too is not defined either in the CrPC or the IPC. The Corpus Juris Secondum (Vol.