Through the fourth deed, marked as Exhibit A-2, Kuttiperavan surrendered his rights in the property to Chiruthey and Sankaran. Questions were raised about admissibility of these documents before the High Court but as marking of these documents were not objected before the Trial Court, the High Court held that at the stage of second appeal, such objections could not be raised. We accept the High Court’s view on this point. 14. The High Court also rejected the defendant’s contention that both the deeds dated 14th July 1910 were strange transactions as the aforesaid exhibits were not challenged by them at any point of time in the course of trial. We also do not find any flaw in the High Court’s reasoning on this point also. 15. Dealing with the appellant’s case that Chiruthey was divested of any right to her late first husband’s property by virtue of the 1856 Act, the High Court observed:- “10. Learned counsel for the respondent submitted that on Madhavan’s death, which was evidently before 1910, his rights devolved on Sankaran. Chirutheyi would not get any right on Madhavan’s death as per the personal law applicable to the parties. The right of a widow to hold the property was recognised by the Hindu Women’s Right to Property Act, 1937. It is submitted that before 1937, [2024] 4 S.C.R. 391 Kizhakke Vattakandiyil Madhavan (Dead) Thr. Lrs. v. Thiyyurkunnath Meethal Janaki and Ors Chirutheyi had re-married Neelakantan and, therefore, her right, if any, had lost by Section 2 of the Hindu Widows Re- marriage Act, 1856. The counsel relied on the decisions in Sivaprasad V. Venkateswaralu : 2000 (1) KLT SN 11(SC) and Dharmarajan V. Narayanan: 2000 (2) KLT 895. I do not think that the contention put forward by the learned counsel for the respondents deserves acceptance. This is not a case where the rights of parties are to be ascertained as if no document was executed and as if the property remained undivided. Exhibits A1 and A20 came into existence in 1910, by which the predecessor in interest of the defendants, Sankaran, and his mother, who admittedly were having rights, lost possessory title. If Ext.A20 is a valid and binding document, the question as to the rights of a widow and the extinguishment of the rights of the widow on re-marriage do not arise for consideration. As stated earlier, the defendants are not entitled to challenge the validity of Ext.A1 and A20 in defence to the suit for partition. The question whether the plaintiff has right to get a share is to be determined with reference to the documents in existence, namely, Exts.A1, A2 and A20 and not with reference to what would have been the state of affairs had no document been executed.” 16. The High Court also rejected the contention made on behalf of the appellants that they had become the owners of the suit property on the basis of adverse possession but that aspect of the matter has not been argued before us and we do not want to disturb the finding of the High Court on that issue.