Bypass to the KMC. 11. In response to the above, the appellant sent a letter dated 25.01.2023 inter-alia pointing out that as per the Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Department’s dated 01.12.2022, the custody and rights of revenue of all structures, bridges, culverts etc. including the concerned underpasses, continued to remain with the respondent, and requested to recall the notice dated 24.01.2023 asking him to stop the work. 12. However, on 07.02.2023, the respondent issued one another notice to the appellant stating that the tender for work of maintenance has been cancelled on account of a technical fault in the tender. It was stated therein that the tender was found to be ‘non-specific’ & ‘not well defined’ and that had created ambiguity resulting in financial losses to the respondent. The said Notice of Cancellation reads as under: - “Date: 07.02.2023 To,V.S. Advertising, 65/268, M.N. Sarkar Road, Siliguri, West Bengal 7340001 Sub: Cancellation of Work/Tender Sir, The cited tender is hereby cancelled by the Authority in KMDA. We would state with regret that the tender has been found having technical fault, non-specific and not well defined thus creating ambiguity for obvious reasons. By this, the Authority is incurring financial loss as well. 546 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports We regret for the inconvenience caused to you and are ready to reimburse the cost you have so far incurred in the work. This has been decided that the license fee deposited by you and the cost incurred for construction activity and maintenance work would be refunded as per actual assessment by the divisional engineers based upon the approved drawing and execution. This is for your information with kind compliance please. Sd/- Chief Engineer-II (Bridge) Roads & Bridges Sector, KMDA” 13. It is pertinent to note from the aforesaid that, no reference was made as regards handing over of the maintenance to KMC which was previously alluded to, for stopping all work pertaining to the tender. B. IMPUGNED 14. Aggrieved by the aforesaid, the appellant preferred a writ petition being WPA No. 3381 of 2023 before the High Court of Calcutta assailing the respondent’s Notice dated 07.02.2023 cancelling the tender for work of maintenance of the two underpasses. 15. The aforesaid writ petition referred to above came to be rejected by the High Court vide its dated 24.04.2023, wherein the Ld. Single Judge held that the decision to cancel the tender had to be taken on account of the administrative exigencies and also due to the ‘change in policy’. It was further held that the decision to cancel the tender was not borne out of any ulterior motives on the part of the respondent. The decision of the learned Single Judge is based on two grounds: - (i) First, the High Court took the view that the decision to cancel the tender cannot be termed as an arbitrary action on the part of the respondent. The appellant was put to prior notice as regards the change of hands of the management of the concerned underpasses, much before the ultimate cancellation notice was issued.