ANALYSIS 12. To effectively analyse and adjudicate upon the questions referred, we would divide our discussion into following parts: (a) When the recruitment process commences and comes to an end; (b) Basis of the doctrine that ‘rules of the game’ must not be changed during the course of the game, or after the game is played; (c) Whether the decision in K. Manjusree (supra) is at variance with earlier precedents on the subject; (d) Whether the above doctrine applies with equal strictness qua method or procedure for selection as it does qua eligibility criteria; [2024] 12 S.C.R. 45 Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. (e) Whether procedure for selection stipulated by Act or Rules framed either under the proviso to Article 30910 of the Constitution or a Statute could be given a go-bye; (f) Whether appointment could be denied by change in the eligibility criteria after the game is played. (A) COMMENCEMENT/END OF THE RECRUITMENT PROCESS 13. The process of recruitment begins with the issuance of advertisement and ends with the filling up of notified vacancies. It consists of various steps like inviting applications, scrutiny of applications, rejection of defective applications or elimination of ineligible candidates, conducting examinations, calling for interview or viva voce and preparation of list of successful candidates for appointment.11 (B) BASIS OF THE DOCTRINE 14. The doctrine proscribing change of rules midway through the game, or after the game is played, is predicated on the rule against arbitrariness enshrined in Article 1412 of the Constitution. Article 1613 is only an 10 Article 309. Recruitment and conditions of service of persons serving the Union or a State.— Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, Acts of the appropriate legislature may regulate the recruitment, and conditions of service of persons appointed, to public services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of any State. Provided that it shall be competent for the President or such person as he may direct in the case of services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union, and for the governor of a State or such person as he may direct in the case of services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State, to make rules regulating the recruitment, and the conditions of service of persons appointed, to such services and posts until provision in that behalf is made by or under an Act of the appropriate legislature under this article, and any rules so made shall have effect subject to the provisions of any such Act. 11 A.P. Public Service Commission v. B. Sarat Chandra (1990) 2 SCC 669; and Rakhi Ray v. High Court of Delhi (2010) 2 SCC 637 12 Article 14. Equality before law. - The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India. 13 Article 16. Equality of opportunity in matters of public employment. - (1) There shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State.