23. It could thus be seen that the said case was not concerned with the issue with regard to non-supply of the material which was relied on by the Detaining Authority in the grounds of detention. As such the said would not be of any assistance to the case of the respondents. 24. Insofar as the reliance on the of this Court in the case of L.M.S. Ummu Saleema (supra) is concerned, the High Court relied on the following observations of this Court: “5. ….It is only failure to furnish copies of such documents as were relied upon by the detaining authority, making it difficult for the detenu to make an effective representation, that amounts to a violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed by Article 22(5). In our view it is unnecessary to furnish copies of documents to which casual or passing reference may be made in the course of narration of facts and which are not relied upon by the detaining authority in making the of detention.” 25. There can be no doubt that it is not necessary to furnish copies of each and every document to which a casual or passing reference may be made in the narration of facts and which are not relied upon by the Detaining Authority in making the of detention. However, failure to furnish copies of such document/documents as is/are relied on by the Detaining Authority which would deprive the detenu to make an effective representation would certainly amount to violation of the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 327 Jaseela Shaji v. The Union of India & Ors. 26. We may also gainfully refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Radhakrishnan Prabhakaran (supra): “8. We may make it clear that there is no legal requirement that a copy of every document mentioned in the shall invariably be supplied to the detenu. What is important is that copies of only such of those documents as have been relied on by the detaining authority for reaching the satisfaction that preventive detention of the detenu is necessary shall be supplied to him…” 27. It could thus be seen that though this Court held that a copy of every document mentioned in the is not required to be supplied to the detenu, copies of only such of those documents as have been relied on by the detaining authority for reaching the satisfaction that preventive detention of the detenu is necessary are required to be supplied to him. 28. In the case of J. Abdul Hakeem (supra), the position was reiterated by this Court by observing thus: “8. …From the aforesaid authorities it is clear that the detenu has a right to be supplied with the material documents on which reliance is placed by the detaining authority for passing the detention but the detention will not be vitiated, if the document although referred to in the is not supplied which is not relied upon by the detaining authority for forming of its opinion or was made the basis for passing the of detention.