It may be seen that a tenure holder means a bhumidhar with transferable or non-transferable rights. The question that arises further is as to what kind of rights of such tenure holders can be declared or adjudicated in exercise of powers under Section 49 of the 1953 Act? In this regard, the scheme of the statute becomes very material. 12. The object of the 1953 Act is to prevent fragmentation of the land holdings and consolidate them in such a fair and equitable manner that each tenure holder gets nearly equivalent land rights in the same revenue estate.1 The duty of a Consolidation Officer under Section 1 Attar Singh v. State of U.P. [1959] Supp. 1 SCR 928, para 3 498 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 49 of the 1953 Act is to prevent fragmentation and consolidate the different parcels of land of a tenure holder. Such a power can be exercised only in respect of those persons who are already the tenure holders of the land. Conversely, the power under Section 49 of the 1953 Act cannot be exercised to take away the vested title of a tenure holder. No such jurisdiction is conferred upon a Consolidation Officer or any other Authority under the 1953 Act.2 The power to declare the ownership in an immovable property can be exercised only by a Civil Court save and except when such jurisdiction is barred expressly or by implication under a law. Section 49 of the 1953 Act does not and cannot be construed as a bar on the jurisdiction of the Civil Court to determine the ownership rights.3 13. Having held so, it is not difficult to explain that Kalyan Singh had acquired ancestral rights as a tenure holder. He was co-owner in the suit land much before the consolidation proceedings commenced. Hence, the only declaration and adjudication of rights of Ramji Lal or Kalyan Singh that a Consolidation Officer could undertake under Section 49 of the 1953 Act was to avoid the fragmentation of their respective land holdings and consolidate or redistribute the parcels of land among them. As analyzed above, the provision does not enable the Consolidation Officer to grant ownership to Ramji Lal in respect of a property, which, before the consolidation proceedings, never vested in him. Vice versa, the Consolidation Officer could not take away the ownership rights of Kalyan Singh which he had already inherited much before the commencement of the consolidation proceedings. 14. That being so, the dated 08.05.1960 passed by the Consolidation Officer has rightly been held to be null and void and without any jurisdiction. It was passed usurping a power fraudulently, which never ever vested in a Consolidation Officer. The said is thus liable to be ignored for all intents and purposes. Having held that, it is not necessary for us to go into the question of fraud played upon Kalyan Singh in securing that with or without collusion of the Consolidation Officer. All that is required to be held is that the dated 08.05.1960 had no binding force or any adverse effect on the rights of Kalyan Singh.