Though the discounted price is fixed or negotiated between the assessee and the franchisee/ distributor, the sale price received by the franchisee/ distributor is within the sole discretion of the franchisee/distributor. The assessee has no say in this matter. 31. It is not the case of the Revenue that the tax at source under Section 194-H of the Act is to be deducted on the difference between the [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1031 Bharti Cellular Limited (Now Bharti Airtel Limited) v. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Circle 57, Kolkata and Another printed price and the discounted price. This cannot be the case as the Revenue cannot insist that the franchisee/distributor must sell the products at the printed price and not at a figure or price below the printed price. The obligation to deduct tax at source is fixed by the statute itself, that is, on the date of actual payment by any mode, or at the time when income is credited to the account of the franchisee/distributor, whichever is earlier. In the context of the present case, the income of the franchisee/distributor, being the difference between the sale price received by the franchisee/distributor and the discounted price, is paid or credited to the account of the franchisee/ distributor when he sells the prepaid product to the retailer/end- user/customer. The sale price and accordingly the income of the franchisee/distributor is determined by the franchisee/distributor and the third parties. Accordingly, the assessee does not, at any stage, either pay or credit the account of the franchisee/distributor with the income by way of commission or brokerage on which tax at source under Section 194-H of the Act is to be deducted. 32. Faced with the above situation, the Revenue has relied upon the use of the expression “payment received or receivable directly or indirectly by a person acting on behalf of the other person”, that is, ‘the principal’. It is argued that even if the franchisee/distributor receives payment in the form of income from the retailer/end-user/customer, it would require deduction of tax at source as payment received or receivable, directly or indirectly, is to be subjected to deduction of tax. In support of the argument, reliance is placed upon decision in the case of Singapore Airlines Limited (supra). 33. The decision in Singapore Airlines Limited (supra) is required to be understood in the context of the contract in the said case, which was in terms of the rules/agreement set up by the International Airport Transport Association24. IATA would fix a ceiling price, and the price an airline could charge from its customers with a discretion to the airlines to sell their tickets at a net fare lower than the base fare but not higher. The air carriers were required to furnish a fare list to the Director General of Civil Aviation. The arrangement between the airlines and travel agents was covered 24 ‘IATA’, for short. 1032 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by the Passenger Sales Agency Agreement25, which would set out the conditions under which the travel agent carried out sale of tickets along with other ancillary services.