Before we proceed to analyse the correctness of these observations based on the law that we have laid down in this , it is necessary to expound upon how this Court in Bihar Distillery (supra) drew a purpose based demarcation of the legislative fields. The heart of the reasoning of the Court is reproduced below: “23. … Take a case where two industries ‘A’ and ‘B’ come forward with proposals to manufacture rectified spirit; ‘A’ says that it proposes to manufacture rectified spirit and then denature it immediately and sell it as industrial alcohol while ‘B’ says that it will manufacture rectified spirit and utilise it entirely for obtaining country liquor (arrack or by whatever other name, it may be called) or for manufacturing IMFLs from out of it or to supply it to others for the said purpose. According to Synthetics [(1990) 1 SCC 109 : 1989 Supp (1) SCR 623] , ‘A’ is under the exclusive control of the Union and the only powers of the State are those as are enumerated in para 86 quoted above. But what about ‘B’? The rectified spirit manufactured by it is avowedly meant only for potable purposes. Can it yet be called “industrial alcohol”? Can it still be said that the State concerned has no power or authority to control and regulate industry ‘B’ and that the Union alone will control and regulate it until the potable liquors are manufactured? The Union is certainly not interested in or concerned with manufacture or process of manufacture of country liquor or IMFLs. Does this situation not leave a large enough room for abuse and misuse of rectified spirit? It should be remembered that according to many States before us, bulk of the rectified spirit produced in their respective States is meant for and is utilised for obtaining or manufacturing potable liquors. Can it be said 200 Deccan Sugar (supra) 201 Bihar Distillery (supra) 2034 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports even in such a situation that the State should fold its hands and wait and watch till the potable stage is reached. … It is these and many other situations which have to be taken into consideration and provided for in the interests of law, public health, public revenue and also in the interests of proper delineation of the spheres of the Union and the States. The line of demarcation can and should be drawn at the stage of clearance/removal of the rectified spirit. Where the removal/clearance is for industrial purposes (other than the manufacture of potable liquor), the levy of duties of excise and all other control shall be of the Union but where the removal/clearance is for obtaining or manufacturing potable liquors, the levy of duties of excise and all other control shall be that of the States. This calls for a joint control and supervision of the process of manufacture of rectified spirit and its use and disposal.” (emphasis supplied) 128. This Court in Bihar Distillery (supra) held that where rectified spirit is manufactured only for the purpose of converting it into potable alcohol, it cannot be termed ‘industrial alcohol’.