The issue which arose for consideration in the said case was whether paper machines assembled at site were liable for duties under the Excise Act. It was the plea of the Assessee that since the machine was embedded in concrete base, it became an immovable property though embedding was for providing a wobble-free operation of the machine. This Court rejected the plea and held that merely because the machine was attached to the earth for efficient working and wobble- free operation, it did not per se render the said property immovable since the said machine can be sold in the market. It was then observed as follows: “5. Apart from this finding of fact made by the Tribunal, the point advanced on behalf of the appellant, that whatever is embedded in earth must be treated as immovable property is basically not sound. For example, a factory owner or a house- holder may purchase a water pump and fix it on a cement base for operational efficiency and also for security. That will not make the water pump an item of immovable property. Some of the component of water pump may even be assembled on site. That too will not make any difference to the principle. The test is whether the paper making machine can be sold in the market. The Tribunal has found as a fact that it can be sold. In view of that finding, we are unable to uphold the contention of the appellant that the machine must be treated as a part of the immovable property of the company. Just because a plant and machinery are fixed in the earth for better functioning, it does not automatically become an immovable property.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1571 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune 11.7.7 In Quality Steel Tubes (P) Ltd. (supra), this Court was examining whether “the tube mill and welding head” erected and installed by the Assessee for manufacture of tubes and pipes out of duty-paid raw material were exigible to duty. By applying the marketability test, this Court rejected the plea of the Assessee by holding that these were erected and installed in the premises and embedded in the earth and these are no longer movable goods that could be brought to market for sale since these ceased to be goods within the meaning of Section 3 of the General Clauses Act. It was thus held that, “5. ………………..The basic test, therefore, of levying duty under the Act is twofold. One, that any article, must be a goods and second, that it should be marketable or capable of being brought to market. Goods which are attached to the earth and thus become immoveable and do not satisfy the test of being goods within the meaning of the Act nor it can be said to be capable of being brought to the market for being bought and sold. Therefore, both the tests, as explained by this Court, were not satisfied in the case of appellant as the tube mill or welding head having been erected and installed in the premises and embedded to earth they ceased to be goods within meaning of Section 3 of the Act.” 11.7.8 The test of marketability was also applied in the case of Mittal Engg.