The termination letters, issued without prior notice or explanation, violated fundamental principles of natural justice. It is a settled principle of law that even contractual employees are entitled to a fair hearing before any adverse action [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1245 Jaggo v. Union of India & Ors. is taken against them, particularly when their service records are unblemished. In this case, the appellants were given no opportunity to be heard, nor were they provided any reasons for their dismissal, which followed nearly two decades of dedicated service. 15. Furthermore, the respondents’ conduct in issuing tenders for outsourcing the same tasks during the pendency of judicial proceedings, despite a stay from the Tribunal directing maintenance of status quo, reveals lack of bona fide intentions. Such actions not only contravened judicial directives but also underscored the respondents’ unwillingness to acknowledge the appellants’ rightful claims to regularization. 16. The appellants’ consistent performance over their long tenures further solidifies their claim for regularization. At no point during their engagement did the respondents raise any issues regarding their competence or performance. On the contrary, their services were extended repeatedly over the years, and their remuneration, though minimal, was incrementally increased which was an implicit acknowledgment of their satisfactory performance. The respondents’ belated plea of alleged unsatisfactory service appears to be an afterthought and lacks credibility. 17. As for the argument relating to educational qualifications, we find it untenable in the present context. The nature of duties the appellants performed—cleaning, sweeping, dusting, and gardening—does not inherently mandate formal educational prerequisites. It would be unjust to rely on educational criteria that were never central to their engagement or the performance of their duties for decades. Moreover, the respondents themselves have, by their conduct, shown that such criteria were not strictly enforced in other cases of regularization. The appellants’ long- standing satisfactory performance itself attests to their capability to discharge these functions, making rigid insistence on formal educational requirements an unreasonable hurdle. 18. The appellants have also established that individuals with lesser tenure or comparable roles were regularized by the respondents. The counsel for the appellants had submitted a seniority list for employees working as the Multi-Tasking Staff published by the Respondent 1246 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Department on 04.03.2024 wherein the following employees were a part of the staff without the required educational qualification: S. Name Educational Date of Temporary Category No. Qualification Continuous or CWC Permanent Service posts 1. Krishna s/o Illiterate 26.07.1988 Permanent SC Lt. Khajan Singh 2. Naresh Devi Illiterate 29.10.1991 Permanent Gen w/o Ld. Surendra Kumar 3. Shiv Kumar Illiterate 08.09.1994 Permanent SC s/o Lt. Pratap Singh 4. Radhe Illiterate 30.05.2012 Permanent OBC Shyam s/o Lt. Sadhu Ram Maurya 5. Raju s/o Shri Illiterate 12.07.1994 Permanent SC Banshi Lal 6. Shahjad Ali Illiterate 01.07.2010 Permanent Gen s/o Naushad Ali 7. Punam Illiterate 21.09.2015 Permanent SC w/o Lt. Raj Kumar 8. Nirmala w/o Illiterate 02.02.2022 Temporary SC Lt. Raju A bare perusal of the aforementioned list shows the preferential treatment accorded to these individuals, despite their shorter service durations and no educational qualification.