[2024] 3 S.C.R. 971 : 2024 INSC 242 Avitel Post Studioz Limited & Ors. v. HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius) Limited (Previously Named Hpeif Holdings 1 Limited) (Civil Appeal Nos. 3835 – 3836 of 2024) 04 March 2024 [Hrishikesh Roy and Prashant Kumar Mishra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration The High Court facilitated the enforcement of the final Award dated 27.09.2014 issued at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). The appellants’ objection to enforcement of the foreign Award, in terms of s.48 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 was rejected and the High Court had also directed that the of attachment against the Award Debtors-appellants shall continue to operate during the execution proceedings to be undertaken by the respondent-Award Holder. Whether the High Court was correct in its decision to reject the objection u/s. 48(2)(b) of Indian Arbitration Act against enforcement of the foreign Award on the grounds of arbitral bias and violation of public policy. Further, whether the ground of bias could be raised at the enforcement stage u/s. 48(2) (b) for being violative of the “public policy of India” and the “most basic notions of morality or justice”. Headnotes Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s.48 – Chapter 1 Part II – Foreign Award – According to the appellants-Award Debtors , the Presiding Arbitrator, CL, one of the three- member Arbitral Tribunal, had failed to make a full and frank disclosure of material facts and circumstances concerning conflict of interest and therefore the Award rendered by the Tribunal presided by CL cannot be enforced as it is against public policy in terms of s.48(2) (b)of the Indian Arbitration Act – Propriety: Held: The Award in the instant matter was passed in Singapore, a New York Convention Country and notified as a reciprocating territory by India – Chapter 1 Part II of the Indian Arbitration Act is applicable in the present case – The parties had expressly chosen Singapore as the seat of Arbitration – It is the seat court 972 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which has exclusive supervisory jurisdiction to determine claims for a remedy relating to the existence or scope of arbitrator’s jurisdiction or the allegation of bias – A contrary approach would go against the scheme of the New York Convention which has been incorporated in India – The jurisdiction was therefore chosen based on the perceived neutrality by the parties aligning with the principle of party autonomy – In the instant case, no setting aside challenge based on bias was raised before the Singapore Courts by the appellants within the limitation period – None of the grounds, which are now being pressed, were raised during the arbitration or in the time period available to the appellants to apply, to set aside the Award in Singapore – Bonafide challenges to arbitral appointments have to be made in a timely fashion and should not be used strategically to delay the enforcement process – In other words, the Award Debtors should have applied for setting aside of the Award before the Singapore Courts at the earliest point of time – As far as allegations of bias against Presiding Arbitrator CL is concerned, the High Court after adverting to the IBA guidelines concluded that there was no identity or conflict of interest between CL and the award holder, or any of its affiliates including its holding company – In assessment of this Court, the High Court correctly suggested that CL neither had a duty to disclose nor did he fail to discharge his legal duty of disclosure in accepting the assignment as the Presiding Arbitrator – In the circumstances here, it cannot be inferred that there was a bias or likelihood of bias of the Presiding Arbitrator – Award Debtors therefore cannot claim that there is any violation of the public policy, which would render the foreign award unenforceable in India – The award debtors have failed to meet the high threshold for refusal of enforcement of a foreign award u/s.