His dead body was thrown in the sump tank located in the same house. 6 We shall be subsequently referring to the admissible portions of the disclosure statement under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, and also to a limited extent in terms of Section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 95 PERUMAL RAJA @ PERUMAL v. STATE, REP. BY INSPECTOR OF POLICE (viii) The appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal had also removed various belongings from the same house, including iron box, home theatre, CD player, documents of the house, motorcycle, RC book, key, Rajini @ Rajinikanth’s passport, Rajini @ Rajinikanth’s passport size photograph, birth registration of the grandmother, ration card, etc. (ix) Later on, the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal, and other co-accused, decided to remove the dead body of Rajini @ Rajinikanth from the sump tank as they had learnt that Rajaram was returning to India as his son Rajini @ Rajinikanth was missing. (x) Accordingly, the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal had bought a knife and sack bags. They opened the sump tank and took out Rajini @ Rajinikanth’s body, which was in a decomposed state. They had cut Rajini @ Rajinikanth’s body into two pieces and put it in two sack bags. The knife and rope were put in another sack bag. The three sack bags were taken by them from Chinna Vaikkal Street, and after passing through Gandhi Street they threw the sack bags in the canal/river from the Uppanaru Bridge near the railway crossing. (xi) On the basis of the disclosure statement (Exhibit P-37), the sack bags with the decomposed dead body of Rajini @ Rajinikanth were recovered on 26.04.2008 from the Uppanaru canal/river. Knife was also recovered. (xii) The body parts which were in a decomposed state were sent for post mortem, which was conducted by Dr. S. Diwakar (PW- 24), Senior Medical Officer, Department of Forensic Medicine, Government General Hospital, Puducherry on 26.04.2008. (xiii) On 30.04.2008, eight articles were recovered from the water sump tank at the house of the deceased, namely, gloves, lower jaw, rib, cervical vertebrae, tarsal and metatarsal, small and big size bone pieces, and knee cap. (xiv) The skull recovered from the canal/river and the lower part of the jaw recovered from the sump tank were sent for superimposition test to ascertain whether they belong to the deceased Rajini @ Rajinikanth. C. Pushparani, Scientific Assistant Grade II, 96 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS Anthropology Division, Forensic Sciences Department, Chennai, who had deposed as PW-29, proves the superimposition test report dated 20.01.2009 (Exhibit P-25), which confirms that the skull and mandible were of the deceased – Rajini @ Rajinikanth. (xv) On the basis of the disclosure statement, various articles, including the motorcycle, ignition key, original RC book were recovered from the co-accused Mohan Kumar @ Mohan and a juvenile. (xvi) The motive for the crime was inter se family property disputes and the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal’s desire to acquire and become owner of the property No.