In that context, it was clarified that provisions of Section 15(1)(b) of the Customs Act would apply to cases where the goods were cleared from the warehouse after extension of the warehousing period but before expiry of such extended period. On the other hand, in respect of cases where the goods were removed after expiry of the warehousing period, the residual clause of Section 15(1)(c) of the Customs Act would apply. Evidently, this circular dated 12.7.1989 would not be applicable to the facts of the present case in as much as it is not the case of the respondent that either the warehousing period had expired or that the warehousing period was extended. As we have seen, the warehousing in the notified public bonded warehouse continued as the Corporation had deposited with the respondent a sum of Rs. 56,10,294.00 in respect of the notified warehouse as custom establishment charges for the period from 1992-1993 to 2007-2008. That apart, we can refer to the fact that respondent had not levied any customs duty on the 304 cases found within the notified area which would mean that the notified warehousing continued. Therefore, this is not a case where Section 15(1)(b) could have been invoked. 57. As regards, the decision of this Court in Kesoram is concerned, the question for consideration in that case was the rate at which customs duty could be levied on goods that remained in a bonded warehouse beyond the permitted period. It was in that context that this Court held that Section 68 would not be applicable since Section 68 operates in a different context. On the contrary, Section 72 would apply. Thus, this Court clarified that the date on which the warehousing period comes to an end, would be the date relevant for determining the rate of duty and when the duty is actually demanded would not be relevant. It was further clarified that Section 15(1)(b) would apply to goods cleared under Section 68. Goods which remain in the bonded 912 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports warehouse beyond the permitted period would be deemed to have been improperly removed from the warehouse under Section 72. It is quite evident that this decision would not be applicable to the facts of the present case. 58. Thus, having regard to the discussions made above, we are of the view that the demand raised by the respondent against the appellant and affirmed by the CESTAT qua the 264 cases including levy of customs duty and interest cannot be sustained. Those are accordingly set aside and quashed. Parties are directed to work out their remedies in respect of the 264 cases of goods under Section 15(1)(c) of the Customs Act within a period of eight weeks from the date of receipt of a copy of this . In so far the demand of customs duty and interest on the 27 cases is concerned, the same is hereby sustained. The decision imposing penalty of rupees one lakh on the appellant under Section 112 of the Customs Act is also not disturbed in view of the conduct of the appellant in unauthorisedly removing the 27 cases of imported goods not only from the notified public bonded warehouse but also from the industrial/factory premises of the appellant.