All that we say is that all the stakeholders need to introspect. Otherwise, the very object of adopting the UNCITRAL model will be frustrated. We are not called upon to consider whether the arbitral proceedings are cost-effective. In an appropriate case, the issue will have to be considered. Arbitration must become a tool for expeditious, effective, and cost-effective dispute resolution. 24. As we are directing the rehearing of the appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act, it is necessary to extend the interim relief that was operative during the pendency of these appeals. 25. Accordingly, we pass the following : a. The impugned dated 7th July 2023 in Commercial Appeal no.31 of 2023 is, hereby, set aside, and Commercial Appeal no.30 of 2023 is restored to the file of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay; b. The restored appeal shall be placed before the roster Bench on 29th July 2024 at 10:30 a.m. The parties to the appeal before this Court shall be under an obligation to appear before the concerned Bench on that day, and no fresh notice shall be 162 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports served to the parties. The High Court will permit the appellants to file an amended memorandum of appeal containing only the relevant and permissible grounds. The concerned Division Bench shall fix a schedule for hearing of the appeal; c. The Registry of this Court shall forward a copy of this to the Prothonotary and Senior Master of the High Court of Bombay, who shall ensure that the appeal is listed before the roster Bench as directed above; d. The interim relief, granted by this Court on 11th August 2023, shall continue to operate till the disposal of the remanded appeal; e. We make it clear that we have made no adjudication on the merits of the arbitral award and the of the learned Single Judge and all the issues arising in the remanded appeal are left open to be decided by the High Court; and f. The appeals are, accordingly, partly allowed with no s as to costs. Result of the case: Appeals partly allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan