Voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery.—If any person, in committing or in attempting to commit robbery, voluntarily causes hurt, such person, and any other person jointly concerned in committing or attempting to commit such robbery, shall be punished with 1[imprisonment for life], or with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.’ [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1019 Somnath v. The State of Maharashtra & Ors. when in custody. 16. Learned counsel submitted that one of the grounds for not directing criminal prosecution of respondent no.2 by the High Court was that Section 1615, Maharashtra Police Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the “Police Act”) gives protection to a police officer from any belated prosecution, the period being six months. It was submitted the same should not be so enforced particularly in the facts of the present case where the appellant belongs to a weaker section and is without the wherewithal to pursue prosecution of a police officer. It was submitted that respondent no.2 has in fact been let off without any punishment as “strict warning” does not translate into any effective punishment which is also one of the minimum/minor punishments contemplated, whereas the conduct of the respondent no.2 required inflicting major punishment upon him. SUBMISSIONS BY THE STATE: 17. Learned counsel for the State submitted that it has initiated departmental proceeding against respondent no.2 and punishment has also been awarded to him pursuant thereto. SUBMISSIONS BY THE RESPONDENT NO.2: 18. Learned counsel for respondent no.2 submitted that the incident is totally without any truth and only to browbeat, and to demoralise the police, the appellant, who is habitual offender, has lodged a false 5 ‘161. Suits or prosecutions in respect of acts done under colour of duty as aforesaid not to be entertained or to be dismissed if not instituted within the prescribed period.—(1) In any case of alleged offence by the Revenue Commissioner, the Commissioner, a Magistrate, Police officer or other person, or of a wrong alleged to have been done by such Revenue Commissioner, Commissioner, Magistrate, Police officer or other person, by any act done under colour or in excess of any such duty or authority as aforesaid, or wherein, it shall appear to the Court that the offence or wrong if committed or done was of the character aforesaid, the prosecution or suit shall not be entertained, or shall be dismissed, if instituted, more than six months after the date of the act complained of: Provided that, any such prosecution against a Police Officer may be entertained by the Court, if instituted with the previous sanction of the State Government within two years from the date of the offence. (2) In suits as Aforesaid one month’s notice of suit to be given with sufficient description of wrong complained of. In the case of an intended suit on account of such a wrong as aforesaid, the person intending to sue shall be bound to give to the alleged wrong-doer one month’s notice at least of the intended suit with sufficient description of the wrong complained of, failing which such suit shall be dismissed.