Clause (d) deals with services received by a taxable person for the construction of an immovable property on his own account. As clauses (c) and (d) operate in substantially different areas, the argument of ASG relying on discrimination cannot be accepted. 55. Under the CGST Act, as observed earlier, renting or leasing immovable property is deemed to be a supply of service, and it can be taxed as output supply. Therefore, if the building in which the premises are situated qualifies for the definition of plant, ITC can be allowed on goods and services used in setting up the immovable property, which is a plant. 56. In the main appeal, which is the subject matter of this group, the High Court has not decided whether the mall in question will satisfy the functionality test of being a plant. The reason is that the High Court has done the exercise of reading down the provision. Each 848 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports mall is different. Therefore, in each case, fact-finding enquiry is contemplated. Thus, in the facts of the case, we will have to send the case back to the High Court to decide whether, on facts, the mall in question satisfies the functionality test so that it can be termed as a plant within the meaning of bracketed portion in Section 17(5)(d). The same applies to warehouses or other buildings except hotels and cinema theatres. A developer may construct a mall predominantly to sell the premises therein after obtaining an occupation certificate. Therefore, it will be out of the purview of clause 5(b) of Schedule II. Each case will have to be tested on merits as the question whether an immovable property or a building is a plant is a factual question to be decided. CONSTITUTIONAL VALIDITY CHALLENGE 57. Now, we turn to the issue of constitutional validity challenge. While dealing with the issue of the constitutional validity of clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5) of the CGST Act, it is necessary to consider the law laid down by this Court in paragraphs 104 to 110 of the decision in the case of VKC Footsteps26 which read thus: “104. As a matter of first principle, it is not possible to accept the premise that the guiding principles which impart a measure of flexibility to the legislature in designing appropriate classifications for the purpose of a fiscal regime should be confined only to the revenue harvesting measures of a statute. The precedents of this Court provide abundant justification for the fundamental principle that a discriminatory provision under tax legislation is not per se invalid. A cause of invalidity arises where equals are treated as unequally and unequals are treated as equals. Both under the Constitution and the CGST Act, goods and services and input goods and input services are not treated as one and the same and they are distinct species. 105. Parliament engrafted a provision for refund Section 54(3). In enacting such a provision, Parliament is entitled to make policy choices and adopt appropriate classifications, given the latitude which our constitutional jurisprudence allows it in matters involving tax legislation and to provide for exemptions, [2024] 10 S.C.R.