The majority judgement too is not always contained in a single opinion. It is common practice for a plurality of judges of this Court to render separate opinions, and it is from the conclusions and concurring observations of each of their judgements that a majority opinion is identified. 99. In to determine whether the observations in the concurring opinion of a numerical minority of judges constitute a binding precedent, we must ask two questions. Firstly, when only the concurring opinion expounds the law on a particular point, does the majority opinion indicate a difference of opinion from that view or distance itself from such reasoning? Secondly, are the observations in the concurring opinion essential to the ratio decidendi and can they be regarded as an expression of opinion on behalf of this Court as a whole?101These requirements are cumulative. For observations in a concurring opinion to be binding on a smaller or coequal bench, the observations in the concurring opinion should be both free from disagreement or difference by the majority of judges and also be a part of the ratio decidendi of the . 100. The disagreement with the concurring view in the majority opinion may be express or implied. The majority may expressly state that it disagrees with or distances itself from the view taken in a concurring opinion on a particular issue. Alternatively,the discussion in the majority on that issue may be at odds with the observations in the concurring opinion. It is the latter situation that becomes more tricky, particularly, when a single opinion has not been authored on behalf of the majority. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil v. State of Maharashtra102 has provided some assistance about how to cull out the binding majority opinion in such a situation, where various judges,discuss the same question of law albeit differently. The Constitution Bench 101 DD Basu, ‘Constitution of India’, Vol 9, p 9849. 102 [2021] 15 SCR 715 : (2021) 8 SCC 1 : 2021 INSC 284 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 113 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. (speaking through Justice Ravindra Bhat) relied on the observations in Rajnarain Singh v. Patna Administration Committee103and held that to cull out the majority in such cases, the Court must attempt to ascertain the ‘greatest common measure’ of agreement. The Court held: “355. Before we proceed to notice the relevant paragraphs of the of Indra Sawhney, we need to first notice method of culling out the majority opinion expressed in a where more than one s have been delivered. The Constitution Bench of this Court in Rajnarain Singh v. Patna Admn. Committee, had occasion to find out the majority opinion of a seven-Judge Bench delivered by this Court in Delhi Laws Act, 1912, In re. the Constitution Bench laid down that opinion which embodies the greatest common measures of the agreement among the Bench is to be accepted as the decision of the Court. Thus, for culling out the decision of the Court in a case where there are several opinions, on which there is greatest common measure of agreement is the decision of the Court.” (emphasis supplied) 101.