The said complainant has not made satisfactory clarification about any person coming from his family to give clothes. Thereafter he was clearly asked that on completion of remand prior to bringing him in this Court he was taken to medical checkup and its reply is given by him in affirmative. At this stage it is notable that in said original case i.e. Vesu Police Station A-part CR No. 11210068230266/23 medical checkup produced it is clearly mentioned that on body portion of the said accused no apparent injury is there. Further it is notable that he during checkup ha not submitted to the Doctor that he has been assaulted. And in reference to the question he has stated that, “ I am not allowed to speak such”, but at that time the said complaint accused paikee which accused did not allow him to speak such, no such facts are stated. Thereafter he was clearly asked that on completion of remand and on producing in this Court he has stated his facts willingly as per his desire which is replied by him in affirmative. Thereafter he was asked that this Court has at the same time ask him to sit down and checked his bottom of the legs but no signs of beating was found such is stated and he gave his reply in affirmative. Thus, said verification considering entirely with the complaint in Vesu Police Station A-part CR No.11210068230266/23, the accused has filed ill-treatment complaint and therefore in the present separately given complaint nothing remains to be done. Main notable facts is such that in medical certificate of the accused no signs of assault are seen and this Court has personally done observation but no such signs are seen. Further, this Court has on the same day after observing the accused personally in details of observation and evaluation noted and considering it the complainant’s private complaint is not maintainable. The accused naturally remained in police custody and [2024] 8 S.C.R. 253 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. in police lock up, have dissatisfaction against police employees which is very casual and natural reaction. No person would like to remain in police custody and therefore the said complaint is prima facie is filed keeping grudge against the police with a feeling of revenge is made self-clear. As per the said complaint no facts are recorded by accused after completion of remand immediately is not stated in his ill-treatment and therefore the said complaint is not valid and tenable and therefore following I understand is reasonable and justified. (emphasis supplied) 1. The is made to cancel the said complaint u/s. 203 of Cr. P.C. declared today on date 06.01.2023 in open Court. Date: 06.01.2024 Surat. Seen Sd/- Illegible Sd/- Illegible 6.1.24 (Kum. Deepaben Sanjaykumar Thaker) 6th Add. Chief. Judi. Magistrate Surat (GJ00943) 13. A perusal of the reveals that the 6th ACJM(contemnor-respondent No.7) proceeded to deal with the complaint in a pre-determined manner and rejected the same without recording the statements of the petitioner(complainant) and his witnesses as per the mandate of Sections 200 and 202 CrPC.