16.6 The application of the doctrine of occupied field is a technique adopted by the constitutional courts in to ensure that there is no potential conflict that could arise between the State laws and the existing Parliamentary law having regard to the nature of the legislative powers, their importance in the socio-economic sphere of governance in the country and such other considerations. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2153 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons 16.7 Applying the aforesaid principles to the cases at hand, the question is whether by virtue of insertion of Section 18G to the IDRA, the legislative competence of the State Legislatures under Entry 33(a) – List III vis-à-vis products of the scheduled industry namely, “Fermentation Industries” would be governed within the scope and ambit of Section 18G of the IDRA and consequently, the State Legislatures would have no competence to make a law in regard to the products of a scheduled industry in respect of which Section 18G applies. This is by bearing in mind the twin tests referred to above namely, the intention of the Parliament to occupy the field and the demarcation of the areas in which the field is sought to be occupied. In other words, in the instant case, whether Item 26 which speaks of “Fermentation Industries” to include “industrial alcohol” or non-potable alcohol as a product of such industry which has been taken control of by the Union under the provisions of IDRA (and which is excluded from the scope and ambit of Entry 8 – List II), falls within the scope and ambit of a scheduled industry, and thereby Section 18G would apply the aspects referred to above. 16.8 The answer is in the affirmative for the following reasons: firstly, insofar as the potable or “intoxicating liquors” is concerned, the legislative field is exclusively with the State Legislature. However, in respect of the scheduled industry which is “Fermentation Industries” (which does not take within its scope and ambit potable alcohol) vide Item 26 of the First Schedule, all other types of alcohol including “industrial alcohol” can be regulated only by the Parliamentary law and the Central Government. Any other interpretation would imply that even in the face of Section 18G being incorporated into the IDRA and in the absence of any notified being issued, the States Legislatures and the State Governments would have the legislative competence to make laws on what is the subject matter of Section 18G of IDRA under Entry 33(a) – List III. Then, each State could make its own law on the said subject matter covered under Section 18G of IDRA pertaining to a scheduled industry. If in respect of the products of a scheduled industry, the States make laws and there are a variety of laws made by the individual States which are in force in respect of the subject under Section 18G of IDRA then when a notified 2154 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is issued, the Central Government’s notified would apply if there is a direct conflict between the State laws or legal regime in place and the notified that is issued.