[2024] 7 S.C.R. 41 : 2024 INSC 475 Lal Mohammad Manjur Ansari v. The State of Gujrat (Criminal Appeal No. 3524 of 2023) 08 July 2024 [Abhay S. Oka* and Ujjal Bhuyan, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Conviction and sentence of the appellant for offence punishable u/s. 302 IPC, if justified. Headnotes† Evidence – Extra-judicial confession – Dying declaration – Reliance upon, when – Murder case wherein prosecution case based on the evidence of eyewitnesses, extra-judicial confession made by the appellant-accused to his employer, and the dying declaration made by the victim to one of the prosecution witness – Though few prosecution witnesses who were eyewitnesses turned hostile, courts below relied upon certain parts of their testimony – High Court disbelieved the testimony of the appellant’s employer and the prosecution witness to whom dying declaration was made – Conviction and sentence of the appellant for offence punishable u/s. 302 IPC – Correctness: Held: Normal rule of human conduct is that a person would confess the commission of a serious crime to a person in whom he has implicit faith – It is unnatural that the appellant-accused would call his employer-prosecution witness with whom he worked barely for five months on the phone and confess, and further call him to the Bus Station – Furthermore, the employer admittedly did not disclose to the police the telephone number from which he allegedly received a call from the appellant – No investigation was made to ascertain the said phone number as also the phone number from which the employer called PSI – It was necessary for the prosecution to collect evidence on these aspects and place it before the Court – Though the employer * Author 42 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports stated that the appellant again made extra-judicial confession at the Bus Station in the presence of PSI, the prosecution did not examined PSI as a witness – Statement of PSI not recorded during the investigation – Alleged confession made by the appellant before PSI could not be proved against the appellant – Hence, the prosecution’s evidence regarding extra-judicial confession cannot be believed – It was PSI who took the appellant into custody – Hence, PSI was a crucial witness – Vital prosecution witness was withheld from the Court – Moreover, the manner in which the appellant was taken into custody becomes highly suspicious as it was not even recorded in the arrest panchnama that PSI arrested the appellant – Thus, not possible to rely upon the evidence of the employer – Prosecution case regarding the dying declaration made to one of the prosecution witness does not inspire confidence at all – Also, on perusal of the evidence of the hostile prosecution witnesses, nothing in the evidence to be relied upon by the prosecution for connecting the appellant with the murder of the deceased – Appellant’s conviction cannot be sustained – Conviction and sentence of the appellant set aside – Penal Code, 1860 – s. 302 – Evidence Act, 1872. [Paras 7, 8, 10, 14, 15] List of Acts Penal Code, 1860; Evidence Act, 1872.