Naresh and Mahinder and even the Learned Defence Counsel, cannot be benefited from the above noted authorities.” 24. It is evident from the afore-extracted paragraph from the of the Trial Court that the said conclusion that appellant had shared the common intention to commit murder of the deceased Arun Kumar was based only on the aforesaid two incriminating circumstances which were not put to the appellant while being questioned under Section 313, Cr.PC. When the very charge framed against him, as referred as above, would reveal that there was no charge of commission of an offence under Section 300, IPC, punishable under Section 302, IPC, simplicitor against the appellant whereas the said charge thereunder with the aid of Section 34, IPC. In such circumstances, when the finding of common intention was based on the twin incriminating circumstances and when they were not put to the appellant while he was being questioned under Section 313, Cr.PC, and when they ultimately culminated in his conviction under Section 302, IPC, with the aid of Section 34, IPC, and when he was awarded with the life imprisonment consequently, it can only be held that the appellant was materially prejudiced and it had resulted in blatant miscarriage of justice. The failure as above is not a curable defect and it is nothing but a patent illegality vitiating the trial qua the appellant. 25. Once, the upshot of the discussion is above, we do not think it proper to deal with the innumerable grounds raised by the appellant, not only because it has become unnecessary but also such consideration may adversely affect the co-accused whose appeal was also decided under the very same common impugned in this appeal. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 195 Naresh Kumar v. State of Delhi 26. As noticed hereinbefore, the incident in question occurred more than 29 years ago and the appellant had already undergone incarceration more than 12 years. In such circumstances, if he is again subjected to examination under Section 313, Cr.PC, it would cause further prejudice to him in view of the patent illegality occurred qua the appellant. Hence, the conviction of the appellant could not be sustained. 27. For the aforesaid reasons, the appeal must succeed. Accordingly, the impugned of the trial Court and the High Court are set aside qua the appellant. We make it clear that this would not disturb the conviction of the other accused. We also make it clear that this observation shall not be taken as confirmation of his conviction as it is a matter which may be dealt with in an appeal, if any, filed by him. The appellant herein stands acquitted of the offences alleged against him. If his detention is not required in connection with any other case, he shall be released, forthwith. 28. The appeal is allowed on the above terms. 29. Pending application(s), if any, are disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey