However, it is still possible to draw some inferences from the different uses. The expressions “alcoholic liquor for human consumption” and ‘intoxicating drink’ are used in the context of ‘consumption’. However, the provision relating to “intoxicating liquor” is not limited to its consumption. It stretches to its ‘production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors’ and beyond. The second difference is the use of the expression ‘intoxicating’ instead of ‘alcoholic’ as the adjective to liquor. The following inferences can be drawn from the above differences: a. ‘Alcoholic liquor’ defines the scope of the provision based on the ingredient, that is, ‘alcohol’. In contrast, ‘intoxicating liquor’ defines the scope of the provision based on the effect, that is, intoxication. Thus, even liquor which colloquially or traditionally is not considered as alcoholic liquor may be covered by the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ if it produces the effect of intoxication; b. “Intoxicate” means the ability of someone to lose control of their behaviour. It could also mean poison. Thus, the purpose of substituting the adjective which indicates the ingredient (alcohol) 192 Unless the District Council by a public notification directs to give effect to the Act. The District Council may also direct that the Act shall have effect subject to ‘exceptions or modifications’; See Paragraphs 12, 12AA and 12B of the 6th Schedule. 2026 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with the impact (intoxication) seems to be enhance the scope of the Entry to cover liquor which has an impact on health; and c. The public interest purpose of the provision is evident from the accompanying words in the provision which includes every stage from its production to consumption within the scope of the Entry. The public interest purpose of the provision is also evident from the evolution of the Entry. The relevant entry in the 1935 Act also regulated narcotic drugs and opium along with intoxicating liquor. References to narcotic drugs and opium were deleted to prevent its overlap with entries in the Concurrent list. As highlighted in the previous section, a common thread that runs through alcohol, narcotic drugs and opium is that they are products which can be noxiously used because they are also used as raw materials in the production of other products. It is clear from the above analysis that the meaning of the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ cannot be restricted to potable alcoholic liquor, that is, alcohol that is sold as a beverage. 113. At this juncture, it is relevant to recall that all entries in the Seventh Schedule must be given a wide interpretation and Entry 8 of List II when interpreted widely covers everything from the raw materials required for the production to the consumption of ‘intoxicating liquor’. It must also be recalled that a few of the materials that are used to prepare potable alcohol (such as rectified spirit and ENA) are also used to prepare other pharmaceutical and cosmetic products. For example, ENA and rectified spirit are also used to prepare products such as varnish and hand sanitizer.