Though the Constitution does not define the phrase, the proviso to the Article offers interpretative guidance. The proviso states that “relaxation in qualifying marks in any examination or lowering the standards of evaluation” does not amount to a reduction in the efficiency of administration. There can be two possible deductions about the scope of the provision, based on a reading of the proviso. One possible meaning that can be deduced is that marks in the qualifying examination are not a marker of efficiency of administration because if they were, then a reduction of the qualifying standards/ marks would also lead to a reduction in efficiency. Another possible interpretation could be that the premise of the proviso is that while reduction or dilution of the evaluating standards or the qualifying marks is not inconsistent with maintenance of efficiency, 90 The opinion of Justice Sawant in Indra Sawhney (supra), highlights this aspect:” 434: […] It cannot, however, be doubted that the same considerations will have to prevail while making provisions for reservation in favour of all backward classes under Article 16(4). To hold otherwise would not only be irrational but discriminatory between two classes of backward classes.” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1373 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. a complete removal of the qualifying marks would be.91 Even if the latter interpretation is accepted, it only goes to establish that securing higher marks in an examination does not contribute to higher efficiency and that securing a minimum mark (and not the highest) in the examination is sufficient to maintain efficiency of administration. Thus, a policy which allows for lower qualifying marks or standards of evaluation is by the proviso to Article 335 not contrary to efficiency. 68. The only constitutional provision which refers to an examination for appointments to posts in services is Article 320 which stipulates that the Union and State Public Service Commissions must conduct examinations for appointments to the services of the Union and the State. An examination is an assessment to determine the proficiency of candidates and their suitability for the post. The Constitution does not prescribe the exact method of assessment which must be adopted for the examination. The Constitution also does not prescribe that the examination must be framed in a manner which would only assess skill sets accessible to certain classes of people. The principle of equality in opportunity in Article 16(1) is therefore the guide for the State while it is determining the method of examination. The examination or any method of distribution of posts must ensure factual equality. An examination leads to a priori exclusion if it only assesses the skill set that is accessible to specific classes. It is to offset this disadvantage that affirmative action policies are introduced for the distribution of posts. 69. The underlying premise of the decision in NM Thomas (supra) is that the distribution of public resources including seats in educational institutions and public services must be based on considerations of equality and justice.