Supreme Court Reports 56. Indicia is a term often used in various disciplines including law to describe signs or symptoms that suggest the presence of something. When we say that ‘x’ is the indicia of ‘y’, it could be so that ‘x’ could be the definite indicium of ‘y’ (implying a comprehensive or exclusive indicator); at the same time, it may not necessarily imply that ‘x’ is the only indicator of ‘y’ (exhaustiveness) or that ‘x’ guarantees the presence of ‘y’ (certainty) or ‘x’ is unique to ‘y’ (specificity). However, to suggest that, ‘x’ is the definite indicum of ‘y’, it may not be appropriate in the present context where I can identify multiple indicia for concluding whether AMU answers the characteristics of a minority educational institution. 57. Certain broad indicia,which are universally applicable, may be applied prospectively to facilitate identification of minority institutions. However, any indicium or the indicia, as identified or formulated, for treating an institution as a minority institution may not be exhaustive so as to cater to all situations. Previous decisions of this Court, as earlier discussed, have also determined the minority character of educational institutions vis-à-vis Article 30, as per indicia tailored to the specific factual matrices. It could be well-nigh difficult, if not impossible, to fix indicia without regard to a whole lot of relevant facts and circumstances, which might have escaped notice or may not have been visualized. In my humble opinion, a flexible framework rather than a rigid one-size-fits-all model is always desirable and essential for accurately assessing minority institution status. Having regard to special features that each minority institution is most likely to have, a nuanced approach would be required to identify minority institutions by balancing the general guidelines with unique institutional circumstances. The indicia,which have been proposed,could partly inform classification of minority institutions but a tailored evaluation is all the more necessary to account for distinct characteristics which each such institution is associated with; more so, when AMU is unique in itself and its status is under consideration as a standalone institution. 58. Having clarified my stance on the general indicia which should prospectively govern the evaluation of minority educational institutions, I shall now endeavour to be punctilious in assessing the status of AMU bearing in mind its unique institutional characteristics. 59. However, my consideration of the indicia must be preceded by this philosophical musing. If, indeed, indicia for treating an educational [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1883 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. institution as a minority educational institution have not been either identified or formulated by any previous decision of this Court and this is the first time an attempt to so identify/formulate is being made, can the tests laid down in Azeez Basha (supra) which are facts specific be held invalid? My answer would be in the negative. 60. Nonetheless, the search for the truth must continue appreciating all the relevant factors. Establishment of amu 61. AMU traces its origins to its institutional predecessor, MAO College which was established on 08th January, 1877.