learned Arbitrator had become functus officio and therefore had no jurisdiction to issue the clarification, was also raised in the miscellaneous application filed by the appellant before this Court seeking clarification of the dated 12.03.2015. While dismissing the miscellaneous application, no leave was granted by this Court to agitate the aforesaid issue in any other proceeding. Therefore, viewed from this perspective also, it is not open to the appellant to raise the aforesaid issue again in the present proceeding. Conclusion 59. In view of what we have discussed above, the interpretation given by us to Section 33(1) of the 1996 Act and on a cumulative assessment of the attendant facts and circumstances of the case, we are of the view that the clarification sought for and issued by the learned Arbitrator would be covered by the expression unless another period of time has been agreed upon by the parties appearing in Section 33 (1) of the 1996 Act. This is a case where court had permitted the respondent to seek clarification from the learned Arbitrator beyond the initial period of 30 days whereafter the appellant fully participated in the clarificatory proceeding. Therefore, the present case would be covered by the above expression. In the circumstances, contention of the appellant that the learned Arbitrator had become functus officio and therefore lacked jurisdiction to issue the clarification cannot be accepted and is thus rejected. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1617 North Delhi Municipal Corporation v. M/s. S.A. Builders Ltd. 60. That apart, it is not the case of the appellant that the interest portion is covered by the contract agreement between the parties. In the absence thereof, Section 31(7)(a) as well as Section 31(7)(b) of the 1996 Act would have their full effect. The sum awarded would mean the principal amount plus the interest awarded from the date of cause of action upto the date of the award. Thereafter, as per Section 31(7)(b) of the 1996 Act, the sum (principal plus interest) would carry interest @ 18% from the date of the award to the date of payment. This would be consistent with the law laid down by this Court in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd (supra). 61. We thus see no error or infirmity in the impugned passed by the Division Bench of the High Court. Consequently, we are of the view that the appeal lacks merit and is, accordingly, dismissed. However, there shall be no as to costs. Result of the case: Appeal dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan