As per the well settled rule of interpretation, the Section Heading or Marginal note can be relied upon to clear any doubt or ambiguity in the interpretation of any provision and to discern the legislative intent. The Section Heading constitutes an important part of the Act itself, and may be read not only as explaining the provisions 1424 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports of the section, but it also affords a better key to the constructions of the provisions of the section which follows than might be afforded by a mere preamble.4 21. The insertion of Section 52A with the Heading “Disposal of seized narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances” along with the insertion of the words “to provide for the forfeiture of property derived from or used in, illicit traffic in narcotics drugs and psychotropic substances, to implement the provisions of International Conventions on Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances”, in the long title of the NDPS Act, by Act 2 of 1989 w.e.f. 29.05.1989, leaves no room of doubt that the said provision of Section 52A was inserted for an early disposal of the seized narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, as one of the measures required to be taken to implement the provisions of the International Conventions on Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. The Heading of Section 52A i.e. Disposal of seized narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances delineates the object and reason of the insertion of said provision and such Heading cannot be underscored. From the bare reading of Section 52A also it is very much discernable that sub-section (1) thereof empowers the Central Government, having regard to the hazardous nature, vulnerability to theft, substitution, constraint of proper storage space or any other relevant consideration, to specify narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances for the purpose of their disposal as soon as may be after their seizure, by such officer and in such manner as the Central Government may determine after following the procedure specified in sub-section (2). 22. Sub-section (2) of Section 52A prescribes the procedure to be followed by the authorized officers for the disposal of such contraband narcotics drugs and psychotropic substances at the pre- trial stage. As per the procedure laid down in the said sub-section, where any narcotics drug, psychotropic substance or controlled substances or conveyances has been seized and forwarded to the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station or to the officer empowered under section 53, the concerned officer authorized as per sub-section (1) has to prepare an inventory of such drugs or substances in the manner as stated in the said provision, and 4 Eastern Coalfields Limited vs. Sanjay Transport Agency and Another, (2009) 7 SCC 345 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1425 Narcotics Control Bureau v. Kashif then make an application to the Magistrate for the purpose of (a) certifying the correctness of the inventory so prepared; or (b) taking, in presence of such Magistrate, photographs of such drugs, substances or conveyances and certifying such photographs as true; or (c) allowing to draw representative samples of such drugs or substances, in the presence of such Magistrate and certifying the correctness of any list of samples so drawn.