11. Consequently and in the light of the above, place these matters before the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India on the administrative side for appropriate s.” 34. Why I perceive the re-referral to suffer from the same invalidity and to be untenable is this. Apart from Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) being non-est for the reason adverted to above, neither the bench of 11 (eleven) Judges in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) nor the Regular Bench of 2 (two) Judges considered it necessary to answer question 3(a). The dated 11th March, 2003 observing that the question could be answered should a problem arise in future did put a quietus, for the time being, to question 3(a), as formulated, as well as provided finality qua what was said about Azeez Basha (supra) in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra). Once the issue attained finality, in my respectful opinion, the bench of 3 (three) Judges could not have reopened the same issue. It could be revisited in exceptional circumstances and that too, in a manner known to law. No intra-court appeal being available in the Supreme Court and in the absence of any allegation of fraud having vitiated the process of decision making, and there being no occasion for exercise of the inherent powers of the Court, it would have been most appropriate for the bench of 3 (three) Judges on 12th February, 2019 not to refer to Azeez Basha (supra) at all. What the bench of 3 (three) Judges did, so to say, was sort of making an as if it were exercising appellate jurisdiction over the decision in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra), the dated 11th March 2003, Islamic Academy of Education (supra) and P.A. Inamdar (supra) [last two without being noticed]. Significantly, the re-reference was made citing the necessity to consider the decision in Prof. Yashpal vs. State of Chhattisgarh32 and the amendment 32 (2005) 5 SCC 420 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1875 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. of the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Act, 200433 which, as per the majority opinion, have no real bearing with regard to the issue under consideration. Indeed, even if the decision in Prof. Yashpal (supra) and the 2004 Act were to make any difference to the legal position, hitherto settled, reference to that limited extent only could be justified with a call to answer question 3(a), extracted supra, independently and without referring to Azeez Basha (supra). 35. An issue which has some bearing on the correctness or otherwise of the decision in Azeez Basha (supra) [assuming that the in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) was valid and did form the ground for framing question 3(a)], if consciously has not been decided in course of a previous round of litigation, would it give rise to an occasion for a subsequent bench to hold that the issue should be decided because it has not been decided? Exercise of jurisdiction by a bench of lesser strength would not permit such an approach. That the bench of 3 (three) Judges was presided over by none other than the then Chief Justice of India did not make things better and ameliorate the circumstances.