According to the amended section, individuals [2024] 11 S.C.R. 599 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. under 30 years of age will have their license valid until they reach 40 years, while those aged 30 to 49 will enjoy a 10-year validity period. For individuals aged 50 to 54, the license remains valid until they turn 60, and for those aged 55 and older, the validity is set at 5 years. This framework reflects the understanding that driving capabilities and experience may vary with age. The relevant part of Section 14 is extracted below: “14. Currency of licences to drive motor vehicles.— (1) A learner’s licence issued under this Act shall, subject to the other provisions of this Act, be effective for a period of six months from the date of issue of the licence. (2) A driving licence issued or renewed under this Act shall,— (a) in the case of a licence to drive a transport vehicle, be effective for a period of three years: 1 *** 2 [Provided that in the case of licence to drive a transport vehicle carrying goods of dangerous or hazardous nature be effective for a period of one year and renewal thereof shall be subject to the condition that the driver undergoes one day refresher course of the prescribed syllabus; and;] xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx” [emphasis supplied] 59. Rule 10 is titled ‘Application for Learner’s license’. The unamended Rule 10 stated as under: “10. Application for learner’s licence.— An application for the grant of a learner’s licence shall be made in Form 2 and shall be accompanied by,— (a) save as otherwise provided in rule 6, a medical certificate in [Form 1-A]. (b) three copies of the applicant’s recent 28 [passport size photograph], (c) appropriate fee as specified in rule 32, [(d) in the case of an application for medium goods vehicle, a medium passenger motor vehicle, a heavy 600 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports goods vehicle or a heavy passenger vehicle, the driving license held by the applicant.” [emphasis supplied] 60. The amended Rule 10 replaces these highlighted terms with the single term ‘Transport Vehicle’: 10. Application for learner’s licence.— An application for the grant of a learner’s licence shall be made in Form 2 and shall be accompanied by,— (a) save as otherwise provided in rule 6, a medical certificate in [Form 1-A]. (b) three copies of the applicant’s recent 28 [passport size photograph], (c) appropriate fee as specified in rule 32, [(d) in the case of an application for transport vehicle excluding E-rickshaw or E-Cart, the driving licence held by the applicant] [(e) proof of residence (f) proof of age” [emphasis supplied] 61. Section 27 concerns the power of Central Government to make Rules. Section 28 which deals with the power of the State Government to make rules provides specifically w.r.t. transport vehicles in sub-section 2(d) and 2(h) the following :- “(d) the badges and uniform to be worn by drivers of transport vehicles and the fees to be paid in respect of badges” (h) the duties, functions and conduct of such persons to whom licences to drive transport vehicles are issued [emphasis supplied] 62.