Digital Supreme Court Reports granted relief of 100% of TDR rights in terms of Section 126(1)(b) of the MRTP Act as well as the DCR. He fairly submitted that there is no dispute that the aforesaid two entities were indeed granted 100% TDR rights. Further, there has been no appeal filed with regard to the of the High Court in Writ Petition No. 1860 of 2017 and Writ Petition No.2262 of 2010. Learned senior counsel, Sri Nadkarni, also submitted that insofar as the of the High Court assailed in Civil Appeal Nos.9711/2024 and 9712/2024, they may be disposed in light of the prevalent law. Reply arguments: 10. By way of reply, learned senior counsel, Sri Samdani and other learned counsel contended that the Mumbai Municipal Corporation cannot be permitted to raise any contention contrary to the of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I which is holding the field and there is no contention raised by the Municipal Corporation either before the High Court or this Court which can lead to a reconsideration of the said . Hence, they sought for application of the of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I to their cases as well. 10.1 Learned counsel for the respondents in the three appeals filed by the Mumbai Municipal Corporation supported the impugned passed by Bombay High Court and contented that having regard to the of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I and the passed in Civil Appeal No. 1748 of 2015 which arose from the of the Bombay High Court in the case of Natwar Parikh & Co. Pvt. Ltd, there is no merit in these appeals. Hence, they contended that the appeals filed by the Mumbai Municipal Corporation may be dismissed. Points for consideration: 11. In light of the aforesaid contentions, the following points would arise for our consideration: - (i) Whether the High Court was right in declining to grant relief to the writ petitioners/appellants herein on the ground of delay and laches? [2024] 9 S.C.R. 857 Kukreja Construction Company & Others v. State of Maharashtra & Others (ii) Whether the appeals filed by the respondent-Mumbai Municipal Corporation would call for any interference by this Court? (iii) What ? Godrej & Boyce I: 12. At the outset, it would be useful to refer to the dictum of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I which has been followed by the High Court in these cases. In the said case, this Court considered the scheme of development rights in respect of land acquired for the purpose specified in plans under Section 126 of the MRTP Act. Three modes of acquisition of land required for a public purpose specified in the plan are contemplated under Section 126 of the MRTP Act, which reads as under: “126. Acquisition of land required for public purposes specified in plans.— (1) Where after the publication of a draft Regional plan, a Development or any other plan or town planning scheme, any land is required or reserved for any of the public purposes specified in any plan or scheme under this Act at any time, the Planning Authority, Development Authority, or as the case may be, any Appropriate Authority may, except as otherwise provided in Section 113-A acquire the land,— (a) by agreement by paying an amount agreed to, or (b) in lieu of any such amount, by granting the land-owner or the lessee, subject, however, to the lessee paying the lessor or depositing with the Planning Authority, Development Authority or Appropriate Authority, as the case may be, for payment to the lessor, an amount equivalent to the value of the lessor’s interest to be determined by any of the said Authorities concerned on the basis of the principles laid down in the Right and Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, Floor Space Index (FSI) or Transferable Development Rights (TDR) against the area of land surrendered free of cost and free from all encumbrances, and also further additional Floor Space Index or Transferable Development Rights against 858 [2024] 9 S.C.R.