Independently, there is the Madhya Pradesh Panchayats (Appeal and Revision) Rules, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the A&R Rules’). 9. Under Rule 3 of the A&R Rules, the appeal was to lie in the case of an passed by the Janpad Panchayat to the Collector of the District. 10. Rules 5 and 9, which are important are extracted hereinbelow: “5. Revision. - (1) (a) The State Government, the Commissioner, the Director of Panchayat, the Collector may on its/his own motion or on the application by any party, at any time for the purpose of satisfying itself/himself as to the legality or propriety of any passed by or as to the regularity of the proceeding of, the authority subordinate to it/him call for and examine the record of any case pending before, or disposed of by, such authority and may pass such in reference thereto as it/he may think fit : 194 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Provided that it/he shall not vary or reverse any unless notice has been served on the parties interested and opportunity given to them for being heard: Provided further that no application for revision shall be entertained against an appealable under the Act. (b) An application for revision by any party shall only be entertained if it is on the point of law and not on facts. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1),- (i) Where proceedings in respect of any case have been commenced by the State Government under sub-rule (1), no action shall be taken by other Officer mentioned in the said sub-rule in respect thereof; and (ii) Where proceedings in respect of any such case have been commenced by the Officer mentioned in sub-rule (1), the State Government may either refrain from taking any action under this rule in respect of such case until the final disposal of such proceeding by such officer or may withdraw such proceeding and pass such as it may deem fit. 9. Power of appellate or revisional authority.- The appellate or revisional authority after giving an opportunity to parties to be heard and after such further enquiry, if any, as it may deem necessary subject to the provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder, may confirm, vary or set aside the or decision appealed against.” These are the important rules for the disposal of this case. Resolution for recusal – during Interview: 11. The Standing Committee of the Janpad Panchayat, before the recruitment process, on 01.08.1998, passed a resolution whereunder it was resolved that members of the selection committee whose close relatives are candidates will not participate in the proceedings/ deliberations and the two marks available to them for allotment to the candidate will be allotted to the Chief Executive Officer. 12. It was also resolved that if any close relative of any member, officer or subject expert appears for interview, then the marks to be given [2024] 4 S.C.R. 195 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. by that member, officer or subject expert should be given by the Chief Executive Officer and that member, officer or subject expert shall not be present at the venue of interview.