Clause 9 reads as follows: “9. If the company at its option, reinstate or replace the property damaged or destroyed, or any part thereof, instead of paying the amount of the loss or damage, or join with any other company or insurance, in so doing, the company shall not be bound to reinstate exactly or completely but only as circumstances permit and in reasonably sufficient manner and in no case shall the company be bound to spend more in reinstatement than it would have cost to reinstate such property as it was at the time of the 300 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports occurrence of such loss or damage nor more than the sum insured by the Company thereon, If the Company so elect to reinstate or replace an property the insured shall at his own expense furnish the company with such plans, specifications, measurements, quantities and such other particulars as the company may require, and no acts done, or caused to be done, by the company with a view to reinstatement or replacement shall be deemed an election by the Company to reinstate or replace. If in any case the Company shall be unable to reinstate or repair the property hereby insured, because of any municipal or other regulations in force affecting the alignment of streets or the construction of buildings or otherwise, the Company shall, in every such case, only be liable to pay such sum as would be requisite to reinstate or repair such property if the same could lawfully be reinstated to its former condition.” 35. To the policy is attached the memorandum of the Reinstatement Value Clause which reads as follows: REINSTATEMENT VALUE CLAUSE Attached to and forming part of policy No. It is hereby declared and agreed that in the event of the property Insured under (Items Nos. of ) the within policy being destroyed or damaged, the basis upon which the amount payable under each of the said items of the policy is to be calculated, shall be the cost of replacing or reinstating on the same, i.e. property of the same kind or type but not superior or more extensive than the insured property when new subject to the following Special Provisions and subject also to the terms and conditions of the policy except manner as the same may be varied hereby. SPECIAL PROVISIONS 1. The work of the replacement or reinstatement (which may be carried out upon another site and in any manner suitable to the requirements of the insured [2024] 5 S.C.R. 301 New India Assurance Company Ltd. Through its Manager v. M/s Tata Steel Ltd. subject to the liability of the Company not being thereby increased) must be commenced and carried out with reasonable dispatch and in any case must be completed within 12 months after the destruction or damage or within such further time as the company may (during the said 12 months) in writing allow; otherwise no payment beyond the amount which would have been payable under the policy if this memorandum had not been incorporated therein shall be made.