Time and again this Court has reiterated that it is an important provision but courts seldom invoke the same. It empowers the court to award compensation to victims while passing of conviction. In addition to conviction, the court may the accused to pay some amount by way of compensation to victim who has suffered by the action of accused. 20. In Hari Singh vs Sukhbir Singh and Others4, this Court held that the power to award compensation under Section 357 of the CrPC is not ancillary to other sentences, but it is in addition thereto. This power was intended to do something to reassure the victim that he or she is not forgotten in the criminal justice system. As observed in Hari Singh (supra), it is a measure of responding appropriately to crime as well as of reconciling the victim with the offender. It is, a constructive approach to crimes. 21. The High Court having upheld the conviction for the offence punishable under Section 325 of the IPC so far as the two respondents herein are concerned and having reduced the sentence from five years 3 [1981] 1 SCR 1196 : (1981) 1 SCC 107 4 [1988] Supp. 2 SCR 571 : (1988) 4 SCC 551 706 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports rigorous imprisonment to four years rigorous imprisonment could not have further diluted the of sentence by asking the accused persons to pay compensation. In other words, the High Court having once affirmed the conviction and awarded sentence of four years could not have further in lieu of the same reduced it by ing compensation. To this extent, we have no hesitation in holding that the High Court fell into error. 22. The idea of victim compensation is based on the theory of victimology which recognizes the harsh reality that victims are unfortunately the forgotten people in the criminal justice delivery system. Victims are the worst sufferers. Victims’ family is ruined particularly in cases of death and grievous bodily injuries. This is apart from the factors like loss of reputation, humiliation, etc. Theory of Victimology seeks to redress the same and underscores the importance for criminal justice administration system to take into consideration the effect of the offence on the victim’s family even though human life cannot be restored but then monetary compensation will at least provide some solace. 23. The provision of Section 357 recognizes the aforesaid and is victim centric in nature. It has nothing to do with the convict or the sentence passed. The spotlight is on the victim only. The object of victim compensation is to rehabilitate those who have suffered any loss or injury by the offence which has been committed. Payment of victim compensation cannot be a consideration or a ground for reducing the sentence imposed upon the accused as victim compensation is not a punitive measure and only restitutory in nature and thus, has no bearing with the sentence that has been passed which is punitive in nature. 24. The words “any loss or injury” used in Section 357 of the CrPC clearly indicates that the sole factor for deciding the compensation to be paid is the victim’s loss or injury as a result of the offence, and has nothing to do with the sentence that has been passed.