Rule 9(3) also makes it clear that period of fifteen days has to be computed from the date of confirmation.” 55. This Court in Rakesh Birani (supra) while interpreting Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules made the following pertinent observations: - a. That, the liability of a successful auction purchaser to deposit the requisite amount begins from the date when the sale is confirmed by the secured creditor and communicated to the auction purchaser, wherein 25% of the amount has to be deposited as earnest money no later than the next working day from the date of confirmation and the balance amount within 15 days from the said date. b. That for forfeiture of the 25% earnest money deposit of the auction purchaser, twin conditions have to be satisfied being (i) First, that the sale must have been confirmed by the secured creditor and (ii) second, there is a default in payment of the balance 75% of the amount. c. Once the afore-stated conditions are satisfied i.e., the auction purchaser after confirmation of sale fails to deposit the balance amount within the stipulated time, the secured creditor is required to forfeit the original auction purchaser’s earnest money deposit and the secured assets have to be resold. d. The relevant observations are being reproduced below: - “10. In this case, confirmation has been made and communicated on 27-2- 2013 and within fifteen days thereof i.e. on 13-3-2018, the amount of twenty-five per cent had been deposited. Thereafter, sale certificate has been issued under Rule 9(6). Rule 9(5) also makes it clear that in default of payment within the period mentioned in Rule 9(4), the deposit shall be forfeited. There cannot be any forfeiture of the amount of 25% [2024] 2 S.C.R. 53 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu in deposit until and unless the sale is confirmed by the secured creditor and there is a default of payment of 75% of the amount. The interpretation made by the High Court thus cannot be accepted. 11. If we read the provisions otherwise then we find even before the confirmation of sale within fifteen days, the amount would be forfeited by the authorised officer who may decide not to confirm the sale that would be a result not contemplated in Rules 9(2), 9(4) and 9(5) which fortify our conclusion that it is only after the confirmation is made under Rule 9(4) that amount has to be deposited and on failure to deposit the amount, twenty-five per cent amount has to be forfeited and property has to be resold….” (Emphasis supplied) 56. In Agarwal Tracom Private Limited v. Punjab National Bank & Ors. reported in (2018) 1 SCC 626, this Court held that the act of forfeiture of the earnest money deposit by the secured creditor is a measure under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act and thus, challengeable before the DRT under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “28. We also notice that Rule 9(5) confers express power on the secured creditor to forfeit the deposit made by the auction-purchaser in case the auction-purchaser commits any default in paying instalment of sale money to the secured creditor.