Now that the impugned judgement has been upheld by this Court and the respondent no.1 has been held entitled to appointment to the post of Shikshan Sevak w.e.f. 01st January, 2010 and on expiry of a period of three years reckoned therefrom, to the post of Assistant Teacher, this Court is required to consider balancing the equities. We are informed that in all these years, respondent no.1 has been serving on the post of Peon in the appellant no.3-School. Though learned counsel for the respondent no.1 states that the financial impact of depriving him for appointment to the post of Shikshan Sevak in terms of the impugned comes to ₹.21,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty One Lakhs) approximately, we are of the opinion that ends of justice would be met if the appellants are directed to pay a consolidated sum of ₹.10,00,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs) to the respondent no.1 on account of the financial loss incurred by him and for his non- appointment to the subject post. Needful shall be done within eight weeks. For purposes of claiming seniority and retiral benefits, the notional date of his appointment to the post of Shikshan Sevak shall be reckoned as 01st January, 2010. Respondent no.3 shall issue a letter indicating the pay scale of the respondent no.1 by notionally computing it on the post of Shikshan Sevak w.e.f. 01st January, 2010 and to the post of Assistant Teacher w.e.f. 01st January, 2013 and furnish a copy thereof to the appellants within three months. 15. As for the respondent no.5, it is directed that in the event the post of a Physical Education Teacher is vacant and available in any of the schools/colleges being run by the appellant no.1-Society, he shall be duly accommodated on the post of an Assistant Teacher there. In the alternative, the respondent no.5 shall be considered 532 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by the State authorities for appointment in terms of Regulation 5 of the Act of 1977, as amended from time to time, on being declared as a surplus teacher. However, there shall not be any recovery of salary or emoluments from the respondent no.5 for the period during which he has rendered services with the appellant no.3 – School. 16. The appeal is disposed of on the above terms, while leaving the parties to bear their own expenses. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeal disposed of.