Even if these measures were not to the entire satisfaction of the Respondents, the fact remains that the anomalies stood removed. 53. It needs no emphasis that prescription of pay scale for a post entails Policy decision based upon the recommendations of an expert body like Pay Commission. All that the State is obligated to ensure is that the pay structure of a promotional or higher post is not lower than the feeder cadre. Similarly, pay parity cannot be claimed as an indefeasible enforceable right save and except where the Competent Authority has taken a conscious decision to equate two posts notwithstanding their different nomenclature or distinct qualifications. Incidental grant of same pay scale to two or more posts, without any express equation amongst such posts, cannot be termed as an anomaly in a pay scale of a nature which can be said to have infringed the right to equality under Article 16 of our Constitution. 54. Equally well settled is that the creation, merger, de-merger or amalgamation of cadres within a service to bring efficacy or in the administrative exigencies, is the State’s prerogative. The Court in exercise of its power of judicial review would sparingly interfere in 1344 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports such a policy decision, unless it is found to have brazenly offended Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. 55. There was no pay parity in the instant case between Headmasters on one hand or the SDI/ABSA etc. on the other. It was a mere co- incidence that the group of these posts carried the same pay scale for a long time, till the State Government decided to grant a higher revised pay scale to the Headmasters. This led to an anomalous situation as the Headmasters were amongst the feeder cadre categories for appointment by selection against 10% posts of SDI/ABSA. Such an incongruent situation could be averted by amending the Rules and deleting Headmasters from the zone of consideration from 10% posts. In that case, the State would have faced no financial burden which has fallen upon it as a consequence to the implementation of the Rizvi Committee recommendations. In other words, the aforesaid disparity could be removed without legitimizing the claim of the Respondents for grant of a pay scale higher or equal to that of Headmasters. 56. Be that as it may, the Appellant-State on being directed by the High Court, agreed to recalibrate and recompense the employees like Respondents and put up a proposal before this Court in the previous round of litigation. That proposal was indeed approved by this Court. The State in furtherance thereto issued the necessary s granting restructured benefits to the employees like the Respondents. Still further, the Respondents also got monetary benefits over and above the State’s proposal, in furtherance of the High Court decisions dated 06.05.2002 and dated 02.02.2018. Most of them have retired from service long back and are now senior citizens. The monetary benefits have already been utilised by them on their personal needs.