The definition of annual value is given under Section 174 of the Act of 1959. Restrictions on imposition of water tax are delineated under Section 175 while the primary responsibility for certain property taxes on annual value is stated in Section 179. It states that the property tax shall be leviable primarily from the actual occupier of the property upon which the tax is assessed, if he is the owner of the buildings or lands or holds them on a building or other lease from the Central or the State Government or from the Corporation, or on a building leased from any person. In any other case, tax shall be leviable as per sub- section (2) of Section 179 of the Act of 1959. The drainage taxes are assessed. Therefore, the levy of property taxes or other taxes on land and building is subject to Article 285 of the Constitution. 21.11 We have already discussed the scope and ambit of the two clauses of Article 285 of the Constitution. Applying the same to the present case and having regard to the reasoning given by us in the earlier part of this , we have held that enemy property is not the property of the Union although it may vest with the Custodian for Enemy Property in India who is a person appointed by the Central Government. If the enemy property is not the Union property in terms of clause (1) of Article 285 of the Constitution then such property cannot be exempt from the taxes imposed by the State or by any authority within the State unless otherwise provided by the Parliament. 21.12 For the sake of completeness of the discussion assuming for a moment that the vesting of the enemy property with the Custodian becomes the property of the Union, then clause (2) of Article 285 would apply in the instant case. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 927 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others This is because an authority within the State is not prevented from levying any tax on any property of the Union to which such property was immediately before the commencement of the Constitution was liable or treated as liable so long as that tax continued to be levied in that State. Applying the same to the facts of the present case, it is noted that the property in question which is located in Lucknow within the State of Uttar Pradesh and in respect of which the Act of 1959 applies was earlier governed by the Act of 1916. On a perusal of the relevant provisions of the Act of 1916, it becomes clear that the property tax was leviable on the subject property. Act of 1916 is a pre-Constitution enactment and therefore immediately before the commencement of the Constitution, the subject property was liable to property tax under the Act of 1916 and therefore until the Parliament by law provides otherwise, the appellant corporation can continue to levy municipal taxes including the property tax on the subject property as it was liable to pay such tax prior to the commencement of the Constitution under the provisions of 1916 Act.