However, there is a difference between existence of a power, and exercise of that power in a given case. Existence of power is generally a matter of law, whereas exercise of power is a mixed question of law and facts. Even when the power to pass a decree of divorce by mutual consent exists and can be exercised by this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, when and in which of the cases the power should be exercised to do ‘complete justice’ in a ‘cause or matter’ is an issue that has to be determined independent of existence of the power. This discretion has to be exercised on the basis of the factual matrix in the particular case, evaluated on objective criteria and factors, without ignoring the objective of the statutory provisions.” Other s/s on irretrievable breakdown of marriage: 8. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has further placed reliance on a few recent s of this Court, wherein the exercise of the power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution for granting a decree of divorce on the grounds of irretrievable breakdown of marriage was denied by this Court. Reliance is placed on a recent of this Court in Delma Lubna Coelho vs. Edmond Clint Fernandes, (2023) 4 SCR 473, wherein the decree of divorce was denied by observing that the parties had stayed together for only forty days and it takes time to settle down in a marriage. Further reliance is placed on Nirmal Singh Panesar vs. Paramjit Kaur Panesar @ Ajinder Kaur Panesar, (2023) 13 SCR 832, wherein the exercise [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1375 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda of power under Article 142(1) was refused by this Court to dissolve the marriage of an octogenarian couple, on the ground that the 82- year old wife is still ready and willing to take care of her husband and does not wish to leave him alone at this stage of his life and does not want to die with the stigma of being a divorcee. There have been other similar s cited by the learned counsel for the petitioner, but the same are not being mentioned here because those rulings were prior to the final settlement of the law on irretrievable breakdown of marriage by the Constitution Bench of this Court in Shilpa Sailesh. 8.1 The exercise of power by this Court under Article 142(1) to grant a decree of divorce and the factors to be considered while doing so have varied with facts and circumstances of each case. In the case of Rakesh Raman vs. Kavita, (2023) 3 SCR 552, it was observed as follows: “15. The multiple Court battles between them and the repeated failures in mediation and conciliation is at least testimony of this fact that no bond now survive between the couple, it is indeed a marriage which has broken down irretrievably. x x x x 16. … Irretrievable breakdown of a marriage may not be a ground for dissolution of marriage, under the Hindu Marriage Act, but cruelty is.