Therefore, instead of being an in personam dispute between two individuals, the questions raised by the Petitioners directly or indirectly affect a large citizenry. 70. The question regarding the constitutionality of Section 6A raises significant public policy issues that involve ramifications for the original 71 Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India (2018) 10 SCC 1 1048 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports inhabitants of Assam, the rights of immigrants, and the security of the country. Hence, foreclosing such questions at the threshold on the grounds of technicality of delay would lead to an unjust outcome. Instead, considering it has been a long-standing issue and because any resolution will affect millions of individuals, a compelling policy rationale exists to adjudicate the matter on its merits and settle the issue conclusively. 71. Second, since the controversy pertains to the constitutionality of a statutory provision, the doctrine of laches ought not to be applied strictly to bar the claim at the very threshold. As discussed in paragraph 66, such constitutional adjudication cannot be made subject to any straitjacket rule of limitation. Challenges regarding the constitutionality of a statute require the Court to take a liberal approach and permit a certain amount of flexibility. A contrary approach would set a wrong precedent and act as a bar against challenging anachronistic laws that might no longer align with the ideals of constitutionalism. This would constitute an unsound legal principle since oppressive laws should not persist solely because they have been tolerated by society for a certain period. 72. Since the challenge in these cases relates to the constitutional validity of Section 6A, its consideration on merits ought not to be precluded on the grounds of delay. We reiterate that the doctrine of laches cannot be applied strictly. Whatever may be the ultimate view on the claims of the Petitioners, they are able to persuade us to examine the perceived harms, such as cultural erosion, the threat to the state’s security, damage to natural resources, etc., which cannot be strictly limited to a particular time-frame and could have occurred even after a lapse of time from the enactment of the impugned provision. In other words, even if Section 6A may not have been constitutionally invalid from the beginning, it might have incurred such invalidity subsequently. Hence, instead of closing the present challenge at the threshold, we shall proceed to analyse the merits of these claims to find out whether Section 6A has become ultra vires the Constitution with the passage of time and due to systematic failure of the legislative vision. 73. The Petitioners, however, may not be correct in contending that the issue of delay between the same parties was previously settled by the reference dated 17.12.2014.72 At the outset, we must note 72 Assam Sanmilita Mahasangha, supra note 33. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1049 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 that the claim inter se the parties must not be construed strictly in constitutional adjudication such as the present one, since much larger questions of public importance are under consideration.