Act. Citizenship Act. 108. At this juncture, it is important to examine whether it was open to the legislature to prescribe two cut-off dates, thereby creating two different classes of immigrants who are entitled to citizenship by two distinct mechanisms. The determination of this question requires ascertaining whether there is any intelligible differentia between the two classes of immigrants, that is, those who immigrated prior to 01.01.1966 and those who immigrated between 01.01.1966 and 24.03.1971. The observations made by Justice Surya Kant in paragraphs 170 and 171 respectively speak for themselves. The said paragraphs are reproduced hereinbelow: - "170. In terms of the form, the classification should not be based on arbitrary criteria and must instead be based on a logic which distinguishes individuals with similar characteristics i.e., the equals from the persons who do not share those characteristics—the unequals. Apart 1190 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports from requiring such differentia, this prong requires that the classification must be intelligible, such that it can be reasonably understood whether an element falls in one class or another. If the class is so poorly defined that one cannot reasonably understand its constituents, it will fail this test of ‘intelligible’ differentia. Therefore, instead of being based on arbitrary selection, the classification must be supported by valid and lawful reasons. 171. Hence, using an intelligible criterion, the classes must be constituted in a manner that distinguishes the components of that class from the elements that have been left out of the class. This is instantiated by State of Kerala v. N.M. Thomas, where a 7-judge bench was dealing with the challenge of exemption granted to Scheduled Castes from the departmental test required for promotion. The Court held that the same was based on intelligible differentia, as the persons belonging to the exempted class, i.e., the Scheduled Caste, differed from those excluded from this class.” 109. The cut-off date of 01.01.1966 clearly categorizes the immigrants into two discernible and determinable categories. The first category is conferred citizenship by the mechanism prescribed under Section 6A sub-section (2) and the second category is conferred citizenship by the procedure prescribed under Section 6A sub-section (3). 110. Further, it is necessary to decipher the object sought to be achieved by creating two distinct categories of immigrants with fundamentally different procedure under Section 6A for the purpose of conferring the same benefit, that is, the benefit of conferment of citizenship on the immigrants from Bangladesh. 111. Indisputably, Section 6A was enacted to give statutory effect to the political settlement arrived at in the form of Assam Accord. The Accord was a result of years of negotiation that took place between the Central Government, State Government, AASU and AAGSP. The sui-generis scheme of Section 6A also reflects this process of negotiation, or “give and take”, so to say. 112. I have already discussed in paragraph 54 of this that the proximate event which led to protests and demonstrations over the immigrant issue in Assam was the publication of the electoral rolls [2024] 10 S.C.R.