The Respondents have countered the Appellant’s locus on the ground that they cannot plead the right under Article 30 since they are not the representative of the entire Muslim community. Hence, it is essential to analyse whether Article 30 can be invoked by a few individuals of the minority community. 114. Under the Indian Constitution, the framework of rights can be broadly divided into three classes based on who holds the right and who can exercise it: a. The first category, known as ‘individual rights’, encompasses rights available to all individuals and can be claimed by them. An example of such a right is the right to privacy, which pertains to all individuals and can be asserted by any individual. b. The second category, termed ‘group rights’ in India, consists of rights available to individuals,provided they belong to a specified group. An example of such a right could be the right of reservation provided to individuals belonging to certain classes. In this regard, this Court has held: “407. Unless the creamy layer is removed, OBCs cannot exercise their group rights. The Union of India and other respondents argued that creamy layer exclusion is wrong because the text of the Ninety-third Amendment bestows a benefit on “classes”, not individuals. While it is a group right, the group must contain only those individuals that belong to the group. I first take the entire lot of creamy and non-creamy layer OBCs. I then remove the creamy layer on an individual basis based on their income, property holdings, occupation, etc. What is left is a group that meets constitutional muster. It is a group right that [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1817 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. must also belong to individuals, if the right is to have any meaning. If one OBC candidate is denied special provisions that he should have received by law, it is not the group’s responsibility to bring a claim. He would be the one to do so. He has a right of action to challenge the ruling that excluded him from the special provisions afforded to OBCs. In this sense, he has an individual right. Group and individual rights need not be mutually exclusive. In this case, it is not one or the other but both that apply to the impugned legislation.” 67 [Emphasis supplied] As elucidated in the extract above, such group rights are possessed by an individual, and such individual can assert their claim to exercise these rights. The individual does not need to demonstrate that the group as a whole is affected and may exercise such rights in their singular capacity. c. The third category, which we would like to refer to as collective rights, includes rights that belong to groups as a whole and can only be exercised by those groups collectively. An example of such a right could be the right of a country to vote in the UN General Assembly.68 Such rights belong to the entire nation as a community and are not contingent on whether individual citizens of the nation are individually exercising this right.