[Para 112] 2.4. The argument that the test of whether an educational institution is a minority institution must be examined based on whether the community or the group which had established the institution was a minority at the time of its establishment in pre-independent India, is rejected – The purpose of the provision is to ensure that the minorities are able to preserve and promote their linguistic and religious culture – For this purpose, the status of the group/community, that had established the institution, on the date of commencement of the Constitution should be considered – The test of establishment will apply to future situations on the day when new educational institutions are established – The protection under clause (1) of Article 30 cannot be denied to institutions established before the commencement of the Constitution for the reason that at the time of establishment in pre-independent India, the founders were not aware that they would receive protection of Article 30(1). [Para 122] 2.5. ‘establishment’ or formation of an institution can be at any point of time and even before the commencement of the Constitution – If an institution was established before the commencement of the Constitution, the enquiry on the question of ‘establishment’ must relate back to the date when the institution was established or formed to ascertain whether it would qualify as a minority institution upon the commencement of the Constitution. [Para 134] 3.1. To determine who established the institution, the Courts must consider the genesis of the educational institution – For this analysis, the Courts must trace the origin of the idea for the establishment of the institution – The Court must identify who was the brain behind the establishment of the educational institution – Letters, correspondence with other members of the community or with government/State officials and resolutions issued could be valid proof for establishing ideation or the impetus to found and establish – The proof [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1651 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. of ideation must point towards one member of the minority or a group from the community. [Para 135] 3.2. The second indicia is the purpose for which the educational institution was established – Though it is not necessary that the educational institution must have been established only for the benefit of a religious or linguistic minority community, it must predominantly be for its benefit – It is not necessary that education must be provided in the language spoken by the minority or on the religion of the minority – For example, it is not necessary that an educational institution established for the Tamils in Uttar Pradesh must necessarily prescribe Tamil as the language of instruction – However, it must be proved that the institution was established for the benefit of the tamil-speaking community – This indicia could be proved by a reference to private communication or speeches about the necessity of establishing an educational institution for the community and a recognition of the educational difficulties faced by the community.