51. Pursuant to the directions issued by this Court in All India Judges’ Association (1) (supra) and All India Judges’ Association (2) (supra), the First National Judicial Pay Commission under the Chairmanship of Hon’ble Mr. Justice K.J. Shetty (Former Judge of this Court), more popularly known as the “Shetty Commission on Judicial Reforms” came to be constituted. After due deliberations, the Shetty Commission submitted its report on 11.11.1999, and responses to the same were filed by the States and Union Territories. 52. The recommendations made in the Shetty Commission’s report along with the responses of the States/Union Territories were taken into consideration and the same ultimately culminated into the decision of this Court in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra). (1) In the said decision, this Court, inter-alia, accepted the recommendation of the Shetty Commission that 75% of the posts in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge shall be filled by promotion from Civil Judge (Senior Division) and 25% of the posts shall be filled by direct recruitment from the Bar by way of a competitive examination encompassing a written examination and viva. (2) At the same time, this Court was of the view that when it comes to appointment by promotion to the cadre of District & Sessions Judge, (i) some incentive for improving must exist for the judicial officers and (ii) a certain minimum standard ought [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1105 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. to be maintained in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge and further, there must be an objective method for testing the suitability of a Judicial Officer for promotion. (3) Accordingly, this Court held that even within the quota of 75% there should be two methods of appointment by way of promotion. It held that 50% of the total posts shall be filled by promotion based on the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ through a test for assessing the continued efficiency and adequate knowledge of case-law of the Judicial Officers and the remaining 25% of the posts shall be filled by promotion strictly on the basis of merit through a limited departmental competitive examination (LDCC) with an eligibility requirement of five-years of qualifying service as a Civil Judge (Senior Division). (4) Thus, this Court directed that recruitment to the Higher Judicial Service i.e., in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge shall be through three different avenues, namely: - (i) 50% by promotion of Civil Judges (Senior Division) on the basis of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and passing a Suitability Test. (ii) 25% by promotion strictly based on merit through a limited departmental competitive examination of Civil Judges (Senior Division) not having less than five-years qualifying service; and (iii) 25% by direct recruitment from amongst the eligible advocates based on written and viva voce test. (5) Accordingly, all the High Courts were directed to frame appropriate rules in terms of the aforesaid directions. The relevant observations read as under: - “27. Another question which falls for consideration is the method of recruitment to the posts in the cadre of Higher Judicial Service i.e.