137. Creditor’s forbearance to sue does not discharge surety.— Mere forbearance on the part of the creditor to sue the principal debtor or to enforce any other remedy against him does not, in the absence of any provision in the guarantee to the contrary, discharge the surety. 138. Release of one co-surety does not discharge others.— Where there are co-sureties, a release by the creditor of one of them does not discharge the others; neither does it free the surety so released from his responsibility to the other sureties. 139. Discharge of surety by creditor’s act or omission impairing surety’s eventual remedy.— If the creditor does any act which is inconsistent with the rights of the surety, or omits to do any act which his duty to the surety [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2157 BRS Ventures Investments Ltd. v. SREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd. & Anr. requires him to do, and the eventual remedy of the surety himself against the principal debtor is thereby impaired, the surety is discharged.” Thus, the law provides that if any variance is made without surety’s consent in the terms of the contract between the principal debtor and the creditor, it amounts to discharge of the surety as to the transactions subsequent to the variance. Under the provisions of Section 133, surety can be discharged only when there is a variance made in the terms of the contract between the principal debtor and the creditor. Section 134 contemplates a situation where the principal debtor is released by a contract between the creditor and the principal debtor. In such a case, the surety is discharged. If by any act or omission on the part of the creditor, the legal consequence of which is the discharge of the principal debtor, the surety stands discharged. Section 135 is based on the same principle on which Section 133 is based. If there is a contract between the creditor and the principal debtor by which the creditor makes a composition or promise with the principal debtor, or gives time to the principal debtor or agrees not to sue the principal debtor, it amounts to discharge of the surety provided the surety has not assented to such a contract. If the creditor contracts with a third party to give time to the principal debtor, and when the principal debtor is not a party to such a contract, the surety is not discharged. Section 137 lays down a settled principle that it is not necessary for the creditor to first sue the principal debtor or adopt a remedy against him. If the creditor omits to do that, unless there is a contract to the contrary, it will not amount to discharge of the surety. This means that without proceeding to recover the debt against the principal debtor, the creditor can proceed against the surety unless there is a contract to the contrary. Even if the creditor discharges one surety, it will not amount to the discharge of the other surety. There are two other contingencies provided under Sections 138 and 139.