It is unquestionable that the object of all exposition of written instruments must be to ascertain the expressed meaning or intention of the writer; the expressed meaning being equivalent to the intention … it is not allowable … to adduce any evidence, however strong, to prove an unexpressed intention varying from that which the words used import. This may be open no doubt to the remark, that, although we profess to be explaining the intention of the writer, we may be led in many cases to decide contrary to what can scarcely be doubted to have been the intention, rejecting evidence which may be more satisfactory in the particular instance to prove it. The answer is, that interpreters have to deal with the written expression of the writer’s intention, and courts of law to carry into effect what he has written, not what it may be surmised, on however probable grounds, that he intended only to have written.” … 25. ...In to ascertain the intention of the testator, the point for consideration is not what the testator meant but what that which he has written means. It is often said that the expressed intentions are assumed to be actual intentions. This Court in A. Sreenivasa Pai v. Saraswathi Ammal [(1985) 4 SCC 85] held that: (SCC p. 89, para 4) 944 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “4. … In construing a document, whether in English or in any Indian language, the fundamental rule to be adopted is to ascertain the intention adopted from the words employed in it.” …” (Emphasis supplied) 33. The words used in a document have to be understood in their natural meaning with reference to the language employed. While interpreting any document, common or usual meaning is ascribed to the words unless that leads to absurdity. Lord Wensleydale, in an oft-quoted passage, stated the rule of literal construction: “In construing will and indeed statutes and all written instruments, the grammatical and ordinary sense of the word is adhered to, unless that would lead to some absurdity, or some repugnance or inconsistency with the rest of the instrument in which case the grammatical and ordinary sense of the words maybe modified, so as to avoid that absurdity, and inconsistency, but no further.” (Emphasis supplied) 34. A perusal of the Mutation Entry No.8258 (Ex.P1) shows that Sultan Saheb got the ‘partition’ done in favour of his sons. The words “partition of the property done by Sultan Abdul Khader Shek” clearly indicate his intention to divide the property into three parts without any indication of his intent to gift the property to his sons. Had Sultan Saheb intended to gift the property, it ought to have been recorded as a gift in the Mutation Entry. 35. Additionally, the purpose of mutation entry, as is well settled is only limited to revenue records. They do not, in any way, translate to or confer any title in regard to the subject matter property. Some decisions reflecting this position of law are as follows: In Sawarni v. Inder Kaur26 - “7.