13. We have heard Sri Shyam Divan, learned Senior Counsel for the appellant and Sri Aditya Kumar Choudhary, learned counsel appearing for the respondent and have also perused the material on record. 14. The submissions advanced on behalf of the appellant by the learned Senior Counsel are summarized as under: (i) The commercial suit bearing C.S. No.323 of 2016 was clearly barred by II Rule 2(2) CPC. (ii) The Courts below failed to distinguish between relinquishment of claims and omissions of relief. The High Court wrongly relied upon the Full Bench of the Bombay High Court in the case of Shankar Lal Laxminarayan Rathi and Ors. Vs. Gangabisen Manik Lal Silchi and another1 as the said had no applicability in the facts of the case. 15. On the other hand, Shri Choudhary, learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the and of the High Court does not suffer from any infirmity warranting any interference by this Court. Further, strong reliance was placed upon a of this Court in the case of Bharat Petrolium Corporation Ltd. And another Vs. ATM Constructions Pvt. Ltd.,2 wherein under similar facts, this 1 AIR 1972 Bom.326 (FB) 2 [2023] 16 SCR 859 : 2023 SCC Online SC 1614 1076 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court held that a second suit for arrears of rent and damages would not be barred under II Rule 2 CPC. 16. Para 18 of the above said is reproduced hereunder: “18. In view of the enunciation of law, as referred to above, suit for possession and suit for claiming damages for use and occupation of the property are two different causes of action. There being different consideration for adjudication in our opinion, second suit filed by the respondent claiming damages for use and occupation of the premises was maintainable. The application filed by the appellants for rejection of the plaint was rightly dismissed by the Courts below. However, the appellants are well within their right to raise the issue, if any part of the claim in the suit is time-barred but the entire claim cannot be said to be so.” 17. The case in hand stands on a better footing, inasmuch as, the plaintiff-respondent had specifically reserved its rights in the first suit regarding claim against warehousing charges, damages for illegal use and occupation etc. and further had applied for leave before the Trial Court for filing a separate suit, which leave had been granted. There was neither any relinquishment at any stage, nor omission to claim relief. Both the causes of action being separate, the second suit was clearly maintainable. The appellant, who is facing recovery of more than Rs.8 crores, is unnecessarily trying to delay the progress in the suit, which is pending since 2016. 18. In view of the above discussion, we are of the firm view that the impugned does not suffer from any infirmity. The in the case of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (supra) relied upon by the respondent squarely applies in the facts of the present case and we do not find any reason to take a different view.