In view thereof, it was contended that it was the customs notification dated 11.12.2009 which brought into force the ‘change in law’. 35. Learned senior counsel for the respondent contended that without prejudice to the above submissions, the Cabinet Decision dated 01.10.2009 was only the intent or proposal to implement something in future and not to give effect to something on 01.10.2009 itself; the Cabinet Decision does not also provide that the benefits therefrom will be effective from 01.10.2009; that the Cabinet Decision/ Press release by no means can be said to be a regulation, notification, Code, Rule, or having a force of law as specified in the definition of the term “Law” in the PPA; that under the Rules of Business of the Central Government, the decision taken in the Cabinet ought to get implemented in the manner provided or under the relevant statute such as by Notification, Rule, Regulation or Code in the case of the plenary legislation, such as the Customs Act; in the absence of any plenary legislation, the manner of implementation is provided 472 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under Article 77 by the issuance of an authenticated instrument in the manner provided thereon; that the definition of the term “Law” in the PPA and the expression “Decision” is limited only with regard to the decision by the Appropriate Commission and not an Indian Governmental instrumentality. Learned senior counsel contends that there is no scope for the argument of the promissory estoppel in inter-partes disputes between the appellant and the respondent since the Union of India is not a party and the present proceeding is not a proceeding where a promise is sought to be enforced by a Court of law, against the promisor. 36. The learned senior counsel contends that the appellant under Clauses 2.7.2.1 and 2.7.2.2 ought to have considered only the applicable law. It is further contended that the Cabinet Decision of 01.10.2009 did not decide all the aspects of the distribution reforms to be undertaken by the concerned State Government to entitle the intra-state power projects in the State to be eligible for Mega Power benefits. To illustrate, it is contended that the Cabinet Decision stated that “Power Purchasing States” shall undertake to carry out distribution reforms as laid down by the Ministry of Power. Learned senior counsel contends that Ministry of Power laid down the conditions on 03.12.2009 including an undertaking to be given by the State Government to the Government of India as a pre-condition. In view of this, learned senior counsel contends that the Cabinet Decision was not in complete form and it was only after the conditions were laid down by the Ministry of Power on 03.12.2009 that the notification dated 11.12.2009 and office memorandum of 14.12.2009 was issued by the Central Government providing for exemption to Mega Power Projects specifically stating that “The Power Purchasing State shall undertake to carry out distribution reforms as laid down by the Ministry of Power”. Learned senior counsel contends that the Mega Power Policy was issued only on 14.12.2009 with further additions.