369 The Travancore Devaswom Board v. Ayyappa Spices & Ors. the raw material used for its preparation are safe and pure. Eventually, the final impugned came to be passed on 11.04.2023 where the High Court allowed the writ petition, and the impugned interim dated 27.03.2023 was affirmed. It further ed the destruction of the seized stock and directed that appropriate criminal proceedings be initiated. The appellant-Board has filed the instant appeals against the above-referred two s. Before this Court: 13. This Court issued notice on 15.05.2023, and stayed the s impugned herein. By the same FSSAI was directed to get an analysis of the Aravana Prasadam and file a report before this Court. The relevant portion of this direction is as follows: “Further, the competent authority under the Food Safety and Standards of India (FSSAI) shall, in the meanwhile, take random samples for the stock of Aravanam Prasadam available and get an analysis done with regard to the quality and as to whether the same is fit for human consumption.” 14. Pursuant to our direction, the FSSAI got the sample analysed and filed a report of its opinion before this Court on 12.06.2023. The relevant portion of the opinion is as follows: “Opinion: 1. Pesticides mentioned in the analytical report are below limit of quantification and is satisfactory. 2. Microbiological parameters conforms to ready to eat grain products and is not substandard. Based on the above analytical report it is fit for consumption.” Submissions: 15. At the outset, Sri V. Giri, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant-Board, submitted that even though the report of FSSAI called by this Court clarifies that the Aravana Prasadam is fit for human consumption, the appellant-Board is no longer desirous to distribute the Prasadam in view of the long lapse of time. We had taken note of the statement and proceeded to hear the submission of the parties. 15.1 On merits, Sri Giri submitted that the writ petition was a motivated one. It was submitted that respondent no. 1 had 370 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports concealed the fact that he had supplied cardamom in the past and also that he had contested the earlier two tenders which later came to be cancelled. It was further submitted that the filing of the writ petition suggests unresolved business conflicts and underlying rivalry. In this light, it was contended that the High Court should not have entertained the writ petition and should have dismissed it at the very threshold. He relied on the decisions of this Court in S.P. Gupta v. Union of India, (1981) Supp SCC 87 and Ashok Kumar Pandey v. State of West Bengal, (2004) 3 SCC 349 for this purpose. 15.2 The second leg of Mr. Giri’s submission is against the determination of appellant-Board as a “food business operator”. It is contended that Aravana Prasadam is not a sale for revenue or profits, but considered as an offering to devotees. It was submitted that the Aravana Prasadam holds religious significance to devotees, and is treated as an offering from the deity itself.