2. It is also stated that at least 5% reservation to persons with benchmark disabilities in higher education is a statutory provision and denial of this benefit to eligible candidates is violation of a statutory provision. It is also a point to be noted that extending this facility to persons with disabilities having less than 40% disability would not qualify as fulfilment of statutory obligations. The Government is also cognizant of the challenges that exist in balancing the statutory rights of persons with benchmark disabilities viz a viz strenuous requirement of the medical profession. NMC is therefore requested to take into account the developments in aids and assistive devices and also in other technologies which are capable of reducing the effects of disability and ensure that the statutory requirements of RPwD Act, 2016 are followed in letter and spirit. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 689 Omkar Ramchandra Gond v. The Union of India & Ors. 3. Further, it may be recalled that, in pursuance to your letter dated 13.10.2023 vide which certain suggestions have been made to address the issues faced by PwDs, a meeting was held on 21.12.2023 under the Chairpersonship of Joint Secretary, Policy. Draft Minutes of the meeting were issued on 26.12.2023 upon which comments were received from NMC and DGHS. In pursuance of these comments, the matter was further considered in the Department and the following emerged: i. While filling up the NEET electronic form by PwDs, NMC there must be a drop down or a mandatory category to take which should mention which categories and action percentage of disability are suitable for pursuing the MBBS course. If it is necessary, the disability categories may also show symptoms which would normally be excluded by the medical board. Such form should be accessible. NMC may also consider linking this form to DEPwD’s UDID portal i.e. www.swavlambancard. gov.in ii. A meeting should be done with National Testing Agency and proper classification of disabilities should be made in application forms so as to ensure that once the candidate is allowed to take the examination, she/he will not be denied admission merely on the ground of disability. iii. The regulations issued by NMC regarding admission of students with specified disabilities must be immediately reviewed. In this context, reference may be taken from DoPT wherein functional classification and physical requirements (abilities/disabilities) consistent with requirements of the identified service/posts are being worked out for Civil Services. On the lines of this exercise by DoPT, NMC should also work out functional classifications and physical requirements (abilities/ disabilities) consistent with the requirements of medical profession and review its regulations accordingly. While carrying out this exercise, NMC should also take into account assessment guidelines dated 04.01.2018 and amendments made thereto. 690 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports iv. The NMC should sensitize all the colleges with respect to reservation criteria for persons with benchmark disabilities (disability of 40% or more) as per the RPwD Act, 2016 and also towards the needs of such candidates once admitted.