Over a period of time, this Court has noticed the growing [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2171 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. tendency amongst Members of the NCLT(s) and NCLAT to ignore the s of this Court or act in its defiance. We put the NCLT(s) and the NCLAT to notice, that any act of contravention of this Court’s and the larger rubric of judicial propriety will not be tolerated. The NCLT(s) and the NCLAT must seriously rethink their approach towards admission and disposal of insolvency matters, they should not act as a mere rubberstamping authority and must take their roles seriously in ensuring time-bound hearings and resolutions. Proper and effective hearings, both virtually and in-court, must be given to insolvency matters of public importance, and the NCLT(s) and NCLAT(s) must earnestly work towards ensuring that the IBC, 2016 achieves its avowed object. 184. One another serious issue pertaining to the functioning of the NCLTs and NCLAT is that there is often a shortage of members in the Tribunals and inadequate infrastructure to support their functioning. These vacancies heavily impact the insolvency reform initiative undertaken by the government since they lead to operational inefficiencies. A shortfall of members and the lack of requisite strength has led to Tribunals only sitting for a few days of the week or a few hours in a day. Even in Tribunals where there is no vacancy, the absence of requisite infrastructure has forced the benches to share courtrooms or halls on a rotation basis. As a consequence, the strict timelines provided in Section 12 of the IBC, 2016 are not complied with. Filling such vacancies with experts having adequate domain knowledge in the field must be prioritized along with addressing the infrastructure needs of the Tribunals to prevent any adverse effect on the resolution process. There must be strict mandates regarding the functioning of the Tribunals within its normal working hours. The appointment of new members must be done in a manner such that it coincides with the date of retirement of the sitting members in a seamless manner to avoid such operational inefficiencies. Persons with high ideals & impeccable integrity should be appointed as Members in the NCLT as well as NCLAT. There should not be any political appointment. 185. It is now for the Parliament to look into our suggestions in consultation with the Insolvency Bankruptcy Board of India and the Ministry of Finance. 2172 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports G. CONCLUSION 186. For all the foregoing reasons, we have reached the conclusion that the impugned passed by the NCLAT is perverse and unsustainable in law. It has led to further complications. As a result, the appeals succeed and are allowed. The impugned passed by the NCLAT is set aside. 187. In the peculiar and alarming circumstances as discussed in this and also keeping in mind the fact that almost five years have elapsed since the Resolution Plan was duly approved by the NCLAT and there being no progress worth the name, we are left with no other option but to invoke our jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution and direct that the Corporate Debtor be taken in liquidation.