A number of decisions have held that although Section 267 of the CrPC cannot be invoked to enable production of the accused before the investigating agency, yet it can undoubtedly be invoked to require production of the accused before the jurisdictional Magistrate, who can thereafter remand him to the custody of the investigating agency. Such an interpretation of the provision would give true effect to the words “other proceedings” as they appear in the text of Section 267 of the CrPC, which cannot be construed to exclude proceedings at the stage of investigation. [See: C. Natesan v. State of Tamil Nadu and Others, 1998 SCC OnLine Mad 931; Ranjeet Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh, 1995 Cri LJ 3505; State of Maharashtra v. Yadav Kohachade, 2000 Cri LJ 959] 53. Thus, contrary to the view taken by the Rajasthan, Allahabad and Delhi High Courts, a person, while in custody in relation to an offence, can be arrested in relation to a different offence, either after getting released from custody in the first offence, or even while remaining in custody in the first offence. In such circumstances, it follows that a person, while in custody in relation to an offence, can have “reason to believe” that he may be arrested in relation to a different cognizable offence. We find no restriction in the text of Section 438 or the scheme of the CrPC precluding a person from seeking anticipatory bail in relation to an offence while being in custody in relation to another offence. In the absence of any such restriction, we find no valid reason to read any prohibition in the text of Section 438 of the CrPC, to preclude a person in custody from seeking anticipatory bail in relation to different offences. 54. The option of applying for anticipatory bail in relation to an offence, while being in custody in relation to a different offence, will only be available to the accused till he is arrested by the police officer on the strength of the P.T. Warrant obtained by him from the court concerned. We must clarify that mere formal arrest (on-paper arrest) would not extinguish the right of the accused to apply for [2024] 9 S.C.R. 305 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. anticipatory bail. We say so because a formal arrest would not result in the submission of the accused, who is already in custody, to the custody of the police officer effecting a formal arrest in the subsequent case. However, if after effecting a formal arrest, the police officer on the strength of the same procures a P.T. Warrant from the jurisdictional Magistrate, the accused would have no other choice but to submit to that compulsion and the right of the accused to apply for anticipatory bail would thereafter get extinguished. 55. If an accused is granted anticipatory bail in relation to an offence, while being in custody in a different offence, then it shall no longer be open to the police officer in the first case to apply under Section 267 of the CrPC for the production of the accused before the jurisdictional Magistrate for the purpose of remanding him to police or judicial custody.