The learned counsel argued that the said Joint Measurement Report was prepared by the respondent at the time of the acquisition and has even been referred to in the evidence of DW-1. It is stated that DW-1 further admitted that based on Exh.32 there was an open land between the river Morna and Survey No. 1. According to the learned counsel, the explanation offered by the VIDC (Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation) during the hearing that the gap is due to the curved bank of the river and ought not to be considered as a gap is unacceptable. According to the learned counsel, such an argument is itself an admission to the fact that firstly the land of the appellant was at a height from the river and secondly that there is a gap between the river and the land of the appellant. According to the learned counsel for the appellant, the width of the flood wall is 30 meters taking the measurement from the defined boundary water course till the end of the wall; that as per the Joint Measurement Map the width of the appellant land is on an average between 50 to 55 meters and the counsel contended that hence the total distance from the boundary of the water course till the end of the appellant land is 65 meters. Learned counsel contended that in spite of the rules declaring that only land upto 15 meters from the defined boundary of the water course as falling under the no development zone, the whole land of the appellant has been considered as falling under the no development zone. 2260 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 23. The learned counsel assailed the finding of the High Court about failure to convert the land to non-agricultural by contending that the appellant had obtained a Nazul Plot No. from the revenue authority and carved out 43 plots and even fees were paid and the receipt was placed on record; and that the only reason why steps could not be taken was in the meantime Section 4 notification came to be issued. Learned counsel contended that sale instances cited have not been taken into consideration by the High Court. In this regard, he relied on Exh.33 (Rs. 422 per sq. ft.), Exh.71 (Rs. 175 per sq. ft.) and the sale index of Survey No. 5/1,in Akholi Bk where there was a transaction of sale deed dated 12.02.1999 of Rs. 1,50,000/- for 1500 Sq. ft. area of plot no 78. Learned counsel contended that the highest exemplar should have been considered. Learned counsel argues that the question of development charges does not arise since that purpose of acquisition did not entail any development. 24. Mr. Uday B. Dube, learned Counsel for the Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) strongly opposed the appellant’s submissions and contended that admittedly the land is situated on the bank of the river and concurrent findings have been recorded in that regard. Learned counsel placed reliance on the evidence of DW-1 in respect of the location of the land.