[2024] 2 S.C.R. 385 Chandigarh Housing Board v. Tarsem Lal Therefore, merely because a given caste is specified in State A as a Scheduled Caste does not necessarily mean that if there be another caste bearing the same nomenclature in another State the person belonging to the former would be entitled to the rights, privileges and benefits admissible to a member of the Scheduled Caste of the latter State “for the purposes of this Constitution”. This is an aspect which has to be kept in mind and which was very much in the minds of the Constitution-makers as is evident from the choice of language of Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution.” 20. Thereafter, the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bir Singh, being seized of the dispute pertaining to SC/ST reservation for persons who had migrated to the National Capital Territory of Delhi, reiterated the well-settled principles enunciated in Marri Chandra Shekhar Rao and Action Committee in the following words: “34. Unhesitatingly, therefore, it can be said that a person belonging to a Scheduled Caste in one State cannot be deemed to be a Scheduled Caste person in relation to any other State to which he migrates for the purpose of employment or education. The expressions “in relation to that State or Union Territory” and “for the purpose of this Constitution” used in Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution of India would mean that the benefits of reservation provided for by the Constitution would stand confined to the geographical territories of a State/ Union Territory in respect of which the lists of Scheduled 32 Castes/Scheduled Tribes have been notified by the Presidential s issued from time to time. A person notified as a Scheduled Caste in State ‘A’ cannot claim the same status in another State on the basis that he is declared as a Scheduled Caste in State ‘A’. x x x 36. The upshot of the aforesaid discussion would lead us to the conclusion that the Presidential s issued under Article 341 in regard to Scheduled Castes and under Article 342 in regard to Scheduled Tribes cannot be varied or altered by any authority including the Court. It is 386 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Parliament alone which has been vested with the power to so act, that too, by laws made. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes thus specified in relation to a State or a Union Territory does not carry the same status in another State or Union Territory. Any expansion/deletion of the list of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes by any authority except Parliament would be against the constitutional mandate under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution of India.” 21. Learned counsel for the respondent placed reliance on the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bir Singh concerning the services in the NCT of Delhi. In the said in paragraph 68, it has been categorically recorded as under:– “68. The Affidavit of the Union does not touch upon the details of Subordinate Services in other Union Territories.