It was for the reason that the property had come to the share of defendant No. 7. 10. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant referred record. 11. To understand the relations between the parties, we deem it appropriate to frame the family tree, as is evident from the material on record: 12. The High Court finally found that the properties forming part of Schedule ‘A’ are exclusive properties of defendant No. 1 allotted in the partition in the year 1965. The plaintiffs and defendant No. 1 will have 1/4th equal shares each. 12.1 The claim of the plaintiffs for share in Schedule ‘B’, ‘C’ and item Nos. 1 and 2 of Schedule ‘D’ properties was rejected. 12.2 Sale of Item No. 2 of Schedule ‘A’ property by defendant No. 7 to defendant No. 9 was declared to be null and void, hence not binding on the plaintiffs and defendant No. 1. 12.3 The plaintiffs and defendant No. 1 were held entitled to 1/4th share in item No. 4 of Schedule ‘D’. Meaning thereby 1/12th share each. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 55 Srinivas Raghavendrarao Desai (Dead) By Lrs. v. V. Kumar Vamanrao @ Alok and Ors. 12.4 With regard to ½ share of item No. 3 of Schedule ‘D’ properties, the matter was remitted to the Trial Court to allow plaintiff No. 1 to adduce evidence to prove that ½ share in item No. 3 was purchased by defendant No. 1 out of joint family funds. 12.5 In respect of item No. 5 of ‘B’ Schedule also, the matter was remitted to the Trial Court to allow defendants No. 2 and 7 to adduce necessary evidence as to extent of land allotted to the share of defendant No. 7 in the partition. In other words, it was to be decided whether it is 4 acres in Sy. No. 44/4 of Nuggikere village is allotted to the share of defendant No. 7 or entire extent of 7 acres is allotted. The defendant No. 7 and defendant No. 2 were permitted to file additional pleadings and adduce evidence available with them to prove their respective cases. 13. In the written statement filed by defendants No. 1 to 3 (father and grand parents of plaintiffs No. 1 and 2) to the suit filed by the plaintiffs, the definite stand taken is that the property bearing Regular Survey No. 106/2 does not belong to the joint family of the answering defendants, rather it had gone to the branch of Raghvendrarao, hence cannot be made subject-matter of partition. 14. As is evident from the of the High Court, much reliance was placed upon the oral partition effected between the parties in the year 1965. In our opinion, the High Court committed a grave error in placing reliance upon the partition allegedly effected in the year 1965, in terms of which Schedule ‘A’ properties were allotted exclusively to the share of defendant No.1. The fact remains that it is not even the pleaded case of the plaintiffs in the suit that there was any partition of the family properties in the year 1965.