[(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply in respect of all goods belonging to Government as they apply in respect of goods not belonging to Government.] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1189 M/s Navayuga Engineering Co. Ltd. v. Union of India & Anr. very section provides a slightly varied procedure for recovery in sub-Section (4) for instances, where duties are not paid due to, i) collusion, ii) wilful misstatement or iii) suppression of facts. The distinction in the procedure includes different periods of limitation for initiation of recovery process. Section 28 to the extent, it is relevant for us is as under: “Section 28. Recovery of duties not levied or not paid or short-levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded.—(1) Where any [duty has not been levied or not paid or has been short-levied or short-paid] or erroneously refunded, or any interest payable has not been paid, part- paid or erroneously refunded, for any reason other than the reasons of collusion or any wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts,— (a) the proper officer shall, within [two years] from the relevant date, serve notice on the person chargeable with the duty or interest which has not been so levied [or paid] or which has been short-levied or short-paid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made, requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount specified in the notice: [Provided that before issuing notice, the proper officer shall hold pre-notice consultation with the person chargeable with duty or interest in such manner as may be prescribed;] (b) the person chargeable with the duty or interest, may pay before service of notice under clause (a) on the basis of,— (i) his own ascertainment of such duty; or (ii) the duty ascertained by the proper officer, the amount of duty along with the interest payable thereon under section 28AA or the amount of interest which has not been so paid or part-paid. [Provided that the proper officer shall not serve such show cause notice, where the amount involved is less than rupees one hundred.] (2) […] 1190 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (3) […] (4) Where any duty has not been [levied or not paid or has been short-levied or short-paid] or erroneously refunded, or interest payable has not been paid, part-paid or erroneously refunded, by reason of,— (a) collusion; or (b) any wilful mis-statement; or (c) suppression of facts, by the importer or the exporter or the agent or employee of the importer or exporter, the proper officer shall, within five years from the relevant date, serve notice on the person chargeable with duty or interest which has not been [so levied or not paid] or which has been so short-levied or short-paid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made, requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount specified in the notice.” 5. Confiscation of goods under Chapter XIV of the Act: The third circumstance where duty is collected is when goods are improperly imported into or exported out of India.