5.2 All persons who came to Assam prior to 1-1-1966, including those amongst them whose names appeared on the electoral rolls used in 1967 elections, shall be regularized. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1167 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 5.3 Foreigners who came to Assam after 1-1-1966 (inclusive) and upto 24th March, 1971 shall be detected in accordance with the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and the Foreigners (Tribunals) , 1939. 5.4 Names of foreigners so detected will be deleted from the electoral rolls in force. Such persons will be required to register themselves before the Registration Officers of the respective districts in accordance with the provisions of the Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939 and the Registration of Foreigners Rules, 1939. 5.5 For this purpose, Government of India will undertake suitable strengthening of the governmental machinery. 5.6 On the expiry of the period of ten year following the date of detection, the names of all such persons which have been deleted from the electoral rolls shall be restored. 5.7 All persons who were expelled earlier, but have since re-entered illegally into Assam, shall be expelled. 5.8 Foreigners who came to Assam on or after March 25, 1971 shall continue to be detected, deleted and expelled in accordance with the law. Immediate and practical steps shall be taken to expel such foreigners. 5.9 The Government will give due consideration to certain difficulties express by the AASU/AAGSP regarding the implementation of the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Act, 1983. Safeguards and Economic Development: 6. Constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards, as may be appropriate, shall be provided to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people. 1168 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7. The Government takes this opportunity to renew their commitment for the speedy all round economic development of Assam, so as to improve the standard of living of the people. Special emphasis will be placed on the education and Science & Technology through establishment of national institutions. Other Issues: 8.1 The Government will arrange for the issue of citizenship certificate in future only by the authorities of the Central Government. 8.2 Specific complaints that may be made by the AASU/ AAGSP about irregular issuance of Indian Citizenship Certificates (ICC) will be looked into. 9. The international b shall be made secure against future infiltration by erection of physical barriers like walls barbed wire fencing and other obstacles at appropriate places. Patrolling by security forces on land and riverine routes all along the international b shall be adequately intensified. In to further strengthen the security arrangements, to prevent effectively future infiltration, an adequate number of check posts shall be set up. 9.2 Besides the arrangements mentioned above and keeping in view security considerations, a road all along the international b shall be constructed so as to facilitate patrolling by security forces. Land between b and the road would be kept free of human habitation, wherever possible. Riverine patrolling along the international b would be intensified.