We record our sincere appreciation for the valuable assistance rendered by the members of the Bar who had the occasion to address this larger Bench. B. THE REFERENCE 2. The two Hon’ble Judges comprising the said Division Bench were considering a clutch of review petitions (“RPs”, hereafter), presented either by the Delhi Development Authority or the Government of NCT, Delhi, or the Land and Building Department, etc. (“review petitioners”, hereafter). The RPs urged review of the s/ s passed by this Court on either Civil Appeals or Special Leave Petitions carried by the review petitioners from s and s of the High Court of Delhi (“High Court”, hereafter), declaring land acquisition proceedings initiated under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (“1894 Act”, hereafter) as deemed to have lapsed under section 24(2) of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act (“2013 Act”, hereafter). By the s/s under review, the said Civil Appeals/Special Leave Petitions stood dismissed. The RPs having been listed before the said Division Bench, the respondents therein (i.e., landowners) had questioned the maintainability of the same by referring to the Explanation to Rule 1 of XLVII, Code of Civil Procedure (“CPC”, hereafter). As noted earlier, a split verdict 964 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports emerged in Govt. of NCT of Delhi v. K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and ors.,1 being the lead matter. Briefly put, the Hon’ble Judge presiding over the Bench ruled in favour of maintainability of the RPs whereas the Hon’ble companion Judge on the Bench disagreed and held that the RPs were not maintainable. An was, thus, made by the Bench on 17th March, 2023 requiring the papers of the RPs to be placed before the Hon’ble the Chief Justice. Such has been the immediate reason for His Lordship to constitute this larger Bench and refer the RPs to resolve which of the two views on maintainability of the RPs is the correct view; hence, all such RPs are now before this larger Bench. C. JUDICIAL TRAJECTORY 3. Before delving deep into the intricacies presented by the reference, it would be apposite to trace the judicial trajectory of proceedings in this Court on interpretation of section 24(2) of the 2013 Act that preceded the split verdict. 4. The 2013 Act was enforced with effect from 1st January, 2014. Soon thereafter, the interpretation of section 24(2) of the 2013 Act fell for consideration before this Court. A three-Judge Bench (cor. Hon’ble R.M. Lodha, Hon’ble Madan B. Lokur and Hon’ble Kurian Joseph, JJ.) in Pune Municipal Corporation v. Harakchand Misirimal Solanki 2 explained, in the light of section 31 of the 2013 Act what the expression “compensation has not been paid” occurring in section 24(2) meant. The verb “paid” in the same sub-section was also explained. Perhaps, since no argument was advanced, the Bench did not have the occasion to consider whether the conjunction “or” between the expressions “compensation has not been paid” and “possession has not been taken” in sub-section (2) should be read as “or” as it is, or read as “and”.