The IEPFA would need a full time Chief Executive Officer who would have specific key performance indicia that would be fixed by the governance oversight of the Authority.” The Committee made further recommendation to induce financial literacy and make it a fundamental part of pedagogy right from school curricula. 63. SEBI has submitted that while it is open to considering some of the above suggestions, it is not empowered to implement others as they lie outside its prescribed sphere of competence and expertise. In particular, SEBI has submitted that the recommendations on creation of a financial redressal agency, central unclaimed property authority, and framework to set up a multi-agency committee would require multiple regulators and the Government may need to look into these recommendations. We find it appropriate to direct both the Government of India and SEBI to consider the recommendations of the Expert Committee with respect to investor awareness and create an appropriate legal framework to implement the recommendations. iii. Recommendations of the Expert Committee to strengthen regulatory framework and secure compliance to protect investors 64. The Expert Committee was also directed to suggest measures to (i) strengthen the statutory and/or regulatory framework; and (ii) secure compliance with the existing framework for the protection of investors. Pursuant to its remit, the Committee in its report dated 6 May 2023 has made the following suggestions: 206 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS a. Structural Reform: SEBI must perform its complex functions in a structured form by ensuring greater transparency in law- making, and greater societal involvement in contributing to the law. This will lead to greater compliance with the laws; b. Effective Enforcement Policy: SEBI must optimize its resources and lay down policies for effective enforcement of its law by stipulating the criteria by which it may use its powers to initiate measures. This must be consistent with the legislative policy of SEBI and an attempt must be made to apply the law prospectively; c. Judicial Discipline: Adjudicating Officers and Whole Time Members must show consistency and not take differing views in similar circumstances. Judicial discipline must be followed in applying ratios of previous decisions as well as following the decisions made at the appellate stage; d. Settlement Policy: SEBI must have a robust settlement policy and formulate objective criteria to regulate it. It must not be hesitant to enter settlements whereby financial injury commensurate with the alleged violation may be inflicted on the party; e. Timelines: SEBI must lay down and adhere to strict timelines for initiation of investigations, completion of investigations, initiation of proceedings, disposal of settlement, and disposal of proceedings; f. Surveillance and Market Administration Measures: The element of human discretion must be done away with as far as possible. It must be saved for extraordinary circumstances that would not have been factored in already. With regard to disclosures, all provision of data should be in machine-readable format and inter-operable across electronic platforms; g. The suggestions made on structural reforms by committees in the past should be followed.