1 and 3 and Respondent Nos. 1 and 3 is rendered. 11. Advocate Vinodh Kanna B., appearing for Respondent Nos. 3 and 4, contends that the findings of fact recorded by the Courts below do not warrant reconsideration of evidence by this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, and alternatively, the evidence is wanting on the status of Appellant Nos. 1 and 3 and Respondent No. 1 as the children of Muthusamy Gounder. The alternative argument now canvassed before the Supreme Court is not available in the circumstances of the case or from the material on record. The proof of status as children of Muthusamy Gounder is a condition precedent for applying the ratio of Revanasiddappa (supra), and there is no evidence on this crucial aspect to mould the relief. Therefore, the judgements impugned are sustainable in law and fact. He prays for the dismissal of the Civil Appeal. III. ANALYSIS 12. We have perused the record and noted the rival contentions canvassed by the Counsel, briefly reiterated in this Civil Appeal, the claim for partition in the share notionally allotted to late Muthusamy Gounder is pressed for. Thus, it presupposes the Appellants do not press the claim as coparceners of the family of Muthusamy Gounder; however, from the material on record, they claim a share from the share as the children of Muthusamy Gounder. The claim for a share depends on the application and appreciation of Exs. B-3 to B-6. 13. Sections 17 and 18 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (“the Act”) defines “admission” and “admission by party to proceeding or his agent”. Section 17 of the Act reads thus: - “17. Admission defined admission is a statement, oral or documentary, which suggests any inference as to any fact in issue or relevant fact, and which is made by any of the persons, and under the circumstances, hereinafter mentioned.” 13.1 Admission is a conscious and deliberate act and not something that could be inferred. An admission could be a positive act of acknowledgement or confession. To constitute an admission, one of the requirements is a voluntary acknowledgement through [2024] 1 S.C.R. 421 Raja Gounder and Others v. M. Sengodan and Others a statement of the existence of certain facts during the judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings, which conclude as true or valid the allegations made in the proceedings or in the notice. The formal act of acknowledgement during the proceedings waives or dispenses with the production of evidence by the contesting party. The admission concedes, for the purpose of litigation, the proposition of fact claimed by the opponents as true. An admission is also the best evidence the opposite party can rely upon, and though inconclusive, is decisive of the matter unless successfully withdrawn or proved erroneous by the other side. 13.2 The above being the position, pithily stated on what constitutes an admission, Section 17 of the Act does not come in aid to answer or appreciate the documentary evidence marked in the suit. Therefore, Section 17 has to be read along with Section 18 of the Act, which reads thus:- “18.