A primary and predominant consideration behind minimizing delay is to ensure that the assets of the Corporate Debtor do not get frittered away or depreciated due to the time lag caused either during the CIRP or during the liquidation process overseen by the Liquidator. Such a time bound action is also equally important and imperative while the Resolution Plan is being implemented by the successful resolution applicant. Unnecessary delay caused in implementation of the Resolution Plan would also lead to similar consequences of the assets of the corporate debtor diminishing in value. Therefore, there is no doubt that the timely implementation of the Resolution Plan is also one of the underlying objectives of the IBC, 2016. 155. It is in the above context that the Rules regarding the power of the NCLT and NCLAT to extend time, have to be discussed. Rule 15 of the NCLT Rules, 2016 reads as thus: “15. Power to extend time.- The Tribunal may extend the time appointed by these rules or fixed by any , for doing any act or taking any proceeding, upon such terms, if any, as the justice of the case may require, and any enlargement may be ed, although the application therefore is not made until after the expiration of the time appointed or allowed.” 2156 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 156. Rule 15 of the NCLAT Rules, 2016 reads as thus: “15. Power to extend time.- The Appellate Tribunal may extend the time appointed by these rules or fixed by any , for doing any act or taking any proceeding, upon such terms, if any, as the justice of the case may require, and any enlargement may be ed, although the application therefore is not made until after the expiration of the time appointed or allowed. 157. Rule 15 of the NCLT and NCLAT Rules, 2016 grants power to the NCLT and NCLAT respectively, to extend the time limits for doing any act which have been fixed, either by the rules or by an , as the justice of the case may require. However, such power must not be exercised mechanically without any application of mind. An extension on the strict timelines fixed under the resolution plan must be done by adequately weighing the period of extension sought with the consequences of such extension on the continued implementation of the Resolution Plan. After all, such a discretion cannot be exercised to the detriment of the resolution plan and its implementation itself. While one of the reasons supporting the grant of extension would be to ensure the successful revival of the corporate debtor, multiple extensions may seriously hamper the economic feasibility of the Resolution Plan and also lead to an increase in the debts of the corporate debtor. Not to mention, during the extended period, there are several costs incurred towards maintaining the corporate debtor as well. The feasibility and practicability of the resolution plan adjudged by the “commercial wisdom” of the CoC might no longer remain in cases where incessant extensions are granted by the NCLT and NCLAT under their discretionary powers.