8.10 The remaining critical observations stand dealt with subsequently. PROCEEDINGS UNDER SECTION 37 OF THE A&C ACT 9. The High Court, vide its judgement under challenge before us, has confirmed the modification of the arbitral award as has been done by the learned Civil Judge, Sirsi, dismissing the application on part of the Claimant-Appellant. 9.1 It has been observed that the primary dispute is in respect of claim No. 7 which is the grant of revised rates of the escalated cost of work. The High Court has held that the view of the Arbitrator that the Department is solely responsible for the breach of the contract, cannot be accepted as the shift in venue was only in respect of the residential quarters and not for the office complex. 9.2 The estimation of cost is based on the tender notification relating to the year 1989-90. Costs in the year 1992 could not be expected to have risen hundred percent as claimed. Nothing is reflected on record to show, what precluded the Claimant- Appellant from commencing the work of the office building. It is on this ground that the claim of escalation of the Claimant- Appellant be allowed by the learned Arbitrator, has been termed as perverse and contrary to the public policy. 9.3 Findings of delay being solely on account of the Department, cannot be countenanced and the quantification of damages in respect thereto is unreasonable. “It would be a case of misconduct on the part of the arbitrator amenable to Section 34 of the Act” 9.4 Claim No. 3 in respect of idle labour being allowed to the tune of Rs.1,77,300/- “shocks the conscience of the court.” It is so because there was no basis for the labour to be idle. 9.5 The award of Rs.50,000/-towards cost of arbitration is excessive. It was further observed that escalation of costs cannot be granted on “assumptions and presumptions” and, therefore, awarding 290 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the claims, that too almost equal to the tender amount, cannot be sustained. 10. The learned Civil Judge, Sirsi, to restate, modified the award passed by the learned Arbitrator reducing the amount awarded as also interest thereupon, i.e., Rs.14,68,239/- @ 18% to only 25% of the tender amount which equals to Rs.3,71,564/- and the interest percentage thereon was reduced to 9%. This was found to be justified by the learned Single Judge. CONSIDERATION AND CONCLUSION 11. It is in this background, that we are required to consider whether the modification of the arbitral award as carried out by the learned Civil Judge as confirmed by the High Court, was justified within law? 12. It would be useful to examine the expositions of this Court on the scope to interfere with arbitral awards under Sections 34 & 37 of the A&C Act. 13. The and of the learned Civil Judge was dated 22nd April 2010. 14. The position as to whether an arbitral award can be modified in the proceedings initiated under Sections 34/37 of the A&C Act is no longer res integra.