[2024] 11 S.C.R. 1197 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze (iii) Thus, irrespective of the date of execution of arbitration agreement, Part I of the Act, 1996 will be applicable only to those arbitration agreements where the seat or place of arbitration is in India OR in the absence of any categorical finding as to the place or seat of arbitration, where such agreement stipulates or can be read to stipulate that the law governing the arbitration agreement would be Indian law. 40. The petitioner contended that since the aforesaid Distributorship Agreement that contains the arbitration agreement was executed on 09.11.2010 i.e., prior to the decision of BALCO (supra), Part I of the Act, 1996 would be applicable. However, as discussed in the foregoing paragraphs, Part I of the Act, 1996 is applicable to arbitration agreements prior to BALCO (supra) if the seat of arbitration is in India or where the arbitration agreement is found to be governed by Indian laws. Thus, now the only question that remains to be answered in the present case is whether the seat of arbitration designated under the aforesaid Distributorship Agreement is in India, if not, whether the arbitration agreement could be said to be governed by the Indian laws? ii. Criterion or Test for Determination of Seat of Arbitration: Conflict of ‘Venue’ versus ‘Seat’ of Arbitration. 41. Before proceeding further with the analysis, it would be apposite to first understand what is the criterion or test for determining the ‘seat’ or place of arbitration. a. Closest Connection Test – Place of Arbitration to be ascertained by the Law governing the Arbitration Agreement and not the Place of Arbitration. 42. The “closest connection test” is a legal principle used to determine which law governs an arbitration agreement when the parties have not expressly chosen a governing law or where there is a conflict between the choice of law by the parties. This test seeks to identify the jurisdiction that has the closest relationship with the subject-matter in question or simplicter the dispute between the parties by identifying which system of law has the closest and most real connection with the transaction or dispute between the parties. 1198 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 43. The ‘Closest Connection Test’ was first applied by this Court in its decision in NTPC (supra). In the aforesaid case, the main substantive contract therein had been executed in India, the general terms and conditions appended to the main contract stipulated that the said contract shall be construed and governed according to Indian laws. It further stipulated that the courts of Delhi were conferred exclusive jurisdiction in all matters arising under the said contract. It also contained an arbitration clause which inter-alia stipulated that where the dispute concerns a foreign contractor, then it will be resolved through arbitration and that the rules of conciliation and arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce shall apply to such arbitrations. Pursuant to the above, arbitration was conducted between the parties therein by a tribunal constituted by the International Chamber of Commerce and an interim award was made at London.