152. The United Nations Environment Programme (“UNEP”) notes in its publication titled “Integrating the Environment in Urban Planning and Management — Key Principles and Approaches for Cities in the 21st Century” that more than half of the world’s population is now living in urban areas. It further noted that by the year 2050, more [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1037 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another than half of Africa and Asia’s population will live in towns and cities. It recognised that City Development Strategies (“CDSs”) have shown how to integrate environmental concerns in long-term city visioning exercises. It states that environmental mainstreaming can help to incorporate relevant environmental concerns into the decisions of institutions, while emerging ideas about the green urban economy show how density can generate environmental and social opportunities. It states that the strategies need to be underpinned with governance structures that facilitate integration of environmental concerns in the planning process. 153. The said publication defines EIA to be an analytical process or procedure that systematically examines the possible environmental consequences of the implementation of a given activity (project). It is aimed to ensure that the environmental implications of decisions related to a given activity are taken into account before the decisions are made. 154. Judicial notice is also taken of the cover story published in the weekly, India Today, dated 24-10-2022, titled as “Bengaluru — How to Ruin India’s Best City” by Raj Chengappa with Ajay Sukumaran. The said article depicts the sorry state of affairs as to how the City of Bengaluru, once considered to be one of India’s best cities, a “Garden city” has been ruined on account of haphazard urban development. It takes note of as to how on account of one major spell of rain in the September of 2022, the city bore the brunt of nature’s fury. Various areas of the city were inundated with heavy rains. The loss the flood caused to the Outer Ring Road tech corridor alone was estimated to be over Rs 225 crores. 155. The article notes that, while on one hand, on account of heavy rains, many of the houses were submerged in water, on the other hand, the city faced a huge shortage of drinking water. 156. The article further notes that rapid expansion of the city with no appropriate thought given towards transportation 1038 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and ease of mobility has led to nightmarish traffic jams on its arterial roads. It notes that, almost overnight, Bengaluru›s municipal jurisdiction grew from 200 sq km to 800 sq km. It observes that the only one to benefit was the politician-businessman-builder nexus, which has thrived. It further noted that though posh colonies mushroomed in new areas, the infrastructure lagged, as roads remained narrow, the drainage poor, and no adequate provision for garbage disposal too. 157. The article notes that the primary canals known locally as rajakaluves were once natural rain-fed streams across which farmers built small bunds over time, to arrest the flow of water and create lakes.