In other words, if a law is made by the Parliament, does it occupy the entire field so as to reduce or negate the legislative competence of the State Legislature to make a similar law? How does one determine whether the legislative field has been occupied? Firstly, there must be a Parliamentary law in place with an intention to occupy the field. Secondly, the contours of the field must be determined. Consequently, the State Legislature would be prevented from making the law in terms of what has been determined by the Parliament to occupy the field. Thus, the intention to occupy the field must be explicit and clear and discernible with the result that the State Legislature would have a reduced field or the legislative competence would be one of total prohibition to make a similar law. For instance, whether the Parliamentary law intends to put in place a complete and exhaustive regulatory scheme, as a result of which the State Legislature is denuded of its powers to make any State regulation in the field as a whole. This intention would have to be discerned on a reading of the statute as a whole and the particular provisions which should emanate such an intention. Thus, there must be a clear intention to occupy the field by a Parliamentary legislation. Further, the extent of the field sought to be occupied must be clearly demarcated. In other words, whether the Parliament 2152 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports has evinced to exclude the State Legislature from making a law on a similar subject by virtue of an Entry in List III? 16.4 In to answer this question, the provisions of the Act made by the Parliament have to be examined threadbare in to ascertain a clear intention of the Parliament to occupy the field so as to negate the Legislature of the States to have the competence to make a similar law. Thus, while a direct conflict of a Parliamentary law and a State law could be resolved on the touchstone of a harmonious interpretation of the two laws (vide second part of article 254(1)), a potential conflict between a Parliamentary law which has been enacted and a potential or future law by a State Legislature is avoided on the touchstone of the doctrine of occupied field. 16.5 While applying the occupied field doctrine, Courts must delicately balance the legislative competence of the Parliament and the State Legislatures in making laws on a particular subject under the Concurrent List and apply the doctrine of occupied field only having regard to the intention of the Parliament to occupy the field and the Parliament defining the contours of the field sought to be occupied by a comparative and coherent reading of the other Entries in List I and List II, having bearing on the concerned Entry in List III of the Constitution. Such balancing need to be done by Courts in to ascertain whether despite legislative competence being provided to the State Legislatures under a particular Entry in the Concurrent List but owing to what has been stated in any law made under Entry in List I (Union List) having a bearing on an Entry in the Concurrent List being made subject to any Entry in the Union List, would result in the State Legislatures being denuded of legislative competence to make laws on a similar subject under an Entry in List III such as Entry 33(a) – List III which is under consideration.