Those whose business is to advise persons who consult them on questions of law, find it difficult to give such advice with confidence where the decisions are conflicting. Those who are entrusted with the functions of adjudicating on questions of law must spend considerable time in between two or more possible views on a subject which falls to be considered before them, In this process, there is bound to result considerable waste of time and energy. That apart, it is not a satisfactory situation that on a given topic, the rule of law prevailing in one part of the country should be different from the rule prevailing in another part of the country when the disparity arises from conflicting judicial interpretations.” 28.5.1 The High Court of Judicature at Bombay (Nagpur Bench), in Criminal Appeal Nos.136 & 137 of 2017 titled as Mahesh Kariman Tirki v. State of Maharashtra’ on remand from this Court (by dated 19th April 2023 passed in SLP (Crl. )Nos.11072-11073/2022 for decision on merits as also validity of sanction), regarding timelines mentioned in the 2008 Rules, held as under: “153. Though the word “shall” no doubt connotes the sense of urgency, but the consequence of non- compliance in strict sense which flows from the 348 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports wordings in the rule, has not been spelt out under the statute. Neither at an initial stage of the prosecution nor even before us the defence has projected any prejudice from strict non-compliance of time frame. 154. The very purport of the provision is to convey that the process has to be complied with and completed in an expeditious manner. Particularly, we have taken into account the contingency which may occur, if the word “shall” in the context is held mandatory. In that case, even if a single days delay would stifle the prosecution intending to curb the act of terrorism. Certainly, the legislative intent behind incorporating the term “shall” is not to stifle the prosecution on such insignificant technicality, but conveys that the process ought to be completed in an expeditious manner. We are unable to persuade ourselves to accept the contention that the term “shall” is to be strictly treated as a mandatory provision and failure to comply with the timeline strictly vitiates the process. Therefore, we respectfully defer with the view taken by the Kerala High Court in the case of Roopesh (supra) in that regard. 155. We are of the view that and accordingly hold that to achieve legislative intent the dual mandate is to be complied with in its true spirit. Though a minuscule delay would not thwart the legislative intent, but delay if writ large from the record, which is unexplained, would certainly have its own adverse impact on the process of sanction.” The import of the above extract is that the timelines mentioned in Rules 3 and 4 of the 2008 Rules, despite having the word ‘shall’ in them, are to be taken as directory for, if the timeline is interpreted strictly, it may thwart the purpose of the legislation which is to curb unlawful activities of a specified nature.