It was also submitted that it was open for the CJM to have rejected the police report submitted under Section 173(2) Cr.P.C. for closure and relying upon the material in the case diary, (in effect, the material collected during investigation) could have taken cognizance but once additional evidence was being relied upon which had been filed along with the Protest Petition then the only option open was to treat it as a private complaint and after following the due procedure in Chapter XV of the Cr.P.C. proceeded to take cognizance under Section 190(1)(a) Cr.P.C. 6. On the other hand, the submission advanced by the learned counsel for the State as also the Complainant – respondent no.2 was that the CJM did not take into consideration any additional evidence filed in the form of affidavits along with the Protest Petition and had only relied upon the material collected during the investigation as contained in the case diary and based upon the same the satisfaction recorded by the CJM to reject the police report and take cognizance was well within his domain and such cognizance would fall within Section 190(1)(b) Cr.P.C. It was thus submitted that the impugned does not suffer from any infirmity. 7. We have carefully examined the dated 24.08.2021 passed by the CJM taking cognizance and summoning the police and we find that the CJM had actually taken into consideration not only the Protest Petition but also the affidavit filed in support of the Protest Petition as well as the four affidavits of witnesses filed along with the Protest Petition. It was based on consideration of such affidavits that the CJM was of the view that the investigation was not a fair investigation and these affidavits made out a prima facie case for taking cognizance and summoning the accused. 8. Once we have held as above without going into many s of this Court on the point as to how the Magistrate would proceed under [2024] 4 S.C.R. 659 Mukhtar Zaidi v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. Section 190 Cr.P.C. once the Investigating Officer had submitted a closure report under Section 173(2) Cr.P.C., we may briefly deal with the legal issue and refer to relevant paragraphs of a recent decision. In this connection, Section 190(1) (a) and (b) of Cr.P.C. is extracted hereunder: 190. Cognizance of offences by Magistrates. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, any Magistrate of the first class, and any Magistrate of the second class specially empowered in this behalf under sub-section (2), may take cognizance of any offence – (a) upon receiving a complaint of facts which constitute such offence; (b) upon a police report of such facts;….” 9. In the case of Vishnu Kumar Tiwari vs. State of Uttar Pradesh, through Secretary Home, Civil Secretariat, Lucknow & Anr.,5 Justice K.M.Joseph, speaking for the Bench laid down the legal position relying upon previous s of this Court. In the said case the facts were quite similar to that of the present case where affidavits were filed along with the Protest Petition.