By a short we granted the leave in the matters and allowed the appeals, for the reasons to follow. The respondents were directed to surrender before the Trial Court on or before 09.04.2024. The same is extracted below: “Leave granted. Appeals are allowed. Reasons to follow. The respondents-life convicts shall surrender on or before 9.4.2024 before the concerned Trial Court. In case of their failure to surrender, they shall be taken into custody and produced before the Trial Court.” 2.1 I fully subscribe to the views expressed, but wish to add some more reasons. 3. The main ground on which the High Court ed suspension of sentence of the respondents, who have been awarded life imprisonment is that the counsel for the accused submitted that in the evidence it had come on record that about ₹ 21 lakhs (Rupees Twenty-One Lakhs only) have been spent on her treatment as she suffered disfigurement of her face. It was further argued that the Trial Court in its of conviction had directed that the victim be granted adequate compensation for her treatment under the Victim Compensation Scheme. Then, it was collectively argued by the learned counsel for the accused that without prejudice to their right of defence the accused collectively and voluntarily offered to pay a sum of ₹ 25 lakhs (Rupees Twenty Five Lakhs only) which may be given to the victim for her medical treatment. It was objected to by 46 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the learned counsel for the State. Taking note of the offer made by the counsel for the private respondents, who are the convicts, the High Court accepted the offer made by them and directed that, over and above, the amount of compensation paid by the District Legal Services Authority to the victim, the private respondents have offered to pay a sum of ₹ 25 lakhs (Rupees Twenty-Five Lakhs only) for her treatment. The sentence awarded to them was suspended. It was further noticed that the hearing of appeal is likely to take some time. Relevant paragraph 10 of the impugned is extracted below: “10. After hearing counsel for the parties and considering the voluntarily offer made by the appellants, which is without prejudice to the right of defence as well as right of the prosecution to be decided at the time of final adjudication and having no bearing on the merit of the case, over and above, the amount of compensation being paid by the District Legal Services Authority, Meerut, the appellants have offered to pay an amount of ₹ 25 lakhs to the victim for her medical treatment and also in view of the long custody as well as the antecedents of the appellants and also considering the fact that the appeals pertain to the year 2021 and are not likely to be listed for final argument in near future, we deem it appropriate to grant suspension of sentence of the appellants.” 4. As the victim may also be in shock and not interested in receiving the amount as offered by the private respondents, the respondents moved a Correction Application1 before the High Court.