upto filing of the Complaint in respect of offence under Section 3 of PMLA is fully governed by the provisions of the said Act itself. The jurisdictional police who is governed by the regime of Chapter XII of the Code, can not register the offence of money laundering, nor can investigate into it, in view of the special procedure prescribed under the PMLA with regard to the registration of offence and inquiry/investigation thereof, and that the special procedure must prevail in terms of Section 71 of the PMLA. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 129 Abhishek Banerjee & Anr. v. Directorate of Enforcement 16. Apart from the fact that Section 50 is a gender neutral, as it does not make any distinction between a man and a woman, there are glaring inconsistencies between the provisions contained in Section 50 of PMLA and Section 160/161 of Cr.P.C. The Chapter XII of Cr.P.C. pertains to the “Information to the Police and their Powers to Investigate”. Section 160 which falls under Chapter XII empowers the Police Officer making an investigation under the said Chapter to require any person to attend within the limits of his own or adjoining station who, from the information given or otherwise appears to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case, whereas, the process envisaged by Section 50 of the PMLA is in the nature of an inquiry against the proceeds of crime and is not “Investigation” in strict sense of the term for initiating prosecution; and the Authorities referred to in Section 48 of PMLA are not the Police Officers as held in Vijay Madanlal. It has been specifically laid down in the said decision that the statements recorded by the Authorities under Section 50 of PMLA are not hit by Article 20(3) or Article 21 of the Constitution, rather such statements recorded by the authority in the course of inquiry are deemed to be the Judicial proceedings in terms of Section 50(4), and are admissible in evidence, whereas the statements made by any person to a Police Officer in the course of an investigation under Chapter XII of the Code could not be used for any purpose, except for the purpose stated in the proviso to Section 162 of the Code. In view of such glaring inconsistencies between Section 50 PMLA and Section 160/161 Cr.P.C, the provisions of Section 50 PMLA would prevail in terms of Section 71 read with Section 65 thereof. 17. So far as the procedure to be followed by the Summoning Officer while exercising the powers under sub-section (2) and (3) of Section 50 of the PMLA is concerned, it is pertinent to note that Rule 11 of the said Rules 2005, requires the Summoning Officer to follow the procedure as prescribed therein, i.e., to issue Summons in Form V appended to the said Rules. The said prescribed Form V requires Summoning Officer to mention not only the Name, Designation and Address of the Summoning Officer but also the details of the persons summoned as also the documents sought therein.