[Paras 12-17] List of Acts Constitution of India – Article 136 and Article 226 List of Keywords Habeas Corpus; Illegal detention; Personal freedom; Right to choose family; LGBTQ+ persons; Sexual orientation; Judge-in chamber; Counselling; Dignity; Privacy Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No.1730 of 2024 From the and dated 13.01.2023 of the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam in WPCRL No.28 of 2023 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1275 Devu G Nair v. The State of Kerala & Ors. Appearances for Parties Sriram P., Adv. for the Appellant. Nishe Rajen Shonker, Mrs. Anu K Joy, Alim Anvar, Sayooj Mohandas M, S. Jyotiranjan, Sandeep Singh, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI 1. Leave Granted. 2. These proceedings under Article 136 of the Constitution arose from the interim s of the Kerala High Court dated 13 January 2023 and 02 February 2023 in a petition seeking a writ of habeas corpus. 3. The appellant and the ‘corpus’ (‘X’ for convenience of reference) are both female According to the appellant, they were in an intimate relationship. The petition seeking a writ of habeas corpus was instituted on the ground that the ‘X’ was being forcibly kept by her parents in their custody whereas she wished to remain with the appellant. On 13 January 2023, at the stage of admission, the Kerala High Court ed the Secretary of the jurisdictional District Legal Services Authority1 to visit the fourth and fifth respondents who are the parents of ‘X’, and record her statement to ascertain if she was under illegal detention. The High Court further directed that in the event that ‘X’ is in illegal detention, the Station Head Officer of the jurisdictional Police Station must ensure that ‘X’ is produced before the Secretary, DLSA to facilitate an interaction with the High Court through a video conferencing session. The parents of ‘X’ were allowed to join and remain present during the video conferencing session. 4. On 31 January 2023, the High Court directed the production of ‘X’ before the Secretary, DLSA on 2 February 2023 to facilitate an interaction with the High Court. After an interaction with ‘X’, the High Court proceeded to direct ‘X’ to undergo a counselling session with a psychologist attached to a counselling centre. 1 DLSA 1276 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 5. Faced with the above grievance, this Court on 6 February 2023 issued notice and issued interim directions. The parents of ‘X’ were directed to produce her before the Family Court at Kollam by 05:00 pm on 8 February 2023. Further, the Principal Judge of the Family Court was directed to arrange for an interview of ‘X’ with Ms Saleena V G Nair, a Member of the e-Committee of the Supreme Court who was, at that point in time, on deputation. Ms Nair is in the judicial service of the State of Kerala. 6. The interview was directed to be arranged in consultation with the Principal Judge of the Family Court and Ms Nair was directed to interact with ‘X’ and submit a report after ascertaining her wishes on whether she is voluntarily residing with her parents or is kept under illegal detention.