(5) The High Court may, upon such terms as to costs and otherwise, as it may deem fit, allow the particular particulars of any corrupt practice, alleged in the petition to be amended or amplified in such manner, as may in its opinion, be necessary for ensuring affair and effective trial of the petition, but shall not allow any amendment of the petition which will have the effect of introducing particulars of a corrupt practice, not previously alleged in the petition. (6) The trial of an election petition shall, so far as is practicable consistently with the interest of justice in respect of the trial, be continued from day to day until its conclusion, unless the High Court finds the adjournment of the trial beyond the following day to be necessary for reasons to be recorded. (7) Every election petition shall be tried as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made to conclude the trial within six months from the date on which the election petition is presented to the High Court for trial. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 67 Sheikh Noorul Hassan v. Nahakpam Indrajit Singh & Ors. High Court shall dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of Section 81 or Section 82 or Section 117 of the 1951 Act; (b) the High Court may allow the particulars of any corrupt practice alleged in the petition to be amended or amplified, but shall not allow any amendment of the petition which will have the effect of introducing particulars of a corrupt practice, not previously alleged in the petition; and (c) the election petition shall be tried as expeditiously as possible and there shall be an endeavour to conclude the trial within six months from the date on which the election petition is presented to the High Court for trial. Section 87 provides that every election petition, subject to the provisions of the Act, and of any rules made there under, be tried by the High Court, as nearly as may be, in accordance with the procedure applicable under the CPC to the trial of suits. Sections 93 to 99 deal with other procedural aspects which are not relevant for the controversy on hand. Section 10013 enumerates the grounds for declaring election to be void. Section 101 deals with a situation when a candidate other than the returned candidate may be declared to have been elected. Section 102 addresses a situation where during the trial 13 Section 100. Grounds for declaring election to be void.— (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), if the High Court is of opinion – (a) that on the date of his election, returned candidate was not qualified, or was disqualified, to be chosen to fill the seat under the Constitution or this Act or the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 (20 of 1963); or (b) that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of a returned candidate or his election agent; or (c) that any nomination has been properly rejected; or (d) that the result of the election, insofar as it concerns a returned candidate, has been materially affected – (i) by the improper acceptance of any nomination, or (ii) by any corrupt practice committed in the interests of the returned candidate by an agent other than his election agent; or (iii) by the improper reception, refusal or rejection of any vote or the reception of any vote which is void; or (iv) by any non-compliance with the provisions of the Constitution or of this Act or of any rules or s made under this Act, the High Court shall declare the election of the return candidate to be void.