Digital Supreme Court Reports High School and St. Stephen’s College, and who have perhaps been specially coached for the examination may secure 70, 80 or even 90 per cent of the marks? Surely, a child who has been able to jump so many hurdles may be expected to do better and better as he progresses in life. If spring flower he cannot be, autumn flower he may be. Why then, should he be stopped at the threshold on an alleged meritarian principle? The requirements of efficiency may always be safeguarded by the prescription of minimum standards. Mediocrity has always triumphed in the past in the case of the upper classes. But why should the so-called meritarian principle be put against mediocrity when we come to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and backward classes?” 130. The Learned Judge observed that the disastrous consequences of the so-called meritarian principle to the vast majority of the under- nourished, poverty-stricken, barely literate and vulnerable people of our country are too obvious to be stated. The Learned Judge compared a child of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or other backward classes who has been brought up in an atmosphere of penury, illiteracy and anti-culture, who is looked down upon by tradition and Society, who has no books and magazines to read at home, no radio to listen, no TV to watch, no one to help him with his homework, who goes to the nearest local board school and college, whose parents are either illiterate or so ignorant and ill-informed that he cannot even hope to seek their advice on any matter of importance. The Learned Judge observed that with all these disadvantages, if he is able to secure the qualifying 40% or 50% of the marks at a competitive examination, he cannot be said to have no merit, especially if he be compared with the children of the upper classes who have all the advantages, who go to St. Paul’s High School and St. Stephen’s College, and who have perhaps been specially coached for the examination and may secure 70, 80 or even 90% of the marks. The Learned Judge further observed that the requirements of efficiency may always be safeguarded by the prescription of minimum standards. 131. Emphasizing on the position of the Scheduled Castes, the Learned Judge observed thus: [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1523 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. “51. …….Now, anyone acquainted with the rural scene in India would at once recognise the position that the Scheduled Castes occupy a peculiarly degraded position and are treated, not as persons of caste at all, but as outcastes. Even the other admittedly backward classes shun them and treat them as inferior beings. It was because of the special degradation to which they had been subjected that the Constitution itself had to come forward to make special provision for them. There is no point in attempting to determine the social backwardness of other classes by applying the test of nearness to the conditions of existence of the Scheduled Castes.