This is clear from paragraph 14 of the dated 12.04.2019 which had directed that the details mentioned in paragraph 13 of the dated 12.04.2019 will be furnished forthwith in respect of the Bonds received by a political party till the date of passing of the . 78. In view of the findings recorded above, | would direct the ECI to disclose the full particular details of the donor and the amount donated to the particular political party through Bonds. | would restrict this direction to any donations made on or after the interim dated [2024] 2 S.C.R. 607 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 12.04.2019. The donors/purchasers being unknown and not parties, albeit the principle of /is pendens applies, and it is too obvious that the donors/purchasers would be aware of the present litigation. Hence, they cannot claim surprise. 79. |, therefore, respectfully agree and also conclude that: the Scheme Is unconstitutional and is accordingly struck down; proviso to Section 29C(1) of the Representation of the People Act, Section 182(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, and Section 13A(b) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, as amended by the Finance Act, 2017, are unconstitutional, and are struck down; deletion of proviso to Section 182(1) to the Companies Act of 2013, thereby permitting unlimited contributions to political parties is unconstitutional, and is struck down; sub-section (3) to Section 31 of the RBI Act, 1934 and the Explanation thereto introduced by the Finance Act, 2017 are unconstitutional, and are struck down; the ECI will ascertain the details from the political parties and the State Bank of India, which has issued the Bonds, and the bankers of the political parties and thereupon disclose the details and names of the donor/purchaser of the Bonds and the amounts donated to the political party. The said exercise would be completed as per the timelines fixed by the Hon’ble the Chief Justice; Henceforth, as the Scheme has been declared unconstitutional, the issuance of fresh Bonds is prohibited; In case the Bonds issued (within the validity period) are with the donor/purchaser, the donor/purchaser may return them to the authorised bank for refund of the amount. In case the Bonds (within the validity period) are with the donee/political party, the donee/political party will return the Bonds to the issuing bank, which will then refund the amount to the donor/ purchaser. On failure, the amount will be credited to the Prime Ministers Relief Fund. 80. The writ petitions are allowed and disposed of in the above terms. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 608 Digital Supreme Court Reports Annexure - A Standards of Review - Proportionality & Alternatives Proportionality is a standard-based model. It allows factual and contextual flexibility to judges who encounter diverse factual scenarios to analyse and decide the outcome of factual clashes against the standards. Proportionality, particularly its balancing prong, has been criticized by jurists who contend that legal adjudication should be rule-based rather than principle-based. '*° They argue that this provides legal certainty by virtue of rules being definitive in nature.