9,36,693.18/- of my son is due for payment on the Opposite Party, which he clearly refused to pay the same.” (quoted verbatim from paperbook) 12. On behalf of the complainant, it has been urged that a detailed description of the offending acts need not be disclosed at the stage at which the appellant wants invalidation of the complaint. He has drawn our attention to the of this Court in the case of Jagdish Ram -vs- State of Rajasthan and Another [(2004) 4 SCC 432]. In this it has been, inter-alia, held:- “10…. It is well settled that notwithstanding the opinion of the police, a Magistrate is empowered to take cognizance if the material on record makes out a case for the said purpose. The investigation is the exclusive domain of the police. The taking of cognizance of the offence is an area exclusively within the domain of a Magistrate. At this stage, the Magistrate has to be satisfied whether there is sufficient 1146 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ground for proceeding and not whether there is sufficient ground for conviction. Whether the evidence is adequate for supporting the conviction, can be determined only at the trial and not at the stage of inquiry. At the stage of issuing the process to the accused, the Magistrate is not required to record reasons.” Similar views have been expressed by this Court in the case of Birla Corporation Ltd. -vs- Adventz Investments and Holdings Ltd. and Ors. [(2019) 16 SCC 610] as also Smt Nagawwa -vs-Veeranna Shivalingappa Konjalgi and Others [(1976) 3 SCC 736]. 13. As far as the allegations of criminal intimidation are concerned, our attention has been drawn to the of this Court in the case of Fiona Shrikhande -vs- State of Maharashtra and Another [(2013) 14 SCC 44]. It has been held in this case that the petition of complaint need not repeat the actual words or language of insult word by word and the complaint has to be read as a whole. If the Magistrate comes to a conclusion, prima facie, that there has been an intentional insult so as to provoke any person to break the public peace or to commit any other offence it should be sufficient to bring the complaint within the ambit of the aforesaid provision. It has also been argued on behalf of the respondent no.2 that the appellant in any event has got the right to apply for discharge and the petition of complaint does not suffer from the defect of not having made out any offence at all. This was the view taken by the High Court. 14. Past commercial relationship between the appellant’s employer and the respondent no.2 is admitted. It would also be evident from the petition of complaint the dispute between the parties centred around the rate at which the assigned work was to be done. Neither in the petition of complainant nor in the initial deposition of the two witnesses (that includes the complainant) the ingredients of the offence under Section 405 of the 1860 Code surfaced.