h. Whether the expression “subject to any limitation imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development” in Entry 50 of List II refers to the subject matter in Entry 54 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution; i. Whether Entry 50 of List II read with Entry 54 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution constitute an exception to the general scheme of Entries relating to taxation being distinct from other Entries in all the three Lists of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution as enunciated in M P V Sundararamier & Co. v. State of Andhra Pradesh;8 8 [1958] 1 SCR 1422 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1595 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. j. Whether in view of the declaration under Section 2 of the MMDR Act made in terms of Entry 54 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and the provisions of the said Act, the State legislature is denuded of its power under Entry 23 of List II and/ or Entry 50 of List II; and k. What is the effect of the expression “subject to any limitation imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development” on the taxing power of the State legislature in Entry 50 of List II, particularly in view of its uniqueness in the sense that it is the only entry in all the entries in three Lists (Lists I, II, and III) where the taxing power of the State legislature has been subjected to “any limitation imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development.” B. Issues 5. During the course of the hearing,9 counsel for the petitioners and respondents agreed that the main questions that fall for determination by this Court could be reframed in the following terms: a. What is the true nature of royalty determined under Section 9 read with Section 15(1) of the MMDR Act? Whether royalty is in the nature of tax; b. What is the scope of Entry 50 of List II of the Seventh Schedule? What is the ambit of the limitations imposable by Parliament in exercise of its legislative powers under Entry 54 of List I? Does Section 9, or any other provision of the MMDR Act, contain any limitation with respect to the field in Entry 50 of List II? c. Whether the expression “subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development” in Entry 50 of List II pro tanto subjects the entry to Entry 54 of List I, which is a non-taxing general entry? Consequently, is there any departure from the general scheme of distribution of legislative powers as enunciated in M P V Sundararamier (supra)? d. What is the scope of Entry 49 of List II and whether it covers a tax which involves a measure based on the value of the produce of land? Would the constitutional position be any different qua 9 Civil Appeal No.