(2) A deferment may impose requirements (“deferment requirements”) as to the offender’s conduct during the period of deferment. (3) Deferment requirements may include— (a) requirements as to the residence of the offender during all or part of the period of deferment; (b) restorative justice requirements.” (emphais supplied) Section 5 of the Sentencing Act, 2020 “5 Making a deferment (1) A court may make a deferment in respect of an offence only if— (a) the offender consents, 714 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) the offender undertakes to comply with any deferment requirements the court proposes to impose, (c) if those requirements include a restorative justice requirement, section 7(2) (consent of participants in restorative justice activity) is satisfied, and (d) the court is satisfied, having regard to the nature of the offence and the character and circumstances of the offender, that it would be in the interests of justice to make the . (2) The date specified under section 3(1) in the may not be more than 6 months after the date on which the is made. (3) A court which makes a deferment must forthwith give a copy of the — (a) to the offender, (b) if it imposes deferment requirements that include a restorative justice requirement, to every person who would be a participant in the activity concerned (see section 7(1)), (c) where an officer of a provider of probation services has been appointed to act as a supervisor, to that provider, and (d) where a person has been appointed under section 8(1)(b) to act as a supervisor, to that person. (4) A court which makes a deferment may not on the same occasion remand the offender, notwithstanding any enactment.” (emphais supplied) Section 6 of the Sentencing Act, 2020 “6 Effect of deferment (1) Where a deferment has been made in respect of an offence, the court which deals with the offender for the offence may have regard to— [2024] 5 S.C.R. 715 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr. (a) the offender’s conduct after conviction, or (b) any change in the offender’s circumstances.” (emphais supplied) Section 30 of the Sentencing Act, 2020 “Pre-sentence reports 30 Pre-sentence report requirements (1) This section applies where, by virtue of any provision of this Code, the pre-sentence report requirements apply to a court in relation to forming an opinion. (2) If the offender is aged 18 or over, the court must obtain and consider a pre-sentence report before forming the opinion unless, in the circumstances of the case, it considers that it is unnecessary to obtain a pre-sentence report. (3) If the offender is aged under 18, the court must obtain and consider a pre-sentence report before forming the opinion unless— (a) there exists a previous pre-sentence report obtained in respect of the offender, and (b) the court considers— (i) in the circumstances of the case, and (ii) having had regard to the information contained in that report or, if there is more than one, the most recent report, that it is unnecessary to obtain a pre-sentence report.