from Chaudhary Charan Singh University, Meerut and therefore his nomination paper was liable to be rejected. According to him, another independent candidate Karim Uddin Barbhuiya, (the respondent no. 8 in the Election petition) had also raised an objection by submitting a written complaint dated 15.03.2021 before the returning officer, however the returning officer had failed to exercise his jurisdiction and authority under Section 36 of the RP Act and refused to make even a summary enquiry by calling upon the appellant to meet with the objections raised by him. Thus, according to the respondent no. 1, there was an improper acceptance of the nomination paper of the appellant. He also alleged that the misrepresentation and false representation of educational qualification by the appellant in the affidavit in Form 26 and suppression and misrepresentation of the liability of the appellant in the said affidavit in respect of the cash credit facility, and non-disclosure of the default of the appellant in respect of his liabilities towards employer’s contribution to the provident fund [2024] 4 S.C.R. 537 Karim Uddin Barbhuiya v. Aminul Haque Laskar & Ors. tantamount to commission of “Corrupt practice” of undue influence within the meaning of Section 123(2) of the RP Act. The respondent no. 1 therefore has filed the Election Petition under Section 100 of the Act seeking declaration that the election of the appellant - the returned candidate, was void. 18. The appellant, who is respondent no. 1 in the Election petition before the High Court, had submitted an I.A. being no. 1278 of 2021 seeking rejection of the Election petition under VII Rule 11 of CPC read with Section 87 of the RP Act. It was contended by the appellant in the said application that the paragraphs alleging “Corrupt practices” of undue influence contained in the Election petition do not constitute “material facts” of alleged Corrupt practices so as to give rise to a cause of action for filing the Election Petition. None of the statements made in the various paragraphs of the Election petition could be said to be a Concise statement of “material facts” or “material particulars” to give rise to a cause of action with triable issues on falsity in nomination papers, improper acceptance of nomination paper and commission of corrupt practice. 19. Now, from the bare reading of the Election petition, it emerges that the respondent no. 1 has made only bald and vague allegations in the Election Petition without stating the material facts in support thereof as required to be stated under Section 83(1)(a) of the RP Act. Apart from the fact that none of the allegations with regard to the false statements, and suppression and misrepresentation of facts allegedly made by the respondent no. 1 with regard to his educational qualification or with regard to his liability in respect of the loan availed by him for his partnership firm or with regard to his default in depositing the employer’s contribution to provident fund, would fall within the definition of “Corrupt practice” of “undue influence” as envisaged in Section 123(2) of the RP Act, the Election petition also lacks concise statement of “material facts” as contemplated in Section 83(a), and lacks “full particulars” of the alleged Corrupt practice as contemplated in Section 83(b) of the RP Act.