The relevant noting reads as under: - “Note # 95 [...] Now, as instructed by the competent authority of KMDA keeping in view of the recent changed scenario of handing over of maintenance of E.M. Bypass from KMDA to KMC, cancelling the work as instructed may require judicious action towards implementing the same and to make it lawful, legal advice from Law-Cell, KMDA may be required so that, KMDA doesn’t fall in any legal obligation. However, for immediate compliance of the , a notice to stop the works in all respect with regards to the two above-mentioned tenders may be served to the agency for immediately stopping his all activities at site till further notice. As instructed, a draft Letter is attached herewith for his kind perusal and direction in this regard. [...] 10/01/2023 02:55 PM PARTHA PROTIM GHOSH EE (RBBRDG) (KMDA)” c) Again, in Note #96, it was noted that since the competent authority of the respondent was desirous to cancel the tender, the respondent was of the view that the opinion of its legal cell be obtained first before such action is taken. The relevant noting reads as under: - “Note # 96 [...] As per Note#91¸Competent Authority desires to cancel the Work . [2024] 7 S.C.R. 551 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. In Note#95¸a draft letter has been attached for approval towards issuance to the agency to stop any type of work related to this project. Considering the Chronological development and acceptance by Authority, the matter may kindly be viewed lawfully, so that, if it is cancelled by this end, no legal action is taken by the Agency. Submitted for necessary action. 13/01/2023 02:13 PM SANTANU PATRA SE (RBBRDG) (KMDA)” d) In Note #97 dated 16.01.2023, the respondent has noted that since the competent authority had decided to cancel the work tender there was no option but to cancel it. However, the respondent once again insisted that a legal opinion may be sought first, in to avoid further litigations. The relevant noting reads as under: - “Note # 97 Sub: Cancellation of Work of Mainte- nance of two Underpasses A concurrence of Law Cell, KMDA may kindly be obtained before cancelling the Work of the existing agency. There is no different opinion than to get this cancelled, once this has been decided by the Authority but a legal opinion may be sought for avoiding further litigations. [...] 16/01/2023 04:38 PM SUBHANKAR BHATTACHARYA CE (RBBRDG) (KMDA)” e) Thereafter, it could be seen from Note #101 dated 19.01.2023, that the other officials of the authority also concurred with the respondent’s opinion to first seek advice of its legal cell on the possible consequences in the event the tender for work is cancelled. The relevant observations read as under: - 552 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “Note # 101 As concurred by the Authority the legal aspects and the possible consequences may be reviewed and opined back prior to cancelling the Work .