Whether by reason of a statutory rule or otherwise if a policy decision has been laid down, the persons who come within the purview thereof are entitled to be treated equally, vide State of Mysore vs. H. Srinivasmurthy, (1976) 1 SCC 817 (“H. Srinivasmurthy”). 30.4. In Mahender Singh, this Court was considering the correctness of a of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in which a circular/letter issued by the State of Haryana laying down criteria for premature release of the prisoners had been declared to be unconstitutional. In the above context, this Court considered the right of the convict to be considered for remission and not on what should be the criteria when the matter was taken up for grant thereof. 830 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 30.5. Satish was pressed into service to contend that the length of the sentence or the gravity of the original crime cannot be the sole basis for refusing premature release. Any assessment regarding a predilection to commit crime upon release must be based on antecedents as well as conduct of the prisoner while in jail, and not merely on his age or apprehensions of the victims and witnesses. It was observed that although, a convict cannot claim remission as a matter of right, once a law has been made by the appropriate legislature, it is not open for the executive authorities to surreptitiously subvert its mandate. It was further observed that where the authorities are found to have failed to discharge their statutory obligations despite judicial directions, it would then not be inappropriate for a constitutional court while exercising its powers of judicial review to assume such task onto itself and direct compliance through a writ of mandamus. Considering that the petitioners therein had served nearly two decades of incarceration and had thus suffered the consequences of their actions, a balance between individual and societal welfare was struck by granting the petitioners therein conditional premature release, subject to their continuing good conduct. In the said case, a direction was issued to the State Government to release the prisoners therein on probation in terms of Section 2 of the U.P. Prisoners Release on Probation Act, 1938 within a period of two weeks. The respondent State was reserved liberty with the overriding condition that the said direction could be reversed or recalled in favour of any party or as per the petitioner therein. 31. The following s of this Court are apposite to the concept of remission: (a) In Maru Ram, a Constitution Bench considered the validity of Section 433-A of the CrPC. KrishnaIyer, J. speaking for the Bench observed, “Ordinarily, where a sentence is for a definite term, the calculus of remissions may benefit the prisoner to instant release at the point where the subtraction results in zero”. However, “when it comes to life imprisonment, where the sentence is indeterminate and of an uncertain duration, the result of subtraction from an uncertain quantity is still an uncertain quantity and release of the prisoner cannot follow except on some fiction of quantification of a sentence of uncertain duration.