[Paras 113, 116] Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – XLVII r.1 explanation – Review – Application for review of – Maintainability of the Review peitions: Held: Ord. XLVII does not authorize a review of a decree, which was right, on the happening of some subsequent event – In case of discovery of a new or important matter or evidence, such matter or evidence has to be one which existed at the time when the decree or under review was passed or made – Resultantly, what the statute prohibits, cannot be permitted by the Court – If permitted, the Court would be acting contrary to law – What the Parliament has done, the Court cannot undo unless the law enacted by the Parliament is declared ultra vires – Vires of the Explanation not being under challenge during more than four decades of its existence, it is not for the Court to ignore the Explanation. [Paras 89, 90] Constitution of India – Arts. 137 and 145 – Supreme Court Rules, 2013 – Ord. XLVII r.1 – Review – Review jurisdiction – Exercise of, by the Supreme Court: Held: Power of the Supreme Court to review its own and/ or has its genesis in Arts. 137 and 145 of the Constitution read with Ord. XLVII of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 – r. 1 of Ord. XLVII of the Rules lays down that no application for review in a civil proceeding would be entertained by this Court except on the ground mentioned in r. 1 Ord. XLVII CPC – Review in civil proceedings is governed by s. 114 CPC read with Ord. XLVII thereof – First and foremost condition that is required to be satisfied [2024] 5 S.C.R. 955 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others by a party to invoke the review jurisdiction of the court, whose or decree, as the case may be, is sought to be reviewed, is that the said party must be someone who is aggrieved by the /decree – Meaning of words “person aggrieved” has to be ascertained with reference to the purpose and provisions of the statute – In one sense, the said words could correspond to the requirement of ‘locus standi’ in relation to judicial remedies – Need to ascertain the ‘locus standi’ of a review petitioner could arise, if he is not a party to the proceedings but claims the or decree to have adversely affected his interest – In terms of Ord. XLVII of the 2013 Rules read with Ord. XLVII, CPC, a petition for review at the instance of a third party to the proceedings too is maintainable, the quintessence being that he must be aggrieved by a / passed by this Court – Normally, in the context of r. 1 of Ord. XLVII, CPC, it is that person (being a party to the proceedings) suffering an adverse and/or decree who, feeling aggrieved thereby, usually seeks a review of the /decree on any of the grounds outlined therein – Circumstances where a review would lie are spelt out in clauses (a) to (c) but Ord.