Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. 1108 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) In terms of para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) To circulate the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). (b) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 31.1 High Court of Madras -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of the directions issued in Para 100.2 and 100.3, bail has been granted in non-compliance of Sections 41 and 41-A of CrPC. On the basis of the compliance affidavit, it is noted that bail has been granted for non-compliance even though it has been stated that there is compliance of the said directions. Since both situations cannot co-exist and are self-contradictory, the High Court is directed to report on the compliance of the aforementioned directions. (ii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.5, there is partial non-compliance insofar as some district courts are insisting for bail application under Section 88 of CrPC. Therefore, the High Court is required to inform on its compliance alone. (iii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.8 and 100.9, though the High Court has endeavoured to identify prisoners who are unable to comply with the bail conditions and is stated to have informed them about their rights under Section 440 of CrPC, however, subsequently no bail applications were received under Section 440 of CrPC in most districts. Therefore, the High Court is required to inform on its compliance alone. (iv) In terms of directions contained in para 100.11, there is partial non-compliance in some districts as regular bail applications are not decided within two weeks. Therefore, needful be done in this regard and compliance be ensured. The relevant information should also be furnished. (v) To furnish information on whether the directions of Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC or not. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1109 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. 32. State of Telangana -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage.