Second, whether an MP falls within the purview of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, and who is designated as the sanctioning authority for the prosecution of an MP under the PC Act. In the present , we are concerned solely with the holding of the five-judge bench on the first question, i.e., the scope of the immunity from prosecution under Article 105(2) when an MP is charged with bribery. 11. Three opinions were authored in the case – by SC Agarwal, J (for himself and Dr AS Anand, J), SP Bharucha, J (for himself and S Rajendra Babu, J) and an opinion by GN Ray, J. 12. Justice SP Bharucha (as the learned Chief Justice then was) held that the alleged bribe-takers who cast their vote against the no- confidence motion enjoyed immunity from prosecution in a court of law under Article 105(2) of the Constitution. However, Ajit Singh 6 “JD (AS)” 7 “CBI” 8 “Bribe-takers” 9 “Bribe-givers” 482 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (who abstained from voting) and the alleged bribe-givers were held not to enjoy the same immunity. Justice Bharucha held that for breach of parliamentary privileges and its contempt, Parliament may proceed against both the alleged bribe-takers and bribe-givers. Justice Bharucha held: 12.1. The provisions of Article 105(1) and Article 105(2) suggest that the freedom of speech for MPs is independent of the freedom of speech and its exceptions contained in Article 19. MPs must be free of all constraints about what they say in Parliament. A vote is treated as an extension of speech and is given the protection of the spoken word; 12.2. The expression “in respect of” in Article 105(2) must receive a “broad meaning” and entails that an MP is protected from any proceedings in a court of law that relate to, concern or have a connection or nexus with anything said or a vote given by him in Parliament; 12.3. The alleged bribe-takers are entitled to immunity under Article 105(2) as the alleged conspiracy and acceptance of the bribe was “in respect of” the vote against the no-confidence motion. The stated object of the alleged conspiracy and agreement was to defeat the no-confidence motion and the alleged bribe- takers received the bribe as a “motive or reward for defeating” it. The nexus between the alleged conspiracy, the bribe and the no-confidence motion was explicit; 12.4. The object of the protection under Article 105(2) is to enable MPs to speak and vote freely in Parliament, without the fear of being made answerable on that account in a court of law. It is not enough that MPs should be protected against proceedings where the cause of action is their speech or vote. To enable them to participate freely in parliamentary debates, MPs need the wider protection of immunity against all civil and criminal proceedings that bear a nexus to their speech or vote. It is not difficult to envisage an MP who has made a speech or cast a vote that is not to the “liking of the powers that be” being troubled by legal prosecution alleging that he had been paid a bribe to achieve a certain result in Parliament; 12.5.