He had personally supervised and conducted weapons training camps where PFI cadres were given training to attack their intended targets. 17.23 The investigation disclosed that accused Yasar Arafat, (A-8) is the Zonal Secretary of PFI Madurai Zone which consists of six districts. Earlier, he was the district president of PFI, Theni district. He coordinated weapons training in the districts that come under his zone in the name of PE classes where the participants were taught to attack 1030 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with knives, swords and petrol bombs. Further, he created an attack team in Theni district from the participants who attended the weapons training camp. He used to select PFI cadres who perform well in the weapons training classes as instructors who in turn would conduct secret training sessions in PFI offices and Arivagam, Theni. The training classes were conducted to achieve their goal to prepare for waging war against the Government of India and to establish an Islamic state by the year 2047. To terrorize the Hindu community, he organized recce of the Hindu leaders’ business establishments. Further, documents seized from his residence during the search conducted on 22-09-2022, contain incriminating materials like primary action plan of units, mohalla committees, where explanation was given in gruesome detail on how to attack, where to attack, etc. 17.24 The investigation disclosed that the accused Fayas Ahmed @ Fayas, (A-9) is the district president of PFI Cuddalore District. To achieve their larger conspiracy in making India an Islamic country by the year 2047 by striking terror on a section of people thereby threatening the unity, integrity, security and sovereignty of India, he gave speeches in the classes conducted by PFI to their cadres. He motivated Muslim community youth to attend weapons training conducted by PFI in the guise of PE classes thereby making them hit squads to attack, assault, maim and murder prominent persons even though they belong to Muslim community and oppose PFI. During Ganesh Chaturthi, he attempted to instigate PFI cadres to create riots between Hindu & Muslim with intent to promote enmity between two groups. 18.1 That, the investigation conducted by NIA revealed that A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, A-5, A-6, A-7, A-8, A-9, A-13 and others have been parties to the criminal conspiracy in the matter of strengthening PFI, recruiting of persons to PFI, imparting weapon training to its (PFI) members, commission of unlawful acts, preparatory acts for commission of terrorist acts with the object of establishing Islamic rule in India by 2047. Investigation disclosed that Popular Front of India and its office bearers including the arrested accused [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1031 Union of India Rep. by The Inspector of Police National Investigation Agency Chennai Branch v. Barakathullah etc. persons, A-1 to A-9 and A-13 conspired to wage a war against Government of India by threatening the unity, integrity, security and sovereignty of India in to establish Islamic State in India. To inspire and incite the cadres of PFI, Islamic wars namely battles of AI Badr and battle of Uhud were compared with the war that the PFI and its cadres were to wage against India.