In the cross-examination, he deposed that Survey No.4 was adjacent to the river and since there was a possibility of proceeding of water only, it was not useful for non-agricultural purpose. To the similar effect is the evidence of PW-4. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2281 Kazi Akiloddin v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 84. The respondents did not adduce any evidence. The Reference Court awarded Rs. 100/- per sq. ft. Para 9, 10 and 11 of the of the Reference Court are extracted herein below: “9. The acquired land physical situation is supported by oral evidence of P.W. Nos.3 and 4, who are Talathi and concern with the said landed portion. Both these witnesses have proved the vicinity of the landed portion, which is acquired. Not only the oral evidence of P.W. Nos.3 and 4 support to the vicinity of landed portion allegedly contended by the petitioner, but it is also supported to the blue-print map, which is available on record and other maps also available, which are drawn by the revenue authorities itself. There are two maps filed on record. One is of Akoli Kd. and another is of Hingana Mhaispur. These two lands appears to be accessible and fetchable for the residential purposes before the time of notification. There is no any rebuttable evidence regarding the physical status of landed area in question and objection raised by respondent in their written statement. 10. It is exfacie proved on the basis of sale-deeds, maps, oral evidence in support of petitioner’s case that the landed zone of Akoli Kd. and Hingana Mhaispur having concern with the residential zone, and therefore, there are so many possibilities of high escalation in market value that too, since the time of notification. 11. ...On the basis of materials on record and the oral evidence supported to the case, the petitioner’s case for enhancement of the compensation appears to be well founded. Not only this, petitioner has supported with the relevant passed in L.A.C.No.183/2000 dated 15/01/2005. Certified copy is on record, which clearly shows the fetchable prevailing rate as per market valuation of the concern land was Rs.100/- per square feet. This rate cannot be remained constant. In the present circumstances, there must be escalation in the market valuation. Considering this fact, petitioner did not make any amendment in his pleading. At the stage of argument vide written argument Exh.48 on Page No.8 of it, claiming 2282 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the enhanced compensation at the rate of Rs.100/-, that found me justifiable and natural and supported with all backgrounds about market valuation.” Other statutory benefits were also awarded. 85. Aggrieved by the of the Reference Court, the State preferred First Appeal No. 896 of 2016 before the High Court. The State contended that reliance placed by the Reference Court on LAC No. 183/2000 was not justified as the in the said LAC No. 183/2000 was pending Appeal in the High Court; that the land that was subject matter of LAC No. 183/2000 was located in a different village and the land was not similar in nature; that the in LAC No.