Thus, in case of criminal breach of trust, the offender is lawfully entrusted with the property, and he dishonestly misappropriated the same. Whereas, in case of cheating, the offender fraudulently or dishonestly induces a person by deceiving him to deliver any property. In such a situation, both the offences cannot co-exist simultaneously. xxx 55. It is high time that the police officers across the country are imparted proper training in law so as to understand the fine distinction between the offence of cheating vis-à-vis criminal breach of trust. Both offences are independent and distinct. The two offences cannot coexist simultaneously in the same set of facts. They are antithetical to each other. The two provisions of IPC (now BNS, 2023) are not twins that they cannot survive without each other.’ (emphasis supplied) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2277 V.D. Raveesha v. The State of Karnataka 21. Though, having regard to the afore-enumerated position of law, on an overall conspectus of the factual aspects juxtaposed with the evidence on record, as regards fulfilment of the ingredients of Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC, at first sight, it may appear that the petitioner cannot be convicted both under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC, but, in the present case, on a proper consideration of the issue in its entirety, there is a fine distinction inasmuch as, there are two different persons against whom the petitioner has committed the respective offences under the Sections supra: first, the Company and second, Mallikarjuna (PW4 and husband of purchaser Savithramma). Thus, in the facts and circumstances of the present case, evidently the petitioner is guilty of offence committed against the Company punishable under Section 406 of the IPC and also, of offence committed against Mallikarjuna (PW4 and husband of purchaser Savithramma) punishable under Section 420 of the IPC. 22. Accordingly, for reasons aforesaid, the criminal Special Leave Petition(s) stands dismissed, upholding the Impugned , with the distinguishment of the offences committed supra and by, in the interest of justice, reducing the sentence(s) awarded to one year and six months’ Simple Imprisonment. From the bail application it transpires that the petitioner has already surrendered and presently is lodged in Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara, Electronic City Post, Bangalore. Thus, he is directed to serve the remaining period of the sentence as per this . This shall be notwithstanding that vide Record of Proceedings of even date, we had dismissed the matter(s) simpliciter. 23. Registry shall communicate the to the Superintendent, Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara, Electronic City Post, Bangalore forthwith. 24. We do not propose to make an as to costs. Pending I.A.s do not subsist for consideration and are closed. Result of the case: SLP dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan