They argued that AMU was established by Parliament. The submissions of the learned counsel on behalf of the respondents and the intervenors are summarized below. 25. Mr R Venkataramani, Attorney General for India appearing for the Union of India, made the following submissions: a. The right guaranteed by Article 30 can only be exercised if there is legislation in place to enable the establishment and administration of minority institutions. This legislation should empower minorities to form institutions under constitutional provisions; and b. While Article 30 guarantees minorities certain rights, they are not exempt from other constitutional requirements, particularly regarding reservation. 26. Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India appearing for the Union of India, made the following submissions: a. Azeez Basha (supra) correctly recognized the choices available to AMU in 1920. It had the choice of either affiliating with another university or surrendering its minority status to the imperial government; b. Under the AMU Act, AMU voluntarily surrendered its minority institution status to the imperial government. This is shown by the historical context of the Aligarh Split, where the institution’s leaders chose cooperation with the British government over retaining its Muslim character; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1697 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. c. The British government exerted control over AMU, as evidenced by provisions in the 1920 Act. The Lord Rector had significant authority in the administration of the institution. The Act dissolved the previous governing body and transferred property and decision-making authority to secular government authorities; d. The 1920 Act was a substantive statute which dealt with the specifics of the administration of the institution. The administration of the institution predominantly vested with the non-minority; e. The British government mandated that AMU should not be a religious institution and should be controlled by secular authorities; f. Amendments in 1951 made the 1920 Act consistent with constitutional provisions. This affirmed that AMU was established by statute, not by the minority community; g. Justice M.C. Chagla in the course of legislative debates in 1965 stated that AMU was neither established nor administered by minorities. Azeez Basha (supra) correctly held that AMU surrendered its minority status to the British Government; h. The validity of the 1981 amendment is questionable, as it is contrary to previous judicial decisions; i. The 1981 reference sought clarity on the definition of a minority educational institution. The reference did not include the question of whether AMU is a minority educational institution. Legal challenges in 2005 regarding reservations for Muslims in postgraduate programs led to the current reference. This reference also focused on a specific legal question without reopening factual controversies; j. The term “establish” under Article 30 should be interpreted to mean tangible and manifest establishment. The indicia to decide the minority character of an institution contemplated under Article 30(1) of the Constitution, must include the following: i. The institution/university must necessarily be established and administered by the minority community; and ii. The institution/university should be established by the minority, for the minority and as a minority institution.