The relevant observations read as under: - “6. On perusal of the prosecution records, no materials collected during investigation to show that the petitioner intentionally downloaded or browsed or recorded the 210 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports same and there are no materials available to show that the petitioner had either shared, transmitted or published the video, in any manner. The allegation is confined to that of presence of porn video in the mobile phone of the accused alone. xxx xxx xxx 8. Reading the facts of this case, the same is similar to the facts dealt in Shantheeshlal T.’s case (supra). Therefore, applying the same ratio, this Crl.M.C. is liable to be allowed.” (Emphasis supplied) 69. In Akhil Johny v. State of Kerala reported in 2024 KER 53767, the learned Single Judge of the Kerala High Court held that where the allegations are limited only to the presence of pornographic material involving a child in the mobile phone or hard disk of the accused, no offence could be said to have been made out under Section(s) 15 of the POCSO or 67B of the IT Act and as such the criminal proceedings would be liable to be quashed. The relevant observations read as under: - “6. On perusal of the prosecution records, no materials collected during investigation to show that the petitioner intentionally downloaded or browsed or recorded the same and there are no materials available to show that the petitioner had either shared, transmitted or published the video, in any manner. The allegation is confined to that of presence of porn video in the mobile phone of the accused alone. xxx xxx xxx 8. Reading the facts of this case, the same is similar to the facts dealt in Shantheeshlal T.’s case (supra). Therefore, applying the same ratio, this Crl.M.C. is liable to be allowed.” (Emphasis supplied) 70. In Inayathulla N (1) v. State reported in 2024 KHC 26513, the accused therein was charged for browsing a website and viewing pornographic materials involving a child. Accordingly, a case was registered against him under Section(s) 67B of the IT Act. A learned Single Judge of the High Court of Karnataka held that the soul and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 211 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. essence of Section 67B lies in the act of publication or transmission of any material depicting a child in any sexually explicit conduct, and that mere browsing or watching of such material would not attract the aforesaid provision. It further held that in such cases even investigation should not be permitted to be continued and thus, proceeded to quash the criminal proceedings. The relevant observations read as under: - “7. [...] Section 67B of the IT Act punishes those persons who would publish, transmit the material depicting children in sexually explicit acts in electronic form. The soul of the provision is publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit act. 8. The allegation against the petitioner is that he has watched a pornographic website.