1221 Balveer Batra v. The New India Assurance Company & Anr. would apply. Even otherwise the principles laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure may be held to be applicable in a case of this nature.” 30. Since, there is no specific provision to deal with a situation akin to the situation in the case on hand, the said observation in Mantoo Sarkar’s case (supra) would apply to the case on hand with all its force. 31. In view of the nature of this case, as observed in Mantoo Sarkar’s case (supra), we would have even exercised our extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India to do complete justice between the parties by determining the question of compensation as the accident in question occurred on 07.03.2006. Despite the death of the son of the appellant in the said accident the fact is that the claimant did not get compensation despite the passage of more than 18 years. We have already noted that all relevant issues were framed by the Tribunal for the purpose of determination of compensation. However, even after deciding to permit the parties to adduce evidence the Tribunal in the instant case, appears to have confined it for the purpose of deciding the only question of territorial jurisdiction and therefore, in the absence of evidence on necessary ingredients for determination of compensation payable, we are not in a position to determine the compensation as in view of the factual position obtained in the instant case sufficient to apply the decisions in Mantoo Sarkar’s case (supra) as also Malati Sardar’s case (supra) to reverse the finding on territorial jurisdiction. The High Court has fallen in error in not picking up the illegalities resulting in failure of justice and to resolve them appropriately. For the purpose of determining the compensation in respect of a case of this nature the relevant factors and dates necessary for computing ultimately the quantum of compensation, are not available on record, before us. Though, we are pained and peeved, we have no option, but to remand the matter after a long period of 18 years, which could have been avoided had the Tribunal followed XIV, Rule 2, CPC. Taking note of such circumstances and the prejudice already caused to the claimant(s) and further that directing the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal at Nainital to restore MACP No.137/2006 and fix a date for the appearance of the parties and then proceed to consider the question of grant of compensation, ignoring its finding on territorial jurisdiction would have no prejudice to the parties as they had already 1222 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports examined witnesses before the Claims Tribunal, we are inclined to remand the matter to the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal at Nainital. We hold that it would not cause any prejudice to the opposite parties as they have already filed the written statements before the Tribunal despite objecting to the territorial jurisdiction and even thereafter have chosen to adduce oral evidence before the Tribunal, to some extent.