Digital Supreme Court Reports including the fractures and having rupture of liver and lung, a person could not climb a staircase without support; he would be depressed and his expression and movements would be painful. The fracture of sternum and ribs would cause severe pain and would also affect the respiratory system. Due to the bruises and the fractures, the loss of blood would be about 30-35% of the total volume of blood in the body which would cause drop in the blood pressure. (xiii) The prosecution tried to overcome this pertinent opinion of the Medical Jurist(PW-9) regarding the time of injuries by examining the expert witness-Dr. Ravindra(PW-10) who gave his opinion(Exhibit-53) on queries being raised by the Investigating Officer which were based on the findings in postmortem report(Exhibit-50). Nevertheless, the expert witness(PW-10) while deposing, did not elaborate about the opinion which he had expressed in answer to the queries raised by the Investigating Officer. He only formally proved the letter(Exhibit-53) without elaborating upon its contents. In the cross-examination, the expert witness(PW-10) admitted that the doctor who had performed the postmortem examination would be in a better position to give opinion about the age of injuries. 20. Having set out the admitted facts, we shall now proceed to discuss the evidence of the prosecution witnesses. For the sake of convenience, the details of the prosecution witnesses are reproduced hereinbelow in a tabular form: - PW-1 Selvin Prabhakar(Eyewitness) PW-2 Dhanlakshmi Vaiyapuri(Eyewitness) PW-3 Naykar Vasudev(Eyewitness) PW-4 Harishkumar Fakirswamy PW-5 Dr. Digant Kalidas Dixit(Medical Officer) PW-6 Pratapbhai Jagannath PW-7 Ranjitsing Tensing PW-8 Udesinh Himmatsinh Chauhan PW-9 Dr. Nayankumar Natvarlal Parikh(Medical Jurist) PW-10 Dr. Ravindra Shrikrishna Bhise(Expert witness) [2024] 7 S.C.R. 379 Vinod Jaswantray Vyas (Dead) Through Lrs v. The State of Gujarat 21. First, we shall discuss the evidence of the star prosecution witnesses namely, Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1) and Dhanlakshmi Vaiyapuri(PW-2). Some relevant excerpts from the deposition of Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1) and Dhanlakshmi Vaiyapuri(PW-2) are reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of ready reference: - Examination-in-Chief of Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1) “1.….Thereafter in the night at quarter to eleven hours PSI Shri Vyas in the same room only nearby to the table of the PSO making my brother to stand up facing the wall and keeping both hands up and thereafter Shri Vyas delivered blows with stick on the claws of the hands of my brother, on the back, on the buttock, on the ankle and on the thigh as also on the leg. Vyas Sir also pushed with stick on the chest of my brother. For half an hour, as on getting beaten up in this manner, my brother had fainted and had fallen down. Thereafter two police persons lifted and threw away my brother nearby to the table. At two hours in the night, SP Shri C.G. Patel had come. I know that C.G. Patel and at present he is present in the court as an accused person. 2. Shri C.G. Patel coming there made my brother to stand up in such manner that his face was towards the wall and he delivered stick blows on the hand, on the back, on the side and also pushed with stick in the chest.