61. The reports of the CAG are required to be submitted to the President, who shall cause them to be laid before each House of Parliament, as provided under Article 151(1). In relation to the States, reports are submitted to the Governor, who shall cause them to be laid before the legislature of the State, as per Article 151(2) of the Constitution. When reports are received in Parliament, they are scrutinised by the Public Accounts Committee (PAC). 62. The PAC is established in accordance with Rule 308 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha. The function of the PAC is to examine the accounts of the Union and the report of the CAG. The PAC shall be principally concerned whether the policy is carried out efficiently, effectively and economically, rather than with the merits of government policy. Its main functions are to see that public monies are applied for the purposes prescribed by Parliament, that extravagance and waste are minimised and that sound financial practices are encouraged in estimating and contracting, and in administration generally. The PAC also has the power to receive evidence, the power to send for persons, papers and record and can receive oral evidence on solemn affirmation. Once the report is prepared, the report of the PAC is presented to the House. xxxxx 68. We may, however, point out that since the report is from a constitutional functionary, it commands respect and cannot be brushed aside as such, but it is equally important to examine the comments what respective Ministries have to offer on the CAG’s Report. The Ministry can always point out, if there is any mistake in the CAG’s report or the CAG has inappropriately appreciated the various [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1223 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation issues. For instance, we cannot as such accept the CAG report in the instant case.” [emphasis added] A similar view has been expressed in Pathan Mohammed Suleman Rehmatkhan (supra) and Centre for Public Interest Litigation (supra). 11.4. It is, therefore, evident that the recommendations of the PAC are premised on the response that is received from the concerned Ministries and the Action Taken Reports which includes the replies furnished by the Government and the comments of the PAC to the said replies. Finally, it is for the Parliament to comment on the CAG’s Report after it receives the report of the PAC. 11.5. In the instant case, admittedly the aforesaid procedure has not been followed. As noticed above, the CAG Report is subject to scrutiny by the Parliament and the Government can always offer its views on the said report. Merely because the CAG is an independent constitutional functionary does not mean that after receiving a report from it and on the PAC scrutinizing the same and submitting its report, the Parliament will automatically accept the said report. The Parliament may agree or disagree with the Report. It may accept it as it is or in part.