242. The MMRD Act 1948 was in place when the Constituent Assembly was debating the incorporation of Entry 50 in List II. The framers of the Constitution were aware of the legislative history of the subject of mines and minerals and were aware as to how the Dominion Legislature had interpreted the legislative entries pertaining to regulation of mines and minerals and taxation of mineral rights under the GOI Act 1935.295 The Constituent Assembly negatived the proposal to transfer the entirety of Entry 50 of List II to List I.296 The Constitution did not or could not visualize the effect of taxes on mineral rights on mineral development. Therefore, it left it to the legislative wisdom of Parliament to identify the taxes on mineral rights levied by States may impede mineral development. If Parliament considers that taxes on mineral rights indeed impede mineral development, it can adopt suitable legislative policies to impose limitations on the field of taxation. 243. The legislative subject entrusted to the States to tax mineral rights rests upon the necessity of raising revenues. As discussed in the above segments, Parliament does not possess the legislative field to tax mineral rights either under Entry 54 of List I, being a general entry, or under the residuary powers. The legislative domain to tax mineral rights vests with the State. The legislative power of Parliament to impose “any limitations” is traced to Article 246(1) read with Entry 54 of List I. Parliament can impose limitations, and not levy taxes on mineral rights itself. The subject of taxing mineral rights continues to remain with the States. This understanding also ensures that there is no overlap or conflict between the powers of Union and the taxing field of the States. 244. As held in Jindal Stainless Steel (supra),297 the Constitution understands the expression “limitations” as restrictions, conditions,298 295 D K Trivedi (supra) [31] 296 Constituent Assembly Debates (2nd September 1949) 297 Jindal Stainless Steel [626.3] 298 Article 286(3) (omitted by Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) 2016 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1701 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. or principles.299 However, does the expression “any limitations” include the power to prohibit States from taxing mineral rights? We are of the opinion that the answer must be in the affirmative. Under Entry 50 of List II, the Constitution specifically uses the phrase “any limitations”. The framers of the Constitution intended to empower Parliament to impose “all” and “every” possible limitation on the taxing powers of the State in the interests of mineral development, which may include even a “prohibition.” It had become clear during the course of the hearings, that counsel on both sides largely agreed that Parliament can impose “any limitations” including prohibiting the State legislatures from taxing minerals.300 The crux of the issue pertained to the manner in which Parliament can impose the limitations, which we have already considered in the above segments. 245. The overall scheme of Article 246 read with Entry 54 of List I and Entry 50 of List II makes it clear that Parliament, in the interests of mineral development, can impose “any limitations.” The purport of the expression “any limitations” is wide enough to include the imposition of restrictions, conditions, principles, as well as prohibition.