iv. A combined reading of Section 4(2) Cr.P.C. and Section 65 PMLA would show that the application of the Code is not barred as long as the provisions of the Code are consistent with the PMLA. v. The of this Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Others vs. Union of India and Others1 has not dealt with the issue of procedure for summoning under Section 50 of the PMLA. vi. The Cr.P.C. provides that the existence of the territorial nexus to the commission of a crime is a jurisdictional threshold for the exercise of powers of investigation by a police officer. However, the Respondent – ED has not demonstrated as to how it could be prejudiced by calling the Appellant No. 1 to its office in Kolkata where the ED has the Zonal Office. vii. The Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance has issued administrative instructions consistent with Section 51 of PMLA that demarcate the specific territorial jurisdiction of various Zonal Offices of the ED. The said instructions must be strictly complied with by the ED in consonance with Article 21 of the Constitution of India. viii. The Appellant No. 1 is a permanent resident of Kolkata and being Member of Parliament has a residence in Delhi, which however does not alter his permanent residence at Kolkata. 1 [2022] 6 SCR 382 : (2022) SCC OnLine SC 929 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 119 Abhishek Banerjee & Anr. v. Directorate of Enforcement ix. Section 91 of Cr.P.C. only deals with summons for production of documents, whereas the summons issued to the Appellant No. 1 under PMLA are for personal appearance before the Respondent at New Delhi is nothing but an abuse of process of law. 9. In addition to the above submissions, Learned Senior Counsel Mr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi along with Learned Senior Counsel Mr. Gopal Sankaranarayanan appearing for the Appellant No. 2 broadly made following submissions: - i. The Appellant No. 2 has been summoned to appear in New Delhi despite she being a home maker and a mother of two children. The ED has created Zonal Offices and has an office at Kolkata. Therefore, summoning the Appellant No. 2 in Delhi is illegal and reeks mala fide. ii. The Appellant No. 2 is neither an accused in the predicate offence nor in the money laundering offence. iii. Protection of woman provided under Section 160 of Cr.P.C would be applicable to the PMLA also. iv. Section 65 of PMLA makes provisions of Cr.P.C. applicable in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of PMLA with regard to arrest, search and seizure, attachment, confiscation, investigation, prosecution and all other proceedings under the said Act. Therefore, in the absence of any specific procedure for summoning of witnesses the Cr.P.C. will apply. v. Article 21 of the Constitution provides that a person’s life and liberty can be curtailed by State only in accordance with the procedure established by law, and therefore the procedure for Summons curtailing the right of the Appellant No.