Rita Dwivedi Pushpa Dvivedi Sister of Vibha (Chairman) who is Devrani of Chairman Thus, from the table above, the relationship of appellants with the members of the selection committee is apparent and un-disputed. 3. It is not inapposite to mention that at the previous stage of selection, after preparation of the select list of Shiksha Karmi Grade-III by Janpad Panchayat, Gaurihar, the same was challenged by one Kunwar Vijay Bahadur Singh Bundela by filing an appeal before the Collector, District Chhatarpur, who vide dated 31.08.1998 quashed the selection list and remitted the matter for fresh selection. Pursuant to the directions, fresh selection was conducted and the final selection list consisting of 249 candidates including the names of appellants and four others was published on 16.09.1998. As per the said select list appointment s were issued on 17.09.1998 appointing the candidates including the present appellants. Being 158 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports aggrieved by the selection and appointment of the appellants who were near relatives of members of the selection committee and non-selection of Smt. Archana Mishra who was an aspirant, filed an appeal before the Collector, District Chhatarpur on various grounds including the allegations as quoted in paragraph 14 of the passed by esteemed brother. It is not in dispute that the present appellants were not impleaded as parties in the appeal before the Collector, though Chief Executive Officer Janpad Panchayat, Block Development Education Officer and the President of the Education Committee were arrayed as parties. 4. On issuing notice in the said appeal, the counter affidavit was filed by the Chief Executive Officer, Janpad Panchayat, attaching the certificate given by the Sarpanch of the Panchayat acknowledging the relationship of the selected/appointed candidates with the members of selection committee. As per the material placed, the findings recorded by the Collector are relevant, which is reproduced as under: - “3. ……So far as the question of selection of the relatives of the members of Select Committee is concerned, it is proved that the members of the Committee have selected their relatives and the same is against the principles of law. The facts given in the appeal have been admitted by the Respondent Janpad Panchayat in its Reply that the Committee President Smt. Pushpa Dvivedi’s sister-in-law (Nanad) Shyama Dvivedi daughter of Shiv Dass Dvivedi, her sister-in-law (Devrani) Vibha Dvivedi wife of Kailash Dvivedi, two sisters of the Devrani (Vibha Dvivedi) of the Committee President namely Kum. Rashmi Dvivedi and Km. Rita Dvivedi have been appointed at Serial No. 9 and 4 of the Select List. The certificate of Sarpanch has been attached by the Respondent as evidence in this regard. The Respondent has also admitted that Devender Kumar Avasthi son of Brij Bhushan Avasthi, Rekha Awasthi, daughter of Brij Bhushan Awasthi, Pravesh Kumar, daughter of Brij Bhushan Awasthi are also the maternal niece of the Chairman of the Selection Committee. Their Selection No. is 176 and 30 respectively. Chief Executive Officer has also stated in his reply that Summer Singh, son of other member Swami Singh Sengar, daughter in law Ram Rani, wife of Rudra Pratap Singh, nephew [2024] 4 S.C.R.