Recording the next steps that are to be undertaken in the of the Adjudicating Authority, will keep the parties more vigilant since a non-performance of the obligation may lead to a violation of the terms of the approved Resolution Plan and also violation of the approving the Resolution Plan as well. 181. As regards the implementation of the approved Resolution Plan, it is suggested that the IBC, 2016 statutorily provide for the constitution of a Monitoring Committee, once the plan has been approved, for a smooth handover of the Corporate Debtor to the Successful Resolution Applicant. Presently, such a provision is absent in the Code and it is the Adjudicating Authority that s for the constitution of a Monitoring Committee to ensure smooth implementation of the Plan. The CoC must be empowered to constitute the Monitoring Committee which may, by default, include the Resolution Professional and also include other nominees from the CoC and the Resolution Applicant 2170 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports respectively. Such a Monitoring Committee would be entrusted with the powers of monitoring and supervising the resolution plan till the expiry of the term of the Resolution Plan. The Committee shall also be required to ensure all statutory compliances during the implementation of the plan along with updating the Adjudicating Authorities, Financial and other Creditors about the status of implementation of the Resolution Plan, on a quarterly basis. 182. Moving on to certain efficiency issues within the NCLTs and NCLAT, it has been noticed over a period of time that there is a serious lack of timely admission and disposal of the applications filed as regards the initiation of CIRP, approval of the resolution plan and liquidation. This only adds to the uncertainty of the process and prolongs the dispute thereby jeopardizing the interest of all the stakeholders involved. Adjudication in a time-bound manner would help prevent any further deterioration of the value of the corporate entity. The integrity of the original timelines laid down by the Code and the Resolution Plan must not be allowed to be violated since it would dilute the objective of the Code in its entirety, erode investor confidence and hinder all corporate restructuring efforts. 183. The Members often lack the domain knowledge required to appreciate the nuanced complexities involved in high-stake insolvency matters in to properly adjudicate such matters. It has been noticed that the benches of NCLT(s) and NCLAT don’t have the practice of sitting for the full working hours. They are particularly lacking in the capacity to manage the growing number of cases and giving undivided attention required in such matters. There are serious issues in the manner in which the insolvency matters are listed. There is no effective system in place before the NCLTs for urgent listings. The staff of the Registry is given wide power to list or not to list a particular matter. One of the salutary objects of the Code, 2016 is to protect the assets of the corporate entity in a timely manner and take prompt decisions, however, it has become a practice of the NCLT(s) and NCLAT to ignore the urgent mentionings and listings of time-sensitive matters and show no deference to long-pending matters resulting in value erosion of the assets of the Corporate Debtor and rendering their insolvency resolution process a foregone conclusion.