“Chargesheet”). Pursuant to the filing of the Chargesheet, committal proceedings ensued and thereafter charges were framed against the accused person(s) vide an dated 19.04.2023. 7. Respondent No. 2 preferred an application seeking the grant of bail in relation to the proceeding(s) emanating from the FIR before the Learned Sessions Judge, Basti (the “Trial Court”). Vide an dated 15.03.2022, the aforesaid bail application came to be rejected by the Trial Court. Thereafter, Respondent No. 2 filed an application seeking the grant of bail which came to be allowed by the High Court vide the Impugned . 8. On the other hand, Punit Pal preferred an application seeking the grant of bail in relation to the proceeding(s) emanating from the FIR before the Trial Cour. Vide an dated 29.03.2022, the aforesaid bail application came to be rejected by the Trial Court. Thereafter, Punit Pal filed an application seeking the grant of bail which came to be allowed by the High Court vide an dated 31.10.2023. 9. The Appellant herein i.e., the Original Complainant filed the present appeals assailing the correctness of the (s) passed by the High Court enlarging (i) Respondent No. 2; and (ii) Punit Pal on bail in relation to the FIR. 10. The learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant, urged the following: (a) The High Court ought not to have exercised its jurisdiction to grant Respondent No. 2 and Punit Pal bail in light of the fact that (i) charges had been framed against the accused person(s); (ii) recovery of the weapon used in the assault of the Deceased has been effected from Respondent No. 2; (iii) well-reasoned (s)had been passed by the Trial Court declining the grant of bail to Respondent No. 2; and Punit Pal; (b) That there is a real and probable threat qua the ability to influence witnesses in light of the overwhelming influence exercised in the area by the accused person(s) including inter alia Respondent No. 2 and Punit Pal i.e., after the incident all shops near the place of occurrence remained shut for a period of 10 (ten) days; and (c) That Respondent No. 2; and Punit Pal have misused their liberty i.e., an identified witness had previously sought police 690 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports protection from the Trial Court on account of threats having been extended to him during the pendency of the trial; and it was specifically contended that threats were extended to the Appellant himself by to Respondent No. 2; and Punit Pal. 11. The learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondent State of Uttar Pradesh supported the stand of the Appellant. Moreover, it was brought to our attention that both Respondent No. 2; and Punit Pal were also being prosecuted under the provisions of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986. 12. On the other hand, Mr. Sudhir Kumar Saxena, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondent No. 2; and Punit Pal has vehemently contended as under: (a) That Respondent No.