Consequently, the appeal of the insurance company was allowed and the party was directed to refund of the amount deposited / paid, if any, to the appellant insurance company. After framing the said question in the above factual backdrop, it was answered in Malati Sardar’s case by placing reliance on the earlier decision of this Court in Kiran Singh v. Chaman Paswan2. This Court held that the provision in question is a benevolent provision for the victims of accidents of negligent driving and in such circumstances, it has to be interpreted with the object of facilitating remedies for the victims of accidents. Furthermore, it was held in paragraph 16 thereof, thus:- “……Hyper technical approach in such matters can hardly be appreciated. There is no bar to a claim petition being filed at a place where the insurance company, which is the main contesting party in such cases, has its business. In such cases, there is no prejudice to any party. There is no failure of justice”. (underline supplied) 12. Malati Sardar’s case was decided after referring to the decisions in Mantoo Sarkar v. Oriental Insurance Company Ltd.3 and in Kiran Singh’s case (supra), as mentioned above. A bare perusal of the decisions in Mantoo Sarkar’s case (supra), Kiran Singh’s case (supra) and Malati Sardar’s case (supra) would reveal that in all those decisions the objection regarding territorial jurisdiction was overruled by the Tribunal concerned and thereafter compensation was awarded. It is only at the appellate stage that the respondents’ objection as to the territorial jurisdiction was upheld and the award was upturned. Evidently, in all those cases this Court referred to Section 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure (for short the ‘CPC’ only) and it reads thus:- “21. Objections to jurisdiction.— [(1)] No objection as to the place of suing shall be allowed by any Appellate or 2 [1955] 1 SCR 117 : AIR 1954 SC 340 3 [2008] 17 SCR 753 : (2009) 2 SCC 244 1212 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Revisional Court unless such objection was taken in the Court of first instance at the earliest possible opportunity and in all cases where issues are settled at or before such settlement, and unless there has been a consequent failure of justice.” 13. A bare perusal of Section 21, CPC would reveal that objection as to the place of suing is not to be entertained by any Appellate or Revisional Court if it was not taken in the Court of first instance at the earliest possible opportunity and unless there has been a consequent failure of justice. While looking into the object and reasons for the aforesaid provision it is very clear as to why lack of territorial jurisdiction by itself was not recognized under it as a reason to make a /decree a nullity. It is to be noted that it is quite different and distinct from inherent lack of jurisdiction which would strike at the very authority of the Court to try a case and pass a /decree and would make it a nullity.