Reopening the case after a significant delay could thus place the opposing party at a disadvantage, potentially resulting in an unjust or inaccurate outcome. Moreover, it is essential to put a time limit on proceedings to provide certainty and prevent confusion from cases being in perpetual flux. It is also important to deny a delayed claim to encourage parties to be more diligent when enforcing their rights. 62. While the doctrine of laches serves similar underlying purposes as the Limitation Act, 1963, it is less rigid in its application. Unlike the aforementioned Act, which prescribes specific time periods for filing claims, there is no fixed timeframe under the doctrine of laches. Instead, each case is evaluated based on its unique facts and circumstances. In the context of writ petitions, Hidayatullah, C.J., in Tilokchand Motichand (supra), held that while there is no upper or lower time limit for entertaining writ petitions, the Court shall consider whether the delay was avoidable and whether such delay affects the merits of the case. Similarly, in Shri Vallabh Glass Works Ltd. v. Union of India,63 it was held that the Court must consider the conduct of the parties, the change in circumstances, and the prejudice that would be caused to the other party or the general public. 62 Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. International Airport Authority of India (1979) 3 SCC 489, para 35. 63 Shri Vallabh Glass Works Ltd. v. Union of India (1984) 3 SCC 362, para 9. 1046 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 63. Hence, it is settled law that the doctrine of laches is not an inviolable legal rule but a rule of practice that must be supplemented with sound exercise of judicial discretion. While Courts must ordinarily apply this doctrine in light of the policy reasons discussed before, the doctrine allows the Court to conduct an individualized analysis of each case and entertain claims in the competing interests of justice, even when the claim may be delayed and third-party rights may have been created.64 64. We may, however, hasten to clarify that the doctrine of delay and laches is not to be ipso facto excluded where a breach of fundamental rights is alleged. The 5-judge benches of this Court in Narayani Debi Khaitan v. State of Bihar,65 Daryao v. State of U.P.,66 and Tilokchand Motichand (supra), and a 3-judge bench in Amrit Lal Berry v. CCE,67 have reiterated that even in such like cases the court must see the effect of laches. However, that being said, there may be instances where considerations of justice demand that the court adjudicate on the merits of a case rather than summarily dismissing it based solely on procedural grounds such as delay.68 65. One such factual circumstance is when the claim affects the public at large. In Kashinath G. Jalmi (Dr) v. The Speaker,69 this Court analyzed several precedents (including Tilokchand & Motichand (supra)) and differentiated them by holding that the doctrine of laches cannot be used to expel a claim that is made on behalf of the public.