Therefore, the only remedy available to a party to a consent decree to avoid such consent decree, is to approach the court which recorded the compromise and made a decree in terms of it, and establish that there was no compromise. In that event, the court which recorded the compromise will itself consider and decide the question as to whether 6 [2006] Supp. 3 SCR 370 : (2006) 5 SCC 566 7 Section 96(3) of the CPC reads: “96. Appeal from original decree.— (3) No appeal shall lie from a decree passed by the Court with the consent of parties.” [2024] 12 S.C.R. 461 Navratan Lal Sharma v. Radha Mohan Sharma & Ors. there was a valid compromise or not. This is so because a consent decree is nothing but contract between parties superimposed with the seal of approval of the court. The validity of a consent decree depends wholly on the validity of the agreement or compromise on which it is made…” (emphasis supplied) 13. In the present case, the appellant has alleged fraud by the respondents in his recall application, which he bears the burden to prove.8 The Explanation to 23, Rule 3 clearly states that void and voidable agreements under the Contract Act shall not be deemed to be lawful. By alleging fraud in his recall application, the appellant is effectively impugning the legality of the compromise as proving the same would render the agreement voidable under the Contract Act.9 When the court disposes of a proceeding pursuant to a compromise under 23, Rule 3, it bears the duty to examine this issue and be satisfied that the agreement or compromise is lawful. The proviso explicitly obligates the court that entertains the petition of compromise to determine this issue, and as per the law laid down by this Court in Banwari Lal (supra), this issue can be agitated by way of a recall application even after the compromise decree has been passed. 14. By the impugned , the High Court dismissed the application solely on the ground that the dated 14.07.2022 recording the compromise does not grant liberty to restore the appeal. We are of the opinion that this is not the correct approach, as it defeats the statutory right and remedy available to the appellant under the CPC. This Court in Pushpa Devi Bhagat (supra), as well as several other cases,10 has held that only the court that entertains the petition of compromise can determine its legality, at the time of recording the compromise or when it is questioned by way of a recall application. No other remedy is available to the party who is aggrieved by the 8 Shanti Budhiya Vesta Patel v. Nirmala Jayprakash Tiwari (2010) 5 SCC 104; K. Srinivasappa v. M. Mallamma (2022) 17 SCC 460. 9 Section 19 of the Contract Act provides that when consent to an agreement is caused by fraud, it is voidable at the option of the party whose consent was so caused. 10 R. Rajanna v. S.R.