The remaining two were rejected on limitation as they were not reflected in the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018. Therefore, benefit of Section 18 of the 1963 Act was not available qua those counterclaims. Moreover, there cannot be a general rule that limitation for claims and counterclaims must have a common run because counterclaim is a separate action which must stand on its own legs, as has been held by this Court in Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. v. Afcons Gunanusa JV.17 (vii) The counterclaim for the cost of repair/ replacement of gearboxes and fan modules was rightly rejected by the arbitral tribunal as barred by limitation as regarding it there was no recital in the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018. Moreover, it was not intertwined with the claim for the balance amount as the cause of action for the two were different. One arose from supply and erection, and the other arose subsequently, post commissioning/ completion of the project, on account of alleged defect in the material supplied. (viii) Gita Power being the holding company of OPG and having actively participated in the formation of the contract as also in issuance of purchase s for the supply/ works, which carried the arbitration clause, was bound by the arbitration agreement and also liable jointly and severally along with OPG for the dues. ISSUES 27. Upon consideration of the rival submissions, the core issue which falls for our determination is: “Whether the arbitral award is in conflict with the public policy of India, or/ and is vitiated by patent illegality appearing on the face of the award?” 28. The answer to the above issue would depend, inter alia, on our determination of the following sub-issues: 17 [2022] 10 SCR 660 : (2024) 4 SCC 481 524 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) Whether Gita Power (R-2) could have been subjected to arbitration and made jointly and severally liable along with OPG for the award, when the project beneficiary was OPG? (b) Whether Enexio’s claim for the outstanding principal amount barred by limitation? (c) Whether the counter claim, in respect of cost of repair / replacement of gear boxes and fan modules, could be treated as barred by time when the other side’s claim, arising out of same contractual relationship, was found within limitation? (d) Whether arbitral award for payment of the outstanding principal amount with interest is perverse because it makes no adjustment for debit note(s) entries even though the prayer to declare them as invalid was rejected as barred by time? (e) Whether the reasoning of the arbitral tribunal is flawed and vitiated by adopting different yardstick for adjudging the counterclaim than what was adopted for adjudging the claim? If so, whether it vitiated the award and rendered it vulnerable to a challenge under Section 34 of the 1996 Act? RELEVANT LEGAL PRINCIPLES GOVERNING A CHALLENGE TO AN ARBITRAL AWARD 29. Before we delve into the issue/ sub-issues culled out above, it would be useful to have a look at the relevant legal principles governing a challenge to an arbitral award.