Section 63 87 [1990] 1 SCR 909 : (1990) 3 SCC 223 [41]; See Saraswati Industrial Syndicate Ltd. v. Union of India (1974) 2 SCC 630 88 “41. The impugned s, duly published in the official gazettes notifying the prices determined for sugar of various grades and produced in various zones, and applicable to all producers of such sugar, can, in our view, be legitimately characterised as legislative. These s are required by sub-section (6) to be laid before both Houses of Parliament. The notified prices are applicable without exception to all persons falling within well defined groups. The prices are determined in accordance with the norms postulated in the sub-section. It is with reference to such predetermined prices of sugar that the “amount” payable to each producer, who has sold sugar in compliance with an made with reference to clause (f) of sub-section (2), is calculated. The calculation of such amount is, in contradistinction to the determination of “price of sugar”, a non-legislative act.” 89 “Electricity Act” 1438 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports deals with “determination of tariff by bidding process”. The provision provides that notwithstanding Section 62, the Appropriate Commission must adopt the tariff determined through a transparent bidding process. Section 64 of the Electricity Act prescribes the procedure to determine tariff under Section 62 which includes filing an application and provision for suggestions and objections. Referring to these provisions, the Constitution Bench made the following observations: “ 26. The term “tariff” is not defined in the 2003 Act. The term “tariff” includes within its ambit not only the fixation of rates but also the rules and regulations relating to it. If one reads Section 61 with Section 62 of the 2003 Act, it becomes clear that the appropriate Commission shall determine the actual tariff in accordance with the provisions of the Act, including the terms and conditions which may be specified by the appropriate Commission under Section 61 of the said Act. Under the 2003 Act, if one reads Section 62 with Section 64, it becomes clear that although tariff fixation like price fixation is legislative in character, the same under the Act is made appealable vide Section 111. These provisions, namely, Sections 61, 62 and 64 indicate the dual nature of functions performed by the Regulatory Commissions viz. decision-making and specifying terms and conditions for tariff determination. 49. On the above analysis of various sections of the 2003 Act, we find that the decision-making and regulation-making functions are both assigned to CERC. Law comes into existence not only through legislation but also by regulation and litigation. Laws from all three sources are binding. According to Professor Wade, “between legislative and administrative functions we have regulatory functions”. A statutory instrument, such as a rule or regulation, emanates from the exercise of delegated legislative power which is a part of administrative process resembling enactment of law by the legislature whereas a quasi- judicial comes from adjudication which is also a part of administrative process resembling a judicial decision by a court of law.