& Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons (vi) “Cider” means cider or perry of a strength less than 8.7 per cent of alcohol by volume at 20 degrees Centigrade obtained from the fermentation of apple or pear juice without the addition at any time of any alcoholic liquor or liquor or substance which communicates colour or flavour other than such as the Commissioner of Customs and Excise may allow as appearing to them to be necessary to make cider or perry : Customs and Excise Act, 1952. (vii) “Intoxicating liquors other than spirits” includes beer, wine, made-wine and cider. 12.18 It may also be useful to outline some undisputed elements of “industrial alcohol”. It is an undisputed position that “industrial alcohol” is not meant to be consumed as a human beverage. In other words, it is not produced or manufactured to be meant for direct human consumption as a beverage. However, only when misused, as an intoxicating substance after some treatment, howsoever limited, “industrial alcohol” certainly could cause the “intoxicating” effect on direct human consumption. 12.19 Two distinguished interpretations have been contended before us. In effect, the respondents contend that “intoxicating liquors” must be so constructed that it includes only “liquors which are meant to intoxicate” as is. Per contra, the appellants contend that it is a cardinal rule of interpretation that legislative Entries be given the widest possible construction and therefore Entry 8 – List II should be read as “liquors which can intoxicate even when mischievously used”. The effect of the appellants’ construction is that Entry 8 – List II will give States the legislative field on “industrial alcohol”, which by design is not sought to be intoxicating but rather could intoxicate because of its misuse. 12.20 Before proceeding further, I may first note a notable feature of the phraseology of Entry 8 – List II of the Constitution of India and Entry 40 – List II, as Entry 8 appeared in the Draft Constitution. Neither in the Constitution nor in the Draft Constitution was there any other Entry in List II that used an adjective as a qualifier. Whether use of the word “intoxicating” enlarges or limits the scope of “liquors” is something that needs to be answered. Herein, “intoxicating” is an adjective that is adjoined to “liquors” and explains an effect that is 2124 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports caused. In this regard, learned Solicitor General contended that “intoxicating” has been used to expand beyond the limits of “alcoholic liquors” because States have an interest in regulating other “intoxicating liquors” such as bhang. It needs no labour that an “intoxicating” effect can be said to be caused only upon actual consumption by human beings. Unlike potable alcohol, “industrial alcohol” by its design, intent and purpose is neither sought to be consumed and cause an intoxicating effect nor is it produced keeping in mind its intoxicating effect on human beings. If we were to read “industrial alcohol” as “intoxicating liquors” which even though by design is neither supposed to be consumed nor have an effect on health but has the constituents that could be “intoxicating” when misused, it would enable a cumbersome interpretational plane.