Proof of improper motive is necessary in respect of certain torts and may negative a defence of qualified privilege in respect of defamation, but this is not peculiar to public authorities. There exists an independent tort of misfeasance by a public officer or authority which consists in the infliction of loss by the deliberate abuse of a statutory power, or by the usurpation of a power which the officer or authority knows he does not possess, for example by procuring the making of a compulsory purchase , or by refusing, or cancelling or procuring the cancellation of a licence, from improper motives. However, where there has been 28 [1999] 3 SCR 1279 : (1999) 6 SCC 667 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 767 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures no misfeasance, the fact that a public officer or authority makes an ultra vires or invalidly exercises statutory powers will not of itself found an action for damages.” 91. De Smith in Judicial Review of Administrative Action, while speaking of tort of misfeasance in public office, says as under: “A public authority or person holding a public office may be liable for the tort of misfeasance in public office where: (1) there is an exercise or non-exercise of public power, whether common law, statutory or from some other source; (2) which is either (a) affected by malice towards the plaintiff or (b) the decision maker knows is unlawful; and (3) the plaintiff is in consequence deprived of a benefit or suffers other loss.” 92. De Smith further says as under: “A power is exercised maliciously if its repository is motivated by personal animosity towards those who are directly affected by its exercise. Where misfeasance is alleged against a decision-making body, it is sufficient to show that a majority of its members present had made the decision with the object of damaging the plaintiff. Often there may be no direct evidence of the existence of malice, and in these circumstances the court may make adverse inferences, e.g. from the fact that a decision was unreasonable, that it could only be explained by the presence of such a motive. A court will not entertain allegation of bad faith or malice made against the repository of a power unless it has been expressly pleaded and properly particularised.” 53. If the executive in an arbitrary manner demolishes the houses of citizens only on the ground that they are accused of a crime, then it acts contrary to the principles of ‘rule of law’. If the executive acts as a judge and inflicts penalty of demolition on a citizen on the 768 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ground that he is an accused, it violates the principle of ‘separation of powers’. We are of the view that in such matters the public officials, who take the law in their hands, should be made accountable for such high-handed actions. 54. For the executive to act in a transparent manner so as to avoid the vice of arbitrariness, we are of the view that certain binding directives need to be formulated.