There is no specification of the area which can be used to extract ordinary earth. It is also not provided that only that quantity of ordinary earth, which is required to implement the linear projects, is exempted. Importantly, “linear projects” have not been defined. Without the definition, it is difficult to imagine which projects will be termed linear projects. The term “linear projects” is very vague. The process to be adopted for excavation has not been set out. Thus, item 6 is a case of completely unguided and blanket exemption, which is, per se, arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. There is no provision for setting up an authority which will decide whether a particular linear project is covered by item 6. 26. As stated earlier, during the pendency of the appeals, an amendment was made to item 6 by the notification dated 30th August 2023. Even the amended impugned notification does not elaborate on the concept of linear projects. The only addition to item 6 is that the extraction, sourcing or borrowing shall be subject to compliance with SOP and environmental safeguards issued in this regard from time to time. The authority to issue the SOP and environmental safeguards has not been specified. No provision has been made [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1271 Noble M. Paikada v. Union of India to enforce the SOP and environmental safeguards. No restriction is imposed on the quantum of ordinary earth, which can be extracted for linear projects. Therefore, even the amended item 6 continues to suffer from the same vice of arbitrariness, which Article 14 of the Constitution of India prohibits. 27. The learned Additional Solicitor General placed reliance on the Office Memorandum dated 21st August 2023. It provides that before carrying on activities mentioned in entry 6, the project proponents must notify the State Pollution Control Board/Pollution Control Committees. The State Pollution Control Boards are required to monitor the compliance status of the SOP/environmental safeguards. As entry 6 is arbitrary, the Office Memorandum is of no consequence. Hence, on account of the violation of Article 14, item 6 in the impugned notification, as well as the amended impugned notification, will have to be struck down. As noted earlier, the object of the EP Act is to protect and improve the environment. Apart from the illegality committed by non-compliance with sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the EP Rules, the exemption granted without incorporating any safeguards is completely unguided and arbitrary. Grant of such blanket exemption completely defeats the very object of the EP Act. NON-COMPLIANCE WITH THE DIRECTIONS OF THE NGT 28. In paragraph 8 of the impugned , which we have quoted earlier, the NGT observed that the blanket exemption needs to be hedged by appropriate safeguards, such as, the process of excavation and quantum. Therefore, in paragraph 9, a direction was issued to MoEF&CC to revisit the impugned notification in the light of the observations made in paragraph 8. Within the three months provided by the NGT to do so, no steps had been taken to revisit item 6 of the impugned notification.