The NCDRC upheld the directions given by the State Commission with respect to the Completion Certificate; Conveyance Deed; Electricity Connection, etc., since the developer did not challenge any part of those directions as the same were in accordance with the Development Agreement. In other words, the NCDRC upheld the of payment of 1.65 lakhs and 1.85 lakhs along with interest as directed by the District Forum, and also upheld the slew of directions issued by the State Commission to the developer-opposite party. 3. The appellants-opposite party thereafter approached this Court by preferring Special Leave Petition (Civil)…. CC Nos.24515-24516 of 2016 to challenge the of the NCDRC dated 31.05.2016 in Revision Petition Nos.3283 of 2008 and 2794 of 2008. This Court, vide dated 03.01.2017, refused to interfere with the view taken by the NCDRC and disposed of the same by granting liberty to the appellants-opposite party herein to resort to the remedy of review before the National Commission. 4. Thereafter, the appellants-opposite party filed Review Application No.26 of 2017 and the complainants filed Review Application No.27 134 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of 2017, both before the NCDRC and the of review proceeding is assailed in the present case. The NCDRC, vide dated 02.05.2018, upheld its earlier findings on the question of limitation, status of complainants as consumers and the relief being in excess of the payment made by the complainants. Further, NCDRC refused to accept the contention of the appellants-opposite party that after the death of the original owner, the legal representatives are not accountable for the liabilities under the agreement. In paragraph 12 of the , the NCDRC held that the death of a developer has no effect upon the obligations of the developer under the Development Agreement and the same have to be executed by the legal heirs of the developer. The relevant part of the said paragraph 12 is extracted as under: “12. Further, we have no reason to agree with the contention raised by the review applicant that after the death of the original owner, the legal representatives are not accountable for the liabilities under the agreement. In the eventuality of death of the developer, it cannot be stated that various clauses of the development agreement between the parties becomes redundant or the complainant is not entitled to seek execution of the provisions of the development agreement. Such execution has to be made by the legal heirs of the developer only.” 5. The legal representatives of the opposite party being aggrieved by the aforesaid reasoning of the NCDRC have preferred these appeals. 6. We have heard learned counsel Sri Aniruddha Deshmukh for the appellants and learned counsel Sri Abhishek Yadav for the respondents and perused the material on record. 7. The controversy in these appeals is in a very narrow compass. No doubt, the complainants succeeded before the District Forum, the State Commission as well as the NCDRC. During the pendency of the revision preferred by the original opposite party before the NCDRC, the original opposite party died.