As per the statement made by Mr. Khandeparkar, and which is accepted as an undertaking given to the Court, if the Petitioners default in making the balance payment of Rs.104 crores by 31st August 2023, physical, vacant, quiet, and peaceful possession of the secured asset shall be handed over to the Auction Purchaser on or before 5th September 2023.” (Emphasis supplied) 117. What can be discerned from the above is that although the Borrower in its writ petition had initially prayed for adjudication of the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 either by the High Court itself or in the alternative by the DRT subject to the auction proceedings being stayed, yet during the hearing it had effectively waived of its right to pursue the said securitization application and to challenge the actions taken by the Bank under the SARFAESI Act including the 9th auction notice. Similarly, although the High Court permitted the Borrower to redeem the mortgage yet its right to challenge the validity of the sale had been foreclosed by the High Court irrespective of whether the Borrower is able to actually tender the dues for redemption or not. Moreover, [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1675 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. the proceedings under the said S.A. No. 46 of 2022 did not merely come to an end as a consequence of the impugned of the High Court but rather due to the unconditional undertaking of the Borrower to withdraw the same within a period of 1-week, independent to the exercise of its right of redemption. Thus, effectively the Borrower at that stage had waived its right to pursue the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 on its own accord, and at no point of time did it contend before the High Court to preserve this right in the event it was unable to redeem the mortgage. 118. Thereafter the said matter travelled to this Court. Manifold submissions were made by the Borrower, the Bank and the petitioner on the issue of redemption of mortgage in terms of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act. The petitioner herein assailed the impugned of the High Court permitting the borrower to redeem the mortgage inter-alia on the ground that it was contrary to the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, and that once the sale stood confirmed by the Bank, the sale certificate of the Secured Asset could not have been withheld. Accordingly, the petitioner prayed that not only the impugned of the High Court be set-aside, but the Bank be further directed to issue the sale certificate for the Secured Asset. In response, the Borrower herein inter-alia contended that no error not to speak of any error law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in the interpretation of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, and that since the Borrower has already redeemed the mortgage during the pendency of the Main Appeals in compliance of the High Court’s , the only issue which remained was the refund of the amount deposited by the petitioner pursuant to the auction.