[Paras 43.1(iii), 44.1, 44.3 and 44.5] 3.1. Given the fact that genetic engineering has made what was inconceivable a reality, precaution is the need of the hour – For billions of years, each living organism would exchange DNA with others of its kind – Genetic engineering transcends this natural principle by combining genes sourced from widely different species and transferring genes between organisms that had no natural possibility of interbreeding – Scientific research of such a novel nature must therefore happen under supervision and in a manner that inspires public confidence. [Para 45] 1852 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3.2. Having regard to the conclusions of the TEC, the apprehensions of the petitioners that HT crops would exert a highly adverse impact over time on sustainable agriculture, rural livelihoods, and the environment are not unfounded – It is reasonable to infer that there is a potential of loss of species of indigenous mustard crop, as India is the centre of origin and diversity, which fact cannot be doubted – The concerns about the impact on other beneficial organisms, such as honeybees, earthworms etc. are also well- founded and serious – As per the precautionary principle, those activities which may disturb nature shall be proceeded only upon ex-ante assessment of their consequences – Such a sound risk and impact assessment is also a binding obligation under Article 14(1)(b) of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and Article 26 of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety (CPB) – Therefore, GEAC is duty bound, both under domestic and international law, to sanction long-term chronic and inter-generational studies, as recommended by the TEC – The reluctance to conduct such studies would risk the health of future generations as well as the farmers’ right to conduct their agricultural activities in the most suitable manner. [Para 46] 3.3. The ability to conduct robust risk assessment hinges upon the availability of indigenous and independent studies and research – Conclusions about safety assessment and ecological impact cannot be transplanted from research conducted in a foreign context – Crucially, the recommendation of Expert Committee constituted by GEAC in the year 2022, which is the basis of GEAC’s impugned approval, is entirely premised upon foreign studies and research and not on indigenous research or studies – This is a serious omission on the part of GEAC in not applying its mind to research studies to be conducted within the country as India has a unique biodiversity and a socio-economic structure of society which is directly related to land holdings and conduct of agricultural operations. [Para 47.3] 3.4. It is apparent that the precautionary principle has been seriously undermined in Condition VI and VII prescribed by GEAC for the impugned release – Although Condition VII prohibits farmers from using any formulation of herbicide in the fields, it is unclear how such a prohibition would be enforced – Given the nature of the DMH-11 which according to the petitioners has HT characteristics, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1853 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors.