Any contra-interpretation would defeat the intent of the legislature. The High Court, it seems, got carried away by the issue of guarantee and guarantor’s liability and thus has overlooked the true intent and purport of Section 138 of the Act. The s recorded in the of the High Court do not have any relevance in the contextual facts and the same thus do not lend any assistance to the contentions raised by the respondents.” (Emphasis supplied) 55. A perusal of the above two decisions indicates that even if the cheque might have been issued for the discharge of personal liability of the accused towards the complainant, had the company Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd. been arraigned as an accused in the complaint case before the Trial Court, it would have remained open to the complainant to establish with the aid of the presumption under Section 139 that the cheque issued by the company was in discharge of a legally enforceable debt. However, in the absence of the drawer of the cheque having been arraigned as an accused, it was rightly held by the High Court that no prosecution could have proceeded against the accused in his personal capacity. The only way by which the accused could be held liable was under Section 141 of the NI Act, however the same could not have been done in the absence of the company being arraigned as an accused. This position of law has been explained by a number of decisions of this Court. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in Aneeta Hada v. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1987 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. Godfather Travels and Tours Private Limited reported in (2012) 5 SCC 661 observed thus: “17. The gravamen of the controversy is whether any person who has been mentioned in Sections 141(1) and 141(2) of the Act can be prosecuted without the company being impleaded as an accused. To appreciate the controversy, certain provisions need to be referred to. xxx xxx xxx 58. Applying the doctrine of strict construction, we are of the considered opinion that commission of offence by the company is an express condition precedent to attract the vicarious liability of others. Thus, the words “as well as the company” appearing in the section make it absolutely unmistakably clear that when the company can be prosecuted, then only the persons mentioned in the other categories could be vicariously liable for the offence subject to the averments in the petition and proof thereof. One cannot be oblivious of the fact that the company is a juristic person and it has its own respectability. If a finding is recorded against it, it would create a concavity in its reputation. There can be situations when the corporate reputation is affected when a Director is indicted. 59. In view of our aforesaid analysis, we arrive at the irresistible conclusion that for maintaining the prosecution under Section 141 of the Act, arraigning of a company as an accused is imperative. The other categories of offenders can only be brought in the drag-net on the touchstone of vicarious liability as the same has been stipulated in the provision itself.