Should mere suspicion of infringement of a right be considered adequate ground to invoke the writ jurisdiction? In my opinion, the answer should be ‘NO’. 22. A writ petition ought not to be entertained if the plea is based on the mere suspicion that a right could be infringed. Suspicion that a right could be infringed and a real threat of infringement of a right are distinct and different. 23. To succeed in a claim under Article 32 or 226, one must demonstrate either mala fide, or arbitrariness, or breach of a law in the impugned 458 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports State action. Though a writ of right, it is not a writ of course. The writ jurisdiction under Article 32/226 of the Constitution of India being special and extraordinary, it should not be exercised casually or lightly on the mere asking of a litigant based on suspicions and conjectures, unless there is credible/trustworthy material on record to suggest that adverse action affecting a right is reasonably imminent or there is a real threat to the rule of law being abrogated. It must be shown, at least prima facie, that there is a real potential threat to a right, which is guaranteed by law to the person concerned. 24. I am not oblivious of two decisions rendered by this Court on the aforesaid issue. 25. A Constitution Bench of this Court in D.A.V. College, Bhatinda v. State of Punjab10 held thus: “5. […] a petition under Article 32 in which petitioners make out a prima facie case that their fundamental rights are either threatened or violated will be entertained by this Court and that it is not necessary for any person who considers himself to be aggrieved to wait till the actual threat has taken place.” 26. In Adi Saiva Sivachariyargal Nala Sangam v. State of Tamil Nadu11 a Bench of two Hon’ble Judges of this Court held: “12. […] The institution of a writ proceeding need not await actual prejudice and adverse effect and consequence. An apprehension of such harm, if the same is well founded, can furnish a cause of action for moving the Court.” 27. While a writ petition may be instituted, if there is a genuine and looming threat of a right being trampled upon, what is, however, clear from the aforesaid decisions is that such threat or apprehension has to be well founded and cannot be based merely on assumptions and presumptions as is found in the present set of writ petitions. 28. The mere suspicion that there may be a mismatch in votes cast through EVMs, thereby giving rise to a demand for a 100% VVPAT slips verification, is not a sufficient ground for the present set of 10 [1971] Supp. 1 SCR 677 : (1971) 2 SCC 261 11 [2015] 11 SCR 1110 : (2016) 2 SCC 725 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 459 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another writ petitions to be considered maintainable. To maintain these writ petitions, it ought to have been shown that there exists a tangible threat of infringement; however, that has also not been substantiated.