Section 37 provides that any expenditure which is not covered by Sections 30 to 36 and not being in the nature of capital expenditure, laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business or profession shall be allowed for computing the income chargeable under the head “profits and gains of business or profession”. Section 56 of the IT Act provides that income of every kind which is not to be excluded from the total income under the IT Act shall be chargeable to income tax under the head “income from other sources” if it is not chargeable to income tax under any of the five heads provided in Section 14. Therefore, interest on investments may be covered by Section 56. Section 57 provides for the deduction of expenditure not being in the nature of capital expenditure expended wholly and exclusively for the 870 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports purposes of making or earning such income. In the case of interest on securities, any reasonable sum paid for the purposes of realising interest is also entitled to deduction under Section 57 of the IT Act. DECISIONS STARTING FROM THE CASE OF VIJAYA BANK LTD.1 11. The first decision which needs consideration is in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 Regarding the facts of the said case, it must be noted that the income of the Bank was not assessed under Section 28 of the IT Act but under Section 18 under the Head “interest on securities”. In the context of the applicability of Section 18 of the IT Act, the Bank claimed that the broken period’s interest was deductible under Sections 19 and 20. In light of these facts, this Court held that the outlay on the purchase of income-bearing assets was a capital outlay. Therefore, no part of the capital outlay can be set off as expenditure against income from the asset in question. 12. A Division Bench of the Bombay High Court, in the case of American Express International Banking Corporation,2 dealt with the decision in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 We are extensively referring to the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of American Express International Banking Corporation2 for the reason that this Court in Citi Bank NA3 has expressly approved the view of the Bombay High Court in the said decision. We may note that the Bombay High Court dealt with assessment years 1974-75 to 1977-78. This was a case where the assessee made adjustments for broken period interest. The assessing officer had disallowed the deduction for the payment made by the assessee for broken period interest. The assessing officer followed the decision in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 The Bombay High Court distinguished the decision in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 and held thus: “18. The assessee-Bank, like several other Banks, were consistently following the practice of valuing the securities/interest held by it at the end of each year and offer for taxation, the appreciation in their value by way of profit/interest earned due to efflux of time.