ARGUMENTS BY APPELLANT 16. The arguments advanced by Ms. Divan may be briefly summarised as under: i) The respondent had no vested right conferred upon them as no allotment had taken place in their favour at any time. It was merely a noting in the office file and in-principle approval of the Lieutenant Governor. However, with a rider that the complaint already made by Mr. Sukhbir Singh on 21.02.2003 was to be verified and thereafter further process was to take place. Subsequently, the Society had been duly communicated that the request for allotment had been rejected which was communicated twice; firstly, on 19.06.2008 and later on 18.05.2012. ii) The internal notings are not decisions and do not confer any right, till such time, the decision taken on file is translated into allotment and duly communicated to the allottee. Mere internal notings and approval cannot form a basis for claiming a right. Reliance was placed upon the following s: 462 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a. Bachhittar Singh vs State of Punjab4 b. Sethi Auto Service Station vs DDA5 c. Mahadeo vs Sovan Devi6. iii) Once there is a change in law, a policy decision taken by the competent authority, where allotment was replaced by ‘public auction’ or ‘tender’ and such policy decision also providing that this change would apply to even pending cases, no claim could be set up by the Society contrary to the said change in policy. The Society was duly communicated that as and when auction for educational sites is held, it was at liberty to participate in the same. Reliance was placed upon the following judgement for this preposition: a. Howrah Municipal Corporation & Ors. Vs. Ganges Rope Co. Ltd. & Ors.7. iv) It was mandatory to possess an Essentiality Certificate and the Sponsorship Letter from the competent authority for specific zones where the institution was to be set up or established. In the present case, initially the Society had the Essentiality Certificate and the Sponsorship Letter for Jasola area. Later on it only had obtained an Essentiality Certificate for Vasant Kunj area. It admittedly till date has no Sponsorship Letter for Vasant Kunj area. As such also the Society was not eligible for any allotment of educational site or for that matter even eligible for applying for setting up an educational institution in Vasant Kunj area. v) The claim of the Society that allotments had been made in favour of the Vikram Shilla Education Society, High Brow Education Society and M/s Jyotika Education Welfare Society would not be of any help for two reasons. Firstly, all these Societies possessed the Essentiality Certificate and the Sponsorship Letters for the specific areas where allotment was sought. Secondly, if any wrong had been committed in allotting educational sites to these three Societies, no negative parity could be claimed on its basis. 4 AIR 1963 SC 395 5 (2009) 1 SCC 180 6 Civil Appeal No. 5876 of 2022 (decided on 30.08.2022) 7 (2004) 1 SCC 663 [2024] 1 S.C.R.