To show the alleged wrongful conduct of the buyer, our attention was drawn to another instance. In her reply dated 18th March 2006 to the telegram, the buyer stated: “…………………I am in receipt of your telegram dated 11.03.2006 which has been received by my office and due to my non-availability in the town I could not take immediate action in this……………….” However, when the buyer was confronted with Exs. B1 and B2 being news items appearing in Tamil dailies dated 15th March and 16th March, 2006 (wherein the buyer was seen receiving an award at Coimbatore), she admitted that between 11th March and 18th March, 2006 she was coming to and going out of Coimbatore. This fact was neither mentioned in her plaint nor in her sworn affidavit before the High Court. Having come with unclean hands by suppressing such material facts, the buyer disentitled herself to the relief of specific performance. 8.7. Seventhly, Mr. Dwivedi urged that the Agreement having stood cancelled at the instance of the sellers, not once but twice, it was necessary for the buyer to seek declaration that the cancellation 1110 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was bad and not operative and binding qua her and in the absence of such a prayer, the suit itself was not maintainable in law. However, Mr. Dwivedi fairly pointed out that no such point having been raised by the sellers in their written statement, the Trial Court did not frame an issue on such aspect. Nevertheless, it was argued that this was a substantial point of law concerning the Court’s very jurisdiction, which ought to weigh in the mind of the Court while considering whether, at all, the relief of specific performance could be granted in favour of the buyer on the face of her omission/neglect to claim appropriate relief. 8.8. Eighthly, while inviting our attention to several documents on record, more particularly the cross-examination of the buyer wherein she admitted that she did not have enough money in either of her bank accounts to pay the balance sale price and asserted that she had the money in cash, Mr. Dwivedi contended that the buyer did not have the capacity to go ahead with the sale transaction. 8.9. Ninthly, it was the submission of Mr. Dwivedi that the property was sold by the sellers to the subsequent purchaser after stay, prayed in connection with the first appeal of the buyer, was refused by the High Court. A property which was being sold for Rs.2.3 crore had fetched a price of Rs.8 crore and that relief of specific performance being an equitable relief, the facts and circumstances were not such so as to decree the suit of the buyer particularly having regard to her conduct. 8.10. Finally, Mr. Dwivedi appealed that it was a fit and proper case where the impugned of the High Court ought to be reversed and that of the Trial Court restored. 9. Mr. Rana Mukherjee, learned senior counsel for the subsequent purchaser adopted the submissions of Mr. Dwivedi and submitted that that the conduct of the buyer disentitles her from claiming the relief of specific performance; therefore, the Trial Court rightly dismissed the suit.