They assured this Court that they would be more careful in future and not violate any s of the Court or the undertaking given to this Court or violate any provisions of law. 58. Learned Senior Advocate appearing for the proposed contemnors had also stated that to redeem themselves and demonstrate their bona fides, they proposed to take some steps on their own. The said steps included tendering a public apology in the press for which Acharya Balkrishna filed an affidavit on 24th April, 2024, stating inter [2024] 8 S.C.R. 449 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others alia that an initiative had been taken to publish the public apology in various National and Regional newspapers having wide circulation across the country. 59. However, when the said advertisements were handed over for the perusal of the Court, the purported public apologies were rejected as meaningless and a mere lip service. This was for the reason that the public apologies were published in the newspapers in such a fine print that the same were virtually illegible. This Court opined that the said apology was more of an empty formality than an expression of genuine contrition. Readily conceding the aforesaid position, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the proposed contemnors had sought time to file copies of fresh advertisements incorporating the public apology. This was done on an affidavit filed by Acharya Balkrishna on 24th April, 2024. This time, the public apology carried in various National and Regional newspapers was not only in bold words, but also published at prominent places. Subsequently, Acharya Balkrishna filed an affidavit on 14th May, 2024, listing the steps that were being taken to bring down the advertisements of such of the products manufactured by Patanjali whose licenses had been suspended by the State of Uttarakhand and for recalling the said medicines from other agencies as also from the online e-commerce platform of Patanjali. R. CONCLUSION 60. On an overall conspectus of the facts of the present case and the sequence of events that have transpired from November, 2023 till May, 2024, we are of the opinion that though the initial conduct of the proposed contemnors prior to their tendering an apology to the Court showed that the same was in violation of the undertakings given to this Court, subsequent thereto, after they tendered an unqualified apology to this Court, efforts have been made by them to take steps to make amends. This was not only by expressing regret for their conduct on affidavit and in person, but also by taking steps to publicize the apology tendered by them through advertisements published prominently in the National and Regional newspapers. No doubt the wisdom of tendering an unconditional apology dawned belatedly on the proposed contemnors, after this Court rejected the first attempt made by them to offer a qualified apology, but their subsequent conduct demonstrates that they have made sincere efforts to purge themselves.