21 includes right to live a life worthy of human honour – Self-regard, social image, honest space for oneself in surrounding society, just as significant to dignified life as are adequate food, clothing and shelter. [Paras 14-15] Periodic audit mechanism overseen by senior police officer as directed for NCT of Delhi – Critical tool to review and scrutinize entries to check for biases and discriminatory practice – Can help eliminate such deprecated practices – States/Union Territories not before the Court – No positive mandamus can be issued – Urged to revisit their policy-regime and consider whether suitable amendments on pattern of ‘Delhi Model’ are required to be made. [Paras 16-17] List of Acts Constitution of India; Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015; Punjab Police Rules 1934. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 929 Amanatullah Khan v. The Commissioner of Police, Delhi & Ors. List of Keywords History Sheet; ‘Relations and connections’; Article 21; Right to live with dignity; Right to live a life worthy of human honour. Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No. 2349 of 2024 From the and dated 19.01.2023 of the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi in WPCRL No. 1326 of 2022 Appearances for Parties Wajeeh Shafiq, Naman Jain, Ms. Ramsha Shan, Advs. for the Appellant. Sanjay Jain, Sr. Adv. (A.S.G. ), Saransh Kumar, Shubhendu Anand, Umesh Babu Chourasia, Kritagya Kait, Mukesh Kumar Maroria, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Surya Kant, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The appellant approached the High Court of Delhi through a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 for quashing of the ‘History Sheet’ opened against him and the proposal to declare him as ‘Bad Character’ with the entry of his name in the Surveillance ‘Register-X, Part II, Bundle A’ at Police Station Jamia Nagar, District: South-East, Delhi. The Single Judge of High Court has, vide the impugned dated 19.01.2023, dismissed the appellant’s writ petition, giving rise to these proceedings. 3. Upon notice, the Delhi Police entered appearance through Mr. Sanjay Jain, learned senior counsel, who was apprised of some disturbing contents of the History Sheet to the extent it pertained to the school going minor children of the appellant and his wife, against whom there was apparently no adverse material whatsoever for inclusion in the History Sheet. It was then apprised that the format of the history sheeters was prescribed following Rule 23.8 and Rule 23.9 930 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the Punjab Police Rules 1934 (in short, the “1934 Rules”) as were applicable in the NCT of Delhi. Mr. Jain, learned senior counsel for the respondents, however, fairly agreed to re-visit the archaic rules with a view to ensure that the dignity, self-respect and privacy of the innocent people, who incidentally happen to be the family members of a suspect, is not compromised at any cost. 4. Mr. Sanjay Jain, learned senior counsel has today placed on record the amended Standing No.L&O/54/2022 issued by the Commissioner of Police, Delhi.