23 14. Determination of amount of claim.—(1) Where the amount claimed by a creditor is not precise due to any contingency or other reason, the interim resolution professional or the resolution profes- sional, as the case may be, shall make the best estimate of the amount of the claim based on the information available with him. (2) The interim resolution professional or the resolution professional, as the case may be, shall revise the amounts of claims admitted, including the estimates of claims made under sub-regulation (1), as soon as may be practicable, when he comes across additional information warranting such revision.” 272 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. Once a claim is submitted with proof under any of the Regulations (i.e., Regulations 7, 8, 8-A, 9 and 9-A), the IRP or the RP, as the case may be, as per Regulation 13, has to verify the claim, as on the insolvency commencement date, and thereupon maintain a list of creditors containing names of creditors along with the amount claimed by them, the amount of their claims admitted and the security interest, if any, in respect of such claims, and update it in terms of Regulation 12 A24. 22. As it could be noticed from the CIRP Regulations, 2016, on submission of a claim with proof, the IRP or the RP, as the case may be, has to verify the claim and prepare a list of creditors containing names of creditors along with the amount claimed by them and security interest, if any, the logical conclusion derivable from the provisions analysed above would be that the Form in which a claim is to be submitted under the CIRP Regulations 2016 is directory and not mandatory. What is important is, the claim must be supported by proof. 23. On collation of claims received against the CD, the IRP has to constitute a COC. As per Section 21 (2) of the IBC, subject to other provisions of Section 21, the COC must comprise all financial creditors of a CD. Under Section 22 of the IBC, the COC appoints an RP in its first meeting. It may, however, resolve to appoint the IRP as the RP, subject to confirmation by the Board. 24. The RP has many important duties. Some of the duties which an RP has to perform, under Section 25 of the IBC, are to: (a) take immediate custody and control of all the assets of the CD, including the business records of the CD; (b) maintain an updated list of claims; (c) convene and attend all meetings of the COC; (d) prepare information memorandum in accordance with Section 29 read with Regulation 36 of the CIRP Regulations 201625; (e) invite prospective 24 !2 A. Updation of claim. — A creditor shall update its claim as and when the claim is satisfied, partly or fully, from any source in any manner, after the insolvency commencement date. 25 Regulation 36. Information memorandum. – (1) Subject to sub regulation [4], the resolution profes- sional shall submit the information memorandum in electronic form to each member of the committee within 2 weeks of his appointment, but not later than 54th day from the insolvency commencement date, whichever is earlier.