40.4 It is clear that the terms of reference relate to this Court’s concern about the regulatory conditions for the release of GMO crops and the existence, or otherwise, of any gaps in the same. It is discernable that the final recommendations responded to these queries regarding the adequacy of regulatory conditions, biosafety protocols and available technological framework, by recommending various measures to fill the gaps that existed in the regulatory regime at a general level. The first gap, as I understand is that of technical expertise. The TEC inter alia, recommended as under: (i) Constitution of sub-committees with domain expertise in the fields of health, environment, agro-economics and socioeconomics, molecular biology, etc. which could [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2095 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. replace the single committee structure devised by the 1989 Rules. (ii) Another recommendation pointed to the elimination of conflict of interest, earmarking of specific sites for field trials and stakeholder participation. (iii) It also stated that there is a need to develop consultation, collaboration and capacity building, and that the Indian regulatory system must develop the ability to assess as to how any GM product is likely to impact different sections of the society. Therefore, having regard to the discussion made by it, I find that the TEC did not breach its Terms of Reference. 41. The petitioners herein have sought for implementation of the aforesaid recommendations of the majority by contending that the question of the consequences of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 being an HT crop remains unanswered. This is because the Union of India, in its additional affidavit dated 09.11.2022, has acknowledged that transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 possesses HT characteristics. Yet, the Union of India asserts that it cannot be officially labelled as such and therefore, it should not be referred to as HT corp. That transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 has never been tested as a HT crop because India does not have any regulatory guidelines and protocols for testing of HT crops, is the contention of the petitioners. 41.1 The petitioners have further countered the stand of the Union of India by submitting as under: (i) “… that the presence of third HT gene (Bar) is essential for hybrid seed production”, according to the Union of India. The presence of HT gene (Bar) makes DMH-11 an HT crop. This is also the finding of the PSC Reports which have stated that transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 is a HT crop. There is clear evidence on the adverse impacts of environmental release of DMH-11, which is a HT crop in various writings which have been ignored by GEAC; (ii) that the Union of India is silent as to the measures undertaken to ensure non-contamination, in case 2096 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports environmental release of GMOs is permitted, as irreversible risk of contamination on human health is enormous; (iii) that the Union of India is also silent on the liability of the applicant for potential losses to farmers and consumers on account of irreversible contamination; (iv) that glufosinate is banned for all other uses except for tea plantations and is specifically banned for use on DMH-11 by farmers.