We must point out here that the plaintiff also had passed away during the pendency of first appeal and before us are his successors-in-interest who are representing his claim of share as the respondents. Those impleaded as defendants in the suit which was registered as OS No. 157/1985 in the Court of Munsiff Magistrate, Perambra were successors in interests of said Sankaran. 3. Apart from Exhibit B-1, three other deeds were considered by the respective fora before this appeal reached us. There is a deed marked Exhibit A-20, which is described as Kannan Kuzhikanam deed, executed on 14th July 1910 by Chiruthey, Nangeli (mother of Madhavan) and Sankaran (Chiruthey’s son) in favour of Cherupula Othayoth Cheriya Amma and her son, Achuthan. On behalf of Sankaran, who was a minor at that point of time, Chiruthey executed the deed. This was in the nature of a deed of lease. Achuthan was also a minor at that point of time, and the said deed records Cheriya Amma to whom the property was being leased, for herself and her minor son. 4. On the same day i.e. 14th July 1910, a Verumpattam Kuzhikkanam deed marked as Exhibit A-1 was executed by Cherupoola Cheriya Amma for herself and for and on behalf of her minor son Achuthan in respect of the same property in favour of Chiruthey and another individual named Kuttiperavan. These appear to be back-to-back transactions. Both these deeds stipulated the term thereof to be twelve years and do not contain any renewal clause. 5. In the year 1925, by another deed executed on 22nd July 1925, described as “assignment deed” which was marked Exhibit A-2, Kuttiperavan surrendered his rights in favour of Chiruthey and Sankaran. In this deed, it has been inter-alia, recited that the executor thereof, being Kuttiperavan and Chiruthey had purchased verumpattam right over the subject-property from Cheriya Amma by fixing a rent of Rs.5/- in addition to revenue paid for the land. This deed further reads :- “I hereby assigning my right over this property to you for a consideration Rs. 50 which was fixed in the presence of [2024] 4 S.C.R. 387 Kizhakke Vattakandiyil Madhavan (Dead) Thr. Lrs. v. Thiyyurkunnath Meethal Janaki and Ors mediators and my share in the decree amount obtained by Cherupula Othayoth Cheriyamma from Payyoli District Munsiff Court in OS 685/ 1921 for arrears of rent together with interest and cost. My share in the said amount was given to you for payment. So I hereby assigned all my right over this property and hereby hand overing the possession of the property and also hand overing all documents with regard to the property. Hereinafter I have no right over this property…” 6. Sankaran passed away in the year 1956 whereas Chiruthey died in the year 1966, as it appears from evidence led before the Trial Court. The foundation of the claim of the partition of the subject- property has been explained in the Trial Court’s in the following manner:- “The plaintiffs claim over the plaint schedule property is as follows:- The property originally belonged to Chirutheyi and one Kuttiperavan as per a Verumpattam Deed No.2323/1910 from one Cheriyamma.