‘Alcoholic liquor’ defines the scope of the provision based on the ingredient, that is, ‘alcohol’ – In contrast, ‘intoxicating liquor’ defines the scope of the provision based on the effect, that is, intoxication – Thus, even liquor which colloquially or traditionally is not considered as alcoholic liquor may be covered by the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ if it produces the effect of intoxication. [Para 112(a)] Words and Phrases – Intoxicate – Meaning: Held: [Per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma, Augustine George Masih, JJ.] “Intoxicate” means the ability of someone to lose control of their behaviour – It could also mean poison – Thus, the purpose of substituting the adjective which indicates the ingredient (alcohol) with the impact (intoxication) seems to be enhance the scope of the Entry to cover liquor which has an impact on health. [Para 112(b)] Constitution of India – Entry 8-List II and Art.47 – Industrial alcohol – Intoxicating liquor: Held: [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J.] Merely because “industrial alcohol” or non-potable alcohol such as rectified spirit can be converted into “intoxicating liquors” or alcohol fit for human consumption as a beverage (potable alcohol), that would not empower the State Legislature to tax or impose any levy on such “industrial alcohol” – [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1941 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons However, since the expression “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8-List II deals specifically with alcohol used as a beverage and meant for human consumption, it would be within the scope and ambit of the said Entry for the State Legislature to regulate any abuse or conversion of “industrial alcohol” as a beverage, which is, in fact, harmful when consumed – Therefore, having regard to Article 47 of the Constitution, a State Legislature can even prohibit manufacture of “intoxicating liquors” in a State as one of the objects of which would be to negate the conversion or abuse of “industrial alcohol” as alcohol fit for human consumption. [Para 11.2] Constitution of India – Entry 8-List II – Intoxicating liquor – Intoxicating effect – Direct and indirect human consumption: Held: [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J.] What prima facie appears is that the “intoxication” effect is a sine qua non for the legislative competence of States on any liquors potentially coming within the scope of Entry 8-List II – In the absence of an “intoxicating” effect from liquors, a State Legislature cannot legislate on the subject – However, what is required to be seen is the nature of the product which leads to such an intoxicating effect upon human consumption of the same – Here, the expression consumption must be explained – It is not all kinds of human consumption, direct or indirect, which is the determining factor – It is only direct consumption i.e. as an ingestion by the act of drinking as a beverage or a drink – An indirect consumption by use of alcoholic liquors as a raw material for any other product, industrial, medicinal or a toilet item cannot be included as part of Entry 8-List II – Secondly, merely because there can be a potential misuse of “industrial alcohol”, for example, by converting rectified spirit (“industrial alcohol”) as a beverage which has an intoxicating effect, Entry 8-List II cannot be stretched to include such “industrial alcohol” – The prevention of abuse of “industrial alcohol” as a beverage is also covered under Entry 8-List II – Thus, what is carved out of “Fermentation Industries” in Entry 24-List II is only “intoxicating liquors” used as beverage and thus, for direct human consumption the said subject is placed in Entry 8-List II – This would imply that the rest of “Fermentation Industries” would be within the scope and ambit of Entry 24-List II which is subject to Entry 52-List I and is a scheduled industry as per Section 2 read with Item 26 of First Schedule of IDRA.