If it was indeed a case of self-immolation, the appellants must have done something to save her and her body would not have suffered 100% burns. This fact assumes greater gravity when it is seen that the room was not bolted from inside and was open for access. Thus, the conduct of the appellants, previous to and at the time of the incident, pointed in an incriminating direction. Furthermore, as per the testimonies of PWs, no smell of kerosene could be detected at 922 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the place of occurrence or in the body of the deceased which is not consistent with the allegation of self-immolation using an enormous quantity of kerosene. 35. Yet another circumstance which merited an explanation, and could not be explained by the appellants, was the presence of fresh injury and abrasion marks on the faces of the appellants at the time of their arrest. Both the appellants tried to explain away the presence of injuries/marks by stating that they occurred due to scorching. Although, the investigating officer ought to have ensured the conduct of medical examination of the fresh injuries/marks, however, the reason stated by the appellants is completely incredible. The appellants were residing in the same area and if at all the marks were due to scorching, they could not have been fresh marks. The only inference which could be drawn from the presence of fresh injuries is that there was physical resistance from the deceased when she was being set ablaze. It could not have been explained away in this manner. 36. Equally questionable was the subsequent conduct of the appellants. The conduct of the appellants in the aftermath of the incident was unnatural and does not exonerate them in any manner. The deceased, as per the versions of PW-3 and PW-4, was dead by the time they returned i.e. around 6 PM. As per DW-1, the deceased had put herself on fire when she returned with appellant no. 2 from Dharat at around 5 PM. Irrespective of whether the time of death is taken as 5 PM or 6 PM, the fact remains that intimation of death was not given to the family members of the deceased before 8 PM (as per PW-5 and 9 PM as per the FIR), and in the interim, no complaint whatsoever was given by the appellants to the local police. Moreover, no effort was made by the appellants to provide medical attention to the deceased or to take her to any nearby hospital. The appellants were found to be sitting outside the house when PW-2 and PW-5 reached. That the appellants chose to remain silent in their house for over two hours, despite witnessing that the deceased had completely succumbed to burn injuries, goes on to show a completely unnatural conduct and points in the direction of their guilt. Moreover, instead of taking measures to take legal or medical assistance without loss of time, the appellants were actually tampering with the scene of crime, as discussed in the following para.