123. Having addressed the preliminary arguments on the applicability of Article 30, we will now proceed to formulate the indicia for the establishment of an educational institution. v. Indicia for the ‘establishment’ of a minority educational institution 124. In this section of the , we will answer two questions: (i) the indicia for ‘establishment’ of a minority educational institution; and (ii) the burden and degree of proof required to prove ‘establishment’ of a minority educational institution. 103 TMA Pai (supra) [81] 1744 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 125. In SK Patro (supra), the question before the Constitution Bench was whether Church Missionary Society Higher Secondary School was a minority educational institution. It was contended that the school was established by the Church Missionary Society, London and not the local residents of Bhagalpur. The Bench relied on the following evidence to conclude that the School was established by the local Christians: a. The correspondence and resolutions indicated that a permanent home for the Boys School was set up on property acquired by local Christians and in buildings erected from funds collected by them104 b. The institution and the land on which it was built and the balance in the local fund were handed over to the Church Missionary Society;105 and c. Though substantial assistance was obtained from the Church Missionary Society London, it could not be said that the school was not established by local residents only because of that.106 126. In Mother Provincial (supra), this Court observed that the intention to found an institution for the benefit of the minority community must be present. In St. Stephen’s (supra), a Constitution Bench determined whether St. Stephen’s College is a minority educational institution. St Stephen’s College is a constituent college of Delhi University. The Bench held that the college was established by the Indian Christian community based on the following material: a. The purpose of establishing the educational institution emerged from the Report of 1878 to the Cambridge Brotherhood. The purpose of founding the college was to ensure that graduates from St. Stephen’s Mission School could be given the benefit of Christian teachings in college;107 b. The buildings depicted the Christian orientation of the college108 104 SK Patro (supra) [15] 105 ibid [15] 106 ibid [16] 107 St Stephen’s (supra) [30] 108 Ibid [31-32] Foundation stone has the inscription :”to the glory of god, and the advancement of sound, learning and religious education”; a cross was placed in the new building. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1745 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. c. The motto of the college is “Ad Dei Gloriam”, that is the glory of god;109 d. There is a chapel in the college campus, where religious instruction is imparted;110 e. The Constitution of the college reflects its Christian character. It states that the object of the college is, inter alia, to offer instruction on doctrines of Christianity,111 the original members of the society were mostly Christians,112 and the composition of the society reflects its Christian character where a large number of Christian members of the Church of North India are a part of it;113 and f. The Governing Body has a distinct christian character.