14. In cross-examination, PW-1 deposed that he used to go to his aunt’s matrimonial house frequently as her brothers were not residing in the maternal village. He also deposed that appellant no. 1 was working in Chandigarh and used to come home in 3-4 months. He further deposed that the deceased used to insist for going to Chandigarh and the appellant had promised her that he would take her soon. He further deposed that appellant no. 2 used to quarrel with the deceased regarding household work and about her desire of going to Chandigarh. 15. PW-2 (Shankar Singh), brother of the deceased Devaki had stated before the Court that on 14.09.2003, a call was received at about 12.00 - 1.00 o’clock in the midnight from the village of his sister that his sister had poured kerosene oil on her person and put herself ablaze. He, therefore, managed to go to the village of his sister along with 5-6 people and when he reached the matrimonial home of his sister, the appellants were sitting outside the verandah and he was told that his sister had committed suicide by pouring kerosene oil on herself. He further stated that when he went inside the room, he saw that the dead body of his sister was lying on the floor between two coats in naked condition and green grass was put over her dead body. A quilt was lying there in burnt condition along with water. He further stated that at the time of incident, his sister was pregnant and he had felt that his sister had not committed suicide but she was 914 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports murdered by her in-laws. He deposed that his sister used to tell them about the harassment of her in-laws regarding non-performance of household work. In the cross-examination, he admitted that his sister wanted to accompany her husband Vijaya and stay at Chandigarh instead of staying at village and that prior to the death of his sister, the relationship between his sister and the accused Vijaya Singh was quite cordial. 16. PW-3 Saroj happened to be the sister of the appellant no.1 and daughter of appellant no.2, whose statement was recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. during the course of investigation. She admitted about the recording of her statement before the Magistrate under Section 164 of Cr.P.C and admitted her signatures on the statement. In cross- examination, she stated that she was not present at home at the time of incident and that the relationship between her sister-in-law Devaki and her mother and brother was cordial. She further admitted that when the Patwari brought her to the Magistrate for recording her statement, he had threatened her, and had also remained present before the Magistrate when her statement was being recorded. PW-3 denied any statement regarding quarrel between the deceased and appellant no. 2. PW-4 Preeti is also the sister of appellant no.1 and daughter of appellant no.2, and she also deposed to the same effect as her sister Kumari Saroj/PW-3.