529 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. by the petitioners (in this case, the right to information). '©° This could well be critiqued for its limitations. 154. In Campv.b MeGM lLimlite d'®, Baroness Hale adopted the double proportionality standard to adequately balance two conflicting fundamental rights. In this case, the claimant, a public figure, instituted proceedings against a newspaper for publishing details of her efforts to overcome drug addiction. Baroness Hale applied the following standard to balance the right to privacy of the claimant and the right to a free press: “141. [...] This involved looking first at the comparative importance of the actual rights being claimed in the individual case; then at the justifications for interfering with or restricting each of those rights; and applying the proportionality test to each” 155. In Central Public Information Officer, Supreme Court of India v. Subash Chandra Agarwal'”, one of us (Justice 2 Y Chandrachud) while authoring the concurring opinion adopted the double proportionality standard as formulated in Campbell (supra). Referring to the double proportionality standard, the concurring opinion observes that the Court while balancing between two fundamental rights must identify the precise interests weighing in favour of both disclosure and privacy and not merely undertake a doctrinal analysis to determine if one of the fundamental rights takes precedence over the other: “113. Take the example of where an information applicant sought the disclosure of how many leaves were taken by a public employee and the reasons for such leave. The need to ensure accountability of public employees is of clear public interest in favour of disclosure. The reasons for the leave may also include medical information with respect to the public employee, creating a clear privacy interest in favour of non-disclosure. It is insufficient to state that the privacy interest in medical records is extremely high and 168 Hon’ble Mr Justice Andrew Cheung PJ, Conflict of fundamental rights and the double proportionality test, A lecture in the Common Law Lecture Series 2019 delivered at the University of Hong Kong (17 September 2019) 169 [2004] UKHL 22 170 Civil Appeal No. 10044 of 2010 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 530 Digital Supreme Court Reports therefore the outcome should be blanket non-disclosure. The principle of proportionality may necessitate that the number of and reasons for the leaves be disclosed and the medical reasons for the leave be omitted. This would ensure that the interest in accountability is only abridged to the extent necessary to protect the legitimate aim of the privacy of the public employee.” 156. Baroness Hale in Campbell (supra) employed a three step approach to balance fundamental rights. The first step is to analyse the comparative importance of the actual rights claimed. The second step is to lay down the justifications for the infringement of the rights. The third is to apply the proportionality standard to both the rights. The approach adopted by Baroness Hale must be slightly tempered to suit our jurisprudence on proportionality. The Indian Courts adopt a four prong structured proportionality standard to test the infringement of the fundamental rights.