Merely because, the appellants being the relatives took care of the child for some time, they cannot retain the custody of the child. It is not the case of the appellants 458 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that the first respondent is unfit to take care of the child except contending that he has no female support to take care of the child. The first respondent is fully recovered from his illness and is now healthy and having the support of his mother and is able to take care of the child.” 11. Like the facts in the case of Tejaswini Gaud (supra), the facts in the present case are also peculiar. The appellant’s wife died due to COVID infection and as such, he was forced to give the custody of the minor child Sugandha Das to respondent Nos. 5 and 6, who are the sisters of the deceased wife. Looking at the very tender age of the child Sugandha Das at that time, the appellant could not have looked after her. However, the appellant was looking after his son Divyanshu Das, who was relatively older. Subsequently, the appellant remarried. Now, he and his wife can very well look after the minor girl Sugandha Das. A perusal of the photographs placed on record would also reveal that pursuant to the visitation rights granted by the High Court and this Court, the minor child has gelled well with the family and the family of four appears to be happy. 12. Insofar as the fitness of the appellant is concerned, he is well educated and currently employed as Assistant General Manager (Class A Officer) in Central Warehousing Corporation, Delhi. The appellant’s residence is also in Delhi whereas respondent No. 6 to whom the custody of the minor child was handed over to by respondent No. 5 is residing at a remote village in West Bengal. Apart from taking care of his children, the appellant can very well provide the best of the education facilities to his children. The child Sugandha Das, who lost her mother at tender age, cannot be deprived of the company of her father and natural brother. At the relevant time, the appellant had no other option but to look upon the sisters of his deceased wife to nurture his infant child. 13. In our opinion, merely because of the unfortunate circumstances faced by the appellant as a result of which, respondent Nos. 5 and 6 were given the temporary custody of the minor child Sugandha Das and only because they looked after her for few years, the same cannot be a ground to deny the custody of the minor child to the appellant, who is her only natural guardian. 14. Insofar as the allegations made against the appellant by respondent Nos. 5 and 6 are concerned, it appears that they have been made only as an afterthought, and especially after the appellant started [2024] 8 S.C.R. 459 Gautam Kumar Das v. NCT of Delhi and Others asserting his claim for the custody of his minor daughter Sugandha Das.