2 – Iqbal on 23.05.2016 relating to the deal of a plot in respect of which part consideration was paid as earnest money. But thereafter, the appellants had sold the plot and were not refunding the earnest money and by doing so have committed breach of trust under Section 406 of the IPC. It also refers to the alleged pretexts being made by the appellants on money being demanded 118 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and a threat to kill being extended. It is also recorded that an offence under Section 506 has been proved to have been committed. At the same time, the chargesheet states that no offence under Section 420 of the IPC is found to have been committed. 36. An offence under Section 406 of the IPC requires entrustment, which carries the implication that a person handing over any property or on whose behalf the property is handed over, continues to be the owner of the said property. Further, the person handing over the property must have confidence in the person taking the property to create a fiduciary relationship between them. A normal transaction of sale or exchange of money/consideration does not amount to entrustment.24 Clearly, the charge/offence of Section 406 IPC is not even remotely made out. 37. The chargesheet states that the offence under Section 420 is not made out. The offence of cheating under Section 415 of the IPC requires dishonest inducement, delivering of a property as a result of the inducement, and damage or harm to the person so induced. The offence of cheating is established when the dishonest intention exists at the time when the contract or agreement is entered, for the essential ingredient of the offence of cheating consists of fraudulent or dishonest inducement of a person by deceiving him to deliver any property, to do or omit to do anything which he would not do or omit if he had not been deceived. As per the investigating officer, no fraudulent and dishonest inducement is made out or established at the time when the agreement was entered. 38. An offence of criminal intimidation arises when the accused intendeds to cause alarm to the victim, though it does not matter whether the victim is alarmed or not. The intention of the accused to cause alarm must be established by bringing evidence on record. The word ‘intimidate’ means to make timid or fearful, especially: to compel or deter by or as if by threats.25 The threat communicated or uttered by the person named in the chargesheet as an accused, should be uttered and communicated by the said person to threaten 24 See Section 405 of the IPC and s of this Court in State of Gujarat v. Jaswantlal Nathalal AIR 1968 SC 700; Indian Oil Corpn. v. NEPC India Ltd. and Others (2006) 6 SCC 736; Central Bureau of Investigation, SPE, SIU(X), New Delhi v. Duncans Agro Industries Ltd., Calcutta (1996) 5 SCC 591 25 “intimidate”. Merriam-Webster.com. Merriam-Webster, 2024. [2024] 6 S.C.R.