1101 S. Tirupathi Rao v. M. Lingamaiah & Ors. of Uttar Pradesh (supra), forming part of the SoP, are complete. A public official who is arrayed as a contemnor is as much bound by an unchallenged of a high court as a private party is, and cannot consider himself not bound by the law by virtue of the office he holds. Being under a duty to comply with a final and binding of a high court, the contemnor ought not to drag his feet in doing the same until the coercive measure of summoning the contemnor to be physically present is resorted to by the high court. We are reminded at this stage of what this Court in Aligarh Municipal Board (supra) said: “5. *** It must also be clearly under stood in this connection that to employ a subterfuge to avoid compliance of a court’s about which there could be no reasonable doubt may in certain circumstances aggravate the contempt. ***” (emphasis ours) Deliberate delay in effecting compliance with an could be seen as aggravating the contempt resulting in a degree of punishment higher than what the court earlier thought of imposing. Be that as it may. 40. Axiomatically, not only any imposing punishment for proved contempt must be in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Act but initiation of the proceedings too has to be in accordance with the three modes that the Act envisages. One of these is by presentation of a petition for civil contempt before a high court complaining of wilful and deliberate refusal by a person obliged to comply with its final and binding – a situation with which we are concerned. 41. In Pallav Sheth (supra), a three-Judge Bench of this Court had the occasion to consider whether the view taken by a two-Judge Bench in Om Prakash Jaiswal v. D.K. Mittal 34 was correct. In Om Prakash Jaiswal (supra), the Bench had taken the view that filing of an application or petition for initiating proceedings for contempt does not amount to initiation of proceedings by the court and initiation under section 20 of the Act can only be said to have occurred when the court forms the prima facie opinion that contempt has been committed and issues notice to the contemner to show cause why he should not be punished. Such view did not find favour with the Bench in Pallav Sheth (supra). It was observed that a provision like section 20 has to be interpreted having regard to the realities 34 [2000] 1 SCR 1064 : (2000) 3 SCC 171 1102 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the situation, and that, too narrow a view of section 20 had been taken in Om Prakash Jaiswal (supra) which did not seem to be warranted; the view taken would not only cause hardship but would perpetrate injustice. Relevant passages from the decision in Pallav Sheth (supra) read thus: “39. … When the judicial procedure requires an application being filed either before the court or consent being sought by a person from the Advocate-General or a Law Officer, it must logically follow that proceedings for contempt are initiated when the applications are made.