326 as it merely grants them the right to vote and be included in the electoral rolls, which continues to 974 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports subsist to this day devoid of any interruption – Citizenship Act, 1955 – s.6A. [Paras 341-344] Elections – Adult suffrage – Background and evolution of – Stated. [Paras 325-330] s.6A vis-à-vis Art. 355 Citizenship Act, 1955 – s.6A – Special provisions as to citizenship of persons covered by the Assam Accord – Constitution of India – Art. 355 – s.6A vis-a-vis Art. 355 – Operation of s.6A, if causes ‘external aggression’ and ‘internal disturbance’, culminating in the invocation of Art. 355: Held: (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) s.6A not contrary to Art. 355 – s.6A is limited in its ambit and does not by itself create unabated migration or legitimize its continuance – In fact, s.6A adopts a practical solution for the problem of incessant illegal immigration into Assam by devising an implementable solution keeping in mind India’s commitments, international relations and administrative realities – Migrants also need to satisfy certain conditions for invoking s.6A, apart from being persons of Indian origin and ordinary residents in India – s.6A addresses controlled and regulated form of immigration that would fall short of ‘external aggression’ – Migration legitimized by s.6A also does not constitute internal disturbance – s.6A was a crucial step in bringing quietus to the political upheaval in Assam and marked the culmination of various agitations surrounding illegal immigration and the rights of indigenous communities – Thus, s.6A does not cause ‘internal disturbance’. [Paras 364-367] – Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI.) (Concurring) Constitutional validity of a legislation cannot be tested for violation of Art. 355 – Art.355 was included in the Constitution as a justification for the exercise of emergency powers by the Union over States – Art. 355 as an independent ground for judicial review of legislative action is beyond the scope of the provision – An interpretation that a legislative enactment can be challenged for contravention of Art. 355 would lead to disastrous consequences – Reading the duty in Art. 355 into a right would effectively place the emergency powers with citizens and courts – Such a consequence would be catastrophic for the federal structure of the Constitution and would subjugate the constitutional status of States. [Paras 89, 90, 125] [2024] 10 S.C.R. 975 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 Sarbananda Sonowal’s case Citizenship – Illegal immigrants – Sarbananda Sonowal v. Union of India’s case on detection and deportation of illegal immigrants – Explanation: Held: (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) Holding in Sarbananda Sonowal’s case that the term aggression in Art. 355 is of a wide import and can include unabated migration if it poses a threat to the security of the state, is concurred with – Thus, in such cases, the Union indeed bears a duty to protect the State from such unabated immigration that it amounts to external aggression or internal disturbance; and those statutes which violate this duty can be held unconstitutional.