[2024] 12 S.C.R. 249 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. (xii) Section 97 of the Finance Act, 2022 is liable to be struck down as manifestly arbitrary and thus violative of Article 14. According to him, the Finance Act, 2022 does not cure the defects pointed out by this Court in its decision rendered in Canon India (supra) for the following reasons: a. The amendments introduced vide the Finance Act, 2022 continue to violate the principles laid down in the of this Court in Sayed Ali (supra) wherein it was held that granting jurisdiction to multiple officers will create utter chaos and confusion. He highlighted that the review filed against the decision in Sayed Ali (supra) has already been dismissed. b. The validation of past actions by way of Section 97(i) of the Finance Act, 2022 violates the principles enshrined in the of Canon India (supra) since it will lead to a very anarchical and unruly operation of a statute which was sought to be avoided in Canon India (supra). c. A Validation Act can only validate the law but cannot validate a fact. Once a particular officer has exercised the function of assessment, it is a jurisdictional fact that has occurred to the exclusion of all other groups in the Customs Department. Thereafter, only that officer or his superiors (known as the Customs group) who had undertaken assessment under Section 17 in the first place shall have the jurisdiction to issue notices for recovery of duty under Section 28. d. This Court in its in Canon India (supra) found that factually the assessments were initially not undertaken by officers of DRI and such a defect cannot be cured retrospectively by a validating law. Therefore, the present amendments seek to validate and effectively change a judicially determined fact, which cannot be done by a legislation. (xiii) The Finance Act, 2022 also introduced a provision, i.e. Section 110AA, providing a mechanism for actions to be taken subsequent to inquiry, investigation or audit by any officer of 250 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports customs. Section 110AA operates only prospectively. This provision is Parliament’s recognition of the importance of maintaining the jurisdiction for issuing show cause notices within the assessing group. (xiv) Further, by retrospectively modifying the scheme of appointment and assignment of functions to officers of customs, a larger lacuna has been created as there exist no valid notifications for assignment of functions of a ‘proper officer’ under Section 5 for the period prior to 01.04.2022. Thus, all actions performed by any officer of Customs prior to 01.04.2022 have in fact been performed without jurisdiction. In such circumstances referred to above, it was prayed that there being no merit in the Review Petition filed by the Department, the same may be dismissed. D. ISSUES FOR CONSIDERATION 56. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the following questions fall for our consideration: (i) Whether there is an “error apparent on the face of the record” for the purpose of entertaining the review petition?