197. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned ASG, has submitted a brief note referring to the Model Prison Manual for the Superintendence and Management of Prisons in India, 2003, and The Model Prison Manual, 2016. It is argued that the 2016 Manual explicitly prohibits caste and religion-based discrimination practices. The note refers to some of the relevant provisions: 2003 Manual a. The 2003 Manual in Para 2.15.1 states that “Management of kitchen or cooking of food on caste or religious places will be totally banned in prisons.” b. In Para 15.22 the Manual states that “any special treatment to a group of prisoners belonging to a particular caste or religion is strictly prohibited.” c. In Chapter XXIV, Para 24.02 Note (ii) states that “No classification of prisoners shall be allowed on grounds of socio-economic status, caste or class.” d. Para 24.35 states that “Management of kitchen or cooking of food on caste or religious places will be totally banned in prisons for women.” 2016 Manual a. The 2016 Manual in Para 2.12.4 states that “Management of kitchen or cooking of food on caste or religious places will be prohibited in prisons.” b. In Para 17.22 the Manual states that “any special treatment to a group of prisoners belonging to a particular caste or religion is strictly prohibited.” c. In Para 17.25 Note (ii) states that “No classification of prisoners shall be allowed on grounds of socio-economic status, caste or class.” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 619 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. d. Para 24.35 states that “Management of kitchen or cooking of food on caste or religious places will be strictly banned in prisons for women.” 198. The note submitted by Ms. Bhati also refers to the Advisory dated 26 February 2024 issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, through the Deputy Secretary (PR & ATC) to the Principal Secretary (Home/ Jails) of all states and UTs and the DG/IG Prisons of all States and UTs to ensure that the State Prison Manual/Prison Act should not contain any discriminatory provisions. The advisory further states that: “It may be noted that the Constitution of India prohibits any kind of discrimination on the grounds of religion, race, caste, place of birth etc. The Model Prison Manual, 2016 prepared by the Ministry of Home Affairs and circulated to all States and UTs in May 2016 explicitly prohibits caste and religion-based discrimination of prisoners in management of kitchen or cooking of food on caste or religious basis. The manual also provides that any special treatment to a group of prisoners belonging to a particular caste or religion is strictly prohibited. It further provides that no classification of prisoners shall be allowed on grounds of socio-economic status, caste or class.” 199. To the contrary, Ms. Disha Wadekar counsel for the petitioner, has argued that the Model Prison Manual 2016 is not adequate and that it does not address issues of caste-based division of labour, segregation, and discrimination against denotified tribes. A reference was made to the definition of “habitual offenders” to argue that it is misused against persons from denotified tribes in prison.