It further provides that in the case of a firm of Chartered Accountants, the “specified number of tax audit assignments” shall be construed as the specified number of tax audit assignments for every partner of the firm. 1.3 At the outset, we find it pertinent to note that the ceiling limit, that is the subject of controversy has not been stagnant but has, on the basis of several factors, been increased by the Council of respondent-Institute during the passage of time. Initially, the Council of respondent-Institute vide Notification No.1/CA(7)/3/88 dated 13.01.1989 set a limit of thirty audits, in exercise of powers conferred on it under Clause (ii), Part II, Second Schedule of the 1949 Act. Further, in February 2014, vide resolution adopted at the 331st Meeting of the Council of respondent-Institute, the ceiling limit in question was specified as sixty and presently stands the same. Bird’s Eye View of the Controversy: 2. The controversy that has arisen in these petitions is two-fold: firstly, whether the respondent-Institute, constituted under the 1949 Act, had the competency to impose a restriction of the nature and effect herein? If the answer is in the affirmative, secondly, whether a Chartered Accountant’s right “to practice any profession” as provided under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, is unreasonably restricted by a ceiling limit imposed by respondent-Institute on the number of tax audits, under Section 44AB, that can be accepted by a Chartered Accountant in a financial year? In other words, whether a Chartered Accountant can be restricted from undertaking more tax audits 788 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports than specified by the respondent-Institute? Whether the impugned Guideline is saved under Article 19(6) of the Constitution of India? Historical Perspective: 3. It is apposite for us, at this juncture, to preface the origin of Section 44AB in the IT Act, 1961, popularly known as the compulsory audit provision and the ceiling limit imposed by the respondent-Institute on the Chartered Accountants by way of a Guideline, violation of which would result in a misconduct. 3.1 With the aim of examining and suggesting legal and administrative measures for countering evasion and avoidance in direct taxation in the country, the Government of India on 02.03.1970, constituted a High Power Committee of Experts, namely, the Direct Taxes Enquiry Committee, under the chairmanship of Justice K.N. Wanchoo, retired Chief Justice of India. In December 1971, the Wanchoo Committee submitted its Final Report to the Government of India. A bare perusal of Chapter 1 – Introduction, Direct Taxes Enquiry Committee-Final Report elucidates that the Wanchoo Committee was asked to examine and recommend: (a) concrete and effective measures (i) to unearth black money and prevent its proliferation through further evasion; (ii) to check avoidance of tax through various legal devices, including the formation of trusts; and (iii) to reduce tax arrears, (b) examine various exemptions allowed by the tax laws with a view to their modification, curtailment or withdrawal, and (c) indicate the manner in which tax assessment and administration may be improved for giving effect to all its recommendations.