The 2015 United Nations Environment Programme report also outlined five human rights obligations related to climate change, including both mitigation and adaptation efforts.22 In 2018, the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights and the Environment emphasized that human rights necessitate states to establish effective laws and policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, aligning with the framework principles on human rights and the environment.23 32. The Inter-American Court of Human Rights24 issued an advisory opinion in 2017 affirming the right to a healthy environment as a fundamental human right. The IACtHR delineated state obligations regarding significant environmental harm, including cross-b impacts, recognizing the inherent relationship between environmental protection and the enjoyment of various human rights. Violations of the right to a healthy environment can reverberate across numerous rights domains, including the right to life, personal integrity, health, water, and housing, as well as procedural rights such as information, expression, association, and participation. 33. In her comprehensive study exploring climate obligations under international law, Wewerinke-Singh underscores the imperative for states to both adapt to and mitigate the impacts of climate change in alignment with human rights principles.25 This resonates deeply with the burgeoning recognition of the right to a healthy environment as a fundamental human right within the global discourse on environmental protection and sustainability. When discussing the right to a healthy environment, it is crucial to address access to clean and sustainable energy. Clean energy aligns with the human right to a healthy 22 M. Burger and J. Wentz (eds. ), Climate Change and Human Rights, UNEP: December 2015, p.11, 19. <wedocs.unep.org/handle/20.500.11822/9934> 23 J.H. Knox, Report of the Special Rapporteur on the issue of human rights obligations relating to the enjoyment of a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment, Human Rights Council, A/HRC/37/59 of 24 January 2018 (available at <undocs.org/A/HRC/37/59>; See also D.R. Boyd, Statement on the human rights obligations related to climate change, with a particular focus on the right to life, 25 October 2018, p. 2 -8. 24 “IACtHR” 25 M. Wewerinke-Singh, State Responsibility, Climate Change and Human Rights under International Law, Oxford etc. : Hart 2019, pp. 108-109 and 130. 1342 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports environment, as first recognized by the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights and the Environment in 1994.26 34. Unequal energy access disproportionately affects women and girls due to their gender roles and responsibilities such as through time spent on domestic chores and unpaid care work. Women in many developing countries spend on average 1.4 hours a day collecting fuelwood and four hours cooking, in addition to other household tasks that could be supported by energy access.27 The importance of prioritizing clean energy initiatives to ensure environmental sustainability and uphold human rights obligations cannot be understated. 35. India faces a number of pressing near-term challenges that directly impact the right to a healthy environment, particularly for vulnerable and indigenous communities including forest dwellers. The lack of reliable electricity supply for many citizens not only hinders economic development but also disproportionately affects communities, including women and low-income households, further perpetuating inequalities.