In the introduction to the Treatise on the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 by Dr. Dilip K. Sheth, the author has opined that IBC was enacted on the basis of recommendations of various committees and suggestions received from various stakeholders to address the infirmities of the erstwhile insolvency regime and fulfil the following objectives: [2024] 12 S.C.R. 185 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad i. To balance the interest of stakeholders and creditors by reviewing and restructuring insolvent businesses having potential for a turn-around. ii. To provide robust mechanism for earlier resolution of insolvency in time-bound manner. 91. A reading of the Preamble to the IBC reveals the following avowed objects behind its enactment: i. To consolidate and amend the laws relating to reorganisation and insolvency resolution of corporate persons, partnership firms and individuals in a timebound manner for maximization of value of assets of such persons; ii. To promote entrepreneurship and availability of credit; iii. To balance the interests of all the stakeholders including alteration in the of priority of payment of Government dues; and iv. To establish the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India. 92. One of the cardinal objectives of the IBC is to protect and preserve the life of the corporate debtor “as a going concern” by providing for the resolution of its insolvency through restructuring and keeping liquidation only as a measure of last resort. 93. One of the essential ingredients of an application filed under Section 9 of the IBC is that there is an existence of a default. The term ‘default’ is defined under Section 3(12) of the IBC to mean non-payment of debt when whole or any part or instalment of the amount of debt has become due and payable and is not paid by the debtor. 94. ‘Debt’ is defined under Section 3(11) of the IBC to mean a liability or obligation in respect of a claim which is due from any person and includes a financial debt and operational debt. 95. On the other hand, arbitration is a consent-based private dispute resolution method for the expeditious adjudication of disputes. Arbitration is initiated when one or both parties are not able to resolve their disputes amicably and seek to have the matter resolved by an independent arbitrator. 96. The High Court in the impugned thought fit to exclude the time- period spent by the respondent before the NCLT, Kolkata under the 186 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports IBC since it was of the view that the respondent was availing remedy for recovery of dues before a wrong forum and was thus squarely covered by Section 14(2) of the Limitation Act. The High Court took the view that since the proceedings for initiating corporate insolvency resolution process (“CIRP”) under IBC as well as the proceeding sought to be initiated by way of arbitration were ultimately for the recovery of debts, both proceedings could be said to be for the same relief, and thus entitled the respondent for the benefit under Section 14(2) of the Limitation Act.