I therefore have no hesitation in holding that E.V. Chinnaiah has been wrongly decided. 262. The concept of sub-classification was sought to be attacked on the ground that this would lead to giving reservation for political reasons. It was argued that a political party in power to gain political advantage may provide special treatment to a particular class in the list of Scheduled Castes. I see no merit in the argument. 263. Dr. Ambedkar had foreseen such a difficulty. In his speech in the Constituent Assembly, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar said that ‘backward community” will have to be left to be determined by each local government. On a query by Shri T.T. Krishnamachari, as to whether this rule will be justiciable, he observed that it would be a justiciable matter. He stated that if the local Government included in this category of reservations such a large number of seats, one could very well go to the Federal Court and the Supreme Court and say that the reservation is of such a magnitude that the rule regarding equality of opportunity has been destroyed and the court will then come to the conclusion whether the local Government or the State Government has acted in a reasonable and prudent manner. 264. Various judicial pronouncements referred to hereinabove have emphasized that a reasonable classification is implicit in the trinity of Articles 14 to 16. Therefore, if somebody approaches the Court, the Court can always examine as to whether such a classification is reasonable or not. 265. For a classification to be reasonable, it will have to be established that any group or sub-group carved out in the larger group is significantly different than the larger group and that the classification has a nexus with the object to be achieved. 1574 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 266. In a case, like the present one, if a classification is made, it will have to be established that the group carved out from the larger group is more disadvantageous and not adequately represented. The result of classification would be to provide more preferential treatment to this more disadvantageous and less represented group. The ultimate object would be to achieve real equality among all the sub-groups in the larger group. 267. In any case, as has been held by judicial pronouncements, when the State does such an exercise, it will have to be supported by an empirical data. Unless the State or the Commission comes to a finding that the group carved out needs special treatment is more disadvantageous and not adequately represented as compared to the other categories in the group, such a sub-classification would not stand the scrutiny of the law. I, therefore, find that the fear that is posed is not substantiated. 268. I find that the attitude of the categories in the Presidential List opposing such a sub-classification is that of a person in the general compartment of the train. Firstly, the persons outside the compartment struggled to get into the general compartment.