The SRA cannot get all previous slots as this condition needs to be read with plan approval of this Tribunal. In that view of the matter, above CPs is also found to be Satisfactorily complied with. 125. As regards to CP no. 4: International Traffic Right Clearance: On perusal of the plan approval dated 22nd June, 2021, it is found that no blanket approval can be granted upfront to the SRA as it has to approach the concerned authorities for grant of such approval as per applicable laws. As already stated above, the plan approval has reached its finality, thus, accepting the fact that all the approval issued upfront cannot be reinstated. Accordingly, this condition precedent needs to be read with plan approval . Even otherwise there is no dispute that under the approved plan, SRA has to re-commence with operation of six aircrafts. The International Traffic Rights clearance is required to be obtained in compliance with the applicable laws which stipulates that minimum twenty aircrafts are required to be deployed before applying for such clearance. In view of this, we find that this condition cannot be satisfied upfront and needs to be satisfied in compliance with applicable laws i.e., after the SRA has twenty aircrafts in operation which can only be achieved once the operation is re-commenced successfully. Accordingly, this condition can only be fulfilled after the SRA/Applicants re-commences its business and not prior to its commencement. It goes without saying that plan approved by this Tribunal has to be implemented without any modification much less than on satisfaction of any other undertaking and thus, the effective date and completion date of condition precedent under the plan shall have to be read as 20th May, 2022. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2117 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. 126. In the background of above facts and for the reasons stated above we hold that in addition to CPs (I) & (V) which are admittedly complied, remaining CPs (II), (III), (IV) are also duly complied.” 94. During the period when the aforesaid of the NCLT was passed, the SRA possessed a valid AOC and therefore, there was no dispute pertaining to this Condition Precedent. With respect to the Slot Allotment Approval, the NCLT observed that although the historic slots which were available to the Corporate Debtor could not be obtained by the SRA, yet the slots for which the SRA had applied were granted to it by the concerned authorities upon settling the old dues and as such, this could not be considered as non-allotment of slots. Therefore, this Condition Precedent was found to be satisfactorily complied with. As regards the Condition Precedent on obtaining International Traffic Rights Clearance, the applicable law required a minimum of 20 aircrafts to be deployed before applying for such a clearance. However, under the approved Plan, the SRA had to re-commence with the operations with only six aircrafts. It was, therefore, held that this Condition Precedent could not have been satisfied upfront and could only be satisfied once the operations of the Corporate Debtor had commenced successfully.