77. It was argued that declaring the AMU to be a minority institution would divest the Parliament of a large part of the power it could otherwise have exercised under Entry 63 of List I. Since the AMU is established by a special statute, it would be “State” within the meaning of Article 12 and hence, cannot be a minority institution. He relies on the judgement in Sukhdev Singh v. Bhagatram Sardar Singh Raghuvanshi, (1975) 1 SCC 421. 78. It was argued that the 1981 amendment relying on the judgement in Hotel and Catering Industry Training Board v. Automobile Propriety Ltd, (1968) 1 WLR 1526. It was argued that the AMU was created by a statute and not under a statute. It was argued that to say that having been established by the Act, the AMU can be governed only in terms of the Act and hence the minority community can make no claim of having established the AMU since such claim is precluded by the very provisions of the Act. It was argued that since the institution was created by an Act, the words “of their choice” in Article 30 would not be applicable. 79. Mr. Shridhar Potaraju, Ld. Senior Counsel, referred to the requirement of publishing the university’s accounts in the official gazette and the submission of the accounts originally to the Lord Rector and after the 1981 amendment to the Parliament. On this basis he argues that the AMU is an open and public university. It was argued that [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1943 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. the AMU itself never raised any questions about its character from 1950 until 2005, when for the first time it enacted reservations for Muslims. Until 2005, the AMU was governed by the non-discrimination requirement under Article 29(2) since AMU is under the financial and administrative control of the Government, it is ‘State’ within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution. 80. Ms. Archana Pathak Dave, Ld. Senior Counsel, submitted that the insertion of Section 2(l) by the 1981 amendment was an impermissible exercise of legislative overruling of a judgement. The question of establishment having been settled in Azeez Basha [supra] it cannot be reopened by an amendment act which seeks to take a contrary view on facts. 81. Mr. Yatindra Sharma, Ld. Senior Counsel, reiterated that the university was established and is being administered by the government and not the Muslim community. He goes on to state that Muslims are in fact not a minority in terms of Article 30 as the said Article applies to electoral minorities i.e. those whose numbers are so few that they cannot influence electoral outcomes. It was argued that even assuming that the changes made in the 1981 amendment take away the basis of Azeez Basha [supra], they are unconstitutional for violating Articles 14, 15 and 29(2) of the Constitution. 82. Mr. Anirudh Sharma, learned counsel, submitted that Article 29(2) would stand on higher footing as compared to Article 30(1) and therefore once any institution is covered by Article 29(2), the general right provided therein cannot be unsettled by the specific right under Article 30(1).