In ordinary cases, their position is like that of court or other Tribunals against whose decisions writ proceedings are filed; they are not interested in the merits of the dispute in any sense, and so, their representation by lawyers in such proceedings is wholly unnecessary and even inappropriate.” (emphasis supplied) 27. In State Transport Authority Tribunal and Regional Transport Authority, Meerut v. Mohd. Lucman Shariff,38 this Court refused to entertain an appeal filed by the Transport Authorities against the of the High Court because they were not “aggrieved parties”. In Bar Council of Maharashtra v. MV Dabholkar,39 the issue before a seven-Judge Bench of this Court was whether the State Bar Council was an ‘aggrieved party’ to maintain an appeal under Section 38 of the Advocates Act 1961.40 Section 38 provides that “any aggrieved person” may prefer an appeal before this Court against the made by the Disciplinary Committee of the Bar Council of India. Chief Justice A N Ray, writing the opinion for the majority held that the State Bar Council was an aggrieved person for the following reasons: 38 C.A No. 878 of 1963 39 [1976] 1 SCR 306 : (1975) 2 SCC 702 40 “Advocates Act” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1425 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. a. Under the provisions of the Advocates Act, the State Bar Council may initiate disciplinary proceedings either on its own or upon the receipt of information. Thus, there was no ‘lis’ in the proceedings before the Disciplinary Committee like there is in a suit between parties;41 and b. The expression “person aggrieved” must be interpreted widely in terms of the purpose and the provisions of the enactment. The test to be applied to interpret the expression “person aggrieved” is whether “a person has a genuine grievance because an has been made which prejudicially affects his interests”.42 The interest need not be personal or pecuniary. The Advocates Act confers the Bar Council a statutory interest in the rights and privileges of the advocates and the purity and dignity of the profession.43 28. Justice Bhagwati, in his concurring opinion agreed with the conclusions in the opinion of Chief Justice Ray but diverged on the limited point of whether there was a ‘lis’ between the delinquent advocates and the Bar Council. The learned Judge distinguished between the executive functions (ensuring professional conduct of advocates) and adjudicatory functions of the Bar Council (acting through the Disciplinary Committee).44 Irrespective of the divergence on whether this dispute could be termed as a ‘lis’, it is clear that this Court was of the uniform view that a statutory authority can be impleaded as an interested party. 29. In Competition Commission of India v. Steel Authority of India,45 this Court has in detail dealt with the issue that concerns us. In that case, Jindal Steels and Powers invoked the provisions of Section 19 read with Section 26(1) of the Competition Act by providing information to allege that SAIL had abused its dominant position by entering into an exclusive supply agreement with Indian Railways.