The proviso thereto provides that at the time of final disposal of the case or making an under Section 18(3) of the Act, there shall be at least two members including the Principal Magistrate. 15.3 When the arguments in the matter were heard with reference to the under Section 18(3) of the Act, and the was reserved on 29.03.2022 the Board consisted of a Principal Magistrate and a Member. 15.4 Section 7(4) of the Act provides that in case there is any difference of opinion in the interim or the final disposal, the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 809 Child in Conflict with Law Through his Mother v. The State of Karnataka and Another opinion of the majority shall prevail. Where there is no such majority, the opinion of the Principal Magistrate shall prevail. 15.5 A perusal of the record shows that after the was reserved on 29.03.2022, the matter was listed on 05.04.2022 for s. The Principal Magistrate recorded his opinion that the CCL is to be tried by the Children’s Court. The other member of the Board recorded his dissent though, no detailed reasons were given as such. In terms of Section 7(4) of the Act, the opinion of the majority is to prevail. The case in hand does not fall in that category, as the Board on that date consisted of the Principal Magistrate and a Member, and the Member had recorded his dissent. In such a situation the opinion of the Principal Magistrate will prevail. In the case in hand the was signed by the Principal Magistrate. Even if the other member of the Board had not signed the and had merely mentioned that he had a dissenting view, without any reasons being recorded, the of the Principal Magistrate will prevail. Needless to add that reasons in any are ‘heart and soul’ and are helpful for the next higher Court to examine the matter. The proceedings with reference to the opinion of the Board regarding inquiry or trial of the CCL, either by the Board or Children’s Court, stood culminated. Any further proceedings in that matter were non-est and without jurisdiction. Much less to say anything more about the same. The opinion of the High Court in that regard does not call for any interference. VI. REMEDY OF APPEAL TO APPELLANT 16. In our opinion, considering the facts of the case in hand, the appellant deserves to be granted that right. 16.1 Initially the application filed by the complainant was rejected by the Board. Aggrieved against the same, the complainant preferred revision before the High Court. The High Court decided the same merely on the issue of finality of the opinion of the Board. It was in terms of Section 7(4) of the Act, which provides that where majority opinion is not possible, the opinion of the Principal Magistrate shall prevail. An appeal is a valuable right. The arguments, if any, which the CCL may have against the dated 05.04.2022 passed by the Board directing for his trial by the Children’s Court, have not been considered.