(b) The State is directed to ensure the circulation of of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) to Prosecutors, and 1088 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (c) The State is directed to train and update the Prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 11.1 High Court of Gujarat -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of the directions issued in Para 100.2, bail is being granted for non-compliance of Sections 41 and 41-A of CrPC in districts such as Botad, Chhotadeupur, Junagadh and Surat. However, it has been stated that the directions of Sections 41 and 41-A of CrPC are being complied with. As both situations cannot co-exist, the High Court is directed to provide details pertaining to the compliance of the aforesaid directions. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of the directions issued in Paras 100.5 and 100.6, it is found that the same have been complied with only partially. The High Court is directed to ensure complete and uniform compliance of the same and furnish information in this regard. (iii) In terms of the directions issued in Para 100.7, the High Court is directed to furnish information regarding its compliance. (iv) In terms of the directions issued in Para 100.8, the High Court is directed to provide detailed information regarding the measures taken for those prisoners who have not been able to furnish sureties despite grant of bail. (v) In terms of the directions issued in Para 100.10, the High Court is directed to ensure compliance of the same and furnish information. (vi) To inform on whether the in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC. (vii) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of judicial academy. 12. State of Haryana -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1089 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in Para 100.7, the State is directed to give details of the number of Special Courts constituted and whether any steps are underway for creation of Additional Special Courts and at what stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court; (a) The State is directed to issue directions to Prosecutors to place on record the correct legal position as per Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra), (b) The State is directed to ensure circulation of in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) to Prosecutors, and (c) The State is directed to train and update Prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same.