The learned Single Judge on the pleadings of the parties and considering the fact that long back in the year 1967 created a joint venture for imparting the education and continued till 2012 and the appellant by unilateral action decided to break up the joint venture. The institute of brothers of St. Gabriel did not challenge their unilateral action, and departed quietly. 18) Admittedly, the appellant herein has unilaterally changed the service conditions of the writ petitioners by way of letter dated 28.02.2012 (copy Annexure 6 to the writ petition). A perusal of the pleadings of the rival [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2197 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. parties would reveal that the appellant herein as well as the respondent Bengal Engineering Group and Center were not a party before learned Single Judge. The Deputy Commandant of the Bengal Engineering Group and Center is the de facto Chairman of the Bengal Engineering Group Benevolent Trust. The Union of India was also impleaded as a party respondent. The Commandant or the Deputy Commandant has no individual or personal capacity. Deputy Commandant has discharged his duties as de facto Chairman of the Bengal Engineering Group and Benevolent Trust (hereinafter referred to as Benevolent Trust). The Deputy Commandant has no independent power being an ex officio of the Benevolent Trust. The Deputy Commandant cannot work arbitrarily. Since the appellant and respondent Bengal Engineering Group Benevolent Trust were party and same relief was granted, the Bengal Engineering Group Benevolent Trust has not chosen to file the Special Appeal against the impugned and passed by learned Single Judge. It is true that the appellant being a Society has preferred this Special Appeal, but it was the decision of respondent no. 51 to issue letter dated 28.02.2012 (copy Annexure 6 to the writ petition). The service conditions of the teaching staff and non-teaching staff, which were continuing before terminating the legality of Institute of Brothers of St. Gabriel and taking over the entire management of the Institution by the Bengal Engineering Group Benevolent Trust. The learned Single Judge has considered elaborately that the Benevolent Trust cannot change the service condition unilaterally and convert the regular services of the teaching and non-teaching staff and to issue ad hoc appointments to them. The appeal has been preferred by Army Welfare Education Society, whereof the institution was a joint venture of Brother of St. Gabrial and Bengal Engineering Group Benevolent Trust. The appellant may be an apex body (society) running the Army Schools throughout the country, but it cannot escape from the noble idea of creating Bengal Engineering Group Benevolent Trust for imparting education. Service benefits and status of the employee/ 2198 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports employees could not be reduced without assigning sound reasons by the employer and without affording opportunity of hearing to them. We are also of the view that the services of the teaching and non- teaching staff cannot be changed from regular services to ad hoc services.