The appellate court decides in favor of X. It has power to pass a decree against Y. 17 [2003] 2 SCR 22 : (2003) 9 SCC 606 18 41 Rule 22 CPC. – Upon hearing respondent may object to decree as if he had preferred a separate appeal..— (1) Any respondent, though he may not have appealed from any part of the decree, may not only 32 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of an appellate court under 41 Rule 33 CPC. While dealing with the scope of Rule 22 of 41, the Court observed: “10. …. There may be three situations: (i) The impugned decree is partly in favour of the appellant and partly in favour of the respondent. (ii) The decree is entirely in favour of the respondent though an issue has been decided against the respondent. (iii) The decree is entirely in favour of the respondent and all the issues have also been answered in favour of the respondent but there is a finding in the which goes against the respondent. 11. In the type of case (i) it was necessary for the respondent to file an appeal or take cross-objection against that part of the decree which is against him if he seeks to get rid of the same though that part of the decree which is in his favor he is entitled to support without taking any cross-objection. The law remains so post amendment too. In the type of cases (ii) and (iii) pre-amendment CPC did not entitle nor permit the respondent to take any cross-objection as he was not the person aggrieved by the decree. Under the amended CPC, read in the light of the explanation, though it is still not necessary for the respondent to take any cross- objection laying challenge support the decree but may also state that the finding against him in the court below in respect of any issue ought to have been in his favour; and may also take any cross-objection to the decree which he could have taken by way of appeal provided he has filed such objection in the appellate court within one month from the date of service on him or his pleader of notice of the day fix for hearing the appeal, or within such further time as the appellate court may deem fit to allow. Explanation.-- A respondent aggrieved by a finding of the court in the on which the decree appealed against is based may, under this rule, file cross objection in respect of the decree insofar as it is based on that finding, notwithstanding that by reason of the decision of the court on any other finding which is sufficient for the decision of the suit, the decree, is, wholly or in part, in favor of that respondent. (2) Form of objection and provisions applicable thereto. --- Such cross objection shall be in the form of a memorandum, and the provisions of rule 1, so far as they relate to the form and contents of the memorandum of appeal, shall apply thereto.