However, we do not find any merit in [2024] 9 S.C.R. 299 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. the aforesaid submission. There are two ways by which a person, who is already in custody, may be arrested – a. First, no sooner than he is released from custody in connection with the first case, the police officer can arrest and take him into custody in relation to a different case; and b. Secondly, even before he is set free from the custody in the first case, the police officer investigating the other offence can formally arrest him and thereafter obtain a Prisoner Transit Warrant (“P.T. Warrant”) under Section 267 of the CrPC from the jurisdictional magistrate for the other offence, and thereafter, on production before the magistrate, pray for remand; OR Instead of effecting formal arrest, the investigating officer can make an application before the jurisdictional magistrate seeking a P.T. Warrant for the production of the accused from prison. If the conditions required under 267 of the CrPC are satisfied, the jurisdictional magistrate shall issue a P.T. Warrant for the production of the accused in court. When the accused is so produced before the court in pursuance of the P.T. Warrant, the investigating officer will be at liberty to make a request for remanding the accused, either to police custody or judicial custody, as provided in Section 167(1) of the CrPC. At that time, the jurisdictional magistrate shall consider the request of the investigating officer, peruse the case diary and the representation of the accused and then, pass an appropriate , either remanding the accused or declining to remand the accused. [See: State v. K.N. Nehru reported in 2011 SCC OnLine Mad 1984] 42. As arrest in both the aforesaid circumstances is permissible in law, it would be incorrect to hold that a person, while in custody, cannot have a “reason to believe” that he may be arrested in relation to a different offence. As a logical extension of this, it can also be said that when procedural law doesn’t preclude the investigating agency from arresting a person in relation to a different offence while he is already under custody in some previous offence, the accused too cannot be precluded of his statutory right to apply for anticipatory bail only on the ground that he is in custody in relation to a different offence. 300 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 43. The procedure for arrest of the accused in relation to an offence after he is released from custody in the first offence would be similar to the procedure of arrest which is required to be followed in any other cognizable offence. However, we think it is necessary to shed some light on the procedure to effect arrest in the second category of cases, that is, where the investigating agency arrests the accused in relation to an offence while he is in custody in relation to a different offence. 44. As discussed in the preceding paragraphs, an accused could be arrested either when he is free or when he is in custody in some offence.