These matters can be production, trade, commerce, supply and distribution, etc. ; b. Entry 52 of List I is a special entry uncontrolled by any other entry including Entry 8 of List II. It envisages the possibility of uniform control at the federal level of any declared industry by removing it from the individual jurisdiction of the States. Such uniform control serves the purpose of subserving the common good, equitable distribution, fair prices, utility of the products of an industry for serving the interests of all the States, etc. ; c. To the extent that Parliament legislates with respect to an industry, the powers of the States under Entries 26 and 27 of List II are denuded. Similarly, the powers of the States under Entry 33 of List III are denuded if Parliament has occupied the field. Merely because a notified is not issued would not leave the subject to be legislated upon by the States. This is because the lack of regulation or notification may be to serve the interest of the industry. The principle elucidated in Tika Ramji (supra) is not a principle of universal application i.e., in the absence of a notified under Section 18G, the IDRA will not be a dormant law and the States will not derive their competence to deal with all or any matters otherwise exhaustively dealt with by Section 18G; d. The observations in SIEL (supra) and Tika Ramji (supra) are incorrect in completely separating Entry 52 of List I from Entry 33 of List III. It is open to Parliament to enact laws in respect of trade and commerce, production, supply, distribution. The fact that the IDRA touches upon a certain field is enough to oust the jurisdiction of the State completely; [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1981 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons e. All uses of liquids containing alcohol, other than those meant for human consumption, would fall under one category which is non-potable alcohol. Non-potable alcohol must fall outside Entry 8 of List II. Accordingly, the 2016 amendment to Entry 26 of Schedule I of the IDRA must be taken to have validly taken over non-potable alcohol; f. The focus of the framers while drafting the provisions concerning alcohol in the Constitution was temperance, regulation of trade and commerce in consumable alcohol preparations and to raise revenue; g. Entry 8 of List II cannot be interpreted to carve anything out of Entry 52, List I and Entry 33, List III. The of this Court in ITC Ltd v. Agricultural Produce Market Committee,64 is inapplicable to the present case because ITC (supra) was determined in the context of overlapping entries. The ‘fermentation industry’ has been dealt with under the IDRA, which is a self-contained legislation; h. The term ‘intoxicating liquors’ in Entry 8 of List II does not include all classes of alcoholic liquids. The use of the phrase ‘that is to say’ occurring in Entry 8 of List II only refers to the range of activities concerning one class of alcohol, namely potable alcohol, and is not referable to other classes of liquor; i.