Thus, when lottery ticket is an actionable claim and not “goods” and is therefore outside the scope of sub-clause (i) of clause 19 of Section 65 of the Finance Act, 1994, it could not have been included as lottery per se in the Explanation to sub-clause (ii) of Clause 19 of Section 65 of the Finance Act, 1994 as “service in relation to promotion or marketing of service provided by the client” including any service provided in relation to promotion or marketing of games of chance, organized, conducted or promoted by the client, in whatever form or by whatever name called, whether or not conducted online, including lottery, lotto, bingo. The Explanation sought to bring the activity of sale of lottery tickets within sub-clause (ii) of Clause 19 of Section 65 of the Finance Act, 1994, when it was excluded from sub-clause (i) on account of the lottery tickets being interpreted as actionable claims and not goods on the premise that it was a service within the meaning of said sub- clause. On a plain reading of the Explanation in light of the activity actually carried on by the appellant(s)-assessee(s) herein, it becomes clear that the outright purchase of lottery tickets from the promoters of the State or Directorate of Lotteries, as the case may be, is not a service in relation to promotion or marketing of service provided by the client, i.e., the State conducting the lottery. The conduct of lottery is a revenue generating activity by a State or any other entity in the field of actionable claims. The client, i.e., the State is not engaging in an activity of service while dealing with the business of lottery. Explanation to sub-clause (ii) of Clause 19 of Section 65 of the Finance [2024] 8 S.C.R. 845 K. Arumugam v. Union of India & Others Etc. Act, 1994 cannot bring within sub-clause (ii) by assuming an activity which was initially sought to be covered under sub-clause (i) thereof but could not be by virtue of the definition of goods under the very same Act read with Section 2(7) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930. The mere insertion of an explanation cannot make an activity a taxable service when it is not covered under the main provision (which has to be read into the said sub-clause by virtue of the legislative device of express incorporation). This is because sale of lottery tickets is not a service in relation to promotion or marketing of service provided by a client, i.e., the State in the instant case. Conducting a lottery which is a game of chance is ex facie a privilege and an activity conducted by the State and not a service being rendered by the State. The said activity would have a profit motive and is for the purpose of earning additional revenue to the State exchequer. The activity is carried out by sale of lottery tickets to persons, such as the assessees herein, on an outright basis and once the lottery tickets are sold and the amount collected, there is no further relationship between the assessees herein and the State in respect of the lottery tickets sold.