Digital Supreme Court Reports the functions of the judicial officers concerned. They cannot be in any way equated to the officials of the Government. It is high time that the practice of impleading judicial officers disposing of civil proceedings as parties to writ petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution of India or special leave petitions under Article 136 of the Constitution of India was stopped. We are strongly deprecating such a practice.” 19. In Md. Omer v. S Noorudin,24 an appeal was preferred against an of the Registrar of Trade Marks before the High Court of Bombay. The Solicitor General of India put an appearance for the Registrar. The Solicitor General submitted that “he appeared to help the Court by pointing out certain errors in the of the lower Court.” The Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay held that though there are certain cases in which the Registrar should appear, this was not one such case. Chief Justice Chagla, writing for the Division Bench observed that the Solicitor General made a startling proposition by which the Judge of the Court of first instance appears before the Court of second appeal to argue that his was correct and the of the Court of the first appeal was wrong. The Bench observed that: (a) there may be cases in which the Registrar could be a contesting respondent; and (b) the Registrar acting as a Court of first instance cannot appear before the second appellate Court “merely” to point the errors in the of the Court of first appeal.25 20. The second reason for this principle is that the impleadment of the judicial authority as a respondent would contravene one of the 24 AIR 1952 Bom 165 25 “14. […] I have never heard of a Judge of first instance briefing counsel in a Court of appeal in to point out that the of the lower appellate Court was wrong and his was right. If this were the true principle, then every time we hear a second appeal we should look to being guided by the Judge of the trial Court appearing by counsel and telling us what the mistakes in the of the lower Court are. We take it that this Court is sufficiently competent to find out for itself, with the guidance of the counsel of parties, as to what errors, if any, have been committed by the lower Court. We, therefore, think that it was entirely wrong on the part of the Registrar in this case to have appeared merely for the purpose of elucidating his own and pointing out the errors in the of the Court below. That is not the proper function of the Court of first instance, and in this case the Registrar is nothing else except the Court of first instance. […] But, as I said before, this Court neither needs illumination nor guidance from the Judge of the first instance as to what are the errors in the of the lower appellate Court.” [emphasis supplied]; Also see the s of the Delhi High Court in Union Public Service Commission v. Shiv Shambhu25 and SBI v. Mohd.