On a reading of the provisions of Section 138 of the NI Act it is clear that the ingredients which are to be satisfied for making out a case under the provision are: (i) a person must have drawn a cheque on an account maintained by him in a bank for payment of a certain amount of money to another person from out of that account for the discharge of any debt or other liability; (ii) that cheque has been presented to the bank within a period of six months from the date on which it is drawn or within the period of its validity, whichever is earlier; (iii) that cheque is returned by the bank unpaid, either because the amount of money standing to the credit of 1972 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the account is insufficient to honour the cheque or that it exceeds the amount arranged to be paid from that account by an agreement made with the bank; (iv)the payee or the holder in due course of the cheque makes a demand for the payment of the said amount of money by giving a notice in writing, to the drawer of the cheque, within 15 days of the receipt of information by him from the bank regarding the return of the cheque as unpaid; (v) the drawer of such cheque fails to make payment of the said amount of money to the payee or the holder in due course of the cheque within 15 days of the receipt of the said notice.” 36. In the case on hand, the cheque in question came to be signed by the accused, in his capacity as the Director and Authorised Signatory of the Company Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd., on the account maintained by the Company with the Standard Chartered Bank. Hence, the question that falls for our determination is whether the accused could be said to be covered by the expression “account maintained by him” as it appears in Section 138 of the NI Act. In other words, could it be said that the accused was “maintaining” the bank account upon which the dishonoured cheque had been drawn. 37. Section 6 of the NI Act inter alia defines a “cheque” as a bill of exchange drawn on a specified banker and not expressed to be payable otherwise than on demand. Section 7 defines the “drawer” as the maker of a bill of exchange or cheque and “drawee” as the person thereby directed to pay. Sections 30 and 31 of the NI Act respectively define the liability of the drawer and the drawee of a cheque as follows: “30. Liability of drawer.—The drawer of a bill of exchange or cheque is bound, in case of dishonour by the drawee or acceptor thereof, to compensate the holder, provided due notice of dishonour has been given to, or received by, the drawer as hereinafter provided. 31. Liability of drawee of cheque.—The drawee of a cheque having sufficient funds of the drawer in his hands properly applicable to the payment of such cheque must pay the cheque when duly required so to do, and , in default of [2024] 12 S.C.R.