6 For short, “IPC”. 7 For short, “NCT”. 8 We are not directly examining the question of validity of the summons and notices, though the effect and failure to appear is one of the aspects which will be noticed subsequently. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2373 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement 7. The cardinal ground taken in the present appeal is that Arvind Kejriwal was arrested in violation of Section 19(1) of the PML Act. It is contended that the arrest was illegal, which makes the of remand to custody of the DoE passed by the Special Court dated 01.04.2024 also illegal. Therefore, it would be apt to begin by referring to Section 19 and elucidating how the Courts have interpreted and applied the section. 8. Section 19 of the PML Act reads: “19. Power to arrest.—(1) If the Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Director or any other officer authorised in this behalf by the Central Government by general or special , has on the basis of material in his possession, reason to believe (the reason for such belief to be recorded in writing) that any person has been guilty of an offence punishable under this Act, he may arrest such person and shall, as soon as may be, inform him of the grounds for such arrest. (2) The Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Director or any other officer shall, immediately after arrest of such person under sub-section (1), forward a copy of the along with the material in his possession, referred to in that sub-section, to the Adjudicating Authority, in a sealed envelope, in the manner as may be prescribed and such Adjudicating Authority shall keep such and material for such period, as may be prescribed. (3) Every person arrested under sub-section (1) shall, within twenty-four hours, be taken to a Special Court or Judicial Magistrate or a Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, having jurisdiction: Provided that the period of twenty-four hours shall exclude the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the Special Court or Magistrate’s Court.” 9. A bare reading of the section reflects, that while the legislature has given power to the Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Director, or an authorised officer to arrest a person, it is fenced with preconditions and requirements, which must be satisfied prior to the arrest of a person. The conditions are – 2374 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ⇒ The officer must have material in his possession. ⇒ On the basis of such material, the authorised officer should form and record in writing, “reasons to believe” that the person to be arrested, is guilty of an offence punishable under the PML Act. ⇒ The person arrested, as soon as may be, must be informed of the grounds of arrest. These preconditions act as stringent safeguards to protect life and liberty of individuals. We shall subsequently interpret the words “material”, “reason to believe”, and “guilty of the offence”. Before that, we will refer to some s of this Court on the importance of Section 19(1) and the effect on the legality of the arrest upon failure to comply with the statutory requirements.