This evolution was recognised as not just a political concept but as a period that emphasised collective rights over the individual.91 103. The emergence of fraternity as a concept in the French context began to see recognition with the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen, which prescribed communal participation in contrast to individual rights in the interests of society. This was, in essence, a clarion call for the notion of fraternity, though it had not been fully articulated at that point in time.92 It was only with the emergence of the Third Republic and the formation of the Paris Commune in 1871 that fraternity was articulated more clearly and reflected the people’s need for a society based on collective welfare and shared interests. The Constitution of the Third Republic then included and recognised the principles of liberty, equality and fraternity as cornerstones of 89 Id.. 90 Id. 91 GeorGes leFeBvre, The Coming of the French Revolution, R. R. Palmer (trans. ), Princeton University Press, 1973. 92 Id. 1058 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports French society. In this context, fraternity was not restricted to the idea of social cohesion but also extended to ensuring the dignity of each individual in a manner in which national unity and integrity were fostered. The evolution of fraternity, from a mere idea encompassing social values into a principle now embedded into the fabric of a nation’s identity, is indeed fascinating.93 104. Within the French context, fraternity transcended mere brotherhood, expanding to encompass a collective sense of solidarity among citizens. This journey of fraternity from a mere idea into a fundamental value shows the deeply entrenched political and social transformation that occurred in France. Fraternity, therefore, came to be understood as a sense of collective consciousness that unified individuals in their need for an equitable society. 105. Although fraternity is embedded in the constitutional fabric of both India and France, the manner in which they have come to be construed inherently differs. A nuanced differentiation can be discerned by examining them through the lenses of French and Indian perspectives. In the French context, the principle of fraternity was initially envisaged to symbolize a commitment towards the collective well-being of citizens and to showcase a bond that unified them in their aspirations for a just society. However, over time, the notion of fraternity in France came to be somewhat eclipsed by equality, which was perceived to be paramount, with a heightened emphasis on individual rights.94 Conversely, in India, fraternity was perceived by the Constituent Assembly, as seen in Dr. Ambedkar’s speeches, as a means to realize equality and uplift marginalised groups. The divergence in the interpretation of the term fraternity by these two nations in relation to equality is thus distinctly evident.95 106. In the Indian context, the meaning of fraternity has thus entirely diverged from the French sense of the term and is intricately woven into the fabric of fostering social solidarity, uplifting marginalised groups, and achieving a more equitable society. Dr. B.R.