The consequences of the act complained of upon the financial or economic system will weigh in the balance. Thus, it can be concluded that economic offences by their very nature stand on a different footing than other offences and have wider ramifications. They constitute a class apart. Economic offences affect the economy of the country as a whole and pose a serious threat to the financial health of the country. If such offences are viewed lightly, the confidence and trust of the public will be shaken. 17. A profitable reference in this regard can be made to the in State vs. R Vasanthi Stanley9 wherein this Court declined to quash the proceedings in a case involving alleged abuse of the financial system. It was observed as under: “15. …….. A grave criminal offence or serious economic offence or for that matter the offence that has the potentiality to create a dent in the financial health of the institutions is not to be quashed on the ground that there is delay in trial or the principle that when the matter has been settled it should be quashed to avoid the head on the system. That can never be an acceptable principle or parameter, for that would amount to destroying stem cells of law and in many a realm and further strengthen the marrow of unscrupulous litigations. Such a situation should never be conceived of. 8 2017 SCC Online SC 1189 9 2015 SSC Online SC 815 1444 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 18. In the instant case, it is on record that consent terms were submitted by the parties before the DRT. It is admitted that the bank had suffered losses to the tune of Rs. 6.13 Crores approximately. Hence, a substantial injury was caused to the public exchequer and consequently it can be said that public interest has been hampered. Keeping in view the fact that in the present case a special statute i.e. PC Act has been invoked, we are of the view that quashing of offences under the said Act would have a grave and substantial impact not just on the parties involved, but also on the society at large. As such the High Court committed no error in declining to exercise its inherent powers in the present case, thereby refusing to quash the criminal proceedings. 19. For the reasons stated above, we are of the view that the High Court was justified in not exercising its jurisdiction under Section 482 of CrPC. The appeals are accordingly dismissed. 20. Pending application(s), if any, shall be disposed of accordingly. Result of the Case: Appeals dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Swathi H. Prasad, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Shibani Ghosh, Adv.)