The emphasis is on taxing supplies of goods and services. If we apply the well-settled principles on the interpretation of taxing statutes, as discussed in the earlier part of this , there is no scope to give any meaning to clause (c) of Section 17(5) other than its plain and natural meaning. The expression “plant and machinery” has been specifically defined in the explanation of Section 17. Works contract service has been defined under the CGST Act. We cannot add anything to clause (c) or subtract anything from clause (c). ITC is a creation of legislature. 836 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Therefore, it can exclude specific categories of goods or services from ITC. Exclusion of the category of works contracts by clause (c) will not, per se, defeat the object of the CGST Act. MEANING OF THE EXPRESSION “PLANT OR MACHINERY” IN CLAUSE (d) OF SECTION 17(5) 42. The question is whether the explanation that lays down the meaning of the expression “plant and machinery” in Section 17 will apply to the expression “plant or machinery” used in Section 17 (5)(d). 43. Learned ASG himself accepted that the expression “plant and machinery” appears at ten different places in Chapters V (Input Tax Credit) and VI (Tax Invoice, Credit and Debit Notes) of the CGST Act. According to him, the expression “plant or machinery” appears only in clause (d) of Section 17(5). His submission is that the use of the word “or” in clause (d) is a mistake of the legislature. To counter this, it was submitted that in the Model GST Law, which the GST Council Secretariat circulated in November 2016 to invite suggestions and comments from the public, the expression ‘plant and machinery’ was used in clauses (c) and (d). However, while enacting the CGST Act, the legislature has consciously chosen to use the expression “plant or machinery” only in clause (d). The impugned in the main Civil Appeal is more than five years old. The writ petition in which the impugned decision was rendered is a six-year-old writ petition. If it was a drafting mistake, as suggested by learned ASG, the legislature could have stepped in to correct it. However, that was not done. In such circumstances, it must be inferred that the legislature has intentionally used the expression “plant or machinery” in clause (d) as distinguished from the expression “plant and machinery”, which has been used in several places. As the expression “plant or machinery” appears to be intentionally incorporated, it is not possible to accept the contention of the learned ASG that the word “or” in clause (d) should be read as “and”. If the said contention is accepted, there will not be any difference between the expressions “plant and machinery” and “plant or machinery”. This will defeat the legislative intent. 44. The explanation to Section 17 defines “plant and machinery”. The explanation seeks to define the expression “plant and machinery” used in Chapter V and Chapter VI. In Chapter VI, the expression “plant and machinery” appears in several places, but the expression “plant or machinery” is found only in Section 17(5)(d).