Digital Supreme Court Reports denuded of legislative competence for passing any law under Entry 33(a) – List III in respect of a product of a scheduled industry which is read within the definition of article or class of articles relatable to any scheduled industry as per the Explanation to Section 18G, the issuance of a notified pales into insignificance in the context of repugnancy. The issuance of a notified has relevance only for the purpose of intimation of action being taken on any particular article or class of article of a scheduled industry by the Central Government in an occupied field. 17.1 As far as the controversy whether “Fermentation Industries” being under the control of the Union could enable the State Legislature to pass a law by virtue of Entry 33 (a) - List III of the Constitution, in the context of a product of “Fermentation Industries” and in the context of Section 18G of the IDRA, there has been a cleavage of opinion of this Court in the aforesaid s. While in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), it was held that mere insertion of Section 18G into the statute of the IDRA, would imply that the field has been occupied by the Union and, therefore, the State has no jurisdiction to exercise its powers under the said Entry and therefore, has been denuded of all its powers, the subsequent decisions in Bihar Distillery etc., have opined that the said position may not be correct. In other words, unless action is taken under Section 18G of the IDRA by the actual issuance of a notified and if such a notified is repugnant to an existing State legislation or action being initiated thereto, the question of repugnancy would arise. The of this Court in Tika Ramji has been referred to and how far the said would have an application in the present controversy is a matter to be analysed. 17.2 In Tika Ramji, the vires of the Uttar Pradesh Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) Act, 1953 (hereinafter referred to as “UP Act”) was assailed by the petitioners therein. It was contented that the State of Uttar Pradesh had no power to enact the said Act as the same was with respect to the subject of industries, the control of which by the Union was declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest within the meaning of Entry 52 – List I and was, therefore, within the exclusive province of Parliament. It was further contended that the Act was ultra vires the powers of the State Legislature and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2159 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons was a colorable exercise of legislative power by the State. It was further contended that it was repugnant to the IDRA and the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (Act 10 of 1955) also a Central Act. That in the event of this Court were to hold that the impugned Act was within the legislative competence of the State Legislature, it was void by reason of such repugnancy.