The plaintiffs never paid any money to the first defendant. 5. The first plaintiff was examined as a witness. The second plaintiff, Murari Singh, did not support the first plaintiff. He deposed in favour of the defendants. He stated on oath that the suit agreement was made only to ensure that the first defendant did not alienate the suit land. He stated that the first defendant was his relative. He stated that the first plaintiff was related to him and was a well-known person. The first plaintiff’s name was included as the purchaser in the suit agreement to deter the first defendant. He stated that he and the first plaintiff never demanded execution of the sale deed from the first defendant. The second plaintiff proceeded to state that he had not filed the suit, and the signature shown to him on the vakalatnama was of someone else. Subsequently, the second plaintiff filed an affidavit stating that the first defendant had several bad habits and, therefore, there was an apprehension that he would sell the suit property. FINDINGS OF THE COURTS 6. The Trial Court held that the execution of the suit agreement was proved. Relying upon Section 92 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, ‘the Evidence Act’), the learned Trial Judge held that evidence contrary to the contents of the suit agreement could not be adduced and was not admissible in evidence. The learned Trial Judge held that in view of the provisions of the Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws (Reforms and Amendment) Act, 1976, which came into force 402 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on 31st December 1976, an agreement for sale was compulsorily registrable in the State at the relevant time. Therefore, the learned Trial Judge held that in view of the explanation to Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (for short, ‘the TP Act’), the second to fourth defendants shall be deemed to have a notice of the execution of the suit agreement. The learned Judge held that it was a duty of the second to fourth defendants to take a search in the office of the Sub-Registrar to ascertain whether there was any prior transfer. Therefore, the learned Trial judge held that the second to fourth defendants could not be held to be bona fide purchasers for value received. The finding on the issue of readiness and willingness was also recorded in favour of the plaintiffs. Therefore, the Trial Court passed a decree for the specific performance, directing all the defendants to execute the sale deed and deliver possession of the suit property to the plaintiffs. In an appeal preferred by the second to fourth defendants, the Additional District Judge, Nainital, confirmed all the findings of the Trial Court. The Additional District Judge dismissed the appeal. A second appeal was preferred by the second to fourth respondents. The second appeal has been dismissed by the impugned . S OF THIS COURT 7. On 26th October 2010, this Court issued notice.