[2024] 7 S.C.R. 271 Nipun Malhotra v. Sony Pictures Films India Private Limited & Ors. in cultural life, recreation, leisure, and sports.63 Despite the adoption and ratification of the CRPD by many countries, disability-based discrimination persists due to continued reliance on charity and medical paradigms. In light of the foregoing considerations, it is evident that there exist outdated approaches to addressing disability, which fail to acknowledge individuals with disabilities as full rights holders.64 These approaches, characterized by a desire to “care for and protect” persons with disabilities or to “fix” or “cure” them, are fundamentally incompatible with the principles of equality and non- discrimination enshrined in the CRPD. 45. The General Comment on Article 5 of the CRPD states that state parties should take proactive measures to address discriminatory portrayals of persons with disabilities in the media. 65 Such portrayals, rooted in charity, welfare, and medical paradigms, perpetuate harmful stereotypes and undermine the dignity and autonomy of individuals with disabilities. States must therefore implement measures to encourage the media to portray persons with disabilities in a manner consistent with the CRPD, thereby combating negative views that depict them as dependent or lacking autonomy. 46. The human rights approach to disability has been highlighted in many international cases. In Glor v. Switzerland66, the European Court of Human Rights declared a European and worldwide consensus on protecting persons with disabilities against discrimination, referencing the CRPD. In this case, the applicant, deemed unfit for military service due to diabetes, was still taxed for not performing military service.67 The court held that Switzerland had unlawfully discriminated against him. In Bacher v. Austria68, the applicant, with autism and Down Syndrome, faced accessibility issues when a wooden roof crucial for accessing his home was destroyed. The CRPD Committee noted that states must ensure equal access for Persons with Disabilities 63 OHCHR, General Comment 6 on Article 5: Equality and Non Discrimination, (CRPD/C/GC/6, 26 April 2018), Para 2. See https://www.ohchr.org/en/documents/general-comments-and-recommendations/ general-comment-no6-equality-and-non-discrimination 64 Ibid. Para 3. 65 Ibid, Para 44. 66 Glor v Switzerland, 13444/04, para 53. 67 Ibid. 68 Bacher v Austria (026/2014), Views CRPD/C/19/D/26/2014, para 3.3. 272 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to public goods, products, and services in a manner that respects dignity. 69 47. The human rights approach to disability, reflected in the CRPD, represents a significant evolution in international human rights law. It emphasizes the need to treat persons with disabilities as rights holders, ensuring their full participation and inclusion in society. 2. Awareness-raising 48. Article 8 of the CRPD mandates measures for raising awareness about disability rights,70 including: i. Raising awareness at all levels of society, starting from families, to instill respect for disability rights and dignity; ii. Fighting stereotypes and prejudices against persons with disabilities in various life domains, regardless of sex or age; and iii. Promoting recognition of the abilities and valuable contributions of persons with disabilities. 49. Awareness-raising campaigns targeting both the public and private sectors are essential for combating stereotypes, prejudices, and harmful practices relating to persons with disabilities.71 These campaigns should address misconceptions that individuals with disabilities, such 69 Ibid.