[2024] 3 S.C.R. 829 Tapas Kumar Das v. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited & Ors. that the land for the showroom offered by him was not located in village Haripal. Upon cancellation of the appellant’s candidature, the Chief Regional Manager of HPCL (“fourth respondent”, hereafter) intimated the same to the added respondent vide letter dated 2nd January, 2019 and assured to him refund of Rs. 5,000/- which he had deposited as complaint fee, shortly. 7. Close on the heels thereof, the fourth respondent addressed a letter dated 2nd January, 2019 cancelling the appellant’s candidature for the LPG distributorship (“Cancellation Letter”, hereafter). Therein, it was stated that the land offered by the appellant for the showroom at “Plot No. LR-1220, Khatian No. LR-311, Mouza-Gopinagar, Gram Panchayat-Haripal Ashuthsh (sic, Ashutosh), Block Haripal, District Hooghly” pursuant to a registered lease dated 16th October, 20188 for a period of 16 (sixteen) years was beyond the advertised location; hence, the appellant’s proposed showroom had failed to meet the eligibility criteria as per clause 8 A(n) of the Brochure for Unified Guidelines for Selection of LPG Distributorships (“Unified Guidelines”, hereafter), and the deposit of Rs. 30,000/- would stand forfeited. 8. It was then that the appellant invoked the writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution challenging the Cancellation Letter. The Single Judge, noticing that the Advertisement showed the location of the distributorship as Block Haripal, observed that “there was no specific requirement of Gram Panchayat or mouza to disqualify” the appellant’s candidature. Upon being satisfied that the land offered by the appellant for the showroom was within the limits of the advertised location, the learned Single Judge allowed the writ petition, set aside the Cancellation Letter, and directed HPCL to proceed with the evaluation of the appellant’s candidature and decide the same within four weeks upon the appellant completing all required formalities. 9. Aggrieved by the , HPCL invoked the appellate jurisdiction of the High Court and laid a challenge thereto. The Division Bench referred to the definitions of ‘Gram Panchayat’ and ‘mouza’ in the West Bengal Panchayat Act, 1973 (“Panchayat Act”, hereafter) and while allowing the appeal by the impugned , held that “mouza Haripal has a separate and distinct existence”, the “offered land at 8 the date was subsequently corrected vide letter dated 10th January, 2019 to read 16th October, 2017. 830 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports mouza Gopinagar is not what is contemplated in the advertisement for appointment of LPG distributors at Haripal” and in such view of the matter HPCL “was justified in coming to the conclusion that the writ petitioner failed to fulfil the eligibility criteria”. RIVAL CONTENTIONS 10. Mr. Sudipta Kumar Bose, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, seeking our interference with the impugned submitted inter alia that: a. The Division Bench fell into error by reading into the Advertisement, conditions which had not been categorically laid down by HPCL. The Advertisement did not state that the showroom was to be located in any particular mouza, and that the Advertisement did not refer to any Gram Panchayat as the specific location either.