33. We are not referring to the detailed facts of the case involving multiple rounds of litigation where the respondents have taken inconsistent stands about the ownership and acquisition of the Property. There is no doubt in our mind that the exercise of the power is illegal, illegitimate and has caused great difficult to the respondent-land- State of A.P. (1994) 5 SCC 486 and Delhi Development Authority v. Reena Suri (2016) 12 SCC 649, this Court held that mere passing of award under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 will not suffice to vest the land in the State since taking possession is of utmost importance. In Fruit & Vegetable Merchants Union v. Delhi Improvement Trust, 1956 SCC OnLine SC 37, this Court held that once the land is vested in the State, it is vested neither for a limited purpose nor for a limited duration. Further, in Union of India v. Tarsem Singh (2019) 9 SCC 304, this Court observed that the National Highways Act, 1956 has an object of reducing delay in the process of land acquisition in to speedily implement projects pertaining to highways. It is in this context that this Court held that under Section 3D of the National Highways Act, 1956, the land to be acquired vests in the Union upon the publication of a notification declaring the acquisition, which is done after the disposal of objections of the land-owner, if any. 856 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports bearer. It is necessary to refer to the findings of the learned single Judge that the appellant-Corporation acted in blatant violation of statutory provisions, these findings are as follows: “The facts disclosed by the Corporation in the Affidavit-in- Opposition evidently shows that the acquisition was made by invoking Section 352(a) of the said Act by exercising the power of eminent domain. There was a doubt in the mind of some of the Municipal Authorities whether such sovereign power can be exercised by the Statutory Authority like the Corporation and a legal opinion was sought by the Chief Municipal Law Officer from one of the Senior Advocates. The Senior Advocate, however, doubted over the said exercise of power and also highlighted the anomalies in such action. On the basis of such opinion the Chief Municipal Officer made the following remark: - “Doubt has arisen in the past on the question whether the Municipal Commissioner could under Section 352(a) of the CMC Act, 1980 straightway compulsorily acquire any land by giving notice to owner/occupiers also in contract Newspapers and pay compensation under Section 363(3) of the Act. The former Ch. Mpl. Law Officer had referred the question to Mr. P.K. Ghoah Senior Advocate for his opinion. A copy of his opinion is placed below for persual. I have nothing more to add. If in spite of the anomalies in the statute pointed out by Mr. P.K.Ghosh the Mpl. Commissioner proceeds to take possession of the land in question, I have no comment to make. If the aggrieved party moves the Court, then the Court will resolve the anomalies.” It is curious to note that despite the same, the then Mayor put a note that the Corporation may proceed to acquire the property by invoking powers under Section 352(a) and the note of the Chief Municipal Law Officer was simply kept in the file.