Subject to such erosion, on the remainder the State Legislature will have power to legislate in respect of a declared industry without in any way trenching upon the occupied field. It was held that State Legislature which is otherwise competent to deal with industry under Entry 24 – List II can deal with that industry in exercise of other powers enabling it to legislate under different heads set out in Lists II and III and this power cannot be denied to a State. The second limb of the submission therein is not related to the present controversy and need not be adverted to. It was finally observed that the impugned Act was not intended to take over management or control of any industrial undertaking by the State Government as in pith and substance, it was enacted to acquire the scheduled undertakings in terms of Entry 42 – List III. 13.2.3 In Ishwari Khetan, Pathak, J. (as he then was) for himself and for Koshal, J. (minority view) observed that while they broadly agreed with the final conclusion, on several points, reached by Desai, J. in his , they preferred to refrain from expressing any opinion 2130 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on the question whether the declaration made by Parliament in Section 2 of the IDRA in respect of the industries specified in the First Schedule to that Act can be regarded as limited to removing from the scope of Entry 24 - List II only so much of the legislative field as is covered by the subject matter and content of that Act or it can be regarded as effecting the removal from that Entry of the entire legislative field embracing all matters pertaining to the industries specified in the declaration. It was further opined that the observations made by this Court in Hingir-Rampur Coal Co., Ltd. vs. The State of Orissa, AIR 1961 SC 459 (“Hingir-Rampur”); State of Orissa vs. M.A. Tulloch and Co., AIR 1964 SC 1284 (“M.A. Tulloch”); Baijnath Kedia vs. State of Bihar, AIR 1970 SC 1436 (“Baijnath Kedia”); and State of Haryana. vs. Chanan Mal, AIR 1976 SC 1654 (“Chanan Mal”), would not be of assistance in this behalf. In each of those cases, the declaration made by Parliament in the concerned enactment limited the control of the regulation of the mines and the development of minerals to the extent provided in the enactment. Whether the terms in which the declaration has been made in Section 2 of the IDRA, a declaration not expressly limiting control of the specific industries to the extent provided by the Act, can be construed as being so limited was a matter which, they thought, should be dealt with in some more appropriate case. That the range of considerations encompassed within the field of enquiry to which the point was amenable had not been sufficiently covered before the Court. “This was for the good reason and, hence, the provocation was limited.” Therefore, the controversy could be adequately answered on the ground that the legislation impugned therein fell within Entry 42 - List III and would not be related to Entry 52 - List I or Entry 24 - List II.