3(1), 3(2- B) – Role of the registered medical practitioners-RMP and medical board under the MTP Act: Held: The Act protects the registered medical practitioners-RMP and the medical boards when they form an opinion in good faith as to the termination of pregnancy – Fear of prosecution among registered medical practitioners is a barrier for pregnant persons to access safe and legal abortions – Opinion of the RMP is decisive in matters of termination of pregnancy under the MTP Act – Purpose of the opinion of the RMP borrows from the legislative intent of the MTP Act which is to protect the health of a pregnant person and facilitate safe, hygienic, and legal abortion – It is therefore imperative that the fundamental right of a pregnant person is not compromised for reasons other than to protect the physical and mental health of the pregnant person – Medical board, in forming its opinion on the termination of pregnancies must not restrict itself to the criteria u/s. 3(2-B) but must also evaluate the physical and emotional well being of the pregnant person – When issuing a clarificatory opinion the medical board must provide sound and cogent reasons for any change in opinion and circumstances. [Paras 37, 29] Constitution of India – Art. 21 – Right to reproductive autonomy – Right to abortion – Fundamental right: Held: Right to abortion is a concomitant right of dignity, autonomy and reproductive choice – This right is guaranteed u/Art. 21 – Decision to terminate pregnancy is deeply personal for any person – Choice exercised by a pregnant person is not merely about their reproductive freedom – Thus, it is imperative that the fundamental 472 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports right of a pregnant person is not compromised for reasons other than to protect the physical and mental health of the pregnant person – Opinion of the pregnant person must be given primacy in evaluating the foreseeable environment of the person u/s. 3(3) of the MTP Act – Medical board and the courts need for giving primacy to the fundamental rights to reproductive autonomy, dignity and privacy of the pregnant person by the – Delays caused by a change in the opinion of the medical board or the procedures of the court must not frustrate the fundamental rights of pregnant people – Thus, the medical board evaluating a pregnant person with a gestational age above twenty-four weeks must opine on the physical and mental health of the person by furnishing full details to the court. [Paras 21, 30, 31] Constitution of India – Art. 21 – Right to reproductive autonomy – Right to abortion – Pregnant person’s consent in abortion – Primacy of – Importance of minor’s view in termination of pregnancy: Held: Right to choose and reproductive freedom is a fundamental right u/ Art. 21 – Consent of the pregnant person in matters of reproductive choices and abortion is paramount – Where the opinion of a minor pregnant person differs from the guardian, the court must regard the view of the pregnant person as an important factor while deciding the termination of the pregnancy.