o In satellite townships being developed by the urban development agencies in Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy districts, certain categories of persons, such as Class IV Employees, NGOs etc., who may not be in a position make an investment for buying a plot, would be considered for allotment of housing sites at an appropriate rate. o However, the conditions for allotment in respect of government employees would be issued separately. • The Supreme Court and High Court Judges, MLAs, MPs, and officers of AIS would be allotted plots of 500 square yards. • Government employees would be allotted plots of 100-400 square yards. • Journalists would be allotted plots of 300 square yards. • The Cooperative Society/group would decide whether they would like to build the houses themselves or would like to avail assistance of Andhra Pradesh Housing Board. 8. On 28.02.2005, GoM No. 244 was also issued, whose key stipulations read: • The Collector would be the Nodal Authority to make the scheme operational and would be competent to allot the land to the Cooperative Society or the group. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1379 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others • The Collector would monitor implementation of the scheme very closely and send a monthly progress report to the Government. • The Government would alienate land to the Cooperative Society or the group, which would in turn convey the title of the plot/flat to the members through a registered sale deed. • Following conditions of allotment were laid down: o The employee must be a member of the Cooperative Society or the group. o To facilitate the Cooperative Society to arrive at an estimation of the land required, they were advised to complete the admission of its members before making an application to the authorities. o Where some employees did not form part of an existing society, they could form a separate Cooperative Society/ group and make a request for allotment. o The Cooperative Societies/groups would not allot housing sites/flats to any other member whose name did not figure in the application submitted to the Competent Authority. o The employee would have to be an approved probationer in service of the Government or local body, who has completed a minimum of five years in service. o Only one housing site/flat would be allotted to a particular government servant. o If both the husband and wife were in government service, they would be eligible for allotment of only one housing site/flat. o The allotment of the housing site/flat was to be completed within six months from the date of alienation of the land. o The allotment of house site/flat would be done by draw of lots. o The Cooperative Societies/group would complete construction on the allotted land within two years from the date of allotment. 1380 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports o Construction would be done directly or through the Housing Board or through any other agency as mutually agreed upon by the members.