[2024] 10 S.C.R. 1975 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons g. The term ‘liquors’ used in a legislation under Entry 31 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the 1935 Act was accepted to mean all alcoholic liquids by this Court in FN Balsara (supra). The language of Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution is borrowed from Entry 31 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the 1935 Act and must be deemed to have the same meaning; h. Entry 84 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution uses the phrase ‘alcoholic liquor not for human consumption’. Usage of widely different terms in the Constitution would appear irrational if ‘intoxicating liquors’ was understood to exclude alcohols used in industries; i. Entry 8 of List II includes alcohols used in industries. Since it is a specific entry in List II, alcohols used in industries will be excluded from the general entry on industries in Entry 24 of List II. The Union cannot take over any industry in pursuance of Entry 52 of List I unless the industry falls under Entry 24 of List II. Therefore Parliament cannot takeover industrial alcohol by making a declaration under the IDRA, which relates to Entry 52 of List I; j. Entry 8 of List II is not subject to any other entry in the Seventh Schedule. The Constitution makes specific mention where it intends a legislative field to be subject to other entries in the Seventh Schedule; and k. Synthetics (7J) (supra) fell into error by not considering the traditional meaning of ‘intoxicating liquors’. It also failed to notice all previous decisions, like Ch Tika Ramji v. State of UP,59 which defined ‘industry’ for the purpose of Entry 24 of List II and Entry of 52 List I and delineated its scope. It held that the product of an industry notified under the IDRA falls under Entry 33 of List III. 28. Mr Dwivedi submitted that Entry 8 of List II governs the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors. Since alcohols used in industries fall within the remit of ‘intoxicating liquors’ the State legislature has exclusive and inalienable 59 [1956] 1 SCR 393 : 1956 SCC OnLine SC 9 1976 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports jurisdiction in this field. However, in the alternative, the industry i.e. the production and manufacture of alcohols used in industries, would be governed by the general entry, Entry 24 of List II, which can be taken over by the Union upon a declaration under Entry 52, List I. The product of the industry would be governed by Entries 26 and 27 of List II and would require a declaration under Entry 33 of List III for the Union to occupy the field. He argued that only the production and manufacture of industrial alcohol would be governed by the Union List even if the requirement of a declaration under Entry 52 of List I is met by Section 2 of the IDRA read with Entry 26 of the First Schedule to the IDRA.