103 Lok Sabha Debates, Volume VIII (11th November to 22nd November, 1957, Third Session) 395. 104 Ibid, 462 105 K P Varghese v. ITO (1981) 4 SCC 173 [8]. It was observed that “[…] the speech made by the Mover of the Bill explaining the reason for the introduction of the Bill can certainly be referred to for the purpose of ascertaining the mischief sought to be remedied by the legislation and the object and purpose for which the legislation is enacted.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1631 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. 78. Rates of royalty were primarily governed by the terms of lease prior to the enactment of the MMDR Act. Once a mining lease was entered into between a lessor and lessee, the rates of royalty would remain static during the subsistence of the lease. Section 9 of the MMDR Act has enabled the Central Government to examine the rates of royalty in respect of all minerals and modulate them periodically after taking into consideration various factors, including the uniformity of mineral prices. The primary reason for empowering the Central Government to fix the rate of royalty could be traced to the Industrial Policy Resolution which underscored the active and predominant role of the State in organizing and utilizing mineral resources. The State Governments were not empowered to determine royalty in to maintain a uniform regime of royalty across India. This was intended to promote domestic industry and maintain competitive commodity prices in the international market.106 iii. Contours of a mining lease a. Lease and license 79. Article 31A of the Constitution was inserted by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act 1951 to deal with the saving of laws providing for acquisition of estates: “31A. Saving of law providing for acquisition of estates, etc – Notwithstanding anything contained in article 13, no law providing for – […] (e) the extinguishment or modification of any rights accruing by virtue of any agreement, lease or licence for the purpose of searching for or winning, any mineral or mineral oil, or the premature termination or cancellation of any such agreement, lease or licence, shall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by article 14 or article 19.” (emphasis added) 106 Lok Sabha Debates, Volume VIII (11th November to 22nd November, 1957, Third Session) 463 1632 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 80. In Gujarat Pottery Works v. B P Sood, Controller of Mining Leases for India,107 a Constitution Bench of this Court held that the object of Article 31-A(1)(e) was to make laws providing for the extinguishment or modification of leases in connection with mineral rights immune from the provisions of Articles 14, 19, and 31. 81. The expressions ‘lease’ and ‘licence’ have been used in the context of mining operations in the Constitution and in the MMRD Act. Therefore, it is important to understand the meaning of these expressions in their general legal sense to appreciate their application to mineral operations.