11. In or about March 1986 the petitioner’s representative received a purported communication dated 22nd February, 1986 issued by the Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer whereby the petitioner was informed that “no refund was due” to the petitioner as all claims were “time-barred as per Section 55 of the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963”. 14. It is also contended that the petitioner could have and should have submitted the refund claim within the time limit prescribed under Section 55 of the Major Port Trust Act, 1963 but the claim for refund was submitted by the petitioner on 26th March, 1985 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1119 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. and 27th March, 1985. The claim for refund of the petitioner is statutorily time-barred. 15. The contention is that while taking delivery of the said consignments the petitioner paid the port charges, that is to say, wharf rent and demurrage and did not produce any certificate from the Customs authority covering the period between the 2nd March, 1985 and 25th March, 1985 to the concerned shed of the Calcutta Port in to enable himself to obtain the concession on any rent charges in accordance with the scale of rates. The port rent and demurrage were paid in full and the wharfage exemption certificate was produced subsequently for refund. The payment made to the Port Trust while taking delivery of the cargo from its custody was an overcharge for which a claim should have been preferred within the time prescribed in Section 55 of the said Act. 16. The first question which calls for determination is whether Section 55 of the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963 has any application on the facts and in the circumstances of this case. Section 55 provides as follows: “No person shall be entitled to a refund of an overcharge made by a Board unless his claim to the refund has been preferred in writing by him or on his behalf to the Board within six months from the date of payment duly supported by all relevant documents. Provided that a Board may of its own motion remit overcharges made in its bills at any time.” 17. It is contended by the learned counsel for the petitioner that in the instant case there is or can be no “overcharges” being made by the Port Trust Authorities. In the absence of Wharf Rent Exemption Certificate, the Port Trust Authorities had sought to realise Wharf Rent payable in respect of the subject goods. In view of the said Wharf Rent Exemption Certificate no wharf rent is payable by the petitioner and/or realisable by Port Trust Authorities from the 1120 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports petitioner. Thus the entire realisation of wharf rent in respect of the said goods is without authority of law as the said amount is not payable by the petitioner at all. Seeking of refund of such money cannot come within the purview of Section 55 of the said Act.