The agreement between the parties that the dispute “shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration administered in Hong Kong” clearly suggests that the parties have agreed that the arbitration be seated at Hong Kong and that laws of Hong Kong shall govern the arbitration proceedings as well as have power of judicial review over the arbitration award. 22. As pointed out earlier, Clause 17.2 of MoU stipulates that the dispute arising out of or relating to MoU including the existence, validity, interpretation, breach or termination thereof or any dispute arising out of or relating to it shall be referred to and finally resolved by the arbitration administered in Hong Kong. The words in Clause 17.2 that “arbitration administered in Hong Kong” is an indicia that the seat of arbitration is at Hong Kong. Once the parties have chosen “Hong Kong” as the place of arbitration to be administered in Hong Kong, the laws of Hong Kong 1220 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports would govern the arbitration. The Indian courts have no jurisdiction for appointment of the arbitrator.” (Emphasis supplied) iii. Whether the Seat of Arbitration in the underlying Distributorship Agreement is in India? 55. Now coming to the facts of the present case, Clause 26 of the aforesaid Distributorship Agreement stipulates that the arbitration shall be subject to UAE Arbitration and Conciliation rules. The aforesaid arbitration clause further designates only one place i.e., Dubai, UAE as the venue of arbitration. 56. In view of the law laid down by this Court in BGS SGS SOMA (supra), since only one place has been designated in the arbitration clause, and such place has been categorically fixed inasmuch as there is no scope for the place designated as venue to change in terms of Clause 26, and furthermore, the said clause has explicitly stipulated that the curial law would be the UAE Arbitration and Conciliation rules and there being no other contrary indicia let alone a significant contrary indicia, we are of the considered opinion that the Dubai, UAE has not been designated merely as a venue but rather as the juridical seat of arbitration in terms of clause 26 of the Distributorship Agreement. 57. We are further reinforced in our findings in light of the Shashoua Principle as laid down in Roger Shashoua (1) (supra) wherein it was held that more often than not the law of the arbitration agreement and by it the seat of the arbitration coincides with the curial law. Since the parties herein have expressly chosen the curial law of arbitration to be the UAE Arbitration and Conciliation rules, there is no second opinion that the seat of arbitration in the underlying Distributorship Agreement is Dubai, UAE and not India. 58. It has been contended by the petitioner herein that, no one fixed place or seat of arbitration has been designated under the Distributorship Agreement since Clause 27 of the aforesaid Agreement stipulates that it shall be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Dubai Courts.