This is further made clear by the reference in Section 97(1) to a High Court. The expression “any provision inserted in the principal Act” by a High Court has reference to Section 122 of the Code of Civil Procedure by which High Courts may make rules regulating their own procedure, and the procedure of civil courts subject to their superintendence, and may by such rules annul, alter, or add to any of the rules contained in the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure.” [2024] 6 S.C.R. 401 Lehna Singh (D) By Lrs. v. Gurnam Singh (D) By Lrs. & Ors. 10. Recently, a Bench of three learned Judges in Satyender v. Saroj while dealing with a property dispute arising out of the State of Haryana, held as under:— “16. We may also add here that we are presently concerned with the laws in the State of Haryana. All the same, the laws as applicable in Punjab in the year 1918, were also applicable to the present territory of Haryana since it was then a part of the State of Punjab. Later on, the creation of the new State of Haryana, under the provision given in Section 88 of the Punjab Re-organization Act, 1966, the laws applicable in the erstwhile State of Punjab continued to be applicable in the new State of Haryana. Furthermore, State of Haryana formally adopted the laws of the erstwhile State of Punjab, under Section 89 of the Punjab Re-Organisation Act, 1966. Therefore, in the State of Haryana a court in second appeal is not required to formulate a substantial question of law, as what is applicable in Haryana is Section 41 of the Punjab Courts Act, 1918 and not Section 100 of CPC. Consequently, it was not necessary for the High Court to formulate a substantial question of law.” 11. In view of the above discussion, it is clear to this court that the of the learned single Judge sitting in second appellate jurisdiction cannot be faulted for not having framed substantial questions of law under section 100, CPC”. 14. Regard being had to the settled legal position in Pankajakshi (supra) reiterated in Randhir Kaur (supra) and Gurbachan Singh (supra), we are of the view that the of this Court under review in Civil Appeal No. 6567 of 2014 has been wrongly decided holding that the Punjab and Haryana High Court has travelled beyond the jurisdiction under Section 100 CPC by interfering with the finding of fact recorded by the First Appellate Court without framing a substantial question of law. 402 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. Since there is an error apparent on the face of the record, in view of the law laid down in Pankajakshi (supra), we review our in Civil Appeal No. 6567 of 2014 and recall the same for deciding the Civil Appeal on merits. The Review Petition is allowed. The Civil Appeal is restored to its original number and taken on board with the consent of the parties, and we proceed to decide the Civil Appeal afresh on merits.