9. Having analysed the evidence on record, we find that there are several gaps in the prosecution story. We say so for the reasons that, firstly, the testimonies of PW2 and PW3, Mathu and Imran, are inherently contradictory to the narrative of the prosecution, insofar as the sequence of events and the roles attributed to the accused persons are concerned. Mathu for instance, admitted during his cross examination that he could not identify as to who among the accused persons inflicted stab wounds and who used lathis. 1 State of Maharashtra v. Balram Bama Patil (1983) 2 SCC 28; Vasant Vithu Jadhav v. State of Maharashtra, AIR 2004 SC 2678. 1152 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. Secondly, the other injured witness, namely Imran, had initially testified that all the four accused persons were found standing near Gopal’s house, with the Appellant and Bhola carrying knives and Manoj and Suresh holding lathis. However, upon being cross-examined, he changed his position, claiming that Bhola and the Appellant lashed them with lathis while the other two accused arrived at the place of incidence from the direction of their house. Given the incertitude in regards to the roles attributed to the accused persons, the conviction of the Appellant or his co-accused by the High Court becomes all the more questionable. 11. Thirdly, there seems to be consequential disparity in the oral evidence adduced by witnesses; the medical reports and the opinions, in terms of the nature of injuries suffered by Mathu and Imran. Specifically, it is undisputed that the injuries suffered by the victims were not caused by lathis or a blunt weapon. Similarly, the evidence regarding the placement and extent of knife injuries sustained by Mathu and Imran does not inspire confidence. Hence, the questions surrounding the use of lathis or knives have undermined the prosecution case, just as they have cast doubt on the extent and nature of injuries sustained by the injured witnesses. 12. Fourthly, and most importantly, what makes the circumstances entirely murky is the fact that the FIR itself was lodged by a hearsay witness, namely, PW1 Farzan, who is Imran’s father. Notably, Farzan was not present at the scene and only learned about the incident through alleged eye-witnesses Jakir and Irfan, both of whom had accompanied Imran and Mathu when the latter were allegedly attacked by the Appellant and other accused persons. Ironically, there is not even a whisper about the alleged eye-witnesses, Jakir and Irfan joining the investigation. These persons were apparently ghost witnesses who neither had their statements recorded by the Investigating Officer under Section 161 of the CrPC nor were they produced by the prosecution before the Trial Court. Similarly, no attempt was made to record their version under Section 164, CrPC. The discrepancies elucidated above could have been clarified with ease had these eye-witnesses been produced or their statements recorded, shedding light on the sequence of events as they unfolded. The deafening absence of these two alleged eye-witnesses, in our considered opinion, has considerably weakened the prosecution case.