Our hypothetical Sri, who wants to drive an auto would then be imparted training for the syllabus outlined in Parts E, F, G, H, I, J & K. These parts primarily pertain to ‘Medium and Heavy Vehicle Driving’. The extensive syllabus covers topics such as fire hazards, heavy vehicle maintenance, cross-country practice and hill driving but those would hardly be germane for Sri who is desirous of driving only an auto rickshaw falling within the Light Motor Vehicle class. The legislature in its wisdom had stipulated such a wide-ranging syllabus to augment the safety measures as considered apposite for operating medium and heavy motor vehicles. To apply this extensive level of learning for the auto driver Sri, would defy logic although auto is a ‘transport vehicle’ but of a light weight class. To avoid such an illogical outcome, the argument of Mr. Bhushan has to be rejected. It would therefore be appropriate to interpret the provision to declare that the additional requirements outlined in the MV Act for ‘Transport Vehicle’, would not cover the LMV class but would be applicable only for the heavy and medium class vehicles. Such an interpretation would align with our harmonious interpretation, as explained earlier. If the alternate interpretation as suggested by the counsel for the insurance companies is accepted, it would mean that Sri’s driving skills may be tested on an autorickshaw but he would also be legally entitled to drive a heavy multi axle truck because of the broad class of ‘Transport Vehicle’. Such an absurd result should not be permitted. 82. The requirement of uniforms and badges for ‘transport vehicle’ and the duties and conduct of such persons under Section 28(2)(d) and 28(2)(h) are not directly related to the licensing regime. Similarly misplaced here is the reliance on necessity for Permit under Section 66 as also Rule 62 dealing with the ‘Certificate of Fitness’ of the vehicle. Rule 62 is extracted:- “62. Validity of certificate of fitness.—(1) A certificate of fitness in respect of a transport vehicle granted under section 56 shall be in Form 38 and such certificate [2024] 11 S.C.R. 611 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. when granted or renewed shall be valid for the period as indicated below:— (a) new transport vehicle Two years (b) renewal of certificate of One year fitness in respect of vehicles mentioned in {a) above [(ba) renewal of certificate of Three years fitness in respect of E-rickshaw and E-cart renewal of certificate of fitness One year in respect of vehicles covered under rule 82 of these rules d) fresh registration of same period as in the case important vehicles of vehicles manufactured in India having regard to the date of manufacture: [emphasis supplied] 83. The apprehension about a person with a license of a light motor vehicle class being able to drive an e-rickshaw, e-cart, a vehicle carrying hazardous goods or even a road roller is also misplaced. This is for the reason that legislature has carved out exceptions for these special kinds of vehicles in the MV Act and the MV Rules which is discernible from the following:.