(iv) That the prosecution, did not tender any evidence regarding the fate of the currency notes allegedly recovered at the instance of the accused. The Investigating Officer(PW-37) candidly admitted that he handed back the currency notes to Mahesh Garg(PW-1) [2024] 7 S.C.R. 345 Gaurav Maini v. The State of Haryana of his own accord. As per the learned senior counsel, this action of the Investigating Officer in returning the mudammal currency notes to the complainant(PW-1) without any of the Court, throws grave doubt on the truthfulness of the entire process of disclosures and discovery. (v) That the SIM cards in question were not issued in the name of the accused. The prosecution did not lead any evidence whatsoever to show that the accused had ever acquired or were using the mobile numbers from which the ransom calls were allegedly made. (vi) That the secret information based whereupon FIR No. 283 of 2003(Exhibit-PAA/1) was registered was not brought on record and thus it is a clear case of concealment of vital evidence warranting adverse inference against the prosecution. (vii) That there is no material to show as to when the special report reached the Magistrate concerned pursuant to the registration of the formal FIR No. 283 of 2003(Exhibit- PAA/1). (viii) That the accused other than Gaurav Bhalla(A2) were not known to the victim Sachin Garg(PW-2) from before. The Investigation Officer(PW-37) made no effort whatsoever to subject these accused to the Test Identification Parade(TIP) and thus, the dock identification of the accused namely Gaurav Maini(A1), Munish Bhalla(A3) and Sanjay @ Sanju(A4) for the first time in the Court by Sachin Garg(PW-2) is of no value whatsoever. Attention of the Court in this regard was drawn to the deposition of Mahesh Garg(PW-1) who stated that his son was never asked to identify the accused by the police in any identification parade. Learned senior counsel also referred to the cross-examination of Sachin Garg(PW-2) wherein, he stated that once he had gone to CIA with his father and there, he saw the accused from some distance. The police did not record his statement regarding the identification of the accused. Sachin Garg(PW-2) also admitted that he had told his father Mahesh Garg(PW-1) and his grandfather Shamlal Garg that one of the accused was Gaurav Bhalla (A2) and that the other accused were calling out the names of each other. Thus, as per the learned senior counsel, the omission regarding the names of these accused in the previous statement of Sachin 346 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Garg(PW-2) recorded under Section 161 CrPC is fatal to the prosecution case. (ix) That the so-called disclosure statements of the accused as recorded by Munish Kumar, Sub-Inspector(PW-33) and Surjit Kumar, Investigating Officer(PW-37) were not proved as per law. The prosecution failed to prove that the recovered mudammal articles including the currency notes were kept securely at the malkhana of the police station. In this regard, attention of the Court was drawn to the statement of Investigating Officer(PW-37), highlighting the fact that the said witnesses did not utter a single word regarding the fate of the currency notes after the purported seizure and his failure to explain as to how the same were dealt with after the seizures were allegedly made at the instance of the accused.