The suggestion made by the Law Commission was, in principle, accepted by the Central Government which introduced clause 447 in the Draft Bill of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1970 with a view to confer express power on the High Court and the Court of Session to grant anticipatory bail. The said clause of the draft bill was enacted with certain modifications and became Section 438 of the CrPC. 23. The Law Commission, in paragraph 31 of its 48th Report (1972), made the following comments on the aforesaid clause: “The Bill introduces a provision for the grant of anticipatory bail. This is substantially in accordance with the recommendation made by the previous Commission. We agree that this would be a useful addition, though we must add that it is in very exceptional cases that such a power should be exercised. 282 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports We are further of the view that in to ensure that the provision is not put to abuse at the instance of unscrupulous petitioners, the final should be made only after notice to the Public Prosecutor. The initial should only be an interim one. Further, the relevant section should make it clear that the direction can be issued only for reasons to be recorded, and if the court is satisfied that such a direction is necessary in the interests of justice. It will also be convenient to provide that notice of the interim as well as of the final s will be given to the Superintendent of Police forthwith.” (Emphasis supplied) 24. Section 438 of the CrPC reads thus: “Discretion for grant of bail to person apprehending arrest.─(1) Where any person has reason to believe that he may be arrested on accusation of having committed a non-bailable offence, he may apply to the High Court or the Court of Session for a direction under this section that in the event of such arrest he shall be released on bail; and that Court may, after taking into consideration, inter alia, the following factors, namely:--- (i) the nature and gravity of the accusation; (ii) the antecedents of the applicant including the fact as to whether he has previously undergone imprisonment on conviction by a Court in respect of any cognizable offence; (iii) the possibility of the applicant to flee from justice; and. (iv) where the accusation has been made with the object of injuring or humiliating the applicant by having him so arrested, either reject the application forthwith or issue an interim for the grant of anticipatory bail: Provided that, where the High Court or, as the case may be, the Court of Session, has not passed any interim under this sub-section or has rejected the application for [2024] 9 S.C.R. 283 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. grant of anticipatory bail, it shall be open to an officer in- charge of a police station to arrest, without warrant the applicant on the basis of the accusation apprehended in such application. (1A) Where the Court grants an interim under sub-section (1), it shall forthwith cause a notice being not less than seven days notice, together with a copy of such to be served on the Public Prosecutor and the Superintendent of Police, with a view to give the Public Prosecutor a reasonable opportunity of being heard when the application shall be finally heard by the Court, (1B) The presence of the applicant seeking anticipatory bail shall be obligatory at the time of final hearing of the application and passing of final by the Court, if on an application made to it by the Public Prosecutor, the Court considers such presence necessary in the interest of justice.