Payment through banking channels is easy and an existing antidote. On the other hand, obfuscation of the details may lead to unaccounted and laundered money getting legitimised. 45. The RBI had objected to the Scheme since the Bonds could change hands after they have been issued. There is no check for the same as the purchaser who has completed the KYC, whose identity is thereupon completely concealed, may not be the actual contributor/ donor. In fact, the Scheme may enable the actual contributor/donor to not leave any traceability or money trail. 107 Ibid. 108 In Brown ५. Socialist Workers Comm., 459 U.S. 87 (1982), the Supreme Court of the United States of America held that disclosure laws requiring the reporting of names and addresses of every campaign contributor could be waived when “specific evidence of hostility, threats, harassment and reprisals” existed, thus adopting a case-by-case approach. Marshall J., delivering the opinion of the court observed that the Socialist Workers Party, a minor political party had historically been the object of harassment by government officials and private parties. Therefore, the court held that the government was prohibited from compelling disclosures from the said party, a minor political party, since there existed a reasonable probability that the compelled disclosures would subject their donors, if identified, to threats, harassment or reprisals. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 593 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 46. Money laundering can be undertaken in diverse ways. Political contributions for a quid pro quo may amount to money laundering, as defined under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002'”. The Financial Action Task Force"® has observed that the signatory States are required to check money laundering on account of contributions made to political parties. Article 7(3) of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, 2003 mandates the state parties to enhance transparency in political funding of the candidates and parties." The said convention is signed and ratified by India. By ensuring anonymity, the policy ensures that the money laundered on account of quid pro quo or illegal connection escapes eyeballs of the public. 47. The economic policies of the government have an impact on business and commerce. Political pressure groups promote different agendas, including perspectives on economic policies. As long as these pressure groups put forward their perspective with evidence and data, there should not be any objection even if they interact with elected representatives. The position would be different if monetary contributions to political parties were made as a quid pro quo to secure a favourable economic policy. This would be an offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and also under the PMLA. Such offences when committed by political parties in power can never see the light of the day if secrecy and anonymity of the donor is maintained. 48. In view of the aforesaid observations, the argument raised by the petitioners that there is no rational connection between the measure and the purpose, which is also illegitimate, has merit and should be accepted.