(5) Where any assessment done (5) Where any re-assessment under sub-section (2) is contrary done under sub-section (4) is to the claim of the importer or contrary to the self-assessment exporter regarding valuation of done by the importer or exporter goods, classification, exemption regarding valuation of goods, or concessions of duty availed classification, exemption or consequent to any notification concessions of duty availed therefor under this Act, and in consequent to any notification cases other than those where issued therefor under this Act the importer or the exporter, as and in cases other than those the case may be, confirms his where the importer or exporter, acceptance of the said assessment as the case may be, confirms writing, the proper officer shall pass his acceptance of the said re- a speaking within fifteen days assessment in writing, the proper from the date of assessment of the officer shall pass a speaking bill of entry or the shipping bill, as on the re-assessment, within the case may be. fifteen days from the date of re- assessment of the bill of entry or the shipping bill, as the case may be. 274 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports [(6) Where re-assessment has not been done or a speaking has not been passed on re-assessment, the proper officer may audit the assessment of duty of the imported goods or export goods at his office or at the premises of the importer or exporter, as may be expedient, in such manner as may be prescribed.] * Explanation.— For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that in cases where an importer has entered any imported goods under section 46 or an exporter has entered any export goods under section 50 before the date on which the Finance Bill, 2011 receives the assent of the President, such imported goods or export goods shall continue to be governed by the provisions of section 17 as it stood immediately before the date on which such assent is received.” 89. The examination of Section 17, as amended vide the Finance Act, 2011 vis-à-vis the provisions of the old Section 17 as it stood prior to 08.04.2011, highlights the following major changes: (a) Self-assessment of duty: The concept of self-assessment of duty was introduced by way of the amendment to Section 17 wherein there is no role of the proper officer to assess the duty at the first instance. The onus for providing the duty leviable has been shifted to the assessee itself. (b) Discretion to verify: Sub-section (2) of the new Section 17 states that “The proper officer may verify the self-assessment of the goods…”. The use of the word “may” indicates two things: [2024] 12 S.C.R. 275 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. (i) that the actions to be taken by the proper officer under the old Section 17 are no longer compulsory. The proper officer may choose to accept the self-assessment made by the assessee, thereby becoming functus officio and there is no compulsion on him or her to examine or test any goods for reaching a first instance assessment; (ii) The proper officer is not involved in the assessment of duty under Section 17 at the first instance except for his or her role in accepting or not accepting the self-assessed duty.