Parity was once again sought with Bir Singh (supra), invoking Section 28A of the 1894 Act. D. Issues 19. In our considered opinion, the following questions arise for deliberation by this Court: 454 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports i. Should compensation be enhanced, and if so, to what extent? How should the quantum be calculated? ii. Are the Miscellaneous Applications maintainable? iii. Can the landowners rely upon Section 28A of the 1894 Act to seek parity with Bir Singh (supra)? E. Analysis E.1 Quantum of Compensation 20. The primary issue in this case centres around the quantum of compensation granted to the landowners, and the inconsistency and disparity in the amounts awarded at different stages of the judicial process. 21. To begin with, we may clarify that although this Court in Bir Singh (supra) had enhanced compensation to INR 449 per sq. yd., both sides very fairly agreed during the course of hearing that the same was founded on a bona fide factual error. Bir Singh (supra) relied on a sale deed dated 16.12.1988, noting the value of the land therein as being INR 400 per sq. yd. However, it is apparent that the figure of 400 actually denoted the area and size of the plot and not its sale value. Nevertheless, the decision was not revisited by this Court while exercising Review and Curative jurisdictions – likely on account of the practical difficulties in recovering the excess compensation amount already paid to the expropriated land owners and given the larger interest of justice. While Bir Singh (supra) thus remains a binding precedent inter-se the parties, it would not bind us because of its sui generis factual position. Given this, it becomes necessary for us to determine the market value of the land independently. E.1.1 Evidence used in determining the quantum of compensation 22. Firstly, it may be refreshed that for the purpose of evaluating compensation for the acquired land, Section 23(1) of the 1894 Act, acts as a lighthouse. It stipulates that:- “23. Matters to be considered in determining compensation. — (1) In determining the amount of compensation to be awarded for land acquired under this Act, the Court shall take into consideration— [2024] 7 S.C.R. 455 New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Harnand Singh (Deceased) through LRs & Ors. first, the market-value of the land at the date of the publication of the notification under Section 4, sub- section (1); secondly, the damage sustained by the person interested, by reason of the taking of any standing crops or trees which may be on the land at the time of the Collector’s taking possession thereof; thirdly, the damage (if any) sustained by the person interested, at the time of the Collector’s taking possession of the land, by reason of severing such land from his other land; fourthly, the damage (if any) sustained by the person interested, at the time of the Collector’s taking possession of the land, by reason of the acquisition injuriously affecting his other property, movable or immovable, in any other manner, or his earnings; fifthly, if, in consequence of the acquisition of the land by the Collector, the person interested is compelled to change his residence or place of business, the reasonable expenses (if any) incidental to such change; and sixthly, the damage (if any) bona fide resulting from diminution of the profits of the land between the time of the publication of the declaration under Section 6 and the time of the Collector’s taking possession of the land.” 23.