As a result, the Board of KPCL refused to grant sanction to the respondent- CBI to prosecute Mr. R. Nagaraja for offences alleged to have been committed by him. It is noteworthy that no appeal has been filed by the respondent – CBI against denial of sanction. 12.3. Similarly, the request made by the respondent-CBI for seeking sanction to prosecute Mr. Yogendra Tripathi, the then Managing Director, KPCL was denied by the Competent Authority in the Central Government in terms of the letter dated 16th April, 2018, issued by the DoPT. The passed by the DoPT shows that it took note of the Report of the respondent-CBI, the records submitted by it along with the Report, the advice received from the CVC and then summarized the allegations levelled by the respondent-CBI that formed the basis of its proposal to seek 1232 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports sanction for prosecution of the aforesaid officer. The said request was finally rejected by the Competent Authority in the Central Government with the following observations: “xxxxx 12. AND WHEREAS the debit note recovered at GCWL and the certificate are contradictory to each other in as much as debit note imposes a realizable value on the rejects and the certificate claims that it has been written off. Neither document is supported by the annual accounts. Hence, they are extraneous and fabricated as an afterthought. 13. AND WHEREAS washery loss and loss due to stone bounders etc. are different. The certificate combines the two losses and claims them as washing loss. The rejects quantified as 8.03. MT only reproduces what is disclosed in the accounts as processed wastage. 14. AND WHEREAS on examination of records, statement of witnesses etc, it was seen that there is no evidence of any purported conspiracy between the accused officer and GCWL or any quid pro quo in this regard. The reason for deferring the agenda in 41st Board Meeting have been explained in the detailed note of M/s KPCL and appear to be reasonable. It has been mentioned that the revised mining plan was approved in the Board Meeting of the Joint Venture KECML by which a new technology was to be implemented which could have been issued of rejection irrelevant. 15. AND WHEREAS the comments of the Govt. of Karnataka have been obtained. They have stated that there is no material to support the allegation that he conspired to illegally dispose off the rejects and therefore deferred the agenda. Hence, no criminal intent can be attributed to Shri Yogendra Tripathi and have recommended declining of sanction for [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1233 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation prosecution U/s 120B r/w 409 and 420 of IPC and Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. 16. AND WHEREAS the proposal was sent to the CVC for their advice. The CVC advised declining of sanction for prosecution against Shri Yogendra Tripathi, IAS(KN:1985), the then Managing Director Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. (KPCL), Bangalore, in case RC:2202015 E0002 dated 13.03.2015.