This is evidenced by national laws and policies such as the Indian Power Alcohol Act 1948, Ethyl Alcohol (Price Control) 1966 and the National Biofuel Policy 2018. 38. Mr Dhruv Agrawal, learned senior counsel; Mr Abhimanyu Bhandari; Mr Omar Ahmad; Ms Tahira Karanjawala; Ms Sansriti Pathak; Mr Pawan Shree Agarwal; Mr S Nandakumar; and Mr Akash Bajaj, learned counsel, have supported the above arguments on behalf of the respondent. C. The distinction between potable and non-potable alcohol 39. Before delineating the issues that fall for the consideration of this Court, certain preliminary remarks on the process of preparation of potable alcohol, that is, alcohol that is used as a beverage must be made. The raw material for potable alcohol is generally molasses and grain,66 which is fermented and distilled to produce rectified spirit. Rectified spirit, also known as ethyl alcohol, contains about 95% alcohol and some impurities which can affect flavour and aroma. Rectified spirit is used as a solvent in pharmaceutical and cosmetic products. Though rectified spirit is not generally used in 66 See FB Wright, Distillation of Alcohol and De-Naturing (2nd ed. 1907) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1985 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons the preparation of alcoholic beverages, it may be used to produce home-made liqueurs.67 Extra Neutral Alcohol is a highly purified form of ethanol which contains more than 96% alcohol. ENA has a neutral taste and smell and is mostly used as a base for the preparation of premium beverages. Additionally, it is also used in the production of products like perfumes and mouthwashes. Absolute alcohol is ethanol that contains less than 1% water and more than 99% alcohol.68 The high purity of the alcohol makes it ideal for the preparation of pharmaceutical products, cosmetics and chemical manufacturing that require a water-free solvent.69 40. ‘Industrial alcohol’ is a common term that is used to denote the alcohol that is used in industries. As indicated above, all the above three variants of ethanol are used in various industrial preparations. While ENA is usually used for the preparation of alcoholic beverages, rectified spirit is also used to prepare certain alcoholic beverages. Denaturation is a process by which ethanol is deliberately made undrinkable by adding chemicals known as ‘denaturants’ to make it poisonous or foul smelling and unsuited for ingestion by humans. Denaturants can be added to any of the three forms of ethanol (ENA, rectified spirit and absolute alcohol). Denatured alcohol is also further classified into ‘Completely Denatured Alcohol’ and ‘Specially Denatured Alcohol’. Both these formulations contain denaturants making it unconsumable. However, in completely denatured alcohol, the denaturants cannot be easily removed while in ‘specially denatured alcohol’, they can be easily removed.70 In view of this complexity, where the materials for the preparation of potable alcohol are also used for the preparation of other products, a simplistic classification of ‘potable’ and ‘non-potable’ alcohol cannot be made for the purposes of this . 41. This is also evident from the submissions by counsel on the scope of Entry 8 of List II.