51. In Manoj and Others v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2023) 2 SCC 353, the three accused were sentenced to death by the lower court and confirmed by the High Court on their conviction under Section 302 for committing murder, during the course of robbery, of three women. This Court, while modifying the sentence from death to life imprisonment for a minimum 25 (twenty five) years, took into consideration the non-exhaustive list of mitigating and aggravating [2024] 3 S.C.R. 943 Navas @ Mulanavas v. State of Kerala factors discussed in Bachan Singh (supra) to establish a method of principled sentencing. This Court also imposed an obligation on the State to provide material disclosing psychiatric and psychological evaluation of the accused which would help the courts understand the progress of the accused towards reformation. 52. In Madan vs State of U.P., 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1473, this Court was dealing with a case wherein the accused was sentenced to death, along with other co-accused, for murdering six persons of his village. This Court called for the jail conduct report and psychological report of the accused which were satisfactory and depicted nothing out of the ordinary. This Court also took into consideration the old age of the accused and period undergone [18 yrs.] as mitigating factors. This Court concluded that the case did not fall under the rarest of rare category and commuted the death sentence to life imprisonment for minimum 20 (twenty years) including sentence undergone. 53. In Sundar vs State by Inspector of Police - 2023 SCC OnLine SC 310, this Court, while sitting in review, commuted death sentence awarded to accused therein to life imprisonment of minimum 20 (twenty years). The accused had committed rape and murder of a 7-year-old girl. Factors that influenced this Court to reach such a decision were the fact that no court had looked at the mitigating factors. It called for jail conduct and education report from the jail authorities and found that the conduct was satisfactory and that accused had earned a diploma in food catering while he was incarcerated. Apart from the above, the Court noted the young age of the accused, no prior antecedents to reach a conclusion warranting modification in the sentence awarded. 54. In Ravinder Singh vs State Govt. of NCT of Delhi - (2024) 2 SCC 323, the accused was convicted under Sections 376, 377 & 506 of the IPC for raping his own 9-year-old daughter by the Sessions court and conviction was confirmed by the High Court. The Sessions Court, while imposing life imprisonment, also stated that the accused would not be given any clemency by the State before 20 years. This Court clarified that, as discussed in V. Sriharan (supra), the power to impose a special category sentence i.e., a sentence more than 14 years but short of death sentence can only be imposed by the High Court or if in appeal, by this Court. Considering the nature of the offence committed by the accused and the fact that if the 944 [2024] 3 S.C.R.