The -sheets dated 4.6.2002 and 24.6.2002 indicates that petitioners were directed to file affidavits to show as to whether this is a correct fact or not. The -sheet dated 24.6.2002 indicates that time was sought by learned counsel for the petitioners to file specific affidavit of the petitioners denying their relationship with Members of the Selection Committee or office bearers of the Janpad Panchayat. Even though in pursuance to the aforesaid , affidavits have been filed, but in these affidavits the facts are not denied and during the course of hearing Shri M.L. Choubey fairly admitted that petitioners are related to Smt. Pushpa Dwivedi and Shri Swami Singh, as recorded by the Collector and the Commissioner and he accepts the same, that being so, the finding recorded by the Collector and the Commissioner to the effect that all the petitioners are very closely related either to the President of the Committee, or its Member is a correct finding. According to the Collector and the Commissioner, the Panchayat Raj Adhiniyam prohibits grant of any undue benefit by Members and office bearers of the Panchayat to any of its relatives or family members. Finding recorded is that in this case some benefit has been granted.” (emphasis supplied) 9. Paragraphs 21, 22 and 23 have already been reproduced by esteemed brother in para 27 in his . Discernibly, in para 21 thereto the arguments regarding presence of the members of the selection committee do not materially affect the selection process was raised by the appellants, which is answered in paragraphs 22 and 23. As reflected from paragraph 22, it drew the inference that one of the appellants had obtained less marks in higher secondary examination but she was accorded higher marks in oral interview 164 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and experience category, and included in her merit. While dealing with the case of other candidates observed they secured less marks in higher secondary in comparison to wait listed candidates and granted more marks in oral interview due to which, they found place in the selection list. In scrutiny of facts and the record learned Single Judge was of the opinion that the appellants herein received less marks in higher secondary whereas many persons whose names appearing in wait list received 78% to 79% marks and they were given less than three marks in oral interview, therefore, they have not been given place in selection list. In paragraph 23 of the , the Learned Single Judge further dealt with the individual cases of the appellants and concluded that the appellants whose relatives were the members of the selection committee found favour in their appointment, therefore, due to bias such appointments stood vitiated. Applying the said analogy, the arguments of appellant(s) were not found convincing enough to interfere with the s of the Collector and Commissioner in exercise of scope of Article 226 to warrant interference by the High Court. 10. On analysing the of the learned Single Judge in detail it is quite vivid that despite affording due opportunity to controvert the factum of relationship with the members of the selection committee and other fact findings, they have not refuted those allegations disputing their relationship.