Digital Supreme Court Reports agreement even if the arbitration has concluded inasmuch as it is competent to first apply the lex arbitri to see if the dispute is arbitrable and then to apply the curial law to see how the reference ought to be conducted in to give effect to the award. The relevant observations read as under: - “12. The proceedings before the arbitrator commence when he enters upon the reference and conclude with the making of the award. As the work by Mustill and Boyd aforementioned puts it, with the making of a valid award the arbitrator’s authority, powers and duties in the reference come to an end and he is “functus officio” (p. 404). The arbitrator is not obliged by law to file his award in court but he may be asked by the party seeking to enforce the award to do so. The need to file an award in court arises only if it is required to be enforced, and the need to challenge it arises if it is being enforced. The enforcement process is subsequent to and independent of the proceedings before the arbitrator. It is not governed by the curial or procedural law that governed the procedure that the arbitrator followed in the conduct of the arbitration. xxx 15. We think that our conclusion that the curial law does not apply to the filing of an award in court must, accordingly, hold good. We find support for the conclusion in the extracts from Mustill and Boyd which we have quoted earlier. Where the law governing the conduct of the reference is different from the law governing the underlying arbitration agreement, the court looks to the arbitration agreement to see if the dispute is arbitrable, then to the curial law to see how the reference should be conducted, “and then returns to the first law in to give effect to the resulting award”. (Emphasis supplied) 32. The aforesaid Doctrine of Concurrent Jurisdiction in Arbitration was further expanded by this Court in Bhatia International v. Bulk [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1177 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze Trading S.A. reported in (2002) 4 SCC 105, wherein this Court examined the scope of Section 2(2) viz-a-viz Section 2(1)(e) & (f) of the Act, 1996 and held that Part I of the said Act applies to both (i) domestic arbitrations that take place in India and (ii) international commercial arbitrations that take place outside India. It held that unless the arbitration agreement states to the contrary, even if the seat or place of arbitration is outside India, the national courts in India will have concurrent jurisdiction in terms of Section 2(1)(e) along with the courts situated in the seat jurisdiction in terms of the arbitration agreement. The aforesaid decision is in two-parts: - (i) First, it held that although Section 2 sub-section (2) of the Act, 1996 says that Part I will apply where the place of arbitration is in India, yet the Act more particularly Section 2(1)(f) makes no distinction between international commercial arbitrations held in India or outside India, thus the courts in India will have jurisdiction in terms of Section 2(1)(e) even in respect of international commercial arbitrations.