637 Muthyala Sunil Kumar v. Union of India & Ors. Gowtham, Kv Girish Chowdary, T Vijaya Bhaskar Reddy, Ms. Rajeswari Mukherjee, Meeran Maqbool, Ms. Archita Nigam, V. N. Raghupathy, Manendra Pal Gupta, Prakash Jadhav, Ravichandra Jadhav, Sanjeev Kumar, Ms. Devina Sehgal, Dhanajay Yadav, Anmol Sehgal, Rajiv Kumar Choudhry, Ms. G. Indira, Ms. Anindita Pujari, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Vikram Nath, J. 1. This is a batch of 117 petitions, including four contempt petitions which are de-tagged for being listed separately, filed primarily by the transporters and tour operators under Article 32 of the Constitution of India assailing the legality of different State Governments levying and collecting Authorization Fee/B Tax in violation of All India Tourist Vehicles (Permit) Rules, 2023.1 Broadly, there are three categories of petitions but the relief claimed which is common in all the petitions, is about the levy and collection of B Tax/Authorization Fee. 2. In some cases, there is a challenge to the All-India Tourists Vehicles (Authorisation of Permit) Rules, 20212 as also certain provisions of Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, however, such petitions were filed prior to the coming of the Rules, 2023. As such, the reliefs have been amended seeking directions for compliance of provisions contained in the Rules, 2023. In some cases, petitioners have also prayed for refund of the B Tax/Authorization Fee already realized by the State Authorities at the time of their vehicles entering the State. 3. Initially, it was the State of Tamil Nadu which was said to be realizing the B Tax/Authorization Fee but, later on, several other States were also complained of realizing similar B Tax/Authorization Fee despite the transporters or the vehicles entering the State having already paid the requisite tax/fee under the Rules, 2023. As such, other States also became the respondent-parties and notices were issued to them. 1 The Rules, 2023 2 The Rules, 2021 638 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4. The Rules, 2023 superseded the All-India Tourists Vehicles (Authorization/Permit) Rules, 2021. After the coming into of the Rules, 2023, the power of levying/collecting B Tax/Authorization Fee by the State Governments at various b check posts from vehicles carrying All India Tourists Permit was to be done away with. There were primarily two objects of bringing in the Rules, 2023. Firstly, to make the movement of such tourist vehicles across the country through different States seamless and smooth; and secondly, the revenue to be generated by the Centre to be proportionately shared with the State Governments, also taking into account their previous revenue generation, and also, keeping in mind that their earlier revenue income was not reduced in any manner. 5. The transporters started facing difficulties and harassment as alleged at the bs of different States where they were again being demanded B Tax/Authorization Fee which has given rise to the filing of this group of petitions. Such demand of B Tax/ Authorization Fee was challenged on several grounds ranging from double taxation; levy being without legal authority; being in violation of the Rules, 2023 which had been framed under Entry 35 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India, and various other grounds.