193. Thereafter, referring to the view expressed by Mathew, J., Krishna Iyer, J and Fazal Ali, J. in the case of N.M. Thomas, it is held in paragraph 26 that castes once included in the Presidential List, form a class by themselves. Then the Court held that if they are one class under the Constitution, any division of these classes of persons based on any consideration would amount to tinkering with the Presidential List. 194. In paragraph 31, it is observed that once the State reserve certain seats in educational institutions under Article 15(4) and in public services of the State under Article 16(4) in fulfillment of its constitutional obligation, it is not open to the State to subclassify a class already recognized by the Constitution and allot a portion of the already reserved quota amongst the State-created subclass within the list of Scheduled Castes. 195. In paragraph 38, this Court after referring to the case of Indra Sawhney held that the principles laid down in Indra Sawhney for sub-classification of Other Backward Classes cannot be applied for subclassification or subgrouping of Scheduled Castes in the Presidential List because that very itself specifically held that subdivision of Other Backward Classes is not applicable to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 196. In paragraph 41, this Court held that the conglomeration of castes given in the Presidential , in their opinion, should be considered as representing a class as a whole. It is held that the very idea of placing different castes or tribes or group or part thereof in a State as 1560 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a conglomeration by way of a deeming definition clearly suggested that they were not to be subdivided or subclassified further. It goes on to hold that if a class within a class of members of the Scheduled Castes is created, the same would amount to tinkering with the list and would amount to violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. The Court then disagreed with the High Court that for the purpose of identifying backwardness, a further inquiry can be made by appointing a commission as to who amongst the members of the Scheduled Castes is more backward. The Court, taking note of the fact that the benefits of reservation are not percolating to them equitably, suggested that measures should be taken to see that they are given such adequate or additional training to enable them to compete with the others. 197. This Court in paragraph 43 observed that the very fact that the members of the Scheduled Castes are most backward amongst the backward classes and the impugned legislation having already proceeded on the basis that they are not adequately represented, a further classification by way of micro-classification was not permissible. 198. To ascertain if E.V. Chinnaiah is good law, I will have to first examine whether the finding in E.V. Chinnaiah that N.M. Thomas held the Scheduled Castes to be a homogeneous group is correct or not. 199. E.V.