Thereafter, Ashok Mallikarjun Patil died on 16.02.1997 and his brother, Jagdishchandra Mallikarjun Patil, took over. Jagdishchandra was the third son of Mallikarjun Mahalingappa Pati, but his elder brother, Satish Patil, the second son of Mallikarjun Mahalingappa Pati, had no interest in taking over as the Vahiwatdar of the Trust. Thus, Jagdishchandra assumed the role of Vahiwatdar though he was not the eldest male member in the family. 5. It would be apposite at this stage to note the statutory scheme obtaining under the Act of 1950. Section 17 thereof mandates that, in every Public Trusts Registration Office or Joint Public Trusts Registration Office, the Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner concerned should keep and maintain such books, indices and other registers, as may be prescribed, which shall contain such particulars as may also be prescribed. Section 18 of the Act of 1950 provides for registration of Public Trusts upon application and prescribes the procedure therefor. Section 19 empowers the Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner concerned to make an inquiry upon receipt of an application for registration of a Public Trust under Section 18. Section 20 of the Act of 1950 states that, upon completion of such inquiry, the Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner shall record his finding with reasons therefor and make an for the payment of the registration fee, if he is satisfied. Section 21(1) requires the Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner to then make necessary entries in the register maintained under Section 17. Section 21(2) provides that the entries so made shall, subject to the provisions of the Act of 1950 and subject to any change recorded as per the provisions thereof, be final and conclusive. 6. Section 22(1) of the Act of 1950, as it stood prior to 2017, stated that where any change occurs in any of the entries recorded in the register maintained under Section 17, the Trustee shall, within 66 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 90 days from the date of occurrence of such change, report the same to the Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner in charge of the Registration Office where the register is kept. Section 22(2) empowers the Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner to hold an inquiry for the purpose of verifying the correctness of the entries or for ascertaining whether any change has occurred in any of the particulars, recorded in the register kept under Section 17. The first proviso to Section 22(2) states that, in case of change in the names and addresses of the Trustees and Managers etc., the Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner may provisionally accept the change and issue a notice inviting objections to such change within thirty days from the date of publication of such notice. The second proviso states that if no objections are received within that time, the provisionally accepting the change shall become final and entry thereof shall be taken in the register kept under Section 17. The third proviso states that if objections are received within thirty days, the Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner may hold an inquiry in the prescribed manner and record a finding within three months from the date of filing objections.