There can be no doubt that while dealing with the such a question creation of fake scene by the appellant, absence of explanation by the accused despite being bound by virtue of Section 106 of the Evidence Act are also to be taken into consideration. In the context of the case on hand, the case established by the oral testimony of PW-8, Arti who is the own sister of the deceased would show that at about 7 pm on the fateful day the appellant came to the paternal home of the deceased and informed that Smt. Pushpa hanged herself and immediately thereupon, herself, her mother and sister went along with him to his house viz., matrimonial home of the deceased. The further fact established through the mouth of [2024] 12 S.C.R. 749 Ashok Verma v. The State of Chhattisgarh the said prosecution witness is that upon reaching there Pushpa was seen on her knees on bed and still knotted by dupatta around the neck which, in turn, tied to a wood near the ceiling fan. As per PW-8, despite the opposition of their mother when he attempted to cut the noose of the ligature and request to wait for the arrival of their relatives, he cut it immediately and took her to a nearby hospital at Sector 9. Soon on check-up, the doctor declared that she was dead. In this context, it is also worthy to note the oral evidence of DW-1, Subhash Rao. DW-1 had deposed that on that day, he along with the appellant went to Maitri Garden and from there returned home between 6 pm and 7 pm and he got down near the lane leading to his house. Thereafter, the appellant came to him and informed that Pushpa had hanged herself. According to him, thereupon, he along with the appellant went to the latter’s house and thereafter, he cut the noose of the ligature and took Pushpa to the hospital where she was checked and declared as dead. In this context it is also relevant to note that there is no scintilla of evidence suggesting that she was alive when the noose was cut or that she breathed her last enroute to the hospital. We have referred to the evidence of DW-1 to show that the cutting of the noose of the ligature, as per the version of prosecution witness as also that of DW-1 was done only after the appellant went to the witness(es) and informed of seeing Pushpa hanged herself. In short, going by the case of the prosecution or that of the defence even after seeing Pushpa hanged using her dupatta, he did not care to cut the noose then and there and had chosen to do so, only after witness(es) were brought to the scene of occurrence. 9. In the above context, it is also relevant to note the absence of self- inflicted injuries like scratches on the body of the deceased, going by the necroscopical evidence consisting of the oral evidence of PW-11, Dr. P. Akhtar with his report.