It indicates a prescribed mode in which judicial business is conducted. The word ‘proceeding’ in Section 22 includes execution proceedings also. In Rameshwar Nath v. U.P. Union Bank Ltd. [AIR 1956 All 586 : 1956 All LJ 470 : 1956 All WR HC 450] such a view was taken. It is a term giving the widest freedom to a court of law so that it may do justice to the parties in the case. Execution is a stage in the legal proceedings. It is a step in the judicial process. It marks a stage in litigation. It is a step in the ladder. In the journey of litigation there are various stages. One of them is execution. xxx xxx xxx 20. It is thus clear that the legislature has given ample power to the court to allow amendment of the plaint at any stage, including the execution proceedings. In the instant case the High Court granted the relief of possession and the objection raised on behalf of the petitioner is that this was not possible at the execution stage and in any case the court should have allowed first an amendment in the plaint and then an opportunity should have been afforded to the petitioner to file an objection.” 15. The aforesaid position of law has been recently reiterated by us in a recent passed in the case of Rohit Kochhar v. Vipul Infrastructure Developers Ltd. & Ors. reported in 2024 INSC 920 wherein we have observed thus: “23. This Court in Babu Lal (supra), upon a combined reading of Sections 22 and 28(3) of the Specific Relief Act respectively and Section 55 of the Transfer of Property Act, observed that the it was only “in an appropriate case” that the plaintiff was required to separately seek the relief of possession, partition, or separate possession, as the case may be, along with the relief of specific performance. The Court observed that in other cases, say for example a case where the exclusive possession of the suit property is with the contracting party, a decree for specific performance of the contract of sale simpliciter, without specifically providing [2024] 12 S.C.R. 491 Birma Devi & Ors. v. Subhash & Anr. for delivery of possession, may give complete relief to the decree-holder. This, the Court observed, was the mandate flowing from Section 55 of the Transfer of Property Act.” 16. The Special Leave Petition is, accordingly, dismissed. 17. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of. Result of the case: Special Leave Petition dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey