Section 100 of the Regulation, 1886, however, provides that when there is objection as regards the question of title, the Deputy Commissioner will stay his hand in the matter and such objection would be determined by a civil court of competent jurisdiction. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1927 Abdul Rejak Laskar v. Mafizur Rahman & Ors. 25. Section 100 of the Regulation, 1886 is quoted hereinbelow: “100. Objection on question of title.— (1) If an objection, preferred as required under section 99 raises any question of title which has not been already determined by a Court of competent jurisdiction, the Deputy Commissioner shall stay his proceedings for such time as, in his opinion, is sufficient to admit of a suit being instituted in the civil court to try the objection. (2) A Deputy Commissioner staying his proceedings under this section shall make on requiring the objector, or, if for any reasons he deems it more equitable, the applicant, to institute such a suit within the time fixed, and, in the event of such a suit not being instituted within that time, may in his discretion, disallow the objection, or dismiss the application, as the case maybe. (3) On a suit being instituted to try any objection under this section, the Deputy Commissioner shall with reference to the objection, be guided by the s passed by the Civil Court in the suit.” 26. Further, instruction No. 29 of the Part-III of the Executive Instructions framed under the provisions of Assam Land Revenue Reassessment Act, 1936 clearly indicates that the partition of ejmali patta can be carried out by the revenue authorities provided all the shareholders agree and give their consent in writing by putting their signatures in the chitha or otherwise. The said provision is quoted hereinbelow: “29. If the shareholders of an ejmali patta wish to partition amicably their land according to possession and point out the new boundaries, the rec will survey the boundaries as pointed out, provided all of them agree and give their consent in writing by putting their signatures in the chitha or otherwise. If any co-sharer objects, or if there be dispute about possession, the rec will not effect the partition.” 27. A bare reading of the provisions contained in Chapter VI of the Regulation, 1886 read with the Rules framed and the Executive Instructions issued under the Assam Land Revenue Re-assessment Act, 1936, leaves no manner of doubt that the Revenue authorities would be competent to carry out perfect/imperfect partition of a revenue paying estate if and only if all the co-sharers give their 1928 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports consent for such amicable partition, i.e., when the application for such partition is made on mutual consent of the parties. However, if there is any dispute as regards the title or possession raised by any of the co-sharers, the Deputy Commissioner has to stay his hands on such process of partition and leave the matter to be decided by a competent civil court having jurisdiction over the matter.