Supreme Court Reports a. Article 30(1) applies to educational institutions established before the commencement of the Constitution 81. In re the Kerala Education Bill 1957 (supra), a seven-Judge Bench of this Court held that Article 30 applies to educational institutions which predate the Constitution. This Court held that the right to administer guaranteed by Article 30(1) is wide enough to cover educational institutions established both before and after the Constitution was adopted: “22. … There is no reason why the benefit of Article 30(1) should be limited only to educational institutions established after the commencement of the Constitution. The language employed in Article 30(1) is wide enough to cover both pre-Constitution and post-Constitution institutions. It must not be overlooked that Article 30(1) gives the minorities two rights, namely, (a) to establish, and (b) to administer, educational institutions of their choice. The second right clearly covers pre-Constitution schools just as Article 26 covers the right to maintain pre-Constitution religious institutions. …” 82. Although the opinion in that case was rendered in exercise of the advisory jurisdiction of this Court under Article 143, it has immense persuasive value.71 The in Inre Kerala Education Bill (supra) has held the field for many decades. Subsequent decisions of this Court have also relied on it. The decision in Azeez Basha (supra) observed that Article 30 would be “robbed of much of its content” if it were held to apply only to educational institutions established after the commencement of the Constitution.72 The Constitution Bench in SK Patro (supra) also held the same. In that case, an educational institution which was established in 1854 received the protection of the rights guaranteed by Article 30(1).73 In St. Stephen’s (supra), a Constitution Bench held that St. Stephen’s College which was established in 1881 is a minority educational institution for the purposes of Article 30(1). 71 In re Special Courts Bill, (1979) 1 SCC 380 72 Azeez Basha [19] 73 SK Patro [17] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1725 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 83. A distinction between educational institutions established before and after the commencement of the Constitution cannot be made for the purposes of Article 30(1). Article 30 will stand diluted and weakened if it is to only apply prospectively to institutions established after the commencement of the Constitution. The protection and guarantee, if made applicable to only institutions established after the commencement of the Constitution, would debase and defile the object and purpose of the provision. The adoption of the Constitution reflects a break from the system of sovereign and potentate government under the colonial regime and the dawn of governance based on the rule of law. It secures to the minority educational institutions, rights under the Constitution from the date of its commencement. 84. The Constitution annihilates the vestiges of colonial rule as reflected in Article 395. Article 395 repeals the two enactments that established the system of governance in pre-independent India: the Indian Independence Act 1947 and the Government of India Act 1935. Article 395 repudiates the chain of colonial continuity and symbolises constitutional autochthony by repealing the Indian Independence Act 1947.