105. The Learned Judge observed that this is not mere harmonious statutory construction of Article 16(1) and (4) but an insightful perception of our constitutional culture. He emphasized that the State must apply equalizing techniques which will enlarge their opportunities and thereby progressively diminish the need for props. He further emphasized that to casteify “reservation” even beyond the dismal groups of backwardmost people, euphemistically described as SC & ST, is to run a grave constitutional risk. He further emphasized that to interpret the Constitution rightly we must understand the people for whom it is made. He observed that the synthesis of ends and means, of life’s maladies and law’s remedies is a part of the know- how of constitutional interpretation. 106. Krishna Iyer, J. further observed thus: “34. Special provisions for depressed classes and even other castes have a pre-Constitution history. After the Constitution was enacted the legality of old rules based on caste became moot and the Central Government revised its policy. The post-Constitution reincarnation of the communal G.O. concentrated not on caste orientation but on elimination of socio-economic suppression and the diverse ways to achieve this objective. xxx xxx xxx 36. Articles 14 to 16 form a code by themselves and embody the distilled essence of the Constitution’s casteless and classless egalitarianism. Nevertheless, our founding fathers [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1507 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. were realists, and so did not declare the proposition of equality in its bald universality but subjected it to certain special provisions, not contradicting the soul of equality, but adapting that never-changing principle to the ever- changing social milieu. That is how Articles 15(4) and 16(4) have to be read together with Articles 15(1) and 16(1). The first sub-article speaks of equality and the second sub-article amplifies its content by expressly interdicting caste as a ground of discrimination. Article 16(4) imparts to the seemingly static equality embedded in Article 16(1) a dynamic quality by importing equalisation strategies geared to the eventual achievement of equality as permissible State action, viewed as an amplification of Article 16(1) or as an exception to it. The same observation will hold good for the sub-articles of Article 15. Thus we have a constitutional fundamental guarantee in Articles 14 to 16; but it is a notorious fact of our cultural heritage that the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes have been in unfree India nearly dehumanised, and a facet of the struggle for Freedom has been the restoration of full personhood to them together with the right to share in the social and economic development of the country. Article 46 is a Directive Principle contained in Part IV. Every Directive Principle is fundamental in the governance of the country and it shall be the duty of the State to apply that principle in making laws. Article 46, in emphatic terms, obligates the State “to promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation”.