At the outset, we may state that for the purpose of this discussion, we keep aside the Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes (since they are admittedly included within the backward classes), except to remark that backward classes contemplated by Article 16(4) do comprise some castes — for it cannot be denied that Scheduled Castes include quite a few castes.” 69. In Ashok Kumar Thakur vs. Union of India and Others,22 another Five-Bench , after considering earlier s on the issue 22 [2007] 7 SCR 63 : (2008) 6 SCC 1 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1637 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. whether the “creamy layer” principle is applicable to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, held that the said Principle cannot be applied to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as they are separate classes by themselves. To be precise, it held as under: - “184. So far, this Court has not applied the “creamy layer” principle to the general principle of equality for the purpose of reservation. The “creamy layer” so far has been applied only to identify the backward class, as it required certain parameters to determine the backward classes. “Creamy layer” principle is one of the parameters to identify backward classes. Therefore, principally, the “creamy layer” principle cannot be applied to STs and SCs, as SCs and STs are separate classes by themselves. Ray, C.J., in an earlier decision, stated that “Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are not a caste within the ordinary meaning of caste”. And they are so identified by virtue of the notification issued by the President of India under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution. The President may, after consultation with the Governor, by public notification, specify the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes which for the purpose of the Constitution shall be deemed to be Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes. Once the notification is issued, they are deemed to be the members of Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, whichever is applicable. In E.V. Chinnaiah [(2005) 1 SCC 394] concurring with the majority , S.B. Sinha, J. said : (SCC p. 403) “The Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes occupy a special place in our Constitution. The President of India is the sole repository of the power to specify the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes which shall for the purposes of the Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Castes. The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) , 1950 made in terms of Article 341(1) is exhaustive. The object of Articles 341 and 342 is to provide for grant of protection to the backward class of citizens who are specified in the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes having regard 1638 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the economic and education backwardness wherefrom they suffer. Any legislation which would bring them out of the purview thereof or tinker with the issued by the President of India would be unconstitutional.