Subsequently the 1981 Rules were amended in April 2006, whereby also the provision for allotment was replaced by auction or by tender. There was no challenge either to the policy decision of December, 2003 or to the amendment of 2006 to the 1981 Rules. Merely seeking a Writ of Mandamus on the strength of the in-principle approval given by the Lieutenant Governor would not be maintainable in view of the change situation which had arisen much earlier to the filing of the writ petition. 18.5 The arguments advanced by Dr. Singhvi that the appellant had been changing its stand continuously is no help as the facts of the case which are on record and which are not disputed, need to be accepted, even if they are raised at a later stage. The respondents have not been able to establish or even prima facie establish that the facts as narrated by the appellant and as recorded above were incorrect. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 469 Delhi Development Authority v. Hello Home Education Society 18.6 The issue relating to the CBI enquiry being raised before this Court as also the other facts like Vasant Kunj area did not require a school, or that Vasant Kunj and Jasola fall in different zones being raised for the first time before this Court also do not have any bearing on the merits of the matter in view of the conduct of the respondent Society which approached the Court after 11 years. 18.7 The issue relating to internal notings as to whether it would confer any right or not has been adequately dealt with and settled by series of judgements of this Court. It is well settled that until and unless the decision taken on file is converted into a final to be communicated and duly served on the concerned party, no right accrues to the said party. Mere notings and in-principle approvals do not confer a vested right. Relevant extracts from s of this Court in this regard are being reproduced hereunder: a) Bhachhittar Singh (supra): “9. The question, therefore, is whether he did in fact make such an . Merely writing something on the file does not amount to an . Before something amounts to an of the State Government two things are necessary. The has to be expressed in the name of the Governor as required by clause (1) of Article 166 and then it has to be communicated. As already indicated, no formal modifying the decision of the Revenue Secretary was ever made. Until such an is drawn up the State Government cannot, in our opinion, be regarded as bound by what was stated in the file….. [Emphasis supplied] 10. ……Thus it is of the essence that the has to be communicated to the person who would be affected by that before the State and that person can be bound by that . For, until the is communicated to the person affected by it, it would be open to the Council of Ministers to consider the matter over and over again and, therefore, till its communication the cannot be regarded as anything more than provisional in character.” [Emphasis supplied] 470 [2024] 1 S.C.R.