.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 22. Since the object of the third proviso to Section 254(2-A) of the Income Tax Act is the automatic vacation of a stay that has been granted on the completion of 365 days, whether or not the assessee is responsible for the delay caused in hearing the appeal, such object being itself discriminatory, in the sense pointed out above, is liable to be struck down as violating Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Also, the said proviso would result in the automatic vacation of a stay upon the expiry of 365 days even if the Appellate Tribunal could not take up the appeal in time for no fault of the assessee. Further, the vacation of stay in favour of the Revenue would ensue even if the Revenue is itself responsible for the delay in hearing the appeal. In this sense, the said proviso is also manifestly arbitrary being a provision which is capricious, irrational and disproportionate so far as the assessee is concerned.” (Emphasis added) Therefore, even if the legislature were to come out with such a provision for automatic vacation of stay, the same may not stand judicial scrutiny as it may suffer from manifest arbitrariness. IV. Scope of exercise of powers under Article 142 of the Constitution 19. The directions issued in Asian Resurfacing1 are obviously issued in the exercise of jurisdiction of this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution, which confers jurisdiction on this Court to pass such a decree or make such necessary for doing complete justice in any case or matter pending before it. In Asian Resurfacing1, the first issue was, whether an framing of charge in a case [2024] 2 S.C.R. 969 High Court Bar Association, Allahabad v. State of U.P. & Ors. under the PC Act was in the nature of an interlocutory . The second question was of the scope of powers of the High Court to stay proceedings of the trial under the PC Act while entertaining a challenge to an of framing charge. The question regarding the duration of the interim s passed by the High Courts in various other proceedings did not specifically arise for consideration in the case of Asian Resurfacing1. The provisions of Article 142 of the Constitution of India are meant to further the cause of justice and to secure complete justice. The directions in the exercise of power under Article 142 cannot be issued to defeat justice. The jurisdiction under Article 142 cannot be invoked to pass blanket s setting at naught a very large number of interim s lawfully passed by all the High Courts, and that too, without hearing the contesting parties. The jurisdiction under Article 142 can be invoked only to deal with extraordinary situations for doing complete justice between the parties before the Court. 20. While dealing with the scope of power under Article 142, a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Prem Chand Garg & Anr.