These include (i) Accessibility Guidelines for Bus Terminals and Bus Stops from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways; (ii) Accessible Tourism Guidelines for India from the Ministry of Tourism; (iii) Accessibility Standards for TV programmes for hearing and visually impaired from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting; and (iv) Accessibility guidelines for pension, other financial institutions and insurance sector from the Department of Financial Service. 65. Rule 16 mandates a review of accessibility standards, and states that the Central Government shall review from time to time the accessibility standards based on the “latest scientific knowledge and technology”. ii. Inconsistency between Rule 15 and the RPWD Act 66. The RPWD Act creates a mandatory compliance mechanism with regard to accessibility rules. Section 40 states that the Central Government “shall” frame rules which lay down the standards of accessibility. Sections 44, 45, 46 and 89 indicate that these rules are mandatory, provide timelines for compliance, and prescribe consequences for non-compliance. Section 44 stipulates mandatory compliance of the accessibility rules by new establishments and provides significant consequences for non-compliance with the rules. At the stage prior to construction, it is stipulated that no establishment will be granted permission to build the structure if the building plan does not adhere to the accessibility rules. At the stage after construction, it is stipulated that no establishment shall be issued a certificate of completion or take occupation of a building if it fails to comply with the accessibility rules. Therefore, Section 44 74 Rights of Persons with Disabilities (Amendment) Rules, 2024 notified on 02.07.2024. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1007 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. deals with the second prong of the right to accessibility identified above – planning for the future and ensuring that new infrastructure is accessible from its inception. Sections 45 and 46 deal with the first prong, i.e. to retrofit existing inaccessible infrastructure to ensure accessibility. They provide a timeline for compliance with the accessibility rules. Section 45 lays down a timeline of five years from the date of the notification of the RPWD Rules for making existing public buildings accessible in accordance with the accessibility rules. Similarly, Section 46 provides a timeline of two years for service providers to comply with the accessibility rules. As noted above, the RPWD rules came into force on 15 June 2017 and thus, the timelines in these provisions have long passed. 67. The marginal note to Rule 15(1) states that it contains “Rules for Accessibility”. Further, Rule 15(1) uses “shall” in its chapeau indicating that the standards that follow in clauses (a) to (p) are mandatory. Till this understanding of the framework, the counsel for the petitioner, the Union of India and the NALSAR-CDS are all in agreement. The next step, therefore, is to look at the content of the various standards prescribed in Rule 15(1). 68. A perusal of the “standards” for accessibility laid down in clauses (a) to (p) of Rule 15(1), in the form of the guidelines issued by the concerned ministries, indicates that most of these documents do not contain mandatory or non-negotiable prescriptions.