She and her husband along with the neighbours took the deceased to the nursing home and from there to the Mission Hospital. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 345 Kumar @ Shiva Kumar v. State of Karnataka 27. If the version of PW-4 is to be accepted, then the deceased X had called her over telephone at around 11:00 to 11:15 AM on 05.07.2000. It was thereafter that she and her husband rushed to the house from where with the help of the neighbours, the deceased was taken to a nursing home and from there to the Mission Hospital. In other words, according to PW-4, the deceased X was taken to the nursing home only after 11:00 to 11:15 AM. This again contradicts the statement of PW-1 that when he had come back home on 05.07.2000 at 10:00 AM, his daughter X was already taken to the nursing home. 28. None of the near relatives of the deceased i.e. PW-1, PW-2, PW-4 and PW-12 (the elder brother of the deceased) had confronted the appellant as to why he was harassing the deceased with proposal for marriage and in the event of refusal, threatening her with dire consequences. Though they said that they knew about such harassment fifteen days prior to the date of incident, none of them thought it fit to lodge a police complaint. This creates grave doubt about the prosecution version. 29. Though delay in lodging first information by itself cannot be a ground to disbelieve the prosecution case, unexplained delay coupled with surrounding circumstances can certainly dent the prosecution version. Here is a person (PW-1) who evidently goes to the hospital to see his daughter struggling for life twenty-four hours after her admission in hospital, that too just hours before her death. Such a behaviour is unusual for father, to say the least. That apart, evidently, he was not stating the truth when he said that he used to reside in the same house as that of the deceased and when he returned home at 10:00 AM in the morning on the fateful day, the deceased was already taken to the nursing home by the neighbours. Evidence of PW-2 and PW-4 bely such statement of PW-1. His daughter died on 06.07.2000 at 07:30 PM, whereafter the body was taken by the police for post- mortem examination. Yet he waited till the next morning to lodge the police complaint. The police had also not examined Jayarama, the scribe, who had written the complaint, to ascertain the reason for such delay. According to PW-1, Jayarama was in the hospital till the death of the deceased. In the face of such glaring conduct of the first informant PW-1, adverse inference would have to be drawn. But crucially, the tendered evidence, as discussed above, are hearsay not worthy of much credence. 346 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 30. There is one more aspect. In the first information, PW-1 stated that neighbours Kumari Hema, Mahesh, Sarojamma and others including Smt. Hiremani, wife of police personnel Nanjunda Swami had noticed through the window that his deceased daughter X was lying unconscious and that the phone was continuously ringing.