The disagreement stems when the devolution of property on partition upon AD is considered. The majority held that AD would become 1 1 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1035 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. a single-member thavazhi and hold the property received by her as tharwad property protecting the interests of any children which, she may have in the future whereas the dissenting Judges held that since at the time of devolution AD did not have any children, she 1 would acquire the property only in her own right. 43. Turning our attention back to the instant facts, it is not in dispute that Parukutty Amma and her descendants formed a thavazhi and had received the scheduled properties under item No.1 collectively. As we have already noticed above, the divergence of opinion between the minority and majority was in respect of single female(s) receiving property in partition. That obviously is not the case here. All five Judges appear to be ad idem when it comes to property being received at partition by females and members of her thavazhi. Since the properties were received by the thavazhi and not by a woman who is single, the property is unquestionably tharwad property. Para 55 of the dissenting view expressed by Govindan Nair, J. captures as to how groups inherit property post-partition and how such property continues to hold tharwad characteristics. It runs as under: “55. It is true that a tarwad need not always break up into its ultimate components; there may be branch divisions or some members may continue joint and continue to hold property and there may be several such groups and there can be a mixture of individuals holding property obtained on partition along with groups who hold jointly property allotted to each of those groups. The distinction to notice is that those groups hold property allotted to each group jointly. No member of that group has any separate interest which he can claim as his own. His interests in the property allotted to the group is of an identical nature as the interests he had in the entire tarwad property before partition. In other words, the group holds the property with all the incidents of tarwad property as joint property. It is because property is so held as joint tarwad property that future tarwad members born in that group take an interest in the property allotted to that group.” (Emphasis supplied) 44. Since there is no difference of opinion in this regard and further since the case before us is the inheritance of property by a group 1036 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (branch 5), it falls in the second category (i.e. the category about which there is no dispute) no question arises as to determining the correctness of the view expressed, as is desired for us to do by the original-defendants. 45. Another aspect raised in connection with properties under item No.1 is that the property in question is held by co-owners and is not tharwad in nature.