However, the perquisites do not mean the mere reimbursement of a necessary disbursement. Reference was also made to Rendell v. Went,17 wherein the House held that ‘perquisite’ would include any benefit or advantage, having a monetary value, which a holder of an office derives from the employer’s spending on his behalf. 17. Similarly, in Additional Commissioner of Income Tax v. Bharat V. Patel ,18 this Court held that ‘perquisite’, in the common parlance relates to any perk or benefit attached to an employee or position besides salary or remuneration. It usually includes non-cash benefits given by the employer to the employee in addition to the entitled salary or remuneration. 18. Thus, ‘perquisite’ is a fringe benefit attached to the post held by the employee unlike ‘profit in lieu of salary’, which is a reward or recompense for past or future service. It is incidental to employment and in excess of or in addition to the salary. It is an advantage or benefit given because of employment, which otherwise would not be available. 19. From this perspective, the employer’s grant of interest-free loans or loans at a concessional rate will certainly qualify as a ‘fringe benefit’ and ‘perquisite’, as understood through its natural usage in common parlance. Fringe benefit is a term embracing a variety of employees’ benefits, paid by the employers and supplementing the workers’ basic wage or salary. P. Ramanatha Aiyarm The Major Law Lexicon, Vol. 3 (4th Edition). 15 [2006] Supp. 6 SCR 290 : (2007) 1 SCC 732 16 (1969) 2 WLR 775 (HL) 17 (1964) 1 WLR 650 (HL) 18 [2018] 7 SCR 1067 : (2018) 15 SCC 670 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 921 All India Bank Officers’ Confederation v. The Regional Manager, Central Bank of India and Others 20. Two issues arise for consideration now: (I) Does Section 17(2)(viii) and/or Rule 3(7)(i) lead to a delegation of the ‘essential legislative function’ to the CBDT? ; and (II) Is Rule 3(7)(i) arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution insofar as it treats the PLR of SBI as the benchmark? I. Does Section 17(2)(viii) and/or Rule 3(7)(i) lead to a delegation of the ‘essential legislative function’ to the CBDT? 21. A Constitution Bench of Seven Judges of this Court in Municipal Corporation of Delhi v. Birla Cotton, Spinning and Weaving Mills, Delhi and Another,19 has held that the legislature must retain with itself the essential legislative function. ‘Essential legislative function’ means the determination of the legislative policy and its formulation as a binding rule of conduct. Therefore, once the legislature declares the legislative policy and lays down the standard through legislation, it can leave the remainder of the task to subordinate legislation. In such cases, the subordinate legislation is ancillary to the primary statute. It aligns with the framework of the primary legislation as long as it is made consistent with it, without exceeding the limits of policy and standards stipulated by the primary legislation. The test, therefore, is whether the primary legislation has stated with sufficient clarity, the legislative policy and the standards that are binding on subordinate authorities who frame the delegated legislation.