Another reason for the decision of the learned Judge was the model of sub- classification which was prescribed by the Office Memorandum. 144 Indra Sawhney v. Union of India (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 [55] 145 Indra Sawhney v. Union of India (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 [207(5)] 1388 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The Office Memorandum provided that the poorer section would have preference over all the seats reserved for a class, leaving the possibility of excluding the rest open. 94. Justice Jeevan Reddy observed that there is no constitutional or legal bar in classifying the backward class into backward and most backward class.146 The learned Judge held that sub-classification is valid for two reasons. First, there may be inter-se backwardness within same class and in such a situation, sub-classification ensures that the more backward of the class can secure the benefit.147 Second, the constitutional scheme expressly provides for sub-classification. Article 16(4) only identifies the beneficiary class as the “backward class” unlike Article 15(4) which expressly identifies the socially and educationally backward class, the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. The relevant observation is extracted below: “803. There is another way of looking at this issue. Article 16(4) recognises only one class viz., “backward class of citizens”. It does not speak separately of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, as does Article 15(4). Even so, it is beyond controversy that Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are also included in the expression “backward class of citizens” and that separate reservations can be provided in their favour. It is a well-accepted phenomenon throughout the country. What is the logic behind it? It is that if Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and Other Backward Classes are lumped together, OBCs will take away all the vacancies leaving Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes high and dry. The same logic also warrants categorisation as between more backward and backward. We do not mean to say — we may reiterate — that this should be done. We are only saying that if a State chooses to do it, it is not impermissible in law.” 146 Indra Sawhney v. Union of India (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 [802] 147 “802. We are of the opinion that there is no constitutional or legal bar to a State categorising the backward classes as backward and more backward. We are not saying that it ought to be done. We are concerned with the question if a State makes such a categorisation, whether it would be invalid? We think not. Let us take the criteria evolved by Mandal Commission. Any caste, group or class which scored eleven or more points was treated as a backward class. Now, it is not as if all the several thousands of castes/groups/ classes scored identical points. There may be some castes/groups/classes which have scored points between 20 to 22 and there may be some who have scored points between eleven and thirteen. It cannot reasonably be denied that there is no difference between these two sets of castes/groups/classes.” [2024] 8 S.C.R.