While we agree that clause (4) aims at group backwardness, we feel that exclusion of such socially advanced members will make the ‘class’ a truly backward class and would more [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1529 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. appropriately serve the purpose and object of clause (4). (This discussion is confined to Other Backward Classes only and has no relevance in the case of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes).” 139. His Lordship observed that if some of the members in a class are far too advanced socially, the connecting thread between them and the remaining class snaps. The Court observed that ‘too advanced socially’ means economically and may also mean educationally. It has been observed that they would be misfits in the class. The Court considered the difficulty in drawing the line. It is observed that it should not amount to taking away with one hand what is given with the other. The Court observed that the basis of exclusion should not merely be economic, unless, of course, the economic advancement is so high that it necessarily means social advancement. The Court observed that the line to be drawn must be a realistic one. The Court posed a question as to whether such a line should be uniform for the entire country or a given State or should it differ from rural to urban areas and so on. It has been observed that since it is difficult to assess income from agriculture, in the case of agriculturists, the line may have to be drawn with reference to the extent of holding. It is observed that the income limit must be such as to mean and signify social advancement. The Court observed that at the same time, it must be recognized that there are certain positions, the occupants of which can be treated as socially advanced without any further enquiry. It has been observed that if a member of a designated backward class would become a member of IAS or IPS or any other All India Service, his status in the society rises and he is no longer socially disadvantaged. The Court observed that clause (4) of Article 16 aims at group backwardness, the exclusion of such socially advanced members will make the ‘class’ a truly backward class and would more appropriately serve the purpose and object of clause (4). No doubt, it has been specified that the said discussion was confined to Other Backward Classes only and had no relevance in the case of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes. 140. Then the question as to whether Backward Classes can be further divided into backward and more backward categories has been answered thus: “802. We are of the opinion that there is no constitutional or legal bar to a State categorising the backward classes 1530 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports as backward and more backward. We are not saying that it ought to be done. We are concerned with the question if a State makes such a categorisation, whether it would be invalid?