25. The facts of the case on hand are exactly similar to that of the facts involved in the aforesaid decision. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the said situation has held that the claims made under Section 78(B) are barred by limitation. As such, they cannot be entertained. The aforesaid decision was not at all referred or considered in the decisions relied on by the counsel for the claimant - respondent. The doctrine of binding precedent is of utmost importance in the administration of judicial system. It brings certainty and consistency in judicial decisions. The judicial consistency promotes confidence in the system. The ratio laid down in the aforesaid decision ((1995) 2 SCC 493) is aptly applicable to the facts of this case. As such, the claims which are barred by limitation in view of Section 106 of the Railways Act (78(B) of the Old Act) cannot be entertained.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1109 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. 58. In yet another decision of the Orissa High Court in M/s National Aluminium Co. Ltd. v. Union of India FAO No. 306 of 2022, the goods were booked to be carried by a longer-route and freight was accordingly charged for the long route. However, the goods instead were dispatched by the shorter route. The High Court placing reliance on Steel Authority of India Ltd. (supra) which involved similar facts, held that since what was charged was prescribed by law, the refund was not for an overcharge, and Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989 would not be attracted. The relevant observations read as under: - “8. Mrs. Rath contends that the Tribunal has misconceived the claim for refund of additional freight charges received by the railways with the term ‘overcharges’ and in this regard she relies on a decision of this Court reported in AIR 1997 Orissa 77 (Union of India and others vrs. Steel Authority of India Limited). 9. The above referred case is involving similar issues where SAIL filed a suit before the Sub-Judge, Rourkela praying for refund of excessive charges received by the railways under the rationalization scheme relating to the old Act, i.e. Indian Railways Act, 1890. Section 78-B of the old Act is same to the present Section 106 in the Railways Act, 1989. This Court while deciding with the issue that, whether the claim for refund of overcharge is maintainable for want of notice under Section 78-B, have held that the claim is not one for ‘overcharge’ for the simple reason that the goods were booked by a particular route and paid the freight that was payable for that distance. [...] 10. In view of the above, no second opinion can be there to treat the claim of refund of additional freight charges beyond ‘overcharges’ and no prior notice under Section 106 of the Railways Act is required to be sent. Undisputedly, no such notice has been sent by NALCO as per the submissions made by Mrs. Rath in course of hearing and the admitted fact remains that several intimations seeking refund of such amount from the railways have been sent by NALCO in those letters annexed to the claim application, as seen from the copy of the claim application produced in course of hearing.