The station diary of the Anand Town Police Station was proved as Exhibit P-97 wherein, the factum of registration of the FIR is recorded. The witness also stated that a telephonic wardhi forwarded by Dr. Varun Patel, Shri Krishna Medical Hospital, Karamsad was also entered in the station diary on which the witness (PW-16) as well as S.N. Ghori, PSI (PW-17) had signed. The said wardhi was prepared at 10:00 pm whereas, the complaint was received at the police station at 11:30 pm. 28. Certain very significant incongruencies come to the fore on a minute evaluation of the evidence of Mohammad Arif Memon, the first informant (PW-11), K.N. Waghela, Head Constable (PW- 16) and S.N. Ghori, PSI (PW-17). Whilst Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11), the first informant categorically stated that he drafted the complaint and submitted it at the Anand Town Police Station, but in total contradiction thereto, S.N. Ghori, PSI (PW-17) stated that the complaint was registered on the basis of the oral statement of the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) which he took down in writing at the Krishna Medical Hospital, Karamsad. On a careful perusal of the complaint (Exhibit P-79) which subsequently came to be registered as the FIR, it is manifest that no time of recording is mentioned thereupon. Another very relevant fact which manifests from the complaint/FIR is that there is no endorsement as to the date and time on which the said FIR reached the Court concerned. Going by the highlighted excerpts (supra) from the testimony of Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11), the actual complaint filed by him at the police station seems to have been withheld and there are genuine reasons to hold that the FIR is a post investigation document. 29. This Court in the case of State of A.P. v. Punati Ramulu and Others4 held that when the police officer does not deliberately record the FIR on receipt of information about cognizable offence and the FIR is prepared after reaching the spot after due deliberations, consultations and discussion, such a complaint cannot be treated as FIR and it 4 1994 Supp (1) SCC 590 368 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports would be a statement made during the investigation of a case and is hit by Section 162 CrPC. The relevant paras of the in this regard are reproduced hereinbelow: - “5. According to the evidence of PW 22, Circle Inspector, he had received information of the incident from police constable No. 1278, who was on ‘bandobast’ duty. On receiving the information of the occurrence, PW 22 left for the village of occurrence and started the investigation in the case. Before proceeding to the village to take up the investigation, it is conceded by PW 2 in his evidence, that he made no entry in the daily diary or record in the general diary about the information that had been given to him by constable 1278, who was the first person to give information to him on the basis of which he had proceeded to the spot and taken up the investigation in hand.