This falls within the permissible limits laid down in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community (supra) as explained in point (b) of paragraph 37. Further, the Solicitor General has also stated that he is not pressing the Union’s preliminary objection. The of reference dated 12 February 2019, too, noted that although a three-Judge Bench could not ordinarily refer a case directly to a seven-Judge Bench, it was doing so in this case because the question was already referred to a Bench of seven Judges but was not answered. The reference notes: “10. Ordinarily and in the normal course the judicial discipline would require the Bench to seek a reference of this matter by a Five Judges Bench. However, having regard to the background, as stated above, when the precise question was already referred to a Seven Judges Bench and was, however, not answered, we are of the view that the present question, set out above, should be referred to a Bench of Hon’ble Seven Judges. 11. Consequently and in the light of the above, place these matters before the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India on the administrative side for appropriate s.” 40. This Court will hear the questions referred to a seven-Judge Bench for these reasons. ii. The scope of Article 30 41. The fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution do not operate in silos. In A.K. Gopalan v. State of Madras,25 the majority of this Court held that fundamental rights operate to the mutual exclusion of one another. In other words, each fundamental right was understood as being distinct and unrelated to the others. This view of Part III of the Constitution was later rejected in Rustom Cavasjee 25 AIR 1950 SC 27 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1705 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. Cooper v. Union of India,26 which held that Part III “weaves a pattern of guarantees on the texture of basic human rights. The guarantees delimit the protection of those rights in their allotted fields: they do not attempt to enunciate distinct rights.”27 Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India28 affirmed that Rustom Cavasjee Cooper (supra) overruled the majority in A.K. Gopalan (supra). Thus, the scope of the right of “minorities to establish and administer educational institutions” must be identified in the background of the other cultural and religious rights guaranteed by the Constitution. 42. Articles 25 to 28 are placed under the heading ‘Right to freedom of religion’. Article 25(1) stipulates that all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience, the right to freely profess, practice or propagate religion. This is subject, however, to public , morality, health and other provisions of Part III of the Constitution. Clause (2) of Article 25 provides that nothing in Clause (1) would affect the operation of any existing law or prevent the State from enacting a law regulating or restricting any economic, financial, political or secular activity, which may be associated with religious practice, and legislation providing for social welfare reform or opening Hindu religious institutions of public character to all classes and sections of Hindus.