While the appellant-convicts contend that he is an escapado, the prosecution contends that he was subjected to custodial torture which ultimately culminated in his custodial death (The defence also put forth a case that he was arrested later by the Railway Police in connection with traveling in a train ticketless and consequently prosecuted and sentenced to pay fine, to counter the case of the prosecution that escape of Shama from police custody was nothing but a staged drama). In the contextual situation it is apposite to refer to the decision of this Court in Central Bureau of Investigation v. Kishore Singh1 wherein it was held that when a person was brought to a police station and locked up, obviously, he would be under arrest. 12. The evidence of PW-1 (Amrutabai Ukey), PW-3 and PW-16 and others as also PWs 20 and 22 who are police officials, was relied on by the trial Court and also by the High Court to hold that the deceased was in the custody of the appellants and was in the Detective Branch Room of Gondia Police Station and was subjected to torture during such custody. PW-1 is the wife of deceased Shama. 1 [2010] 14 SCR 95 : (2011) 6 SCC 369 732 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports She would depose that she found him in the Detective Branch Room of Gondia Police Station on 18.12.1995 and he was then bleeding from his legs. According to her, Shama told that police have cut off veins of his legs and hence, he might not survive. She had also deposed that on 22.12.1995, she again found him there and on 24.12.1995, police told her that Shama had escaped from their custody. I will deal with her evidence, a little later, appropriately. PW-3 turned hostile. He was examined to prove that Shama was brought to police station for interrogation and he had suffered injuries on account of torture during the interrogation. Indisputably, while being examined-in-chief, he supported the prosecution and then, prevaricated during his cross-examination. Thereupon, he was cross-examined by the prosecution after getting him declared as hostile. The impugned would reveal that to a Court question, he would admit that what he had stated before the Court in the morning session, during cross-examination on behalf of the accused, was false. The demeanor of the witness as recorded by the courts below and his oscillation during his examination before the Court thus revealed the danger in accepting his version, on any count, without corroboration. Since the maxim ‘falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus’ (false in one thing, false in everything) has no application in India, his evidence was evidently taken into consideration to the extent of establishing the custody of Shama in the Station and also his sustaining injuries during such custody as they got corroboration from the oral testimonies of other witnesses. PW-4 Mulchand deposed that when he visited the police station concerned, he found swelling on the arms and legs of Shama besides bleeding from his legs.