377. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 269 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. to this Resolution. The Karachi Resolution can also be seen as a forerunner to Fundamental Rights and Directive Principles of State Policy which are the heart and soul of the Indian Constitution.11 The Karachi Resolution, inter alia, visualised the role of State in free India. The resolution, adopted by the All India Congress Committee, states that “the State shall own or control key industries and services, mineral resources, railways, waterways, shipping and other means of transport ”.12 The resolution speaks of democracy as another name for “socialism” and “socialist principles” of equality, distribution of wealth and grassroot participation of people. 9. The Constituent Assembly, which was formed in 1946, to frame a Constitution for free India consisted of members elected by the newly elected members of the Legislative Assemblies of Provinces (elected in January 1946), as well as nominated members who represented the princely States. What kind of Constitution was to be given to the nation was indicated by Jawahar Lal Nehru in the “Objective Resolution” which he placed before the Constituent Assembly on December 13, 1946. This is a watershed event in the making of the Indian Constitution,13 as it sets forth the task and the objects to be achieved by the Constituent Assembly. The task before the Constituent Assembly was “to free India through a new Constitution, to feed the starving people and clothe the naked masses, and to give every Indian the fullest opportunity to develop himself according to capacity.”14 The Objective Resolution moved by Jawaharlal Nehru before the Constituent Assembly, which was adopted by the Assembly in December 1946 speaks of secularism and democratic principles of equality, liberty and fraternity to be a part of our Constitution. There was an earnest plea before the Assembly by Nehru to adopt socialist principles in to uplift the economy and the condition 11 Granville Austin calls Fundamental Rights and Directive Principles of State Policy as “Conscience of the Constitution”. See Granville austin, the indian cOnstitutiOn: cOrnerstOne Of a natiOn (Oxford University Press, New Delhi, Second Impression 2000), Pg. 50. 12 a. M zaidi et al., the encyclOPaedia Of the indian natiOnal cOnGress (vOl.-10: 1930-1935): the Battle fOr swaraJ (S. Chand & Co. Ltd., 1980), Pg. 183. 13 rakesh BataByal (ed. ), the PenGuin BOOk Of MOdern india sPeeches (Penguin Books, 2007), Pg. 365. 14 It was said by Jawahar Lal Nehru in Constituent Assembly of India on January 22,1947. See cOnstituent asseMBly deBates, Vol. II, Pg. 316. 270 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the vast majority of its people from poverty and illiteracy. The Objective Resolution was the harbinger of the constitutional values of distributive justice and social engineering in the Indian Constitution. Many of the provisions later became a part of the Directive Principles, particularly in Articles 38 and 39 of the Constitution of India. This is what was said by Nehru on Dec 13, 1946 while discussing the Objective Resolution: “Well, I stand for Socialism and, I hope, India will stand for Socialism and that India will go towards the constitution of a Socialist State….. What form of socialism again is another matter for your consideration….