[Paras 19 and 20] Limitation Act – Section 5 – Whether liberal interpretation of ‘Sufficient cause’ overrides substantial law of limitation? Held: Concepts such as ‘liberal approach’, ‘justice-oriented approach’ and ‘substantial justice’ cannot be employed to override the substantial law of limitation – The Courts have to exercise the discretion systematically and in an informed manner to allow application for condonation of delay. [Para 21] Limitation Act – Section 5 – Relevance of merits of the case at hand Held: The merits of the case cannot be considered while dealing with the application for condonation of delay in filing appeals. [Para 22] Limitation Act – Principles regarding relevance of law of limitation, scope of section 3, power of court to condone delay under section 5 – Summarised Held: (i) Law of limitation is based upon public policy that there should be an end to litigation by forfeiting the right to remedy rather than the right itself; [2024] 4 S.C.R. 243 Pathupati Subba Reddy (Died) by L.Rs. & Ors. v. The Special Deputy Collector (LA) (ii) A right or the remedy that has not been exercised or availed of for a long time must come to an end or cease to exist after a fixed period of time; (iii) The provisions of the Limitation Act have to be construed differently, such as Section 3 has to be construed in a strict sense whereas Section 5 has to be construed liberally; (iv) In to advance substantial justice, though liberal approach, justice-oriented approach or cause of substantial justice may be kept in mind but the same cannot be used to defeat the substantial law of limitation contained in Section 3 of the Limitation Act; (v) Courts are empowered to exercise discretion to condone the delay if sufficient cause had been explained, but that exercise of power is discretionary in nature and may not be exercised even if sufficient cause is established for various factors such as, where there is inordinate delay, negligence and want of due diligence; (vi) Merely some persons obtained relief in similar matter, it does not mean that others are also entitled to the same benefit if the court is not satisfied with the cause shown for the delay in filing the appeal; (vii) Merits of the case are not required to be considered in condoning the delay; and (viii) Delay condonation application has to be decided on the parameters laid down for condoning the delay for the reason that the conditions have been imposed, tantamounts to disregarding the statutory provision. [Para 26] Case Law Cited Basawaraj and Anr. v. Special Land Acquisition Officer. [2013] 8 SCR 227 : (2013) 14 SCC 81 – relied on. Bhag Mal alias Ram Bux and Ors. v. Munshi (Dead) by LRs. and Ors. [2007] 1 SCR 1114 : (2007) 11 SCC 285; Collector, Land Acquisition, Anantnag and Ors. v. Katiji and Ors. [1987] 2 SCR 387 : (1987) 2 SCC 107; Ramlal, Motilal and Chhotelal v. Rewa Coalfields Ltd. [1962] 2 SCR 762 : A.I.R.