13. Firstly, after examining the provisions of the PMLA, it is apparent that Section 88 is in no manner inconsistent with the provisions of the PMLA. Therefore, Section 88 will apply after filing of a complaint 882 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under Section 44(1)(b) of the PMLA. If Section 88 is to apply even before a summons is issued or served upon a complaint, there is no reason why it should not apply after the service of summons. A discretionary power has been conferred by Section 88 on the Court to call upon the accused to furnish bonds for his appearance before the Court. It does not depend on the willingness of the accused. The object of Section 88 is to ensure that the accused regularly appears before the Court. Section 88 is a part of Chapter VI of the CrPC under the heading “Processes to Compel Appearance”. Section 61, which deals with the form of summons and mode of service of summons, is a part of the same Chapter. When a summons is issued after taking cognizance of a complaint to an accused, he is obliged to appear before the Criminal Court on the date fixed in the case unless his presence is exempted by an express passed in the exercise of powers under Section 205 of the CrPC. Therefore, when an accused appears pursuant to a summons issued on the complaint, the Court will be well within its powers to take bonds under Section 88 from the accused to ensure his appearance before the Court. Therefore, when an accused appears before the Special Court under a summons issued on the complaint, if he offers to submit bonds in terms of Section 88, there is no reason for the Special Court to refuse or decline to accept the bonds. Executing a bond will aid the Special Court in procuring the accused’s presence during the trial. 14. A decision of this Court in the case of Pankaj Jain v. Union of India and Anr.7 had an occasion to deal with the issue. The occasion to consider the provision of Section 88 was the word “may” used in the Section. We may conveniently reproduce paragraphs 21 and 22 of the said decision, which reads thus: “21. This Court in State of Kerala v. Kandath Distilleries [State of Kerala v. Kandath Distilleries, (2013) 6 SCC 573] came to consider the use of expression “may” in the Kerala Abkari Act, 1902. The Court held that the expression conferred discretionary power on the Commissioner and power is not coupled with duty. Following observation has been made in para 29: (SCC p. 584) 7 [2018] 9 SCR 248 : (2018) 5 SCC 743 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 883 Tarsem Lal v. Directorate of Enforcement Jalandhar Zonal Office “29. Section 14 uses the expression “Commissioner may”, “with the approval of the Government” so also Rule 4 uses the expressions “Commissioner may”, “if he is satisfied” after making such enquiries as he may consider necessary “licence may be issued”.