No extraordinary circumstances of this nature exist in the instant case.” 11. The Constitution Bench in the said case laid down the principles with regard to prospective or potential resignation and held that such resignation can be withdrawn at any time before it becomes effective. The relevant paras 28, 29, and 41 are reproduced, for ready reference, as thus – "28. The substantive body of this letter (which has been extracted in full in a foregoing part of this ) is comprised of three sentences only. In the first sentence, it is stated: “I beg to resign my office as Judge, High Court of Judicature at Allahabad.” Had this sentence stood alone, or been the only content of this letter, it would operate as a complete resignation 626 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in praesenti, involving immediate relinquishment of the office and termination of his tenure as Judge. But this is not so. The first sentence is immediately followed by two more, which read: “I will be on leave till July 31, 1977. My resignation shall be effective on August 1, 1977.” The first sentence cannot be divorced from the context of the other two sentences and construed in isolation. It has to be read along with the succeeding two which qualify it. Construed as a whole according to its tenor, the letter dated May 7, 1977, is merely an intimation or notice of the writer’s intention to resign his office as Judge, on a future date viz. August 1, 1977. For the sake of convenience, we might call this communication as a prospective or potential resignation, but before the arrival of the indicated future date it was certainly not a complete and operative resignation because, by itself, it did not and could not, sever the writer from the office of the Judge, or terminate his tenure as such. 29. Thus tested, sending of the letter dated May 7, 1977 by Appellant 2 to the President, did not constitute a complete and operative resignation within the contemplation of the expression “resigns his office” used in proviso (a) to Article 217(1). Before the arrival of the indicated future date (August 1, 1977), it was wholly inert, inoperative and ineffective, and could not, and in fact did not, cause any jural effect. xxx xxx xxx xxx 41. The general principle that emerges from the foregoing conspectus, is that in the absence of anything to the contrary in the provisions governing the terms and conditions of the office/post, an intimation in writing sent to the competent authority by the incumbent, of his intention or proposal to resign his office/post from a future specified date can be withdrawn by him at any time before it becomes effective, i.e. before it effects termination of the tenure of the office/post or the employment. ” [2024] 2 S.C.R. 627 Dr. Mrs. Suman V. Jain v. Marwadi Sammelan through its Secretary and Others 12. As per the law laid down above by the Constitution Bench, the prospective or intending resignation would be complete and operative on arrival of the indicated future date in the absence of anything contrary in the terms and conditions of the employment or contract.