As observed hereinabove the High Court has not at all observed anything on the correctness of the passed by the First Appellate Court setting aside the ex-parte and decree on merits. 1 [2022] 7 SCR 483 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 822 832 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. Thus, the position is that even if the defendant/opposite party failed to file a written statement and, in that matter, even if forfeiture of the right to file written statement has occasioned it would not disentitle that party from participating in the further proceedings, without filing a written statement and in such circumstances, the said party would also be having the right to cross-examine the witness(es), if any, of the plaintiff/complainant. 16. In the contextual situation, it is also appropriate to refer to Rule 1 & 2, VI of the CPC which reads thus:- “Pleading. - “Pleading” shall mean the plaint or written statement.” Rule 2, VI, in so far as, reads thus: - “(1) Every pleading shall contain, and contain only, a statement in a concise form of the material facts on which the party pleading relies for his claim or defence, as the case may be, but not the evidence by which they are to be proved.” 17. The rigour of the rule of pleadings is evident from Rule 7 of VI, CPC, which mandates that ‘no pleading shall, except by way of amendment, raise any new ground of claim or contain any allegation of fact inconsistent with the previous pleadings of the party pleading the same’. 18. In the context of the aforesaid provisions under the CPC, it is apt to refer to a decision of a Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court in Nalini Sunder v. GV Sunder.2 It was held therein that a party could not make out a case on the basis of evidence for which he/ she has laid no foundation in the pleadings. It is fairly settled that no amount of evidence can prove a case of a party who had not set up the same in his/her pleadings, it was further held therein. According to us, it is the correct proposition of law. In the absence of any specific provisions dealing with non-filing of written statements/ forfeiture of the right to file a written statement, taking note of the general position as above, it can only be held that it should bar the opposite party in a proceeding before the Consumer Redressal 2 AIR 2003 Kar 86 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 833 Kaushik Narsinhbhai Patel & Ors. v. M/s S.J.R. Prime Corporation Private Limited Forums to bring in pleadings, indirectly to introduce its/his case and evidence to support such case. In the situations mentioned above, the right of the opposite party is confined to participate in the proceedings without filing a written statement and to cross- examine witness(es), if any, examined by the complainant(s). It be the position of law, the first respondent who is bound by Annexure P-18 could not have been permitted to introduce its case to defend the case of the complainants through written submissions though it was rightly permitted to participate in the proceedings.