39. 23 Rule 1, as it now stands post the amendment, makes a distinction between “abandonment” of a suit and “withdrawal” from a suit with permission to file a fresh suit and provides for – first, abandonment of suit or a part of claim; and secondly, withdrawal from suit or part of claim with the leave of the court. Abandonment of suit or a part of claim against all or any of the defendants is an absolute and unqualified right of a plaintiff and the court has no power to preclude the plaintiff from abandoning the suit or direct him to proceed with it. Sub-rule (1) of 23 Rule 1 embodies this principle. However, if the plaintiff abandons the suit or part of claim, then he is precluded from instituting a fresh suit in respect of such subject-matter or such part of claim. Upon abandoning the suit or part of claim, the plaintiff also becomes liable to pay such costs as may be imposed by the Court. This is specified under sub-rule (4) of 23 Rule 1. 40. However, if the plaintiff desires to withdraw from a suit or part of a claim with liberty to file a fresh suit on the same subject matter or part of the claim, then he must obtain the permission of the court under sub-rule (3) of 23 Rule 1. The failure to obtain such permission would preclude the plaintiff from instituting any fresh suit in respect of such subject-matter or such part of the claim, and also to any costs that may be imposed by the court. 41. The court granting liberty under sub-rule (3) of 23 Rule 1 may do so only upon being satisfied of one of the following two conditions– first, that the suit suffers from some formal defect and would fail by reason of such defect; and second, that there are sufficient grounds for allowing the plaintiff to institute a fresh suit [2024] 12 S.C.R. 163 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad for the same subject-matter or part of the claim. The court may grant liberty on such terms as it deems fit. It is also apparent from the text of the provision that the liberty under sub-rule (3) can only be granted by the court trying the earlier suit and not by the court before which the subsequent suit is instituted. 42. On meaning of the phrase ‘subject-matter’ appearing in 23 Rule 1, this Court in Vallabh Das v. Madan Lal (Dr) reported in (1970) 1 SCC 761 held thus: “5. Rule 1 of the 23, Code of Civil Procedure empowers the courts to permit a plaintiff to withdraw from the suit brought by him with liberty to institute a fresh suit in respect of the subject-matter of that suit on such terms as it thinks fit. The term imposed on the plaintiff in the previous suit was that before bringing a fresh suit on the same cause of action, he must pay the costs of the defendants.