When an issue pertains to a particular state, the Chief Secretary and Principal Chief Conservator of Forests of that state were to be co-opted as special invitees wherever feasible. The composition of the CEC was finalised by this Court by dated 09.09.2002.10 In this , the Court also took note of the draft proposed notification under Section 3(3) of the Environment (Protection) Act that constituted the CEC 8 T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India, (2013) 8 SCC 198. 9 Hereinafter ‘MoEF’. 10 T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India, (2009) 17 SCC 755. Under this , the Court ap- pointed the following members of the CEC: a. PV Jayakrishnan, Secretary, Government of India as Chairman; b. Shri NK Joshi, ADG of Forests, Member; c. Valmik Thapar, Ranthambore Foundation as Member; d. Advocate Mahendra Vyas as Member; e. MK Jiwrajka, IGF as Member Secretary. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1201 In Re: T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Ors. as a statutory body for five years. The Court directed that once the notification is issued, the functions and responsibilities of the CEC are to be exercised as a statutory committee. The Central Government issued the notification constituting the CEC under Section 3(3) on 17.09.2002.11 8. The first modification of the dated 09.05.2002 came by way of dated 14.12.2007.12 The modified terms of reference, which superseded all previous s, were as follows: “1.2. The committee shall exercise the following powers and perform the following functions: (i) to monitor the implementation of this Court’s s and place reports of non-compliance before the Court and the Central Government for appropriate action; (ii) to examine pending interlocutory applications in the said writ petitions (as may be referred to it by the Court) as well as the reports and affidavits filed by the States in response to the s passed by the Hon’ble Court and place its recommendations before the Court for s; (iii) to deal with any applications made to it by any aggrieved person and wherever necessary, to make a report to this Court in that behalf; (iv) for the purposes of effective discharge of powers conferred upon the Committee under this , the Committee can: (a) call for any documents from any persons or the Government of the Union or the State or any other official; (b) undertake site inspection of forest area involved; (c) seek assistance or presence of any person(s) or official(s) required by it in relation to its work; (d) co-opt one or more persons as its members or as special invitees for dealing with specific issues; 11 No.13-21/98-SU-PT.II. 12 T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India, (2013) 8 SCC 204. 1202 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (e) co-opt, wherever feasible, the Chief Secretary or his representative and Principal Chief Conservator of Forests of the State as special invitees while dealing with issues pertaining to a particular State; (f) to suggest measures generally to the State, as well as Central Government, for the more effective implementation of the Act and other s of this Court; (v) to examine and advise/recommend on any issue referred to the Committee.” 9.