Srinivasan and Others vs. State of Karnataka and Others (1987) 1 SCC 658 ruled:- “15. There can be no doubt about the proposition that where a law, whether parliamentary or subordinate, demands compliance, those that are governed must be notified directly and reliably of the law and all changes and additions made to it by various processes. Whether law is viewed from the standpoint of the “conscientious good man” seeking to abide by the law or from the standpoint of Justice Holmes›s “unconscientious bad man” seeking to avoid the law, law must be known, that is to say, it must be so made that it can be known. We know that delegated or subordinate legislation is all-pervasive and that there is hardly any field of activity where governance by delegated or subordinate legislative powers is not as important if not more important, than governance by parliamentary legislation. But unlike parliamentary legislation which is publicly made, delegated or subordinate legislation is often made unobtrusively in the chambers of a Minister, a Secretary to the Government or other official dignitary. It is, therefore, necessary that subordinate legislation, in to take effect, must be published or promulgated in some suitable manner, whether such publication or promulgation is prescribed by the parent statute or not. It will then take effect from the date of such publication or promulgation. Where the parent statute prescribes the mode of publication or promulgation that mode must be followed.…” (Emphasis supplied) 2 Vallejo vs. Wheeler (1774) 1 Cowp 143, 153 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 485 Nabha Power Limited & Anr. v. Punjab State Power Coroporation Limited & Anr. 63. The appellant has relied upon RFP to contend that the Press release of 01.10.2009 could not have been ignored by them. We do not find merit in this submission. Those clauses in the RFP obligate the bidder to satisfy itself about the extant legal regime and those clauses cannot operate as a crutch to elevate the press release of 01.10.2009 to the status of law under Clause 1.1. of the PPA. 64. We have also found that the terms of the contract to be clear and hence there is no scope for applying any business efficacy test to interpret the contract as was sought to be contended for the appellant. 65. One of the arguments advanced by the learned senior counsel for the appellants is based on the doctrine of promissory estoppel. The argument need not detain us since the respondent PSPCL which is the party to power purchase agreement is not the promisor, even if we assume the press release of 01.10.2009 as holding out the promise. The Union of India has not been arrayed in any duly constituted litigation to enforce the promise. The argument also belies the primary contention of the appellant since even according to their understanding, it was at best a promise by the Union of India and not any alteration of the law proprio vigore (by its own force). In any case, no steps have been taken to enforce the so-called promise and there is no of any court of law enforcing the promise as on 02.10.2009.