Let us first consider the legality of the transfer. Under Article 310 of the Constitution, the petitioner held office during the pleasure of the President. The conditions of service of the petitioner could be regulated by Parliament by legislation under Article 309 of the Constitution. In the absence of such legislation the President could also frame rules to do so under the proviso to Article 309. But neither any such legislation nor any such rules exist. The formation of the Indian Customs and Central Excise Service Class I was itself brought about by purely executive action. It is well-established that the administration of service by the Government of India can be carried on by executive instructions and executive action even though no statute or statutory rules may have been made. The distinction between the personnel forming a Service and the posts which may be manned by the members of such a Service has to be noted at the outset in this case. The petitioner along with others belong to the Indian Customs and Central Excise Service Class I. The members of this Service stood in relation to each other in a particular of seniority. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 227 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. There was no statute or rules, however, restricting the appointments of the members of the Service to any particular post. Initially the officers of the Collectorate of Customs and Excise working under the Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue, used to do all the work relating to customs and excise. In 1939, the work of inspection in the Departments of Customs and Central Excise which was till then performed by the departments themselves as carved out and given to a separate Directorate of Inspection (Customs and Central Excise) as a part of the office of the Central Board of Revenue which was formed by an Act of 1924 and which was split later by an Act of 1963 into two Boards, namely:— (a) Board of Direct Taxes under which functions the Department of Income-tax; (b) The Central Board of Excise and Customs under which functioned the Collectorates of Customs and Central Excise, Directorate of Inspection and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence. It was in 1957 that the intelligence work till then performed by the Central Revenue Intelligence Bureau functioning as a unit in the Directorate of Inspection, was constituted as a third unit in the Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance styled as Directorate of Revenue, Intelligence. All this and more information is contained in the Government publication Organisation Set-up and Functions of the Ministries/Departments of the Government of India “, 4th Edition, 1968, pages 68-70 (Annexure R XIII). As the work of Directorates of Inspection and Revenue Intelligence has been carved out from the work originally performed by the Collectorates of Customs and Central Excise and as no separate personnel was recruited to man the posts in these two Directorates, the members of the Indian Customs and Central Excise Service Class I have been manning those posts.