2. The fulcrum of this reference revolves around the interpretation of Article 30 of the Constitution of India, which deals with the right of minorities to set up educational institutions. We have had the benefit of perusing the erudite opinion authored by Hon’ble the Chief Justice Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud. While the said opinion comprehensively addresses each issue with depth and clarity, we have expressed a differing view on the interpretation of certain aspects, given the significant constitutional implications involved. Recognizing the weight of these issues, we have chosen to offer our own perspective, though we acknowledge the thoroughness and diligence with which Hon’ble the Chief Justice has approached this complex matter. 3. Before we lay down the indicia under Article 30 to determine whether an institution has a minority character and ought to be afforded protection, we deemed it appropriate to embark on a substantive 2 S. Azeez Basha v. Union of India [1968] 1 SCR 833 3 TMA Pai Foundation v. State of Karnataka (2002) 8 SCC 481, para 18. 4 Prof. Yashpal and Anr. v. State of Chhattisgarh and Ors. (2005) 5 SCC 420 1764 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports analysis of the issues involved, and will begin by undertaking a comprehensive examination of the multifaceted nature of minority rights, both in India and internationally. I. Background A. History of minority rights 4. The basis of defining the term ‘minorities’ and bestowing associated rights on them have varied significantly across different eras and regions. Indicators such as religion, nationality, ethnicity, and race frequently emerge as markers of minority status across the world. In contrast, the Indian perspective on minorities is broadly categorized as religious and linguistic minorities. A.1. Global history of minority rights 5. The idea of minority rights can generally be traced back to the ‘Peace of Westphalia’, a set of treaties concluded in the mid-17th century, which sought to give rights to certain religious minorities in newly ceded territories post-war.5 Hence, globally, the concept of minority rights broadly emerged along the fault lines of religion. 6. However, the focus on religion changed subsequently with the rise of nationalism in Europe. Since national identities emerged as the primary means of distinguishing insiders from outsiders, the concept of minorities in different instruments—such as the 1815 Final Act of Congress of Vienna—was defined in terms of national groups.6 7. As national identities began to take shape, the notion of minority rights became increasingly intertwined with the quest for international legitimacy. By the time of the 1878 Congress of Berlin, the question of minorities had become a crucial factor in the emergence of new nation-states beyond Western Europe. These States, requiring international recognition, were accordingly required to demonstrate a willingness to comply with a ‘standard of 5 Jennifer Jackson Preece, “Minority rights in Europe: from Westphalia to Helsinki” Review of International Studies (1997), Vol. 23, pp. 75–92; Joseph B. Kelly, “National Minorities in International Law”, Denv. J. Int’l L. &Pol’y, (1973) Vol. 3, pp. 253; Liebich, Andre. “Minority as Inferiority: Minority Rights in Historical Perspective” Review of International Studies, (2008) Vol.