During the pendency of the reference, another Writ Petition was filed challenging the vires of the Madarsa Act on the ground that it violates the principle of secularism and Articles 14, 15 and 21-A of the Constitution.22 A challenge was also mounted on the constitutionality of Section 1(5) of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009,23 which inter alia states that the Act does not apply to Madarsas.24 This petition was filed by an advocate practicing before the High Court. 27. All these petitions were tagged together and placed before the Division Bench of the High Court. By an dated 14 July 2023, the High Court appointed three amici curiae to assist the Court. Several organizations, some of whom are before this Court in the present proceedings, moved intervention applications before the High Court. In the Impugned Judgement, the Division Bench recorded the position of the State of Uttar Pradesh and the Madarsa Board, to the effect that the Madarsas impart not only religious education but also “religious instruction and teachings.” Accordingly, the reference was re-framed by the High Court in the following terms: “Whether the provisions of the Madarsa Act stand the test of Secularism, which forms a part of the basic structure of the Constitution of India.”25 28. By a dated 22 March 2024, the High Court rejected the preliminary objections raised by some of the parties with respect to the locus standi of the petitioner and the purported absence of adequate pleadings on the subject. On the merits, the High Court 22 Writ (C) No. 6049 of 2023 - Anshuman Singh Rathore versus Union of India and others. 23 “RTE Act” 24 Section 1(5) reads: “(5) Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to Madrasas, Vedic Pathsalas and educational institutions primarily imparting religious instruction.” 25 Para 9, Impugned . 390 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports held that the Madarsa Act violates the principle of secularism and Articles 14, 21 and 21-A of the Constitution of India and is ultra vires Section 22 of the UGC Act. According to the High Court, the object and purpose of the Madarsa Act itself violated the principle of secularism, and thus, it is not possible to segregate or save any portion of the legislation. 29. The High Court held that the Madarsa Act in its entirety was unconstitutional and directed that the State Government take steps to accommodate all students studying in the Madarsas in regular schools recognized under the Primary Education Board and the High School and Intermediate Education Board of the State of Uttar Pradesh. The State Government was directed to establish a sufficient number of additional seats and new schools, if required for this purpose and to ensure that no child between the ages of six and fourteen is left without admission in a duly recognized institution. f. Steps taken by the State Government and the proceedings before this Court 30. In view of the Impugned Judgement, the Government of Uttar Pradesh took steps to implement the directions.