Although the suppression should happen through mistake, without any fraudulent intention; yet still the under-writer is deceived and the policy is void; because the risk run is really different from the risk understood and intended to be run, at the time of the agreement. The policy would be equally void against the under-writer if he concealed; ... Good faith forbids either party, by concealing what he privately knows, to draw the other into a bargain from his ignorance of the fact, and his believing the contrary.” The aforesaid principles would apply having regard to the nature of policy under consideration, as what is necessary to be disclosed are “material facts” which phrase is not definable as such, as the same would depend upon the nature and extent of coverage of risk under a particular type of policy. In simple terms, it could be understood that any fact which has a bearing on the very foundation of the contract of insurance and the risk to be covered under the policy would be a “material fact”. 21. Under the provisions of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Protection of Policyholders’ Interests) Regulations, 2002 the explanation to Section 2 (d) defining “proposal form” throws 738 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports light on what is the meaning and content of “material.” For an easy reference the definition of “proposal form” along with the explanation under the aforesaid Regulations has been extracted as under: “2. Definitions. In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires- x x x (d) “Proposal Form” means a form to be filled in by the proposer for insurance, for furnishing all material information required by the insurer in respect of a risk, in to enable the insurer to decide whether to accept or decline, to undertake the risk, and in the event of acceptance of the risk, to determine the rates, terms and conditions of a cover to be granted. Explanation: “Material” for the purpose of these regulations shall mean and include all important, essential and relevant information in the context of underwriting the risk to be covered by the insurer.” Thus, the Regulation also defines the word “material” to mean and include all “important”, “essential” and “relevant” information in the context of guiding the insurer in deciding whether to undertake the risk or not.” 22. Just as the insured has a duty to disclose all material facts, the insurer must also inform the insured about the terms and conditions of the policy that is going to be issued to him and must strictly conform to the statements in the proposal form or prospectus, or those made through his agents. Thus, the principle of utmost good faith imposes meaningful reciprocal duties owed by the insured to the insurer and vice versa. This inherent duty of disclosure was a common law duty of good faith originally founded in equity but has later been statutorily recognised as noted above. It is also open to the parties entering into a contract to extend the duty or restrict it by the terms of the contract.