The first proviso to Section 182(1) which prescribed a cap on corporate funding was omitted; b. Section 182(3) was amended to only require a disclosure of the total amount contributed to political parties by a company in a financial year and excluded the requirement to disclose the particulars of the amount contributed to each political party; and c. Sub-section 3A was introduced, by which a company could contribute to a political party only by a cheque, bank draft, or electronic clearing system. The proviso to the sub-section states that a company may also contribute through any instrument issued pursuant to any scheme notified under any law for the time being in force for contribution to political parties. ll. Curbing black money 11. The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act 1978 included Section 13A to the IT Act exempting the income of political parties through financial contributions and investments from income tax. The objects and reasons of the Amending Act stipulated that tax exemption would increase disposable funds from “legitimate sources”. However, to secure the benefit of exemption, the following conditions prescribed in the proviso were required to be fulfilled: a. The political party was required to keep and maintain books of account and other documents which would enable the Assessing Officer to properly deduce its income;'? b. The political party had to maintain a record of voluntary contributions in excess of twenty thousand rupees"’, along with the name and address of the person who made such contributions;'* and 12 IT Act, Proviso (a) to Section 13A 13 It was ten thousand rupees when Section 13A was introduced. It was increased to twenty thousand rupees by the Election and Other Related Laws (Amendment) Act 2003 14 IT Act, Proviso (0) to Section 13A [2024] 2 S.C.R. 457 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. c. The accounts of the political party were required to be audited by an accountant. '® 12. By the Election and Other Related Laws (Amendment) Act 2003, Sections 80GGB" and 80GGC"’ were inserted in the IT Act making contributions made to political parties tax deductible. The speech of Mr Arun Jaitley, the then Minister of Law and Justice while moving the Bill indicates that contributions were made tax deductible to “incentivize contributions” through cheque and other banking channels. 13. The Finance Act 2017 made the following amendments to Section 13A of the IT Act: a. The political party was not required to maintain a record of contributions if the contribution was received by electoral bonds;'® and b. The political party must receive a donation in excess of two thousand rupees only by a cheque, bank draft, electronic clearing system or through an electoral bond.'? ili. Transparency 14. The Election and Other Related Laws (Amendment) Act 2003 amended the provisions of the RPA. Section 29C of the RP Act was introduced for requiring each political party to declare the details of the contributions received. The treasurer of a political party or any other person authorized by the political party must in each financial year prepare a report in respect of the contributions in excess of twenty thousand rupees received by the party from a person or company IT Act, Proviso (c) to Section 13A 80GGB.