It is also urged that issuance of the dated 25.10.2010 referring to the wrong provisions, would not itself render the said illegal. The power under Section 20(3) is of interim nature which can be exercised in public interest in a time bound manner. Thus, by the subsequent dated 29.12.2010, suspension of the registration as directed by the appellant authority was justified and prayed for to allow this appeal and to set-aside the s of the High Court. 8. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent No. 1 submits that considering the tenor of the passed by the appropriate authority and the reasons so stated, it cannot be said to be an suspending the registration in public interest. Relying upon the of High Court of Gujarat passed on 16.4.2018 in Special Civil Application No. 9424 of 2014 in the case of Priykant Mokalal Kapadia vs. State of Gujarat, it is urged that the power of Section 20(3) of the 66 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports PC&PNDT Act is exceptional in nature and can be exercised only in public interest after forming opinion and recording the reasons in this regard, otherwise, such power ought not to be exercised. In support of the said contention, reliance has also been placed on a of the Bombay High Court in the case of Sujit Govind Dange vs. State of Maharashtra and others, 2012(6) Mh.L.J. 289 to urge that the powers under Section 20(3) of PC&PNDT Act are extra- ordinary and the appropriate authority ought to have exercised such power in larger public interest and in exceptional circumstances, in particular when the said authority is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient to do so in public interest by recording such reasons, otherwise such power should not be exercised. 9. We have heard learned counsel for both the parties at length and to appreciate the scope of powers as specified under Section 20(1), (2) & (3) of PC&PNDT Act, it is necessary to refer the said provisions. For ready reference, Section 20(1), (2) & (3) of PC&PNDT Act are being quoted hereinbelow: 20. Cancellation or suspension of registration.— (1) The Appropriate Authority may suo moto, or on complaint, issue a notice to the Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic to show cause why its registration should not be suspended or cancelled for the reasons mentioned in the notice. (2) If, after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic and having regard to the advice of the Advisory Committee, the Appropriate Authority is satisfied that there has been a breach of the provisions of this Act or the rules, it may, without prejudice to any criminal action that it may take against such Centre, Laboratory or Clinic, suspend its registration for such period as it may think fit or cancel its registration, as the case may be. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2), if the Appropriate Authority is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do in the public interest, it may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, suspend the registration of any Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic [2024] 3 S.C.R.