The impugned thus suffers from manifest error of law and facts both. 33. The appeal deserves to be allowed on several other grounds which we are dealing hereunder and hereinafter. 33.1. It is not disputed by respondent No.2 that on 02.12.1985, he had executed another sale deed with respect to the remaining portion of survey No.13/1 in favour of the collaterals of the appellants, namely, Param Umakant Mishra and Sohardha Mishra. This sale deed in favour of the collateral was presented for registration on the same date as the sale deed of the appellant i.e. 05.12.1985 and was thereafter duly registered. The respondent No.2 has never challenged the said sale deed in favour of the collaterals. It is thus apparent that the family members and collaterals of the appellants purchased the entire survey No. 13/1 measuring 3.40 Hectares from respondent No.2 in equal shares by two separate documents which were executed on the same date and presented for registration on the same day. Despite the fact that specific query was put to learned senior counsel for respondent no.2 with regard to the above aspect, no answer was given. In the plaint specific averment was made with regard to the sale deed in favour of the collaterals. There is no specific denial in the written statement filed by respondent No.2 about the sale deed in favour of collaterals. General denial has been made by placing strict proof of liability on the plaintiff. 33.2. The respondent No.2 apparently wants to take advantage of certain minor aberrations and minor technicalities and is also taking up self-conflicting pleas. 2322 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 33.3. The sale deed is sought to be ignored and rejected on account of a minor cutting/over writing with regard to the word ‘cash’ (Roch) by ‘cheque’. The fact remains that respondent No.2 did not enter the witness box to depose that he has not received any sale consideration either by way of cash or by way of cheque and further to state that he had not executed the sale deed and the signatures and thumb impression on the sale deed are not his. He also did not come forward to say that the signatures and thumb impression available in the Sub-Registrar’s office in the register taken at the time for registration also did not bear his signatures. 33.4. Another aspect submitted on behalf of respondent was that the appellant No.1 in his deposition has said that he had no proof of the payment of the sale consideration, to assert that the appellant No.1 admitted that he had not paid any sale consideration is not correct. Appellant No.1 was being examined sometime after 2013, i.e. after a gap of 28 years from the date of the sale deed. He could not be expected to remember such facts distinctly and as such he made a fair statement that he did not have any document that could prove the passing of the sale consideration. This would not, by itself, be interpreted to hold that appellant admitted of not paying any sale consideration.