To substantiate this argument, the SBI has averred that: (a) Information is not available in a digital format: Clause 7.1.2 of the Standard Operating Procedure regarding the sale and redemption of Electoral Bonds stipulates that “no details of bond purchaser including KYC and other details will be entered in the core banking system.” Thus, the details of the purchases of bonds are not available centrally; (b) The donor details and the recipient details are available in two separate silos: The details of the purchasers of Electoral Bonds were kept in a sealed cover at the designated branch. These sealed covers were deposited in the main branch of the SBI in Mumbai at the end of each phase of the issuance of the Electoral Bonds. The information on the redemption of Electoral Bonds (that is, the original bond and the pay-in slip) were stored in a sealed cover and sent to the SBI, Mumbai Branch; (c) Matching of information in the two silos is a time-consuming process: The matching of the information on the purchase and 644 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports redemption of Electoral Bonds would be a time-consuming process since donor information and redemption information is maintained in two separate silos, independent of each other; and (d) There is a large number of data sets to decipher: A total of 22,217 bonds were purchased between 12 April 2019 to 15 February 2024. This would cumulatively add up to 44,434 data sets since there are two silos of information. In other words, the compilation of this information would be a time-consuming process because of the large number of data-sets. 9. The crux of the submission of the SBI is that the matching of information to ascertain who contributed to which political party is a time-consuming process since the information is maintained in two separate silos. The operative directions of this Court directed the SBI to disclose the transactions as set out in direction (b) and direction (c) extracted above. The SBI submits in its application itself that the donor details and redemption details are available, albeit in separate silos. In other words, the directions which have been issued by this Court require the SBI to disclose the information which is readily available with it. 10. At this stage, it would be material to refer to the FAQs on Electoral Bonds published by the SBI which states that the ‘Know Your Customer’5 documents must be submitted by the purchaser each time the Electoral Bond is purchased, irrespective of whether the purchaser has a KYC verified SBI account6. That is, one set of documents (the Electoral Bond application form, KYC documents and pay-in slip) can only be used to purchase one Electoral Bond7. Contributors who have an SBI account as well as those who do not have to submit the Electoral Bond application, KYC documentation and proof of payment through NEFT, cheque or demand draft.8 Thus, 5 “KYC” 6 FAQ Question No. 16. I have an SBI Bank Account, Do I still need to Re-submit the KYC Documents?