930 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 22.2 The Union of India was directed by this Court to get the buildings (residence or offices) of the subject property vacated from such officers and hand over the possession to the respondent therein within eight weeks. While holding so, this Court observed that on a conjoint reading of Sections 6, 8 and 18 of the Act, the enemy subject is not divested of his right, title and interest of the property which vest in the Custodian is limited to the extent of possession, management and control over the property temporarily. The object of the Act was to prevent a subject of an enemy State from carrying on business and trading in the property situated in India. It is, therefore, contemplated that temporary vesting of the property takes place in the Custodian so that the property till such time, as it is enemy property, cannot be used for such purpose. The question considered was, whether, after the inheritance of the property by the respondent therein who was a citizen of India, upon the death of the original owner of the property who was declared to be an enemy, the property continued to be enemy property? It was answered in the negative. It was observed that the definition of enemy provided under Section 2 (b) of the Act excluded a citizen of India as an enemy or enemy subject or an enemy firm. Therefore, the respondent herein who was born in India and his Indian citizenship not being in question could not by any stretch of imagination be held to be enemy or enemy subject under Section 2(b). Similarly, under Section 2(c) the property belonging to enemy could not be termed as an enemy property. 22.3 It was further observed that after the death of the enemy, the right, title and interest of the enemy was succeeded to by his heirs who are Indian citizens. Therefore, the enemy property would cease to be a property belonging of the enemy, hence the Custodian could not be permitted to continue with the possession of such property. In this regard, it was observed that the reliance placed by the Union of India on Section 13 of the Act was totally misplaced. That in the said case this Court noted that Union of India - appellant therein had agreed to release 25% of the property in favour of the respondent therein on production of proof of his having succeeded to the property of his father. That the property of an enemy could [2024] 2 S.C.R. 931 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others be released in favour of an Indian citizen provided he had succeeded to the estate of the deceased enemy subject. That the title of the enemy property did not vest with the Custodian but the property vested in the Custodian for the purposes of management, control and possession of the properties only. In the said case, Union of India had admitted that under the provision of the Act, title of the property of an enemy does not vest in the Custodian but the Custodian takes over the enemy property only for the purpose of possession, control and management.