| Whether there are other possible means which could have been adopted by the State; b. Whether the alternative means identified realise the objective in a ‘real and substantial manner’; c. Whether the alternative identified and the means used by the State impact fundamental rights differently; and d. Whether on an overall comparison (and balancing) of the measure and the alternative, the alternative is better suited considering the degree of realizing the government objective and the impact on fundamental rights. 120. Before we proceed to determine if the Electoral Bond Scheme is the least restrictive means to curb black money in electoral funding, it is important that we recall the regime on electoral funding. After the amendments introduced by the Finance Act 2017, donations to political parties exceeding rupees two thousand can only be made by an account payee cheque drawn on a bank, an account payee bank draft, the use of electronic clearing system through a bank account or through an electoral bond. '*° All contributions to political parties through cash cannot be assumed to be black money. For example, individuals who contribute to political parties in small donations during party rallies usually contribute through cash. On the other hand, contributions through the banking channel are certainly a form of accounted transaction. Restricting the contributions to political parties in cash to less than rupees two thousand and prescribing that contributions above the threshold amount must only be made 139 See Justice KS Puttaswamy (53) (supra) and Media One Broadcasting (supra) [103]; 140 IT Act, Section 13A(q) 514 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports through banking channels is itself intended to curb black money. Thus, the legal regime itself provides other alternatives to curb black money: contributions through cheques, bank draft, or electronic clearing system. The Union of India submits that though there are other alternatives through which circulation of black money in electoral financing can be curbed, these alternatives do not realize the objective in a “substantial manner” because most contributors resort to cash donations as they “fear consequences from political opponents” to whom donations were not made. 121. In addition to the alternatives identified above, the existing legal regime provides another alternative in the form of Electoral Trusts through which the objective of curbing black money in electoral financing can be achieved. Section 2(22AA) of the IT Act defines an Electoral Trust as a trust approved by the Board in accordance with the scheme made in this regard by the Central Government. Section 13B of the IT Act states that any voluntary contributions received by an electoral trust shall not be included in the total income of the previous year of such electoral trust if the it distributes ninety five percent of the aggregate donations received during the previous year. In terms of Rule 17CA of the IT Rules 1962, the features of an electoral trust are as follows: a. An Electoral Trust may receive voluntary contribution from (i) an individual who is a citizen of India; (li) a company registered in India; (iii) a firm or Hindu undivided family or an Association of persons or a body of individuals residing in India; b.