23. Lastly, it was submitted that since the company is in moratorium and that it is admitted by the respondents that their case is not that they are unable to pay compensation, the grant of a meagre four percent of the cheque amount by each of them is just and fair. That even such an amount in the form of interim payment would serve the purposes of the provision and would also help the business of the appellant. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENTS 24. The learned senior counsel for the respondents, Mr. Siddharth Dave, vehemently argued that it is a well settled position of law that an authorised signatory of a company is not a drawer of the cheque. To substantiate this argument, he relied upon this Court’s in N. Harihara Krishnan (Supra) wherein it was held that, “Every person signing the cheque on behalf of a company on whose account the cheque is drawn does not become the drawer of the cheque. Such a signatory is only a person duly authorised to sign the cheque on behalf of the company/drawer of the cheque.” 25. Further rejecting the submissions made by the appellant with regard to the observations made in the case of Aneeta Hada (Supra), it was submitted by Mr. Dave that in this this Court was dealing with the question of extending criminal liability on the officers of the company and it held that the criminal liability for the dishonour of cheque primarily falls on the drawer company and is thereby extended to those in charge of it only when the conditions provided under Section 141 are satisfied. Therefore, the Court did not hold that the authorised signatory becomes a drawer but only made a reference and an observation to this effect to elucidate that the criminal liability extends from the company to its directors and other officers by virtue of the cheque drawn on the company’s account by such authorised signatory. 26. It was further submitted that with respect to the interpretation of the provision, the appellant’s argument that the meaning of ‘drawer’ under 9 [2012] 5 SCR 503 : (2012) 5 SCC 661 1222 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 143-A must be read liberally and purposively is contrary to the position of law on interpretation of statutes. Further submission is that such an interpretation of penal statues is contrary to the settled principles of criminal law, as penal provisions are to be read strictly in to determine the liability of a party, more so where vicarious liability is to be determined. To substantiate this, he relied upon the of this Court in the case of K.K. Ahuja v. V.K. Vohra.10 27. In conclusion, it was submitted that the primary liability for an offence under Section 138 is that of the company itself and the company’s management is only subsequently and vicariously liable. Thus, it is only the company that is to be considered as the drawer of the cheque. Consequently, a strict interpretation of Section 143-A would mean that it is only the drawer-company’s liability to pay the interim compensation as the provision does not provide for an interim compensation to be paid by the employees or the management or the signatory of the company.