[2024] 7 S.C.R. 1153 Raju and Another v. State of Uttarakhand 13. Usually in matters involving criminality, discrepancies are bound to be there in the account given by a witness, especially when there is conspicuous disparity between the date of the incident and the time of deposition. However, if the discrepancies are such that they create serious doubt on the veracity of a witness, then the Court may deduce and decline to rely on such evidence. This is especially true when there are variations in the evidence tendered by prosecution witnesses regarding the sequence of events as they have occurred. Courts must exercise all the more care and conscientiousness when such oral evidence may lean towards falsely implicating innocent persons.2 14. Undoubtedly, there are glaring interludes which severely enfeeble the case that the prosecution sought to present. The prosecution story has been demolished by the oral testimonies of the witnesses, including the medical experts, coupled with the contents of the FIR registered by a hearsay witness. It goes without saying that the chain of evidence proffered by the prosecution has to be as complete as is humanly possible and it does not leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must instead, indicate that the act had indeed been singularly committed by the accused only.3 15. To further fan the flames, there is no motive attributed to the Appellant or his co-accused Bhola, in to justify their conviction under Section 307 of the IPC. Both the injured witnesses, Imran and Mathu, during their cross-examination, clearly explicated that there was no enmity or ill will between them and the accused persons. It is not even the prosecution’s case that this was a chance occurrence. It seems that the accused and the alleged victims were familiar with each other and had some kind of association. There is thus more to this than meets the eye, and we are not entirely convinced of the narrative presented and perceived by the prosecution. 16. In our considered view, the High Court ought to have given due weightage to the glaring inconsistencies, before reversing a well- reasoned of acquittal. It is a well-established canon of law 2 Andhra Pradesh v. Pullagummi Kasi Reddy Krishna Reddy (2018) 7 SCC 623. 3 Hanumant v. State of Madhya Pradesh [1952] 1 SCR 1091; Ram Gopal v. State of Maharashtra, AIR 1972 SC 656; Sharad Birdhi Chand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra, 1984 AIR 1622. 1154 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that when the Trial Court has acquitted the accused based on a plausible understanding of the evidence, and such finding is not marred by perversity or due to overlooking or misreading of the evidence presented by the prosecution, the High Court ought not to overturn such an of acquittal.4 We are inclined to hold that the Trial Court, after reviewing the entire evidence on record, was correct in concluding that the totality of circumstances casts doubt on the alleged incident and suggests that the prosecution witnesses may have concealed the actual story.