(5) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the provisions of Section 87.” (emphasis added) 7. As the punishment for an offence punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA is of imprisonment for more than three years, in view of clause (x) of Section 2 of the CrPC, the complaint will be treated as a warrant 876 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports case. Under Section 204(1)(b), the Court can issue either a warrant or summons in a warrant case. Therefore, while taking cognizance, the Special Court has the discretion to issue either a summons or warrant. Regarding the discretion under Section 204 (1)(b), this Court has laid down the law in the case of Inder Mohan Goswami & Anr. v. State of Uttaranchal & Ors6. This Court held that as a general rule, unless an accused is charged with an offence of heinous crime and it is feared that he is likely to tamper with or destroy the evidence or evade the process of law, the issue of summons is the rule. This Court held that in a complaint case, at the first instance, the Court should direct serving of summons along with the copy of complaint. If service is avoided by the accused, initially, a bailable warrant should be issued. If that is not effective, a non-bailable warrant should be issued. Paragraphs 55 and 56 of the said decision read thus: “55. In complaint cases, at the first instance, the court should direct serving of the summons along with the copy of the complaint. If the accused seem to be avoiding the summons, the court, in the second instance should issue bailable warrant. In the third instance, when the court is fully satisfied that the accused is avoiding the court’s proceeding intentionally, the process of issuance of the non-bailable warrant should be resorted to. Personal liberty is paramount, therefore, we caution courts at the first and second instance to refrain from issuing non-bailable warrants. 56. The power being discretionary must be exercised judiciously with extreme care and caution. The court should properly balance both personal liberty and societal interest before issuing warrants. There cannot be any straitjacket formula for issuance of warrants but as a general rule, unless an accused is charged with the commission of an offence of a heinous crime and it is feared that he is likely to tamper or destroy the evidence or is likely to evade the process of law, issuance of non-bailable warrants should be avoided.” (emphasis added) 6 [2007] 10 SCR 847 : (2007) 12 SCC 1 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 877 Tarsem Lal v. Directorate of Enforcement Jalandhar Zonal Office As noted earlier, a complaint under Section 44(1)(b) of the PMLA will be governed by Sections 200 to 204 of the CrPC. Hence, the law laid down by this Court in the above decision will apply to a complaint under Section 44(1)(b). 8. While taking cognizance on a complaint under Section 44 (1)(b), if the Court finds that till the filing of the complaint, the accused was not arrested, generally at the first instance, as a rule, the Court must issue a summons on the complaint.