33. Significantly, the earlier decision in Shashi Prakash Khemka (supra) had concluded that the jurisdiction of the civil court would be barred by referring to the provisions of Section 430 of the Act of 2013. Neither this provision nor this decision was noticed by this Court in IFB Agro Industries Limited (supra). However, it would be wrong to hold that, for the said reason, there is a conflict between these two decisions. The jurisdiction of the civil court or for that matter, any other forum, would be barred only when the subject matter of the dispute squarely falls within the domain and jurisdiction of the court/ forum constituted under the provisions of the Act of 1956/Act of 2013. When and where the Act of 1956/Act of 2013 does not confer such exclusive jurisdiction on the court/forum constituted thereunder or the dispute falls outside the realm of that particular provision of the Act of 1956/Act of 2013, the jurisdiction of the civil court would not be completely barred (See Dhulabhai vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and another 8). Notably, the edict in Ammonia Supplies Corporation (P) Ltd. (supra) was also to this effect and it was followed and affirmed in the decisions that followed thereafter. In Adesh Kaur (supra), this Court observed that if, on facts, an open-and-shut case of fraud is made out and the person seeking rectification was the victim, the National Company Law Tribunal would be entitled to exercise such power under Section 59 of the Act of 2013. This Court rejected the contention that, as criminal proceedings had been initiated, there was a serious dispute and it was not correct for the National Company Law Tribunal to exercise power under Section 59 of the Act of 2013. The contention that the shares had been dematted and were in the name of another person and, therefore, the power of rectification should not have been exercised, was also rejected. 34. In the present case, proper verification of the assertions made by the parties was a sine qua non. The Acting President of the NCLT, by 8 [1968] 3 SCR 662 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 255 Chalasani Udaya Shankar and others v. M/s. Lexus Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and other failing to carry out the said exercise, failed to discharge the mandate of law. Exercise of power under Section 59 of the Act of 2013 is to be undertaken in right earnest by examining the material, evidence, and the facts on record. This has not been done. Rather, a narrow view was taken without calling upon respondent No. 2 to prove the veracity of the contrary story put forth by him, despite receiving monies from the appellants. The facts, material, and evidence had to be examined in the context of the underlying facts, which would have included the receipt of monies, the signatures on the transfer deeds, etc. Needless to state, questions of fact must be decided on the principle of preponderance of probabilities, giving due weight to the specific facts, as found, so as to draw the conclusion that a reasonable person, acquainted with the relevant field, would draw on the basis of the same facts.