e. The corporation taxes to the tune of Rs 4,82,000/- were paid by the plaintiffs on 20.07.2018, that is, after the execution of the sale deed on 23.03.2018. The said tax receipts are in the name of Narayan Jewellers Pvt. Ltd., that is, the family business corporation. f. The plaintiffs had to initiate criminal prosecution against the defendants for their illegal actions. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1349 Ramakant Ambalal Choksi v. Harish Ambalal Choksi & Others g. It was apprehended that the defendants may execute third party agreements in relation to the suit property thereby defeating the rights of the plaintiffs, leading to a situation wherein the plaintiffs would not be able to use and enjoy their property and may give rise to further litigation with respect to the suit property. h. Disposal of the suit may take time and therefore injunction was prayed for during the pendency of the suit. 12. The defendants, in their written statement and reply to the application for interim injunction below Exhibit-5, took the following stance: a. Initially the relations between the plaintiff nos. 1 to 3 and defendant no. 1 and other family members were cordial, however differences started arising from the year 2000. The plaintiff nos. 1-3 used to withdraw huge amounts from the account of the company, however the defendant no. 1 was not allowed to withdraw amounts to the same extent. b. The defendant no. 1 initially suffered from tuberculosis and later cancer in the years 2004 and 2007 respectively. Although there was an internal family arrangement that allowed all the four brothers to withdraw equal amounts from the business, yet the arrangement was not honoured by the plaintiffs and in 2013, the amount due was to the tune of Rs 16.50 Crore. Thus, the defendant no. 1 is entitled to receive this amount from his brothers or from the company. c. As the defendant no. 1 was sick at the time of the closure of the showroom situated on the suit property in 2013, he could not visit the showroom and as a result the stock in trade, finished and semi-finished goods, gold, diamond, platinum, etc. was taken away by the plaintiffs. d. At the time of the closure of the showroom, the plaintiff nos. 1 to 3 handed over the keys of the showroom to the defendant no. 1 and instructed him to sell the same in the open market and distribute the consideration equally among the joint owners. Accordingly, the physical & vacant possession of the suit property was handed over to the defendant no. 1. e. The defendant no. 1 intimated the plaintiff nos. 1 to 3 over a phone call that he was selling the suit property in favour of the 1350 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports defendant no. 2 and also that the sale consideration of Rs 1.70 Crore would be adjusted towards the dues of the defendant no. 1. f. The power of attorney is a registered document and was never cancelled by the plaintiffs, and the said power of attorney was used with the consent of all the signatories to it.