2 would become [2024] 9 S.C.R. 209 Cox & Kings Ltd. v. Sap India Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. liable under the contracts executed solely between the petitioner and respondent no. 1. • Respondent no. 2 entered the fray only when the petitioner, of its own accord, approached it and levelled certain allegations and raised issues concerning the SAP Hybris Software project with its management in August, 2016. • There is nothing on record either in the contractual framework or otherwise to indicate that the project was to be performed by respondent no. 2. The only communication with respondent no. 2 in respect of the SAP Hybris Software project arose after the escalation emails in August, 2016 where the petitioner itself requested the management of respondent no. 2 company to help with the alleged issues plaguing the SAP Hybris Software project. It was neither the intention of the petitioner nor that of respondent no. 1 to bind respondent no. 2 to the agreements. • The references to respondent no. 2 in the License Agreement only indicate that respondent no. 1 has obtained a license from respondent no. 2. No part of the License Agreement between the petitioner and respondent no. 1 was to be performed by respondent no. 2 and it is only in such circumstances that the parties chose not to make respondent no. 2 a party thereto. The references to respondent no. 2 in the License Agreement are standard references used by global software licensing companies. These references cannot bind a foreign owner of such licenses. Any finding to the contrary would completely upset the well-established commercial practice in this sector and would set a dangerous precedent. iii. Claims raised by the petitioners are beyond the ambit of Clause 15.7 of the GTC agreement • There exists no commonality between the four agreements entered into between the petitioner and respondent no. 1. The contention of the petitioner that the four agreements form part of a “single composite transaction” is incorrect as the License Agreement and Form no. 3 bear no significance to the implementation of the software, which is covered by the Services Agreement comprising of the 210 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports GTC agreement and Form no. 1. Implementation is an exercise de hors the purchase of the license of the software. • The claims raised by the petitioner are beyond the ambit of the Services Agreement. As the License Agreement read with Form no. 3 is distinct and independent from the Services Agreement, it naturally follows that the arbitration agreement contained under the GTC agreement read with Form no. 1 does not apply to the License Agreement read with Form no. 3. • As the arbitration clause under the License Agreement read with Form no. 3 has not been invoked till date by either of the parties, it stands to reason that any alleged claims pertaining to the License Agreement read with Form no. 3 as mentioned in the notice of arbitration are time-barred and cannot be adjudicated upon.