Similarly, while Regulation 3.1 of the University Grants Commission (Establishment of and Maintenance of Standards in Private Universities) Regulations, 2003 also states that universities have to be established by a statute, the very definition of the term ‘private university’ in Regulation No. 2.1 clarifies that the university is established albeit ‘through’ the legislation, but ‘by’ a private body: “3.1. Each private university shall be established by a separate State Act and shall conform to the relevant provisions of the UGC Act, 1956, as amended from time to time.” “2.1. “Private university” means a university duly established through a State / Central Act by a sponsoring body viz. a Society registered under the Societies Registration Act 1860, or any other corresponding law for the time being in force in a State or a Public Trust or 1834 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports a Company registered under Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956.” [Emphasis supplied] 160. In addition to these provisions, it is also imperative to take into consideration that the role of sponsoring bodies is explicated in further detail in various state legislations. For instance, the Uttar Pradesh Private Universities Act, 2019, sets out in detail the steps that the sponsoring body must take to receive sanction for establishing a university. The body is required to create an endowment fund, possess certain specified areas of land, construct buildings, install equipment, appoint professors, plan curriculum and other activities, make rules for the functioning of the university, and comply with other norms.85 Subsequently, such a body is then required to apply for the sanction by furnishing the requisite details.86 Only once the government is satisfied with the necessary compliances by the sponsoring body, does it grant the sanction and incorporates it under the statute.87 Therefore, even though the final legal existence is sanctioned through the statute, it is the private body which initiates and fulfils other essential roles. 161. A similar situation existed in India prior to independence. During this pre-independence era, the very nature of universities was in a state of flux. Up until the 1920s, universities primarily functioned as administrative units rather than teaching institutions. Accordingly, they were established by the State as government bodies to exercise control over all the colleges in the respective provinces. This factum is acknowledged by the Saddler Commission of 1917-19, which noted: “These territorial limits have been deemed necessary in the past, mainly for the following reasons. In the first place, the functions of the older universities in India have demanded them. So long as each of these universities is engaged, subject to Government control, in administrative rather than teaching functions, it necessarily follows that its 85 Uttar Pradesh Private Universities Act, 2019, Section 3. 86 Ibid, Section 4. 87 Ibid, Section 7. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1835 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. boundaries should be as far as possible co-terminous with those of a province […] The self-contained provincial university affords some administrative conveniences. Because it exercises direct control over Government colleges, gives grants-in-aid to others, and is deeply interested in the secondary school system, Government is necessarily hampered in carrying out these duties if the affiliation and inspection of colleges within its area and the recognition of schools situated within its territorial jurisdiction are in any respect under the authority or in the hands of another Government and university.”88 [Emphasis supplied] 162.