Article 26 guarantees religious denominations or a section of them, the right to establish and maintain institutions for religious and charitable purposes, manage their own affairs in the matter of religion, to own and acquire movable and immovable property, and administer such property in accordance with law. The rights are subject to public , morality and health. Article 27 mandates that no one shall be compelled to pay any taxes, the proceeds of which are to be specifically appropriated in payment of expenses for the promotion and maintenance of any particular religion or religious denomination. 43. Article 28, deals with the rights of individuals and secures to them vide clause (3), the right not to take part in any religious instructions that may be imparted in any educational institution recognised by the State or receiving aid of the State funds. The provision stipulates that a person need not attend religious worship conducted in such institution 26 (1970) 1 SCC 248 27 (1970) 1 SCC 248 [52] 28 (1978) 1 SCC 248 1706 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports or any premises attached thereto unless he wishes to do so, and if such person is a minor, upon the consent of his guardian. Clause (1) of Article 28 restricts educational institutions wholly maintained out of the State funds29 from imparting ‘religious instructions’. However, clause (2) to Article 28 stipulates that clause (1) will not apply to an educational institution which is administered by the State but was established under an endowment or trust which required religious instruction to be imparted in such institution. The clause recognises the distinction between ‘establishment’ and ‘administration’ of an institution. 44. Articles 29 and 30 under the heading ‘Cultural and Educational Rights’, are two provisions which specifically confer rights on a section of citizens residing in the territory of India or a part thereof, having a distinct language, script, or culture. Some would say that these are in nature of special privileges, yet in substance, they are in the nature of guarantees and protections given by the Constitution not to any specific denomination by identity, but to any section of the citizens which can be distinguished on the basis of language, script or culture. Clause (1) of Article 29 gives them the right to conserve, secure and extol their language, script or culture. The clause underscores the right to conserve and nurture the language, script or culture. Clause (2) of Article 29 is a negative right which stipulates that no citizen shall be denied admission on the grounds of religion, race, caste, language, or any of them in any educational institution maintained by the State or receiving aid out of the State funds. 45. Though the heading of Article 29 states that it is a provision for the protection of the interest of minorities, the substantive portion stipulates that the right is available to “any section of citizens” residing in India and having a distinct language, script or culture of their own. Thus, Article 29 applies to non-minorities as much as it applies to minorities, provided that the sections have a distinct language, script and culture of their own.30 Similarly, Articles 25 29 The expression ‘wholly maintained out of the State funds’ has been interpreted in DAV College v. State of Punjab (II), (1971) 2 SCC 269, to mean an institution which receives grants for its expenditure that may be wholly maintained out of the State funds even though it receives a fee for affiliation or holding examination as quid pro quo.