Digital Supreme Court Reports purpose of reviving such Company in the interest of general public by ensuring production, supply or distribution of articles. 52. Nationalisation of sick industries through legislations was another approach adopted by the government to revive or continue the operation of sick industries in national interest. An enactment brought in with the object of dealing with sickness in the textile industry was the Sick Textile Undertaking (Nationalization) Act, 1974 which, inter alia, provided for the reorganisation and rehabilitation of sick textile industries. Similarly, The Aluminium Corporation of India Ltd. (Acquisition and Transfer of Aluminium Undertaking) Act, 1984 and The Futwah Islampur Lightway Line (Nationalisation) Act, 1985 were enacted with similar objects. 53. Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India Act, 1984 was enacted to provide financial assistance to sick industrial companies for their revival. However, the said enactment was repealed thereafter. 54. In 1981, the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) appointed a committee under the chairmanship of late Shri T. Tiwari to look into the causes of industrial sickness, to assess the depth of the problem and to suggest comprehensive and focussed remedial measures to counter the problem of industrial sickness in India. The committee submitted its report suggesting, inter alia, the setting up of a quasi-judicial body through a special legislation to handle the cases of industrial sickness. This suggestion of the committee led to the enactment of the 1985 Act. 55. The Statement of Objects and Reasons accompanying the Sick Industrial Companies Bill, 1985 reads as follows: “The ill effects of sickness in industrial companies such as loss of production, loss of employment, loss of revenue to the Central and State Governments and locking up of investible funds of banks and financial institutions are of serious concern to the Government and the society at large. The concern of the Government is accentuated by the alarming increase in the incidence of sickness in industrial companies. It has been recognised that in to fully utilise the productive industrial assets, afford maximum protection of employment and optimise the use of the funds of the banks and financial institutions, it would be [2024] 5 S.C.R. 343 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited imperative to revive and rehabilitate the potentially viable sick industrial companies as quickly as possible. It would also be equally imperative to salvage the productive assets and realise the amounts due to the banks and financial institutions, to the extent possible, from the non-viable sick industrial companies through liquidation of those companies. 2. It has been the experience that the existing institutional arrangements and procedures for revival and rehabilitation of potentially viable sick industrial companies are both inadequate and time-consuming. A multiplicity of laws and agencies makes the adoption of coordinated approach for dealing with sick industrial companies difficult. A need has, therefore, been felt to enact in public interest a legislation to provide for timely determination by a body of experts of the preventive, ameliorative, remedial and other measures that would need to be adopted with respect to such companies and for enforcement of the measures considered appropriate with utmost practicable despatch.