Accordingly, we answered the point No.1. Re: Point No. 2: Whether the restrictions imposed are unreasonable and therefore, violative of the right guaranteed to Chartered Accountants under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution? And, Re: Point No.3: Whether the restrictions imposed are arbitrary and illegal and therefore, impermissible under Article 14 of the Constitution? 14. Before answering these points for ready reference and convenience, Article 19(1)(g) and (6) are reproduced as under: “19. Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc.— (1) All citizens shall have the right— x x x [2024] 6 S.C.R. 841 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others (g) to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. x x x 6) Nothing in sub-clause (g) of the said clause shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the State from making any law imposing, in the interests of the general public, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause, and, in particular, nothing in the said sub-clause shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it relates to, or prevent the State from making any law relating to,— (i) the professional or technical qualifications necessary for practising any profession or carrying on any occupation, trade or business, or (ii) the carrying on by the State, or by a corporation owned or controlled by the State, of any trade, business, industry or service, whether to the exclusion, complete or partial, of citizens or otherwise.” 15. Firstly, Article 19(6) of the Constitution empowers the State to impose reasonable restrictions upon the freedom of trade, business, occupation or profession in the interest of the general public, which freedom is recognised under Article 19(1)(g). Secondly, it empowers the State to prescribe professional and technical qualifications necessary for practising any profession or carrying on any occupation, trade or business. Thirdly, pursuant to the enactment of the Constitution (First) Amendment Act, 1951 — it enables the State to carry on any trade or business, either by itself or through a corporation owned or controlled by the State, to the exclusion of private citizens wholly or in part. It is trite law that restrictions imposed by the State upon the freedom guaranteed by Article 19(1)(g) cannot be justified on any ground outside Article 19(6) vide Nagar Rice and Flour Mills vs. N. Teekappa Gowda and Bros., (1970) 1 SCC 575, (“Nagar Rice Milling”). 16. The ambit of reasonable restrictions on the exercise of rights under Article 19(1)(g) in the interest of the general public under Article 842 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19(6) was further explained in Hathising Manufacturing Co. Ltd. vs. Union of India, (1960) 3 SCR 528 (“Hathising Manufacturing Co. Ltd.”), which concerned the challenge to the validity of Section 25FFF(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, which required the industries to pay compensation on closure of their undertakings: “10. …Whether an impugned provision imposing a fetter on the exercise of the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(g) amounts to a reasonable restriction imposed in the interest of the general public must be adjudged not in the background of any theoretical standards or pre- determinate patterns, but in the light of the nature and incidents of the right the interest of the general public sought to be secured by imposing the restriction and the reasonableness of the quality and extent of the fetter upon the right.” 17.