It is not appropriate to separate an amendment which substitutes certain words with certain other words into multiple steps and examine the legal effect of invalidation on each of these steps independently. This is because when a legislature enacts a substitution, it is only removing certain text to make space for the new text it wishes to enact. Simply put, the legislature would not remove the text in question without at the same time inserting alternate text. Given that the legislative intent is composite and indivisible, to remove and insert simultaneously, a judicial approach which disaggregates these two steps and treats them differently would amount to the courtre-writing the law contrary to the legislative intent. As the decisions from the United States note, in such cases, there are two expressions of legislative intent, the original text and the amended text. If the amended text is invalidated, the only valid expression of legislative intent is the original text. If a court were to find that even the original text could not be given legal effect because it had been repealed, this would result in a third outcome, a legal vacuum which was neither intended by the legislature that enacted the original text nor by the legislature which adopted the amended the text. Crucially, this third outcome would fail to give effect to either legislative intent despite there being no constitutional fault in the original provision. As the decisions in Laxmibai, Central Provinces Manganese Ore, and DK Trivedi & Sons note, if a court were to not only invalidate the newly inserted text but also hold that the old text stands repealed it could lead to absurd outcomes or render the text wholly unworkable. The practical effect of such an outcome would be 90 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that a judicial decision invalidating an unconstitutional amendment would also inadvertently nullify a valid and constitutional provision which the legislature would never have repealed without providing a replacement. 66. Insofar as the argument that the original rule had been repealed by the legislature itself and thus ought not to be given effect, as noted above, this reasoning is negated by the inference that the legislature would never have repealed the original text without simultaneously adopting the amended text. While a court cannot give effect to text that the legislature has repealed, as noted in Shamarao Parulekar, a case where a legislature has engaged in substitution, and the newly enacted text has been invalidated, is materially different. There may exist a narrow sub-set of cases where it is evident from the legislative circumstances or external aids to statutory interpretation, that the legislature would have in fact repealed the provision or words in question independent of its enactment of an alternative provision. Therefore, it is incumbent on courts to ask the question posed by Justice Beg in Central Provinces Manganese Ore, is there “intention to repeal, without a substitution”? Although some of the precedents discussed frame the question as ‘would the legislature have repealed the original text if it knew a court would invalidate the amended text?’, a more appropriate framing of the question would be, “Would the legislature have repealed the original text without giving effect to the amended text?” for this is the result of a court invalidating the amended text.