In case of negative observations, the construction shall not be allowed/shall be allowed as per conditions imposed by the consultant.” It can thus clearly be seen that unless a Soil Investigation Report is provided by the applicant before construction/reconstruction of building(s) for the areas falling in Sinking and Sliding Zones as defined in SPA, construction would not be allowed or allowed only as per the conditions imposed by the consultant. The Soil Investigation Report is required to be given by the Geologist in the prescribed form. 86. It can thus be seen that while preparing the development plan, due care has been taken to ensure that environmental aspects are taken care of. 87. We, however, do not propose to stamp our approval to all the provisions made in the development plan. In that regard, if any person feels aggrieved by any of the provisions, they would always be at liberty to take recourse to such remedy as is available in law. 88. However, we are of the considered view that the NGT could not have directed the delegatee who has been delegated powers under the TCP Act to enact the regulations, to do so in a particular manner. As a matter of fact, the NGT has imposed fetters on the exercise of powers by the delegatee, who has been delegated such powers by the competent legislature. In any case, it is clear that there were sufficient safeguards under the provisions of the TCP Act inasmuch as 1022 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports an aggrieved citizen was entitled to raise objections, give suggestions and was also entitled to an opportunity of hearing on more than one occasion. The first one at the stage of finalization of the draft development plan by the Director, and the second one at the stage of grant of approval and publication of the final development plan by the State Government. We are informed that 97 objections were received to the draft development plan in the present case. An opportunity of being heard was given to all of them before finalization of the draft development plan. We are also informed that out of 97 objectors, all, except 5, had requested for more relaxation. 89. The first of NGT is also sought to be attacked by the appellants on the ground that the subject matter of the dispute did not concern any of the enactments listed in Schedule I of the NGT Act and therefore, the OA filed under Section 14 of the NGT Act itself was not tenable. 90. Since we find that the first of NGT is not sustainable on the ground of encroaching upon the powers of the delegatee to enact a delegated legislation and also amounts to imposing fetters on the exercise of such powers, we do not propose to go into the said issue and we keep the same open to be adjudicated upon in appropriate proceedings. Transferred Case (C) No. 2 of 2023. F. Whether the NGT was justified in passing the dated 14th October 2022 when the High Court was seized of the same issue during the pendency of Civil Writ Petition No.5960 of 2022?