Subsequently, all the other accused arrived and assaulted Tillu and another individual, although P.W.11 couldn’t discern the specific assailants. The accused wielded various weapons such as lathis, knives, sticks, rods, and pipes during the attack. Tillu was found injured inside Bhairon Baba’s room, while Tularam lay injured at the construction site. P.W.11 then arranged for the injured to be transported in an auto. He noted that Tillu’s intestines were protruding, which he wrapped in cloth and placed in the auto. Additionally, Tularam had suffered traumatic and haemorrhagic shock due to multiple injuries. The injured were then taken to Hamidia Hospital. The Police subsequently confiscated the knife and sticks from the Appellant (Ex.P.14) and prepared a memorandum, which P.W.11 signed. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 231 Dharmendra Kumar @ Dhamma v. State of Madhya Pradesh 23. In addition to the two eyewitnesses, the prosecution so as to lend corroboration to the ocular evidence, called upon medical experts, namely Dr. C.S. Jain (P.W.13) and Dr. Neelam Shrivastava (P.W.15), who conducted the post-mortem examinations of Tillu and Tularam, respectively. 24. Dr. C.S. Jain, P.W.13, reported that Tillu’s body was brought in for post-mortem examination on 21.06.2004, revealing four stab wounds on the front side of the abdomen, along with a laceration on the head and three abrasions. He concluded that the stab wounds were inflicted by a hard, sharp, and penetrating weapon, while the head injuries were caused by a hard and blunt object. The combined injuries to the head and abdomen were deemed sufficient to cause death. 25. Dr. Neelam Shrivastava, P.W.15, testified that Tularam’s body was brought for post-mortem examination on 24.06.2004, revealing multiple radial fractures, subdural subarachnoid haemorrhage, and various wounds. She concluded that Tularam’s death resulted from respiratory failure due to a head injury and its associated complications. The severity of the injury was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature, and it was determined to be homicidal, inflicted by a hard, blunt, and heavy weapon. During cross-examination, she clarified that Tularam did not sustain any injuries from knives or swords on his body. 26. The prosecution also examined Girish Bohre, Investigating Officer (P.W.14), of the subject incident. He testified how the investigation was conducted, a spot map (Ex.P.2) of the location was prepared, and a blood-stained piece of flooring was also seized from the place of the incident. Additionally, he conducted a panchnama on Tillu’s dead body (Ex.P.32). He apprehended the Appellant and interrogated him in the presence of witnesses. During interrogation, the Appellant confessed to hiding the knife used in the assault in Barrack No. 2 of the Police Line Nehru Nagar. P.W.14 then drafted a memorandum, leading to the recovery of an iron knife at the instance of the Appellant. Following this, he arrested the Appellant and other co-accused. P.W.14 also prepared a panchnama (Ex.P.34) of Tularam’s dead body. 27. It is pertinent to mention at this stage that Ajjharruddin (P.W.1), Sukhram (P.W.2), and Reshambai (P.W.3) were also brought in as eyewitnesses to the incident.