Digital Supreme Court Reports at the commencement of the Constitution. These Articles provide for the acquisition of citizenship by the persons eligible therein at the commencement of the Constitution. Article 9 disqualifies a person from acquiring citizenship under Articles 5, 6 or 8 if such person has voluntarily acquired citizenship of any foreign State. He also invited our attention to Articles 10 and 11. He submitted that Article 10 provides that every person who is or is deemed to be a citizen of India under the provisions of Part II of the Constitution of India shall, subject to the provisions of any law that the Parliament may make, continue to be such citizen. Article 11 protects the Parliament’s power to make provisions concerning the acquisition and termination of citizenship. 11. The learned ASG relied upon the speech of the late Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar in the Constituent Assembly, which indicated that the provisions in the Constitution deal with citizenship on the date of commencement of the Constitution. Therefore, his submission is that Articles 5 to 9 determine who are Indian citizens at the commencement of the Constitution of India. After the enactment of the 1955 Act, India’s citizenship can be acquired, terminated, or otherwise regulated under the provisions thereof. He submitted that Pranav is not a person of Indian origin. Therefore, Section 5(1)(b) of the 1955 Act will not apply. 12. He submitted that Section 8(2) of the 1955 Act will have no application. He submitted that Pranav’s parents lost their citizenship the moment they acquired the citizenship of Singapore. When Pranav was born, his parents were no longer Indian citizens. They lost Indian citizenship upon the acquisition of Singapore citizenship. He would, therefore, submit that Pranav is not entitled to Indian citizenship. 13. The learned senior counsel appearing for Pranav submitted that Article 8 will apply in the present case. He submitted that it was never the stand of the Union of India before the High Court that the Indian citizenship of Pranav’s parents came to an end by termination. This stand is taken for the first time before this Court by the Union of India. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS CITIZENSHIP UNDER THE CONSTITUTION 14. Part II of the Constitution deals with ‘Citizenship’. It consists of Articles 5 to 11, which read thus: [2024] 10 S.C.R. 743 Union of India v. Pranav Srinivasan “5. Citizenship at the commencement of the Constitution.— At the commencement of this Constitution every person who has his domicile in the territory of India and— (a) who was born in the territory of India; or (b) either of whose parents was born in the territory of India; or (c) who has been ordinarily resident in the territory of India for not less than five years immediately preceding such commencement, shall be a citizen of India. 6. Rights of citizenship of certain persons who have migrated to India from Pakistan.—Notwithstanding anything in Article 5, a person who has migrated to the territory of India from the territory now included in Pakistan shall be deemed to be a citizen of India at the commencement of this Constitution if— (a) he or either of his parents or any of his grand- parents was born in India as defined in the Government of India Act, 1935 (as originally enacted); and (b) (i) in the case where such person has so migrated before the nineteenth day of July, 1948, he has been ordinarily resident in the territory of India since the date of his migration, or (ii) in the case where such person has so migrated on or after the nineteenth day of July, 1948, he has been registered as a citizen of India by an officer appointed in that behalf by the Government of the Dominion of India on an application made by him therefor to such officer before the commencement of this Constitution in the form and manner prescribed by that Government: Provided that no person shall be so registered unless he has been resident in the territory of India for at least six months immediately preceding the date of his application.