It cannot be disputed that such drilling machines and mudguns are not equipments which are usually shifted from one place to another, nor it is practicable to shift them frequently. Counsel for the appellant submitted before us that once they are erected and assembled they continue to operate from where they are positioned till such time as they are worn out or discarded. According to him they really become a component of the plant and machinery because without their aid a blast furnace cannot operate. It is not necessary for us to express any opinion as to whether the mudgun and the drilling machines are really a component of the plant and machinery of the steel plant, but we are satisfied that having regard to the manner in which these machines are erected and installed upon concrete structures, they do not answer the description of “goods” within the meaning of the term in the Excise Act.” It may be noted that while this Court invoked permanency test in T.T.G. Industries Ltd. (supra), what was also observed was that if the machinery cannot be shifted and re-erected without dismantling, it would show that it is an immovable property. 11.7.11 In the present case, while mobile tower cannot be shifted to another location without dismantling it, it is to be noted that mobile tower itself was bought and brought in a completely knocked-down (CKD) or semi-knocked-down 1574 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (SKD) condition and it was erected and installed at the site after assembling the parts. If the said mobile tower is to be shifted to another location, it obviously has to be dismantled and restored to its SKD or CKD condition and thereafter re- erected, which however, would not entail any damage to it. Thus, the present case of the mobile towers differs from the factual matrix of T.T.G. Industries Ltd. (supra). 11.7.12 Before us, the Revenue has also placed reliance on the Commissioner of Central Excise Versus Virdi Brothers and Ors. (2007) 15 SCC 24 and CCE Versus Globus Store Pvt. Ltd. (2011) 15 SCC 200, in which this Court relied on a Circular issued by the Central Board of Excise and Custom, Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance, Government of India under No. 58/1/2002-CX dated 15.01.2002 in which it was mentioned under Clause (e) that, “(e) If items assembled or erected at site and attached by foundation to earth cannot be dismantled without substantial damage to its components and thus cannot be reassembled, then the items would not be considered as movable and will, therefore, not be excisable goods.” 11.7.13 In the present case, as discussed above, the tower has been bought and brought to the site in a semi or completely knocked-down condition and assembled and if the same is required to be re-located to another location it can be dismantled in its original semi-knocked-down or completely knocked down condition without causing any damage to the tower itself and as such the Clause (e) of the Circular referred to the above cannot be applied.