12.21 It is useful to allude to the sine qua non of Entry 8 – List II i.e. the intoxicating effect. In my view, the sine qua non of Entry 8 – List II i.e. the “intoxicating” effect of liquor has to be read as (i) an effect, and (ii) an intended effect of the industry and its products. One might argue that even “industrial alcohol” due to its very constituents could cause an intoxicating effect, when mischievously consumed, albeit with dire consequences. However, such an argument ignores that the fundamental nature of “industrial alcohol” is that it is non-potable i.e. when put to its actual use, neither is it intended to be consumed by human beings as a beverage nor, as a corollary, is sought to cause an “intoxicating” effect on human beings. “Industrial alcohol” can be said to cause an “intoxicating” effect only when it is mischievously directed away from its actual purpose and use and towards human consumption. To accept such a rationale for interpreting Entry 8 – List II would lead to an anomalous situation wherein the marginal mischievous use of “industrial alcohol” would bring in the whole industry of “industrial alcohol” to Entry 8 – List II and take it out of Entry 24 – List II viz. “industrial alcohol” which is not always meant to intoxicate a human being but could only sometimes when used mischievously or abused would wholly become a legislative field for States to legislate. It is to avoid such an abuse that States have the powers to prevent by suitable legislative and administrative measures, as has been held in the aforesaid decisions of this Court. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2125 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons 12.22 Viewed from another perspective, the exception (mischievous use) cannot lead to governing of the norm (original intended use) through such construction of Entry 8 – List II. Put into practice, this would translate into legislative regulation of production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of the entire industry and product of “industrial alcohol” only because of its possible misuse or mischievous use. This reading would be tantamount to attaching to the constitutional intent an absurdity i.e. the part governing the whole or in other words, bringing within the ambit of Entry 8 – List II something which is an exception as a main aspect of the Entry. A careful revisit pertinent at this point would be to paragraph 86 of Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), wherein it was held that States continue to have legislative competence to ensure that non-potable alcohol is not misdirected to potable alcohol. That is different from saying that States have the right to regulate “industrial alcohol” or non-potable alcohol. A power to legislate as to the principal matter specifically mentioned in the Entry also includes within its expanse, legislation touching incidental and ancillary matters. However, ancillary matters by a backdoor cannot be included within the Entry, beyond what is covered as the principal. Herein, the ancillary matter being prevention of mischievous use of “industrial alcohol” would be within Entry 8 – List II but “industrial alcohol” as such would not be included.