18. Similarly, Section 188 of the Consumer Protection Act (Québec) provides that: “For the purpose of this division, every person offering or providing any of the services referred to in section 189 [covering contracts of service] is considered to be a merchant, except: … (i) persons who are members of a professional governed by the Professional Code (chapter C-26).” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 6 S.C.R. 527 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr. 19. In a similar vein, States in the USA also exempt legal professionals from consumer laws. 20. Illustratively, the Code of Maryland, Title 13, dealing with minimum standards of consumer protection in Maryland, in Subtitle 1 § 13-104 explicitly states that: “this title does not apply to: (1) The professional services of a certified public accountant, architect, clergyman, professional engineer, lawyer….” (emphasis supplied) 21. The Code of the District of Columbia, while highlighting the powers of the consumer protection agency in Title 28 Chapter 39 § 28–3903 states in clause (c) that: “(c) The Department may not: … (2) apply the provisions of section §28-3905 [Consumer Protection Complaints] to: … (C) professional services of clergymen, lawyers, and Christian Science practitioners engaging in their respective professional endeavors”; (emphasis supplied) 22. The Australian High Court, the highest court of the land in Australia, in D’Orta-Ekenaike vs. Victoria Legal Aid3 has emphatically echoed the need for such exemption and its direct bearing on the justice delivery system. The reasoning of its majority is instructive and deserves to be quoted in full: “84. To remove the advocate’s immunity would make a significant inroad upon what we have earlier described as a fundamental and pervading tenet of the judicial system. That inroad should not be created. There may be those who will seek to characterize the result at which the Court arrives in this matter as a case of lawyers looking after their own, whether because of personal inclination and sympathy, or for other base motives. But the legal principle which underpins the Court’s conclusion 3 (2005) 223 CLR 1 528 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is fundamental. Of course, there is always a risk that the determination of a legal controversy is imperfect. And it may be imperfect because of what a party’s advocate does or does not do. The law aims at providing the best and safest system of determination that is compatible with human fallibility. But underpinning the system is the need for certainty and finality of decision. The immunity of advocates is a necessary consequence of that need”. (emphasis supplied) 23. It would be trite to mention here that the legal profession is a regulated profession in India. The Advocates Act, 1961 regulates the conduct of lawyers in India and is a complete code in itself. Given the regulation, India also needs to bring the working of its regulated professions in alignment with international practices. 24. In the era of globalization, though I am conscious that a law has to be applied in context with the prevailing situation of the country, nonetheless, to have a uniform application of any law particularly the one which has been framed on the basis of the common resolution of the UNO, laws must have a uniform application in all nations.