(xii) That another Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in the case of Yogesh Kumar v. State of U.P.24 considered the applicability of Radhy Shyam on invocation of urgency clause for planned development through YEIDA, and vide dated 1st March, 2013,it was held that in view of in Natthi v. State of U.P. Thru. Secr. Industrial Devp. & Ors.,25 the decision in Radhy Shyam will have no application on the present acquisition. The decision of Allahabad High Court in Yogesh Kumar was also affirmed by this Court while dismissing the SLP26 by a Bench presided over by Hon’ble Mr. Justice G.S. Singhvi (who authored Radhy Shyam) vide dated 23rd September, 2013. (xiii) That it was correctly held by the Division Bench of Allahabad High Court in Kamal Sharma that the right of the tenure holders to object against the acquisition provided under Section 5-A of the Act cannot be said to be a fundamental right or a right akin to fundamental right protected by the Constitution of India. (xiv) That the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Kamal Sharma has meticulously reviewed the material on record, and held that the same justified the invocation of the urgency clause, recording its conclusions as follows: (a) The lands of nine villages were acquired through different notifications issued over a span of two years between 26th February, 2009 to 22nd March, 2011. 23 (Supra, Note 22) 24 CMWP No.10782/2013, hereinafter referred to as ‘Yogesh Kumar’ 25 Writ-C No. 20585 of 2010, hereinafter referred to as ‘Natthi’ 26 Special Leave to Appeal (Civil) No. CC 16505/2013 1090 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) Majority of the declaration notifications were issued in a gap of 3 to 4 months. (c) It was specifically mentioned in the Certificate of the Collector that the acquisition of different parcels of land was being proposed as contiguous part of the project. If an opportunity of hearing under Section 5-A of the Act was granted, the same would have resulted in legal proceedings and eventual non-availability of contiguous land which would have hampered the execution of the integrated project in a time bound manner. The original record of the State provides categorical statements to this effect. (d) The aforesaid decision was taken on account of the enormousness of the project in question and the area of the land sought to be acquired. He thus urged that the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court, therefore, rightly held that the invocation of the urgency clause was not a mechanical exercise and was undertaken pursuant to the subjective satisfaction of the State Government being arrived at after due application of mind to material available on record. (xv) That the in Shyoraj Singh does not lay down good law and is liable to be set aside, since it failed to take note of the earlier Division Bench decisions of the Allahabad High Court in the cases of Natthi,27 Narendra Road Lines Pvt. Ltd. v. State of U.P. & Others28 and Yogesh Kumar,29 wherein the validity of self-same land acquisition for integrated planned development by YEIDA was upheld.