On the other hand, Justice Wanchoo and Justice Rajgopala Ayyangar observed that the phrase ‘adequate representation’ only conveys the meaning of inadequacy of representation in the quantitative sense and does not convey any idea of equality.229 In Triloki Nath v. State of Jammu and Kashmir (I),230 a reservation policy providing 50 percent of the seats to Muslims from Jammu and Kashmir, 60 percent of the remaining fifty percent seats to Hindus from Jammu and the remaining 40 percent of the 50 percent to Kashmiri Pandits was challenged. The State contended that the sole test of backwardness for the beneficiary class under Article 16(4) is inadequacy of representation in the services of the State. The Constitution Bench rejected the argument, observing that if it is accepted, the benefit would be conferred only on the ‘rich and cultured’ who are socially and educationally advanced. 171. Justice Jeevan Reddy also adopted a value-ridden interpretation of the phrase “adequately represented” in Indra Sawhney (supra). The learned Judge held that the principal test to determine the adequacy of representation is “effective representation or effective voice in the administration” and not mere numerical presence. Effective representation can only be achieved, in this view, when there is adequate representation at all levels or posts in the administration. Justice Sawant also adopted a similar approach.231 172. We are in complete agreement with the opinions of Justice Jeevan Reddy in Indra Sawhney (supra) and Justice Gajendragadkar in Rangachari (supra) on this aspect which is being discussed in 229 Justice Wanchoo’s opinion “32. Therefore, when Article 16(4) says that reservation may be made in that any backward class of citizens may be adequately represented in the services it means that reservation may be made in to make the number of any backward class sufficient in the services under the State. These words do not in my opinion convey any idea of equality […]; Justice Ayyangar [Paragraph 43]: “[…] I have drawn attention to this because it pointedly demonstrates that the correct view is that when “inadequacy of representation” is referred to in Article 16(4) as justifying a reservation, the only rational and reasonable construction of the words are that it refers to a quantitative deficiency in the representation of the backward classes in the service taken as a whole and not to an inadequate representation at each grade of service or in respect of each post in the service.” 230 [1967] 2 SCR 265 231 (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 [517] [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1427 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. the present segment. Adequate representation means meaningful and effective representation. The sphere of public services is a constitutionally recognized realm for reservation because being a part of the administrative mechanism of the State is itself an indicator of social power. It is for the same reason that the Constitution, when it was adopted, guaranteed reservation in the legislature. However, there exists a hierarchy in social power within the sphere of public service. Positions that are higher up in the pyramid are positions that command greater authority.