The use of the power to summon the presence of government officials must not be used as a tool to pressurize the government, particularly, under the threat of contempt. 39. The Court must also refrain from relying on mere undertakings by government officials in court, without consent on affidavit or instructions to law officers such as the Attorney General, Solicitor General, or the Advocate Generals of the states. Courts must be cognizant of the role of law officers before summoning the physical presence of government officials. 8 (2009) 10 SCC 337 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 233 THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. v. ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED SUPREME COURT AND HIGH COURT JUDGES AT ALLAHABAD & ORS 40. Under Article 76 of the Constitution, the Attorney General is appointed by the President and serves in an advisory capacity, providing legal counsel to the Union Government. The responsibilities of the Attorney General include advising on legal matters, performing assigned legal duties, and representing the government in various courts. Similarly, under Article 165 of the Constitution, the Advocate General is appointed by the Governor of each state. The Advocate General provides legal advice to the state government, performs legal duties as assigned, and discharges functions conferred by the Constitution. Several other law officers also represent the Union and the states including the Solicitor General, Additional Solicitor General, and Additional Advocates General for the states. They inter alia obtain instructions from the various departments of the government and represent the government before the courts. 41. Law officers act as the primary point of contact between the courts and the government. They not only represent the government as an institution but also represent the various departments and officials that comprise the government. This Court in Mohd. Iqbal Khandaly v. Abdul Majid Rather,9 had occasion to observe that there was no justification to direct the Additional Advocate General, not to appear for the appellant in a contempt petition and to direct that he should merely assist the court. 42. In the present case, instead of adjudicating on the legal position taken by the Government of Uttar Pradesh on affidavit or hearing the Additional Advocate General present in the court, the High Court repeatedly summoned government officials. The government was also directed to notify the Rules based on a “no objection” from the officials of the Finance Department purportedly made before the High Court, which is now contested by the state. Such situations can be avoided in cases where submissions on affidavit can be sought and the law officers of the Government are present in court, with instructions. The issuance of bailable warrants by the High Court against officials, including the Chief Secretary, who was not even summoned in the first place, further indicates the attempt by the High Court to unduly pressurise the government. 9 (1994) 4 SCC 34. 234 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 43. This Court in State of Uttar Pradesh v. Manoj Kumar Sharma,10 frowned upon the frequent summoning of government officials “at the drop of a hat”.