Digital Supreme Court Reports the reasons for the outcome of their assessment, in particular when they opine that the candidate is ineligible. The Disability Assessment Boards must focus on the functional competence of persons with disabilities and not merely quantify the disability. The quantification of disability is a task in need of a purpose within the human rights based model of disability. The functional competency approach to assessment for a medical course is globally recognised. To enable members of the Assessment Boards in effectively applying the functional competency test, they must be adequately trained by professionals and persons with disabilities or persons who have worked on disability justice. These trainings must be with a view to enhance the understanding of the Board members in assessing persons with disabilities and must not pathologize or problematize them. 54. The disability of a person is quantified at the time of availing a Unique Disability ID Card.27 The quantification of disability is moot at the point of admission to educational courses since the eligibility for a person to benefit from reservation may be evaluated using the quantification in the UDID Card. If a person with disability wants to have themself re-assessed so as to verify whether their disability falls within the prescribed parameters for reservation - they may choose to do so by updating their UDID Cards. The role of the Disability Assessment Boards must be tailored (with a functional competency approach) only for the course which the candidate seeks to pursue. 55. Further, the journey of a person with disability to apply for the NEET Examination and thereafter pursue medicine at the college must also comply with accessibility norms. The application portal for NEET Examination must outline the accessibility compliances of different colleges to enable prospective students with disabilities in making an informed decision. Once admitted, the Enabling Units established under the directions of the University Grants Commission must act as a point of contact for persons with disabilities to access clinical accommodations. Students must be informed about the Enabling Units and Equal Opportunity Cells through the information booklet circulated for new MBBS students, the college website and the Equal 27 “UDID Card” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2223 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. Opportunity Policy under Section 21 of RPWD Act. The second respondent must make appropriate directions in this regard. 56. In the UK, the General Medical Council, which regulates medical education, has issued an advisory guidance titled Welcome and valued. The guidance outlines how institutions can comply with their duties to afford reasonable accommodation to disabled medical students. The guidance inter alia lists the steps for supporting medical students. After addressing student requirements and agreeing on a support action plan, the guidance outlines the following steps, which are indicative and may not be appropriate for all: a. Forming a support group or a lead to deal with support arrangements of incoming students with disabilities; b. Identifying key persons of contact with students with disabilities and for each of the services involved in exploring the support arrangements; c. Informing students on how their information will be used in compliance with confidentiality.