37. More pertinently, respondent No.3 had suppressed the fact that on the basis of the of the Gujarat High Court in the writ petition that he had filed, the convict had acted upon it and had made an application to the State of Maharashtra for remission on 01.08.2019 and the said application was being processed inasmuch as the stakeholders had given their opinion on the application, such as, the Presiding Judge of the court which had convicted the accused; [2024] 1 S.C.R. 859 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others the Director - CBI as well as the Director General and Inspector General of Police, State of Maharashtra who were all unanimous in their opinion inasmuch as they had all negatived grant of remission to the convict – Radheshyam Bhagwan Das. Suppressing all this, the writ petition was filed by respondent No.3 invoking Article 32 of the Constitution and the same was allowed by also setting aside the of the Gujarat High Court dated 17.07.2019 and thereby setting at naught the steps taken pursuant to the said of the Gujarat High Court. 38. At this stage, we may point out that if respondent No.3 had felt aggrieved by the of the Gujarat High Court dated 17.07.2019, it was open to him to have challenged the said before this Court by filing a special leave petition, but he did not do so. Rather, he complied with the of the Gujarat High Court by filing remission application dated 01.08.2019 before the Government of Maharashtra where, not only the process for consideration of the remission prayer was initiated, but opinions of various authorities were also obtained. When the opinions were found to be negative, respondent No.3 filed Writ Petition(Crl.) No.135 of 2022 before this Court seeking a direction to the State of Gujarat to consider his remission application suppressing the above material facts. This he could not have done, thereby misrepresenting and suppressing relevant facts, thus playing fraud on this Court. 39. We have no hesitation in holding that neither the of the Gujarat High Court dated 17.07.2019 could have been challenged by respondent No.3 or for that matter by anybody else before this Court in a writ proceeding under Article 32 of the Constitution of India nor the said of the High Court could have been set aside in a proceeding under Article 32 thereof. This proposition of law has been settled long ago by a nine-Judge bench decision of this Court in Naresh Shridhar Mirajkar vs. State of Maharashtra, AIR 1967 SC 1, which is binding on us. 39.1. When an oral of the learned Judge passed in the original suit of the Bombay High Court was challenged by the petitioner therein by way of a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India before the Bombay High Court, the writ petition was dismissed by a division bench of the Bombay High Court on the ground that the impugned was a 860 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports judicial of the High Court and was not amenable to writ jurisdiction under Article 226.