1117 S. Tirupathi Rao v. M. Lingamaiah & Ors. wrongful act. But if there is repetition of a wrongful act or omission, it will comprise a continuing cause of action, and if an action is brought by the plaintiff, it will be restricted to recovery of damages which have accrued up to the date of suit. In such cases the cause of action is said to arise ‘de die in diem’ (from day to day). It is inaccurate strictly to speak of a ‘continuing cause of action’, but the phrase refers to a cause of action which arises from the repetition of acts or omissions of the same kind as that for which the action was brought.” 75. The English Court of Appeals in National Coal Board v. Galley 50 distinguished between the two scenarios by observing that neither do repeated breaches of continuing obligations constitute a continuing wrong nor intermittent breaches of a continuing obligation; rather there has to be present an element of continuance in both, the breach and the obligation. 76. This Court too, as far back as in 1958, with reference to the Limitation Act of 1908, discussed in Balkrishna Savalram Pujari v. Shree Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Sansthan 51 what would constitute a continuing wrong. The relevant passage reads thus: “20. *** s. 23 refers not to a continuing right but to a continuing wrong. It is the very essence of a continuing wrong that it is an act which creates a continuing source of injury and renders the doer of the act responsible and liable for the continuance of the said injury. If the wrongful act causes an injury which is complete, there is no continuing wrong even though the damage resulting from the act may continue. If, however, a wrongful act is of such a character that the injury caused by it itself continues, then the act constitutes a continuing wrong. In this connection it is necessary to draw a distinction between the injury caused by the wrongful act and what may be described as the effect of the said injury. It is only in regard to acts which can be properly characterised as continuing wrongs that s. 23 can be invoked. *** 50 [1958] 1 All ER 9 51 [1959] Supp. 2 SCR 476 : AIR 1959 SC 798 1118 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports As soon as the decree was passed and the appellants were dispossessed in execution proceedings, their rights had been completely injured, and though their dispossession continued, it cannot be said that the trustees were committing wrongful acts or acts of tort from moment to moment so as to give the appellants a cause of action de die in diem. We think there can be no doubt that where the wrongful act complained of amounts to ouster, the resulting injury to the right is complete at the date of the ouster and so there would be no scope for the application of s. 23 in such a case.