These bridges provide essential pathways in one of the rainiest places on the earth and carry cultural and ecological importance. Over generations, they have adapted to harsh weather, demonstrating a sustainable way of living in harmony with nature. Similarly, sacred groves across India reflect ancient traditions of forest conservation, where nature is respected and protected, helping preserve biodiversity and ecological balance. 5. India has the highest concentration of sacred groves in the world (estimated to be over 100,000 sacred groves3), however, these groves are rapidly vanishing due to the increasing demand for timber, urban expansion, deforestation for agriculture, and the pressure to extract natural resources. The sacred groves are known by diverse names across different regions: Devban in Himachal Pradesh, Devarakadu in Karnataka, Kavu in Kerala, Sarna in Madhya Pradesh, Oran in Rajasthan, Devrai in Maharashtra, Umanglai in Manipur, Law Kyntang/ 1 Lebbie &Freudenberger 1996; Chandan & Hughes 1997; Malhotra et al. 2007; Sheridan & Nayamweru 2008; Ormsby & Edelman 2010; Ormsby 2012 2 Ntiamoa-Baidu 1995; Malhotra et al. 2007 3 K.C. Malhotra, Y. Gokhale, S. Chatterjee, and S. Srivastava, Sacred GroveS In IndIa, Aryan Books International (New Delhi, 2007) 1844 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Law Lyngdoh in Meghalaya, Devan/Deobhumi in Uttarakhand, Gramthan in West Bengal, and Pavithravana in Andhra Pradesh. 6. The present Interlocutory application concerns the protection of the sacred groves/Orans of the Rajasthan. We will briefly discuss them. II. ORANS OF RAJASTHAN 7. The State of Rajasthan is vertically divided in two parts north to south, by the Aravali hills. To the west of the Aravali is the Thar desert. There are about 25,000 Orans in Rajasthan covering an area of about 6,00,000 hectares. About 1100 major Oran’s spread out in an area of more than 1,00,000 hectares in Rajasthan provide livelihood to the rural population of the State. Species that are primarily found in most of the Orans are Prosopis cineraria, Zizyphus mauritiana and Salvadora sp., Zizyphus sp., Caparris aphylla and Calotropis procera. 8. In Rajasthan, sacred groves are known under various names i.e. oran, deora, malvan, deorai, rakhat bani, deo ghats (sacred corridors),mandir van (temple forests), and baugh (sacred gardens). The word ‘Oran’ is a derivative of the Sanskrit word ‘Aranya/अरण्य’ meaning the ‘undisturbed forest’. Their existence can be traced back to the pre-agrarian hunter-gatherer phase of human civilisation.4 In Rajasthan, ‘Orans’ vary in size depending on their specific religious significance to a particular community. They serve as a reserve for grazing, forest products, water infiltration, and as a coping mechanism for climate change in arid regions. There are nearly 25,000 identified Orans in Rajasthan covering approximately 6,00,000 hectares of which 5,37,000 hectares are located in the western Thar region.5 9. Orans are related to religious practices followed since time immemorial and serve to conserve natural resources. People do not harm sacred groves mainly because of socio-religious traditions, believing that anyone who cuts or uses an axe in a sacred grove may be harmed by the presiding deity. In sacred groves, different idols like Majisa, Jamboji, Jog Maya, Bhomiaji, Pabuji, Harbuji, Ramdeoji, Mamaji are positioned in the shade of green trees.