This kind of corruption is described as ‘clientelism’. This can arise from the dependence’® on the financial support of a wealthy patron to a degree that it compromises the 124 See Bernstein and Ors. v. Bester NO and Others, (1996) ZACC 2, para 67. 125 My Vote Counts NPC v. President of the Republic of South Africa and Ors. ZA(2017W) CHC10 5, para 67. 126 Harrison Moore, The Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia, p.329 (1902). 127 (201H5CA )3 4. 128 James Madison in the Federalist Paper No. 52 notes that a government must “depend on the people alone”. This condition, according to Professor Lawrence Lessig, has two elements -— first, it identifies a proper dependency (“on the people”) and second, it describes that dependence as exclusive (“alone”). [2024] 2 S.C.R. 599 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. expectation, fundamental to representative democracy, that public power will be exercised in public interest. This affects the vitality as well as integrity of the political branches of government. While quid pro quo and clientelistic corruption erodes quality and integrity of government decision making, the power of money may also pose threat to the electoral process itself. This phenomenon is referred to as ‘war-chest’ corruption. '° 62. In Jefferey Raymond (supra), the High Court of Australia had referred to the decision of the Supreme Court of Canada in Harper v. Canada (Attorney General)'**, which upheld the legislative restriction on electoral advertising. In Harper (supra), the Supreme Court of Canada has held that the State can provide a voice to those who otherwise might not be heard and the State can also restrict voices that dominate political discourse so that others can be heard as well. 63. The Supreme Court of the United States in Buckl५ eR Vyale o'*" has commented on the concern of quid pro quo arrangements and its dangers to a fair and effective government. Improper influence erodes and harms the confidence in the system of representative government. Contrastingly, disclosure provides the electorate with information as to where the political campaign money comes from and how it is spent. This helps and aides the voter in evaluating those contesting elections. It allows the voter to identify interests which candidates are most likely to be responsive to, thereby facilitating prediction of future performance in office. Secondly, it checks actual corruption and helps avoid the appearance of corruption by exposing large contributions and expenditures to the light of publicity. Relying upon Grosv. jAmeericaan nPre ss Co."*?, it holds that informed public opinion is the most potent of all restraints upon misgovernment. Thirdly, record keeping, reporting and disclosure are essential means of gathering data necessary to detect violations of contribution limitations. 129 See Federal Election Commission v. National Right to Work Committee, 459 U.S. 197 (1982), where the petitioners submitted: “...substantial aggregations of wealth amassed by the special advantages which go with the corporate form of organization should not be converted into political “war chests” which could be used to incur political debts from legislators who are aided by the contributions...” 130 [2010 S4CR ]82 7.