15. The High Court noted that paragraph 2 of Part III was applicable to the first respondent. The High Court held that reading paragraph 2 harmoniously would entail a ‘blending of the period of both the services’; and that if the services were not so blended, the service of the first respondent as a Judge of the High Court would slip into oblivion. Hence, it was held that in accordance with the definition of ‘service’ in Section 2(1)(h) of the 1954 Act, the first respondent’s service as a Judge of the High Court was ‘actual service’:. The High Court observed: “To conclude, it is manifestly clear that what is to be blended is the ‘actual service’ rendered as a Judge of the High Court to the service rendered by the petitioner from 1981 till 31 July 2014 as service, for pension and accordingly, the pension will have to be calculated as judge of High Court” 16. The High Court directed that the service of the first respondent as a Judge of the High Court had to be blended with her services as a Judge of the District Judiciary and pension was to be calculated as for a Judge of the High Court. Submissions 17. The Union of India has adopted the position that: (i) The computation of the retiral benefits has been done correctly, taking into account the thirty-three years of her service as a member of the District Judiciary and the special additional pension. The High Court has erred in including her service as a Judge of the High Court, condoning the break in service of 54 days; (ii) The first respondent had not completed twelve years of pensionable service as a Judge of the High Court within the meaning of Section 14; (iii) There was a break in service between the date on which the first respondent retired as a District Judge (31 July 2014) and assumed the office of a Judge of the High Court (25 September 858 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2014). This break could not be condoned under the 1954 Act by the High Court or by this Court; (iv) The first respondent having opted to receive her pensionary payments under Part III of the First Schedule, the years of service which were rendered by her as a Judge of the High Court would be cumulated with her service as a member of the district judiciary; (v) The pension payable to the first respondent would then be computed on the basis of last drawn salary as a District Judge; and (vi) Since paragraph 2(b) of Part III of the First Schedule provides for a special additional pension in respect of each completed year of service, the first respondent would be entitled to that as well. 18. The essence of the contest in these proceedings relates to the correctness of the interpretation which has been placed by the Union of India. 19. Mr Shailesh Madiyal, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Union of India has adopted the above submissions.