The minimum merit necessary for the post may be assessed either by subjecting the candidates to a written examination or an interview or by assessment of their work performance during the previous years, or by a combination of either two or all the three of the aforesaid methods. There is no hard-and-fast rule as to how the minimum merit is to be ascertained. So long as the ultimate promotions are based on seniority, any process for ascertaining the minimum necessary merit, as a basic requirement, will not militate against the principle of seniority-cum-merit. xxx xxx xxx 13. Thus it is clear that a process whereby eligible candidates possessing the minimum necessary merit in the feeder posts is first ascertained and thereafter, promotions are made strictly in accordance with seniority, from among those who possess the minimum necessary merit is recognised and accepted as complying with the principle of “seniority-cum-merit”. What would offend the rule of seniority-cum-merit is a process where after assessing the minimum necessary merit, promotions are made on the basis of merit (instead of seniority) from among the candidates possessing the minimum necessary merit. If the criteria adopted for assessment of minimum necessary merit is bona fide and not unreasonable, it is not open to challenge, as being opposed to the principle of seniority-cum-merit. We accordingly hold that prescribing minimum qualifying marks to ascertain the minimum merit necessary for discharging the functions of the higher post, is not violative of the concept of promotion by seniority- cum-merit.” (Emphasis supplied) 1120 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 86. In Dr. Kavita Kamboj (supra), this Court speaking eruditely through one of us, Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI., observed that the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ is an approved method of selection where the emphasis is primarily on the comparative merit of the judicial officers being considered for promotion whereby even a junior who demonstrates greater merit than the senior can be considered for promotion. The relevant observations read as under: - “45. [...] The principle of merit-cum seniority is an approved method of selection where merit is the determinative factor and seniority plays a less significant role. Where the principle of ‘merit-cum seniority’ is the basis, the emphasis is primarily on the comparative merit of the judicial officers being considered for promotion. Resultantly, even a junior officer who demonstrates greater merit than a senior officer will be considered for promotion.” (Emphasis supplied) [Also see Central Council for Research in Ayurveda and Siddha and Anr. v. Dr. K. Santhakumari reported in (2001) 5 SCC 60] 87. This Court in B.V. Sivaiah & Ors. v. K. Addankl Babu & Ors. reported in (1998) 6 SCC 720 whilst explaining the difference between the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ vis-à-vis the principle of ‘Seniority- cum-Merit’, held as follows: - (i) First, where promotion is based on the principle of ‘Merit-cum- Seniority’ a greater emphasis is laid on merit & the ability of the candidate and seniority is to be given weight where merit and ability are approximately equal.