2135 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons “intoxicating liquors” is restricted to only alcoholic liquors for human consumption i.e., potable alcohol or it would also extend to non-potable alcohol or “industrial alcohol”. In other words, if “industrial alcohol” is read within the meaning of Entry 24 – List II then, whether, on account of the declaration made by the Parliament in Section 2 of the IDRA in terms of Entry 52 – List I it would be excluded from Entry 24 – List II and included under Entry 52 – List I as per the provisions of the IDRA. In other words, the question is whether Entry 8 – List II which deals with “intoxicating liquors” would take within its scope and ambit “industrial alcohol”? One of the ways of answering these questions would be to compare Entry 84 – List I as it stood prior to 16.09.2016 with Entry 51 – List II although both are taxation Entries. Entry 84 – List I dealt with duties of excise on tobacco and other goods manufactured or produced in India except – (a) alcoholic liquors for human consumption; (b) opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics, but including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub-paragraph (b) of this Entry. Entry 51 – List II talks of duties of excise on the goods manufactured or produced in the State and countervailing duties at the same or lower rates on similar goods manufactured or produced elsewhere in India, namely, - (a) alcoholic liquors for human consumption; (b) opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics, but not including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub-paragraph (b) of this Entry. Both are taxation entries. 13.6 On a comparative reading of the said two Entries, what is evident is that excise duty on goods manufactured as per Entry 84 – List I excludes duty of excise on alcoholic liquors for human consumption. This is subject to the further exception that, if, any medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub-paragraph (b) of the said Entry, namely, opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics, then, the excise duty is leviable as per Entry 84 – List I by the Union or Central Government. Conversely, under Entry 51 – List II, goods manufactured or produced in the State would be subject to excise duty such as on – a) alcoholic liquors for human consumption; b) opium, Indian hemp 2136 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and other narcotic drugs and narcotics, but does not include medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub-paragraph (b) of the said Entry. In other words, alcoholic liquors not meant for human consumption and medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance such as opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics would be subject to excise duty leviable under Entry 84 – List I by the Central Government.