Marriage does not interpose any insuperable obstacle in the course of their studies. They can marry not only a second wife, on the death of the first, but have the right of marrying any number of wives at one and the same time, or any time they please. If married early, they are not called upon to go to the house and to submit to the tender mercies of a mother-in-law; nor is any restraint put upon their actions because of their marriage. But the case with women is the very reverse of this. If the girl is married at the age of eight (as most of them are), her parents are at liberty to send her to school till she is ten years old; but, if they wish to continue her at school longer, they must obtain the express permission of the girl’s mother-in-law. But even in these advanced times, and even in Bombay— the chief centre of civilization—how many mothers-in-law are there who send their daughters to school after they are ten years old!”53 26. While Rukhmabai’s case ultimately witnessed an out of court settlement and her freedom, another case around the same time jolted the conscience of the Indian society. ii. Phulmoni Dasi’s case 27. In 1889, Phulmoni Dasi was married off at the age of eleven years to a thirty-five-year-old man. At age eleven years and three months, she was subjected to marital rape by her husband, Hari Maiti. She succumbed to haemorrhage from a rupture of the vagina caused by her husband.54 The Court ruled that the law of rape was inapplicable because Phulmani had reached her tenth birthday and was married to Hari. The coverage of the case as well as the trial cast a male 53 Extracted from a letter written by Rukhmabai to the Times of India on 26 June 1885. 54 Jaya Sagade. Child Marriage in India: Socio-legal and human Rights Dimensions. Oxford University Press, 2nd ed. (2012) 37. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1543 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. medical gaze over the body of the deceased victim. Even after her death, she was subjected to scrutiny to determine her true age and growth. Questions of her immaturity and puberty were not sought as an ornate way to bring her husband to justice but were rather asked to defend him. 28. The gruesome case of Phulmani galvanised support for Malabari’s campaign to raise the age of consent. Phulmani’s case silenced the opposition among those who had opposed any legislative intervention as a colonial interference in the private sphere and practices.55 The death of Phulmani also cut through the lethargy of a colonial bureaucracy which was reluctant to intervene in matters of religion.56 The law member of the Viceroy’s Legislative Council, Andrew Scoble, prominently used Phulmani’s case to advocate for raising the age of consent by enacting his Bill, namely, the Age of Consent Bill. The Bill was an amendment to the IPC and raised the age of consent from ten years to twelve years.