In regard to the fake relationship certificate, services of about 20 persons including the appellants were terminated out of which 4 persons are before this Court. 4. The case of all the four appellants is identical and is based upon similar facts and as such the appeals of all four of them were taken up together for consideration and are being disposed of by this common . 5. In these appeals the challenge is to the common and of the Armed Forces Tribunal1, Kochi, dated 6.03.2014, whereby the Tribunal has refused to interfere with the discharge certificate, dismissing the appellants from service for adopting fraudulent means. Consequently, refusing the prayer of the appellants to reinstate them. 6. Notice in these appeals were issued only because the appellants before this Court wished to press that the appellants had never applied for enrollment in any reserved category. This was done on the statement of the counsel for the appellants which stands recorded in the dated 08.03.2016. 7. In view of the above factual position, the only question for our consideration in these appeals is whether the appellants had applied and were selected as general category candidates or were placed in any of the reserved category. 8. Briefly stated, after the appellants were enrolled/recruited in the Army, they were served with identical show cause notices contending that they have been enrolled in the Army by producing false relationship certificates and the documents produced by them on verification have been found to be fake/forged. Thus, calling upon them as to why they should not be dismissed from service. In response to the show cause notice, all the appellants submitted their response on identical lines 1 Hereinafter referred to as ‘the Tribunal’ 246 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that they were recruited in the Army after they have passed all exams and standards; they were not recruited on the basis of the claim that they were relatives of any serving or ex-servicemen personnel rather they had applied under the general category and as such there was no occasion for them to have produced any relationship certificate. In other words, they clearly denied having produced any certificate of relationship for the purposes of recruitment and as such contended that they cannot be charged of producing fake certificates. 9. The Maratha Light Infantry Regimental Centre by similar s dismissed all the appellants from service with effect from 9.05.2013. The discharge certificate issued to each of the appellant in unequivocal terms stated that they are being dismissed from service for the reason that they got themselves enrolled by adopting fraudulent means, referring to the fake relationship certificates as mentioned in the show cause notices. 10. In other words, the appellants were dismissed/discharged from service on the ground that at the time of their enrollment in the Army through Maratha Light Infantry Regimental Centre under the Unit Headquarters Quota in December, 2009 they had produced false relationship certificates which upon verification were found to be manipulated and false.