Siddhulal case was arising out of a suit for declaration on the basis of adverse possession and that, by way of consent decree, new right was created over the property, whereas the appellant herein preferred the suit for declaration and permanent injunction on the basis of his long and continuous ownership and possession of the subject land and he acquired pre-existing right over the same through consent decree. 4.2. It is also submitted by the learned counsel that there was no finding of collusion between the appellant and Respondent No.2 by any Court. 5 Mohd. Yusuf and others v. Rajkumar and others 6 [2020] 3 SCR 649 : (2020) 10 SCC 264 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1215 Mukesh v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Anr. 4.3. The learned counsel further submitted that court s or decrees are not chargeable with stamp duty unless they fall under specific categories of instruments enumerated in Schedule I read with section 3 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. In the present case, the consent decree in favor of the appellant is not chargeable with stamp duty, as it does not create any new right, but it conveys the pre-existing title, right or interest over the subject land. 4.4. Thus, according to the learned counsel, the of the High Court upholding the of the Collector of Stamps as affirmed by the Board of Revenue, determining stamp duty under Article 22A of Schedule 1A of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, and for recovery of the same from the appellant, is illegal and contrary to law and is hence, liable to be set aside. 5. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the Respondent No.1 submitted that during the pendency of the civil suit, the appellant and Respondent No. 2 mutually agreed to enter into a compromise and accordingly, presented an application to refer the case to National Lok Adalat and a compromise decree was passed on 30.11.2013 in Civil Suit No.47A/2013, by which, the Respondent No.2 was restrained from interfering with the appellant’s possession over the subject land and the appellant was entitled to get his name recorded in the revenue records in respect of the subject land. 5.1. It is further submitted that based on the reference made by the Tehsildar, Badnawar District, Dhar (MP), the Collector of Stamps initiated proceedings under section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 and vide dated 23.08.2016, directed the appellant to pay a sum of Rs.6,67,500/- towards stamp duty as per the market value of the subject land. According to the learned counsel, the Collector of Stamps has not gone into the question of registration, but has determined the stamp duty payable by the appellant for the subject land, which was also rightly affirmed by the Board of Revenue, by dated 12.02.2019 in the revision preferred by the appellant. 5.2. The learned counsel further submitted that admittedly, the subject land was not recorded in the name of the appellant in the revenue records maintained by the State and there was a dispute regarding title of the property.