Accordingly, it is held that the suit is maintainable. 10. In the present suit for recovery it cannot be said that the suit is of a nature which has impact of or threat to the properties of the defendant No. 1 sick company to affect the scheme of revival. The suit is a simple suit for 376 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports recovery under 37 CPC not having proceedings, whether interim or final, of execution, distress or the like and hence the suit is not hit by Section 22 of SICA. So far as defendant No. 2/guarantor is concerned, the suit against him will not surely hit any assets of the sick company and hence is not barred under Section 22 of SICA.” (Emphasis supplied) 96. In one recent decision of the Delhi High Court in Chhattisgarh Distilleries Ltd. v. Percept Advertising Limited reported in 2023 SCC OnLine Del 6417, while considering the question on applicability of Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act, it was held thus: “8. It is well settled that there was legal duty cast upon the appellant/defendant to bring it to the notice of the Court that it had qualified for the protection under the SICA, and this obligation was not discharged. There is no gainsaying that the aforesaid provision has been interpreted in umpteen number of cases decided by the Apex Court as well as this Court. In the cited case of Saketh India Limited (supra), it was observed that the phrase “recovery of money” must be construed ejusdem generis and accordingly recovery proceedings in the nature of execution or any other coercive enforcement that has been ordained to be not maintainable. There is nothing in the said provision so as to hold the legal proceedings to be not maintainable, or liable to be halted, even if the debt sought to be proved in the plaint has not been admitted. Furthermore, it was observed that there can be no logic in denying legal recourse to a party for proving its debt. The said decision was relied upon by this Court again in the decision of Ralson Industries Ltd. (now known as Da Rubber Industries Ltd) (supra), wherein it was categorically held that the proceedings that can be halted by invoking Section 22 of the SICA should be in the nature of execution, distress or the like.” (Emphasis supplied) 97. From the aforesaid discussion, the position of law on the first issue before us appears to be that for the applicability of Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act, three aspects need to be considered – [2024] 5 S.C.R. 377 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited I. First, an inquiry under Section 16 of the 1985 Act must be pending; or any scheme referred to in Section 17 of the 1985 Act must be under preparation or consideration or a sanctioned scheme must be under implementation; or an appeal under Section 25 of the 1985 Act must be pending – in relation the company against whom the legal proceedings sought to be suspended have been initiated.