The Central Administrative Tribunal annulled this decision of the Government. In proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution before a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court, the decision of the Central Administrative Tribunal was partly affirmed. The appeals arising from the decision of the High Court resulted in the case before this Court. 91. In that case, a committee was appointed to conduct an enquiry into the complaints regarding malpractice during the exam. In its report, the committee inter alia found that a large number of candidates in the zone of selection hailed from a small geographical area within Delhi, a significant proportion of candidates belonged to the same community (as indicated by their surnames), and the failure to randomise the seating plan resulted in candidates from the same family being seated in consecutive seats. In addition, the committee noted that certain persons had masterminded a racket which led to the impersonation of candidates, the leakage of question papers, and the dilution of the processes in place to ensure the fair conduct of the exam, including blurring of videography, faulty jammers, etc. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 89 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India & Ors. 92. The Government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi then constituted a second committee to scrutinise candidates who were in the zone of consideration with a view to identifying cases of impersonation. This committee found that there were no irregularities with the candidature of those persons who had come forth for assessment. The Deputy Chief Minister of Delhi then cancelled the examination, leading to the eventual challenge of his decision. 93. The question in Sachin Kumar (supra) was whether the decision to cancel the recruitment process was justified. The Court held that the credibility of the entire exam stood vitiated by systemic irregularities, as highlighted by the findings of the first committee appointed by the government. It found that the allegations made regarding the sanctity of the exam had been substantiated by the investigation which followed. It therefore upheld the decision of the Deputy Chief Minister to cancel the exam and set aside the of the High Court. 94. That case, too, is distinct from the one before us. In Sachin Kumar (supra), the material before the Court was sufficient to lead to the conclusion that there was mass malpractice, which attacked the integrity of the exam at a systemic level. This is indicated by the fact that a large number of candidates in the zone of selection were from the same concentrated geographical region and that candidates from the same family were sitting in consecutive spots during the exam. There was also impersonation and the coordinated dilution of security protocols in that case. There was an abundance of material before the Court in that case. The same cannot be said to be true in the instant case. Hence, the ruling in that case cannot influence the outcome in this case. Moreover, in cases such as these, courts must take a holistic view of the facts before them and reach an independent conclusion.