ii. After an application under Sections 7, 9, or 10 is admitted, but before the CoC has been constituted: Although Section 12A continues to be silent on this aspect, after the decision in Swiss Ribbons (supra), Regulation 30A was amended to provide for this eventuality. An application for withdrawal in such cases may be made by the applicant through the IRP.46 The IRP will then place the application before the NCLT, which may pass an either approving or rejecting the application. As noted above, once the application has been admitted, the proceedings 46 Regulation 30A (1), CIRP Regulations, 2016. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1843 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. are no longer the sole preserve of the applicant creditor and the corporate debtor. They are now in rem and at this stage, the NCLT must hear the concerned parties and consider all relevant factors before approving or rejecting the application for withdrawal. The NCLT being a quasi-judicial body, must not act as a mere post office, which stamps and approves every settlement agreement, without application of judicial mind. iii. After an application under Section 7, 9 or 10 is admitted, the CoC has been constituted and the invitation for expression of interest has not been issued: Section 12A read with Regulation 30A provides exhaustively for this scenario. In such cases, the application for withdrawal is to be placed before the NCLT, through the IRP or the RP. The application is first placed before the CoC and after ascertaining approval with a ninety percent voting share, the RP shall submit the application to the NCLT. iv. After an application under Section 7, 9 or 10 is admitted, the CoC has been formed and the invitation for expression of interest has been issued: The procedure is the same as that detailed in (iii) above, with the added requirement stemming from the proviso to Regulation 30A (1). in such cases, the applicant must state the reasons for withdrawal at this belated stage. 64. Not only is there an exhaustive framework to deal with withdrawal and settlement, but the evolution of the law and the creation of an comprehensive framework indicates an attempt to reduce reliance on discretionary powers. As detailed above, the IBC and the allied rules and regulations, in their original form did not provide any procedure for the settlement/withdrawal of claims after admission of the application by the creditor. This Court was compelled to invoke Article 142 in decisions such as Lokhandwala Kataria Construction (supra) and Uttara Foods & Feeds (P) Ltd. (supra). To reduce reliance on Article 142, Section 12A and Regulation 30A were introduced to provide a detailed procedure for such cases. In fact, the ILC report which led to the inclusion of Section 12A specifically discussed and rejected the proposition that Rule 11 can instead be used for this purpose. Next, this Court in Swiss Ribbons (supra) held that since there was no prescribed framework to allow settlement/withdrawal of claims after admission of the application but before the CoC was 1844 [2024] 10 S.C.R.