(3) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule, or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the cases may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule. 8 27. Procedure for the award of punishments — (a) [The punishments shown as items 1 to 11 in column 2 of the table] below may be inflicted on non-- Gazetted Officers and men of the various ranks shown in each of the headings of columns 3 to 6, by the authorities named below such headings under the conditions mentioned in column 7. [TABLE 438 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports SI. Punishment Subedar Sub Others Consts. Remarks No. (inspector) Inspector except & Const. & enrolled enrolled followers followers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1. Dismissal or removal from DIGP DIGP Comdt. Comdt. the Force 2. Reduction to a lower time- DIGP DIGP Comdt. Comdt. scale of pay or service To be inflicted 3. Reduction to a lower DIGP DIGP Comdt. Comdt. after formal stage in the time-scale of departmental pay for a specified period enquiry 4. Compulsory retirement DIGP DIGP Comdt. Comdt. 5. Fine of any amount not DIGP DIGP Comdt. Comdt. exceeding one month’s pay and allowances 6. Confinement in the - - - Comdt. Quarter Guard exceeding seven days but not more than twenty eight days with or without punishment drill or extra guard fatigue or other duty 7. Stoppage of increment DIGP DIGP Comdt. Comdt. 8.. Removal from any office DIGP DIGP Comdt. Comdt. May be of distinction or special inflicted emolument in the Force without a formal departmental enquiry 9. Censure Comdt. Comdt. Asstt. A. Comdt. Comdt. or Coy or Coy Comdr. Comdr. 10. Confinement to quarter - - - Comdt. Guard for not more than seven days with or without punishment or extra guard fatigue or other duty 11. Confinement to quarters - - - Comdt. lines, camp, punishment, drill, fatigue duties, etc., for a term not exceeding one month Note— 1. When the post of Deputy Inspector General remains unfilled for a period of over one month at a time the Commandant shall exercise the powers of punishing the Subedars (Inspectors) and Sub- Inspectors except the powers of ing dismissal or removal from the Force. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 439 Union of India & Ors. v. Santosh Kumar Tiwari termination of service, it is nothing but a species of removal, which is permissible under the CRPF Rules.