Liquids which contain alcohol and which can possibly be used (or misused) as intoxicating liquor have been included within the meaning of the phrase. 83. We will test this proposition in the subsequent sections. In our opinion, there are four possible approaches that we can adopt to determine the meaning of the expression ‘intoxicating liquor’. The first is through the identification of the ‘legislative meaning’ of the 145 “66. Fees in respect of any of the matters in this List, but not including fees taken in any Court.” 146 (1971) 2 SCC 236 [3] 147 (1971) 2 SCC 236 [11] [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2011 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons phrase intoxicating liquor; the second is through legislative history; the third, is the common parlance test, and the fourth is the principle of workability. We will discuss the merits and demerits of each of the above approaches in turn. b. The legal import of ‘intoxicating liquor’ 84. The petitioners submit that the expression ‘intoxicating liquor’ is a term of recognised legal import because it has been used in numerous statutes that pre-date the 1935 Act, where the phrase was first used in Entry 31 of List II. The principle of ‘legal import’ has been used by this Court to interpret entries in the Seventh Schedule. In Gannon Dunkerley (supra), a Constitution Bench dealt with the interpretation of Entry 48 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the 1935 Act which specified the field of ‘taxes on the sale of goods’. This Court was required to interpret the phrase ‘sale of goods’. On one side it was contended that the term must be given the ‘popular meaning’ and on the other side, it was contended that it must be given the ‘legal meaning’. This Court chose the latter. The Bench laid down the standard to determine when a phrase has obtained a legal meaning. This Court laid down a two-prong test: first, the phrase should have acquired a well-recognised, definite and precise meaning in law;148 and second, the legal import of the word must be practically unanimous.149 It is also crucial to note that in this case, the popular meaning of the phrase was not widely different from the legal meaning150.151 148 “The ratio of the rule of interpretation that words of legal import occurring in a statute should be construed in their legal sense is that those words have, in law acquired a definite and precise sense, and that, accordingly, the legislature must be taken to have intended that they should be understood in that sense. In interpreting an expression used in a legal sense, therefore, we have only to ascertain the precise connotation which it possesses in law.” [emphasis supplied] 149 “It will be seen from the foregoing that there is practical unanimity of opinion as to the import of the word “sale” in its legal sense 150 “Now, in its popular sense, a sale is said to take place when the bargain is settled between the parties, though property in the goods may not pass at that stage, as where the contract relates to future or unascertained goods, and it is that sense that the learned Judge would appear to have had in his mind when he spoke of a commercial or business sense.