In Avitel Post Studioz Ltd. v. HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius) Ltd.,296 this Court held that the most basic notions of morality and justice under the concept of “public policy” will include bias. 160. The provisions of the statute, including Section 34, highlight the important role played by the Indian legal system in recognising and enforcing arbitral awards. It is one such instance where the Indian courts exercise a measure of control over the private arbitral process.297 This control over the arbitral process ensures that the arbitral awards are made by following certain minimum standards of due process and justice.298 Thus, the courts must ensure that the arbitral awards are consistent with the fundamental policy of Indian law such as compliance with the principles of natural justice. As a corollary, Section 34 places a responsibility on the arbitral tribunals 295 2024 SCC OnLine SC 2600 296 (2024) 7 SCC 197 [34] 297 Redfern and Hunter (supra) 58 298 Ibid. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2273 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company to ensure that the arbitral proceedings are consistent with the fundamental policy of Indian law.299 161. By agreeing to arbitrate in a public-private contract, the government or its companies agree to settle their disputes with private contractors through arbitration. Since the activities of the government have a public element, it is incumbent upon the government to ensure that it enters into a contract with the public without adopting any unfair or unreasonable procedure.300 Every action of a public authority or a person acting in the public interest or any act that gives rise to a public element must be based on principles of fairness and non- arbitrariness.301 Therefore, government agencies have to consider the principles of equality and non-arbitrariness when crafting arbitration procedures, including the procedure for the appointment of arbitrators. The terms of the arbitration agreement must meet the minimum standards of equality and fairness. In a public-private contract, the government and its instrumentalities must ensure that the arbitral process contemplated by the contract is also fair to the other party to avoid arbitrariness. 162. The possibility of bias is real in situations where an arbitration clause allows a government company to unilaterally appoint a sole arbitrator or control the majority of the arbitrators. Since the government has control over the arbitral tribunal, it can chart the course of the 299 Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corporation (2021) 2 SCC 1 [70] [“70. Arbitrators, like the courts, are equally bound to resolve and decide disputes in accordance with the public policy of the law. Possibility of failure to abide by public policy consideration in a legislation, which otherwise does not expressly or by necessary implication exclude arbitration, cannot form the basis to overwrite and nullify the arbitration agreement. This would be contrary to and defeat the legislative intent reflected in the public policy objective behind the Arbitration Act. Arbitration has considerable advantages as it gives freedom to the parties to choose an arbitrator of their choice, and it is informal, flexible and quick.