Digital Supreme Court Reports this Court in the case of B. Vijaya Bharathi v. P. Savitri & Ors.3, and submitted that the plaintiffs are disentitled to relief of specific performance as they have not prayed in the plaint for setting aside or cancelling the subsequent sale deeds. Learned senior counsel also relied upon Section 154-B of the Uttaranchal (The Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950) (Adaption and Modification , 2001) (Amendment) Ordinance, 2003 (for short, ‘the Zamindari Abolition Act”). He submitted that as the 1st plaintiff is not an agriculturist within the meaning of Section 3(a) thereof, in view of Section 154-B, a sale deed cannot be executed in terms of the suit agreement. He also pointed out that the legal representatives of the first respondent (first Plaintiff) have not chosen to contest the appeal despite service of notice. Therefore, they are not interested in contesting the appeal. QUESTIONS FOR CONSIDERATION 10. After having considered the submissions of the learned counsel appearing for the appellants, we find that the following questions arise: a) Can the contention that the suit agreement was sham and bogus and not intended to be acted upon be allowed to be raised notwithstanding Sections 91 and 92 of the Evidence Act? b) Was the suit agreement sham and bogus and not intended to be acted upon? c) Were the second to fourth defendants bona fide purchasers for value without notice of the suit agreement? d) Whether, in view of the decision of this Court in the case of B. Vijaya Bharathi3, the plaintiffs are not entitled to a decree of specific performance in the absence of any prayer for cancellation of the two subsequent sale deeds? e) Do the provisions of the Zamindari Abolition Act create a bar on the execution of the sale deed in terms of the suit agreement? f) Whether the plaintiffs are entitled to a decree of specific performance? 3 [2017] 7 SCR 746 : (2018) 11 SCC 761 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 405 Maharaj Singh & Ors. v. Karan Singh (Dead) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. FIRST TWO QUESTIONS – (a) AND (b) 11. Now, we come to the first two questions. Right from the decision of the Privy Council in the case of Tyagaraja Mudaliyar1 the law is well settled. Section 91 of the Evidence Act excludes oral evidence of the terms of the written document by requiring those terms to be proved by the document itself. Section 92 excludes oral evidence for contradicting, varying, adding to or subtracting to such terms. These two sections do not prevent parties from adducing evidence on the issue of whether the parties to the documents had agreed to contract on the terms set forth in the document. 12. Coming to the facts of the case, firstly, we must refer to the pleadings of the legal representative of the first defendant. In paragraph 11 of her written statement, she raised the following contention: “………………………………………………… 11. That the real facts are that plaintiff Murari Singh is the brother of answering respondent and Karan Singh is his friend.