74 Section 3(2), PCMA. 75 Section 3(4), PCMA. 76 Section 3(4), PCMA. 77 Section 4(1), PCMA. 78 Section 4(1), PCMA. 79 Section 4(1), PCMA. 1552 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports income of the paying party.80 Clause (4) of Section 4 empowers the district court to make a suitable for the residence of the female contracting party to a child marriage who files an annulment petition. 46. Section 5 of the PCMA provides for the custody and maintenance of children of child marriages. The PCMA is oriented on the universal principal of child law, which is that the welfare and beneficial interest of the child has to be paramount. The provision governs the custody of the child, the visitation rights of parents as well as the maintenance of a child born from a child marriage. The district court is empowered to make an as to the custody of a child born from a child marriage81 keeping in mind the welfare and best interest of the child.82 The court may also pass an granting the other party access to the child in a manner that serves its best interest.83 The child or its parents or guardians may also be awarded maintenance by the court.84 Therefore, the PCMA has sought to ensure the upkeep and protection of women and children in families which emerge from a child marriage. 47. One of the critiques against rendering child marriages void is that women and children would lose the protective shield of the law, which accrues to them under a valid marriage. The PCMA has repelled this criticism by specifically providing for the maintenance of women and children in a child marriage notwithstanding a decree of nullity being granted under Section 3 of the Act. The Act further protects a child born from a child marriage by declaring that such a child, begotten or conceived of a child marriage, shall be deemed legitimate for all purposes under the law.85 48. The maintenance of women and children has been a feature of our family laws. It recognises the inherent maldistribution of economic resources and life opportunities between men and women. It further recognises the innocence of the children who end up in broken families due to no fault of theirs. The status of these universally recognised vulnerable persons is further made tragic in a child marriage because 80 Section 4(2), PCMA. 81 Section 5(1), PCMA. 82 Section 5(2), PCMA. 83 Section 5(3), PCMA. 84 Section 5(4), PCMA. 85 Section 6, PCMA. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1553 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. all child marriages are forced marriages. Children are made to enter into matrimony before arriving at the age of intelligent consent and are often unaware of the responsibilities, duties and rights which accrue to members of the marital union in the eyes of the law as well as society. When the party to a child marriage ends up in a situation which is not oftheir making, the vulnerability of the child born from such marriage is heightened.