Enriched by the valuable insights shared in discussions with my esteemed colleagues Justice J.B. Pardiwala and Justice Manoj Misra, we have framed a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) specifically addressing the appearance of Government Officials before the courts. At its core, this SOP emphasizes the critical need for courts to exercise consistency and restraint. It aims to serve as a guiding framework, steering courts away from the arbitrary and frequent summoning of government officials and promoting maturity in their functioning. The SOP is set out below: Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on Personal Appearance of Government Officials in Court Proceedings This Standard Operating Procedure is applicable to all court proceedings involving the government in cases before the Supreme Court, High Courts and all other courts acting under their respective appellate and/or original jurisdiction or proceedings related to contempt of court. 1. Personal presence pending adjudication of a dispute 1.1 Based on the nature of the evidence taken on record, proceedings may broadly be classified into three categories: 236 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS a. Evidence-based Adjudication: These proceedings involve evidence such as documents or oral statements. In these proceedings, a government official may be required to be physically present for testimony or to present relevant documents. Rules of procedure, such as the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, or Criminal Procedure Code 1973, govern these proceedings. b. Summary Proceedings: These proceedings, often called summary proceedings, rely on affidavits, documents, or reports. They are typically governed by the Rules of the Court set by the High Court and principles of Natural Justice. c. Non-adversarial Proceedings: While hearing non- adversarial proceedings, the court may require the presence of government officials to understand a complex policy or technical matter that the law officers of the government may not be able to address. 1.2 Other than in cases falling under para 1.1(a) above, if the issues can be addressed through affidavits and other documents, physical presence may not be necessary and should not be directed as a routine measure. 1.3 The presence of a government official may be directed, inter alia, in cases where the court is prima facie satisfied that specific information is not being provided or is intentionally withheld, or if the correct position is being suppressed or misrepresented. 1.4 The court should not direct the presence of an official solely because the official’s stance in the affidavit differs from the court’s view. In such cases, if the matter can be resolved based on existing records, it should be decided on merits accordingly. 2. Procedure prior to directing personal presence 2.1 In exceptional cases wherein the in-person appearance of a government official is called for by the court, the court should allow as a first option, the officer to appear before it through video conferencing. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 237 THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. v. ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED SUPREME COURT AND HIGH COURT JUDGES AT ALLAHABAD & ORS 2.2 The Invitation Link for VC appearance and viewing, as the case may be, must be sent by the Registry of the court to the given mobile no(s)/e-mail id(s) by SMS/email/ WhatsApp of the concerned official at least one day before the scheduled hearing 2.3 When the personal presence of an official is directed, reasons should be recorded as to why such presence is required.