9.4 Section 31(7) of the Act determines the grant of interest. The relevant provision is extracted hereunder for ready reference. “31. Form and contents of arbitral award.— (7) (a) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, where and in so far as an arbitral award is for the payment of money, the arbitral tribunal may include in the sum for which the award is made interest, at such rate [2024] 8 S.C.R. 629 Pam Developments Private Limited v. The State of West Bengal & Anr. as it deems reasonable, on the whole or any part of the money, for the whole or any part of the period between the date on which the cause of action arose and the date on which the award is made. (b) A sum directed to be paid by an arbitral award shall, unless the award otherwise directs, carry interest at the rate of two per cent higher than the current rate of interest prevalent on the date of award, from the date of award to the date of payment. Explanation.—The expression “current rate of interest” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (b) of section 2 of the Interest Act, 1978 (14 of 1978).” 9.5 The power of the Arbitrator to grant pre-reference interest, pendente lite interest, and post-award interest under Section 31(7) of the Act is fairly well-settled. The judicial determinations also highlight the difference in the position of law under the Arbitration Act, 1940. The following propositions can be summarised from a survey of these cases: I. Under the Arbitration Act, 1940, there was no specific provision that empowered an Arbitrator to grant interest. However, through judicial pronouncements, this Court has affirmed the power of the Arbitrator to grant pre- reference, pendente lite, and post-award interest on the rationale that a person who has been deprived of the use of money to which he is legitimately entitled has a right to be compensated for the same.2 When the agreement does not prohibit the grant of interest and a party claims interest, it is presumed that interest is an implied term of the agreement, and therefore, the Arbitrator has the power to decide the same.3 II. Under the 1940 Act, this Court has adopted a strict 2 Secretary, Irrigation Department, Government of Orissa v. G.C. Roy (1992) 1 SCC 508, para 43(i). Also see Executive Engineer, Dhenkanal Minor Irrigation Division, Orissa v. N.C. Budharaj, (2001) 2 SCC 721; Union of India v. Krafters Engg. and Leasing (P) Ltd. (2011) 7 SCC 279 3 G.C. Roy (supra), paras 43(iv) and 44. 630 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports construction of contractual clauses that prohibit the grant of interest and has held that the Arbitrator has the power to award interest unless there is an express, specific provision that excludes the jurisdiction of the Arbitrator4 from awarding interest for the dispute in question.5 III. Under the 1996 Act, the power of the Arbitrator to grant interest is governed by the statutory provision in Section 31(7).