This does not purport to be an exhaustive essay on guide lines but may point to some extent, the direction in which the proposed Commission should move.” 127. It could thus be seen that the Learned Judge supports applying the economic criterion for the purpose of compensatory discrimination or affirmative action. According to the Learned Judge, it would strike at the root cause of social and educational backwardness. He further states that simultaneously it would be a vital step in the direction of destruction of caste structure which in turn would advance the secular character of the Nation. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1521 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 128. Though he cautioned that such an approach does not deal with reservation in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, however, even in their cases, economic criterion is worth applying by refusing preferred treatment to those amongst them who have already benefited by it and improved their position. 129. Rejecting the contention that the reservation is anti-imperialist, Chinnappa Reddy, J. observed thus: “35. One of the results of the superior, elitist approach is that the question of reservation is invariably viewed as the conflict between the meritarian principle and the compensatory principle. No, it is not so. The real conflict is between the class of people, who have never been in or who have already moved out of the desert of poverty, illiteracy and backwardness and are entrenched in the oasis of convenient living and those who are still in the desert and want to reach the oasis. There is not enough fruit in the garden and so those who are in, want to keep out those who are out. The disastrous consequences of the so-called meritarian principle to the vast majority of the under-nourished, poverty-stricken, barely literate and vulnerable people of our country are too obvious to be stated. And, what is merit? There is no merit in a system which brings about such consequences. Is not a child of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or other backward classes who has been brought up in an atmosphere of penury, illiteracy and anti-culture, who is looked down upon by tradition and Society, who has no books and magazines to read at home, no radio to listen, no TV to watch, no one to help him with his home work, who goes to the nearest local board school and college, whose parents are either illiterate or so ignorant and ill-informed that he cannot even hope to seek their advice on any matter of importance, a child who must perforce trudge to the nearest public reading room to read a newspaper to know what is happening in the world, has not this child got merit if he, with all his disadvantages is able to secure the qualifying 40 per cent or 50 per cent of the marks at a competitive examination where the children of the upper classes who have all the advantages, who go to St. Paul’s 1522 [2024] 8 S.C.R.