2 [2023] 14 SCR 47 : (2023) 9 SCC 581 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 193 Babu Sahebagouda Rudragoudar and Others v. State of Karnataka 40. The appellate Court, in to interfere with the of acquittal would have to record pertinent findings on the above factors if it is inclined to reverse the of acquittal rendered by the trial Court. 41. In light of the above legal principles, if we go through the impugned , we find that none of these essential mandates governing an appeal against acquittal were adverted to by learned Division Bench of the High Court which proceeded to virtually decide the appeal as a first Court on independent appreciation of evidence and recorded its own findings to hold the accused appellants(A-1, A-2 and A-3) guilty of the charge under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC and sentenced them to imprisonment for life. 42. Thus, on the face of record, the of the High Court causing interference with the acquittal of the accused appellants as recorded by the trial Court is contrary to the principles established by law. 43. Keeping the above scenario in mind, we now proceed to analyse the evidence and shall assign our reasons regarding the impugned being flawed, with reference to the material infirmities and lacunae in the prosecution case. 44. The place of occurrence is admittedly at a distance of 10 kms from Police Station Tikota. The complainant(PW-1), father of the deceased Malagounda claiming to be an eye witness of the incident deposed that he lodged a complaint(Exhibit P-1) at the police station at 4 am, which resulted into registration of FIR(Exhibit P-10). It was alleged in the report that the complainant along with PW-2, PW-3, PW-4 and PW-5(servants, who had accompanied the deceased Malagounda to erect a bund in their land) witnessed the incident wherein, the assailants including the appellants herein, assaulted and killed the deceased by inflicting injuries with sharp weapons. It may be noted that even though the complainant(PW-1), the deceased and the labourers were all going together and the assailants were six in number, none other than the deceased Malagounda received a single injury in the incident. 45. Relevant portions from the evidence of complainant(PW-1) have been extracted and highlighted above and on going through the same, we find that his testimony suffers from patent infirmities, contradictions and inherent loopholes which brings him within the category of wholly unreliable witness. 194 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 46. The complainant(PW-1) stated in his evidence that he saw the brutal assault launched by the appellants and A-4(Sahebagouda) on his son Malagounda which took place at 4.00 pm or 5.00 pm in the evening of 19th September, 2001. While the incident was going on, he hid amongst the bushes so as to avoid being harmed by the assailants. The complainant did not state anything about the accused going away from the crime scene after the incident. However, he claimed that he returned back to his house just after sunset. The incident took place in the month of September and thus, it can be presumed that sunset must have occurred around 6:15 to 6.30 pm.