The CEC has also expressed that even the visitors to the Tiger Safari can be carriers of diseases and pests. It has recommended that the Tiger Safaris, not being site-specific, are to be discouraged within the forest areas. 143. The CEC has further expressed that there is a great risk to free- ranging animals from zoos/Safaris which have been set up close to the wildlife-rich protected areas because of epidemiological reasons. It states that zoonosis, especially of infectious diseases, is commonly found in zoo/safari animals, including the tigers. It states that, hundreds of pathogens and many different transmission modes are involved and many factors influence the epidemiology of the various such zoonosis. It further states that the risk of such zoonotic disease transmission drastically increases in any setting where wild animals are confined in close proximity to humans, including the public display facilities like zoos and safaris. 144. The report refers to some of the studies in various zoos/Safari Parks, including Hyderabad Zoo, Jaipur Zoo, Etawah Safari Park, etc. 145. The CEC elaborately refers to various mortalities that occurred in various zoos in the recent past. The CEC report also refers to the stand of the NTCA about the in-principle approvals that have been granted by them for 5 Tiger Safaris in and around the Tiger Reserves of India. The report states that the NTCA highlighted the following main advantages/disadvantages in setting up zoos and safaris within the forest area/protected area/Tiger Reserve : “Advantages i. Will help to reduce the pressure from core/critical tiger habitat area ii. Will facilitate promotion of conservation education and livelihood generation 282 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Disadvantages i. Its an intensive resource use establishment ii. Clearance/modification of forest area will have to be resorted to in certain cases.” 146. The CEC also refers to the stand of the CZA with regard to locating the Tiger Safaris inside the Tiger Reserves. The report states thus : “55. A. The Central Zoo Authority have supported the establishment of Tiger Safari inside the Tiger Reserve stating that : i. there is need for development of off-display facilities under fairly undisturbed conditions alongwith availability of adequate and optimal land and which may be challenging. Under the given circumstances, forest land could offer optimal conditions to establish such facilities; ii. standards/norms for recognition of Elephant Rehabilitation/Rescue Centres (ERC) under Section 42 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 recommends that ERCS should be located, preferably near the forest areas with access to water body/streams (F.No.2-5/2006-PE (Vol.II) dated 29.10.2017; iii. as per provision 2.1.4 of National Zoo Policy, 1998,’…. zoos shall continue to function as rescue centres for orphaned wild animals, subject to the availability of appropriate housing and upkeep infrastructure…’. In consonance with this, Rescue Centres are an important component of all recognized zoos in the country. This will therefore aid in the mitigation of conflict in a particular region (e.g. to ensure that rescued animals do not have to be transported long- distances/have a better chance at rehabilitation); and iv.