***** 1824 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 13. The High Court has taken the view that raising the period from five years to seven and half years’ practice for purpose of calling the candidates for interview amounted to changing the statutory criteria by an administrative decision. According to us, the High Court has not appreciated the true implication of the short-listing which does not amount to altering or changing of the criteria prescribed in the rule, but is only a part of the selection process. … As we have already pointed out that where the selection is to be made purely on the basis of interview, if the applications for such posts are enormous in number with reference to the number of posts available to be filled up, then the Commission or the Selection Board has no option but to short-list such applicants on some rational and reasonable basis.” (emphasis supplied) 30. The principle discernible from the above decision as well as those cited on behalf of the appellants is that whenever selection is based solely on the performance of the aspirants in the interview, it is not open to the recruiting authorities to dilute in any manner the norms and standards prescribed by the statutory provisions or executive s governing recruitment for screening aspirants to be called for interview; however, it is always open to them to prescribe enhanced norms to have the zone of consideration for interview restricted to those aspirants satisfying the enhanced norms or higher criteria. In such cases, however, care has to be taken such that the enhanced norms or higher criteria are not susceptible to a challenge on the ground of arbitrariness or being contrary to the statutory provisions or executive s governing recruitment. Whether, relIef can be granted In the abSence Of requISIte pleadIngS? 31. The necessity for appropriate pleadings in a writ petition cannot be overemphasized, particularly when such petitions are mainly decided on affidavit evidence and not witness action. 32. Without a doubt, a court cannot in the absence of the requisite pleadings grant relief claimed by a party. We first propose to notice two decisions which arose out of pure civil proceedings and then two decisions arising out of writ proceedings. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1825 Allahabad University Etc. v. Geetanjali Tiwari (Pandey) & Ors. Etc. Etc. 33. In Pt.Shamboo Nath Tikoo v. S. Gian Singh,30 this Court held as follows: “20. No doubt, the finding recorded by the learned third Judge (Farooqi, J.) that two rooms of Dharamshalla had been granted by Maharaja Partap Singh in favour of the Sikh community-defendants, accords with the finding of another learned Judge (Jalal-ud-Din, J.). But, that finding, in our view, becomes wholly unsustainable being altogether a new case made out for the defendants by him, in that, such case is not in any way traceable to the pleas of defence of the defendants set out in their written statements against their ejectment from the said two rooms.” 34. Bachhaj Nahar v. Nilima Mandal 31 is a decision where one finds a neat discussion on the object and purpose of pleadings.