The present application is eligible to be granted if the co- accused is investigated properly and the modus operandi of the offence is placed on record. In furtherance at this stage there is truth in the reasons stated. The present application is eligible to be granted if the co- accused is investigated properly and the modus operandi of the crime is placed on record. In furtherance, it is to be noted at this stage that Learned Advocate Shri Dipesh Dalal has emphasized on the of the Hon’ble Supreme Court but in that no has been made that 246 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the investigating officer cannot ask for remand or the court here cannot grant remand so the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the matter of Satender Antil versus CBI All the principles laid down in the have been followed by this Court. In the present matter Remand application not automatically but taking into consideration the circumstances of the matter, diary and conduct of the accused, I consider the following to be appropriate just and appropriate in the interest of justice. (emphasis supplied) // // Remand application is partly allowed. Police custody remand of Accused Tushar Rajnikant Shah is granted till 16/12/2023 at 1500 hrs. Signature of accused person and Investigation Officer shall be obtained below passed. Investigation Officer shall strictly adhere [follow] the guideline of Hon’ble Supreme Court and send a copy of this to Chief Judicial Magistrate. Pronounced this on 13/12/2023 in the open court. 13/12/2023 Deepaben Sanjaykumar Thakar Surat 6th Addl. Chief Judicial city Surat [GJ00943] Seen Sign Illegible Seen Sign Illegible Accused is taken into custody And remand copy is received. Sign Illegible Today explanation of remand is received, Sign Illegible” 8. The petitioner has alleged that during the period of police custody remand, he was tortured by the Deputy Commissioner of Police(contemnor- [2024] 8 S.C.R. 247 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. respondent No. 3) and the Police Inspector(contemnor-respondent No. 4). It is further alleged that upon completion of the period of remand, the petitioner was compelled by the 6th ACJM, i.e., contemnor- respondent No. 7 to move a regular bail application under Section 437 CrPC which was objected to by the learned Assistant Public Prosecutor(in short ‘APP’). The 6th ACJM(contemnor-respondent No. 7) proceeded to allow the application for bail vide dated 16th December, 2023. 9. On 16th December, 2023, when the petitioner was presented before the 6th ACJM(contemnor-respondent No. 7) at the end of the remand period, he made a complaint regarding torture in police custody which fact was noted by the 6th ACJM(contemnor-respondent No. 7) in the sheet dated 16th December, 2023. The 6th ACJM(contemnor- respondent No. 7) proceeded to record the statement of the petitioner virtually as if he was being cross-examined. She also undertook an exercise of self-observation of the legs of the accused-petitioner and made a remark in the proceeding sheet that no signs of beating were visible thereupon. These proceedings are relevant to the issue at hand in a limited sphere and thus, the same are reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of ready reference:- “My name is Tushar Rajnikant Shah, I am 43 years old.