Varadachariar, J. also states that the question must be determined with reference to the nature of the allegations made against the public servant in the criminal proceeding. But a careful perusal of the later parts of their s shows that they did not intend to lay down any such proposition. Sulaiman, J. refers (at P-179) to the prosecution case as disclosed by the complaint or the police report and he winds up the discussion in these words:“Of course, if the case as put forward fails or the defence establishes that the act purported to be done is in execution of duty, the proceedings will have to be dropped and the complaint dismissed on that ground”. The other learned Judge also states at p. 185, “At this stage we have only to see whether the case alleged against the appellant or sought to be proved against him relates to acts done or purporting to be done by him in the execution of his duty”. It must be so. The question may arise at any stage of the [2024] 1 S.C.R. 565 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. proceedings. The complaint may not disclose that the act constituting the offence was done or purported to be done in the discharge of official duty; but facts subsequently coming to light on a police or judicial inquiry or even in the course of the prosecution evidence at the trial, may establish the necessity for sanction. Whether sanction is necessary or not may have to be determined from stage to stage. The necessity may reveal itself in the course of the progress of the case. xxx xxx xxx 23. Where a power is conferred or a duty imposed by statute or otherwise, and there is nothing said expressly inhibiting the exercise of the power or the performance of the duty by any limitations or restrictions, it is reasonable to hold that it carries with it the power of doing all such acts or employing such means as are reasonably necessary for such execution. If in the exercise of the power or the performance of the official duty, improper or unlawful obstruction or resistance is encountered, there must be the right to use reasonable means to remove the obstruction or overcome the resistance. This accords with commonsense and does not seem contrary to any principle of law. The true position is neatly stated thus in Broom’s Legal Maxims, 10th Edn. at p. 312:“ It is a rule that when the law commands a thing to be done, it authorises the performance of whatever may be necessary for executing its command.” The scope of operation of Section 17A of the 1988 Act is, however, different from that of Section 197 of the Code. The requirement of taking sanction under Section 19 of the 1988 Act also is at the same stage. Unlike Section 197 of 1973 Code (which is near identically phrased as the same section in the earlier version of the Code), Section 17A of the 1988 Act imposes restriction on police officer at the enquiry stage itself, from proceeding against a public servant in relation to any offence alleged to have been committed by him, relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by such public servant (emphasis added), without previous approval of the authorities stipulated in the said Section.