11.1 As discussed above, Rule 3(1) of the CENVAT Rules enables a provider of taxable service to claim CENVAT credit on duties paid on any “capital goods” or “input” received in the premises of the service provider. Thus, if the mobile towers and prefabricated buildings, which are the items in issue here, qualify as “capital goods” or “inputs” received in the premises of the mobile service provider, the mobile service provider will be entitled to claim CENVAT credit which can be further used for paying service tax for the output services rendered by the mobile service provider. 11.2 In the light of the provisions of the CENVAT Rules, if it is held that towers and/or parts thereof and prefabricated buildings (PFBs) are “capital goods” or “inputs” used for providing output service within the meaning of the aforesaid CENVAT Rules, then CENVAT credit can be claimed on these items. 11.2.1 For this we will first examine the attributes of “capital goods” for if these items are to be considered “capital goods”, these must first have the traits of “goods”. 11.2.2 We, therefore, now focus our attention in understanding what is meant by “goods”, for if these items do not qualify as goods then these obviously cannot be “capital goods” and the benefit of CENVAT credit under the Rules will not be available, since such credit is available only in respect of “goods”. 11.2.3 The word “goods” has not been defined in the CENVAT Rules. Hence, we will refer to other statutes to understand its meaning. The term “goods” has been defined in an expansive manner, in the widest amplitude, under Article 366 (12) of the Constitution of India so as to include all materials, commodities and articles. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1561 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune 11.2.4 However, since this definition is too broad in nature, it may not help us in our enquiry to determine whether the items in consideration are “goods” or not, for the purpose of CENVAT Rules. 11.2.5 “Goods” has not been defined in the Central Excise Act, 1944. We, therefore, look into other statutes. The term “goods” has been defined under various statutes some of which may be mentioned as below. (i) Sale of Goods Act, 1930 Section 2(7): “goods” means every kind of movable property other than actionable claim and money; and includes stocks, shares, growing crops, grass, and things attached to forming part of the land which are agreed to be severed before sale or under contract of sale. (ii) The Central Goods And Services Tax Act, 2017 Section 2(52): “goods” means every kind of movable property other than money and securities but includes actionable claim, growing crops, grass and things attached to or forming part of the land which are agreed to be severed before supply or under a contract of supply. (iii) The Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 Section 2(d): “goods” includes all materials, articles, commodities and all other kinds of movable property, but does not include [newspapers] actionable claims, stocks, shares and securities.