(P) Ltd. v. Satish Prabhakar Padhye and Ors. (2010) 4 SCC 378, para 20. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1829 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 151. Hence, as rightly held in the aforementioned case, using a statutory framework does not necessarily mean that the organization is established by the statute. If that were so, all companies under Companies Act, 2013 would become government companies, leading to an absurd consequence that does not hold water. 152. The Statutes that are used merely as a tool by the minority community to register their institution under the statutory framework do not thus take away the community’s role in bringing the institution into existence. I.1.2.2. Recognized under the Statute 153. The second kind of Statutes are those that provide recognition to already existing institutions. This is usually true for Statutes providing affiliation to colleges with universities. Once the college affiliates itself to a university, it will have to fulfil the statutory requirements prescribed under the relevant statute of the university. Would such a statutory intervention then mean that the institution has been brought into existence by that Statute? 154. This question has also been lucidly answered by this Court in Executive Committee of Vaish Degree College v. Lakshmi Narain,84 where a similar contention was raised that after being affiliated with the university, Vaish Degree College became a statutory body that was created by the statute. Rejecting this view, the Court held that: “Here a distinction must be made between an institution which is not created by or under a statute but is governed by certain statutory provisions for the proper maintenance and administration of the institution. There have been a number of institutions which though not created by or under any statute have adopted certain statutory provisions, but that by itself is not, in our opinion, sufficient to clothe the institution with a statutory character. […] It is, therefore, clear that there is a well-marked distinction between a body which is created by the statute and a body which after having come into existence is governed in accordance with the provisions of the statute. In other words the position seems to be that the institution 84 Executive Committee of Vaish Degree College and Anr. v. Lakshmi Narain and Ors. (1976) 2 SCC 58, para 10. 1830 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports concerned must owe its very existence to a statute which would be the fountainhead of its powers. The question in such cases to be asked is, if there is no statute would the institution have any legal existence. If the answer is in the negative, then undoubtedly it is a statutory body, but if the institution has a separate existence of its own without any reference to the statute concerned but is merely governed by the statutory provisions it cannot be said to be a statutory body[…].” [Emphasis supplied] 155. Hence, if an institution possesses legal existence independent of the statute, then the Statute merely recognizes an existing institution and does not ‘establish’ it.