xxxxx “GCV (ADB)” means Gross Calorific value on air dried basis in Kcal/Kg determined through a Bomb Calorimeter as measured at BTPS as per IS 1350 (Part- II). xxxxx “Joint Venture Agreement’’ means the agreement dated 13.09.2002 entered into between the Purchaser and M/s. Eastern Minerals & Trading Agency to form a joint venture company. xxxxx “Specified Coal” means washed coal as defined in the Schedule of Specification (Annexure I) of this Agreement. xxxxx 1178 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ARTICLE 4 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT 4.1 The respective obligations of the Parties under this Agreement shall be subject to the satisfaction in full of each of the following conditions precedent prior to Commencement Date: i) The Purchaser has assigned the mining rights in favour of the Supplier ii) The Supplier has obtained all the necessary clearances and approvals required from the concerned authorities regarding operation of the Designated Coal Mines and submitted a copy of same to the Purchaser. iii) The Supplier has registered this Agreement with the relevant authority at the time and in the manner stipulated in the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 as amended from time to time, to the extent the provisions are required to be registered. xxxxx ARTICLE 5 QUANTITY AND QUALITY 5.1 QUANTITY The Supplier shall supply and the Purchaser shall take coal in quantities of 2 Million Tonnes (+)/(-) 10% per annum. The quantity may increase depending on requirement of the Purchaser.…… 5.2 QUANTITY 5.2.1 The Supplier shall ensure that it shall supply the Washed Coal with guaranteed value as per Article – 6 and satisfies quality parameter laid down in Annexure-I attached to this agreement to the Delivery Points without any interruption and shall maintain quality of [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1179 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation supply as required. The following procedure is indicated in respect of Joint Sampling. a) third party agency shall be appointed jointly by the parties of the agreement for sampling and analysis of coal received at BTPS end…. b) The third party agency shall be required to undertake sampling and analysis of coal as per the provision of ISI/ BIS or mutually agreed procedure. c) The payment to the third party agency shall be borne by the supplier. d) In the absence of certification by the independent Inspection agency for any rake, KPCL is not liable for payment for such rake. 5.2.2 The Supplier shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that shalesIstones are removed from the coal and no lumpy and/ or oversized coal is supplied and the quality of coal shall fall within the parameters indicated in the Annexure - I. The methodology for verifying the incidence of stonesIshales shall be mutually agreed to between the Purchaser and the Supplier. The size of coal shall be less than 25 mm (0-2 mm fine not >20%). xxxxx ARTICLE 6 CONTRACT PRICE OF COAL 6.1 The Purchaser shall purchase the entire quantity of Specified Coal supplied to it at the commercial terms and conditions stated herein below: 6.1.1 Price a) Purchaser shall purchase the entire quantity of specified coal supplied to BTPS at a price of Rs.