Chinnaiah relies on the of Mathew, J. in N.M. Thomas. In paragraph 82, what Mathew, J. observed is that it is by virtue of the notification of the President that the Scheduled Castes come into being. It has been observed that though the members of the Scheduled Castes are drawn from castes, races or tribes, they attain a new status by virtue of the Presidential Notification. 200. It cannot be disputed that there is no caste by the name of “Scheduled Castes”. As has been discussed in earlier paragraphs, the term “Scheduled Castes” has come on account of the 1936 and the 1950 . 201. There can be no doubt that once the castes, races, tribes or part of or groups of such castes, races or tribes are included in the Presidential Notification they shall be deemed to be Scheduled Castes for the purposes of the Constitution. 202. Then E.V. Chinnaiah refers to the of Krishna Iyer, J. in N.M. Thomas. Krishna Iyer, J. in paragraph 135 observed that [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1561 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. a bare reading of Article 341 and 342 shows that there are no castes in the Hindu fold but an amalgam of castes, races, groups, tribes, communities or parts thereof found on investigation to be the lowliest and in need of massive State aid and notified as such by the President. The Learned Judge observed that to confuse this backwardmost social composition with castes is to commit a constitutional error. 203. The observations made by the Learned Judge are in the context of the arguments that any special treatment on the ground of caste is prohibited under Article 16(2). The Learned Judge observed that Article 16(2) was not coming in the way to extend protective discrimination to this mixed bag of tribes, races, groups, communities and non-castes outside the four-fold Hindu division. The Learned Judge further observed that the Indian jurisprudence has generally regarded Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes not as caste but as a large backward group deserving of societal compassion. 204. E.V. Chinnaiah thereafter relies on Fazal Ali, J.’s . 205. Again, the observations made by Fazal Ali, J. in paragraph 169, are with regard to the arguments based on prohibition of Article 16(2). It is observed that the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes do not fall with the purview of Article 16(2) of the Constitution, which prohibits discrimination between the members of the same caste. It is observed that if, therefore, the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes are not castes, then it is open to the State to make reasonable classification to advance or lift these classes so that they may be able to be properly represented in the services under the State. 206. However, on reading of the majority s in N.M. Thomas it does not show that the Scheduled Castes are homogeneous group and sub-classification therein is not permissible. 207. In paragraph 44 of the in N.M. Thomas, Ray, C.J.