It undermines the victimization because the term suggests a correlation to pornography — conduct that may be legal, whose subject is voluntarily participating in, and whose subject is capable of consenting to the conduct.6 227. The term “child sexual exploitation and abuse material” or “CSEAM” more accurately reflects the reality that these images and videos are not merely pornographic but are records of incidents, where a child has either been sexually exploited and abused or where any abuse of children has been portrayed through any self-generated visual depiction.7 228. The term “child sexual exploitation and abuse material” (CSEAM) rightly places the emphasis on the exploitation and abuse of the child, highlighting the criminal nature of the act and the need for a serious and robust response. We are conscious that in the preceding parts of this , we have used the term “child pornography”, however the same has been done only for the purposes of giving a better understanding of the nuances involved in the present matter. We further forbid the courts from using the term “child pornography” and instead the term “child sexual exploitation and abuse material” (CSEAM) should be used in judicial s and judgements of all courts across the country. 229. Although, there exists a tangible difference between the act of viewing CSEAM and the act of engaging in sexual abuse of children, yet the latter desire is always inherent in the former.8 Both the use of CSEAM and the act of child sexual abuse share a common, malevolent intent: 6 Jonah R. Rimmer, Child Sexual Exploitation, (Oxford Research Encyclopaedia Criminology, 2024). 7 Mary Graw Leary, The Language of Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation, in Carissa Byrne Hessick (Eds. ), Refining Child Pornography Law – Crime, Language and Social Consequences (University of Michigan Press, 2016); see also, Danijela Frangež, Anton Toni Klančnik, Mojca Žagar Karer Et. Al., The Importance of Terminology Related to Child Sexual Exploitation, 66(4) Rev. za. Krim. Kriminol. 291 (2015); see also, Kathryn C. Seigfried Spellar & Virginia Soldino, Child Sexual Exploitation: Introduction to a Global Problem, in Thomas J. Holt & Adam M. Bossler (Eds. ), The Palgrave Handbook of International Cybercrime and Cyberdeviance, (Palgrave Macmillian, Cham, 2020) 8 Vaughn I. Rickert & Owen Ryan, Is the Internet the Source?, 40 J. Adolesc. Health 104 (2007); see also, Dr. Ethel Quayle, Assessment issues with young people who engage in problematic sexual behaviour through the Internet, in M.C. Calder (Ed. ), New Developments with young people who sexually abuse (Russel House Publishing, Lyme Regis, UK, 2007). [2024] 10 S.C.R. 293 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. the exploitation and degradation of a child for the sexual gratification of the abuser. The production of child sexual exploitative material is inherently linked to the act of sexual abuse. In both cases, the intent is clear: to sexually exploit and harm a child. The creation of such material is not a passive act but a deliberate one, where the abuser intentionally engages in the exploitation of a child, knowing full well the harm it causes.9 230.