Moreover, he pointed out that though PW-19 claims that he informed PSI Mishra of Limbayat Police Station about the confession and called him to Central Bus Station, PSI Mishra has not been examined as a witness. He pointed out that according to the prosecution’s case, even at Central Bus Sation, the appellant allegedly made the second extra-judicial confession in the presence of PSI Mishra. Therefore, the omission to examine PSI Mishra becomes fatal to the prosecution case. He pointed out that the prosecution case was that it was PSI Mishra who took the appellant into custody and produced before PW-25. The version of PW-25, the Investigating Officer, appears to be doubtful. He submitted that the entire prosecution case cannot be believed. 5. The learned counsel appearing for the State submitted that though the eyewitnesses were declared hostile, their testimony cannot be entirely discarded. She submitted that the evidence of the said witnesses brings on record the fact that at the time of the murder of the deceased, he, along with the appellant, were staying together in room no. 3 of the building owned by PW-3. Learned counsel pointed out the evidence of PW-4 (Salehabanu). In the cross-examination made by the learned public prosecutor, the witness stated that she first saw the appellant running towards the stairs from the lobby, and immediately after that, the deceased was found in a heavily bleeding condition. She pointed out that the witness’s evidence proved that the appellant and the deceased were quarrelling. The witness heard shouts of “save, save” from the appellant’s room. She also pointed out that even the evidence of PW-7 - Najma brings on record that she had seen the deceased bleeding in the gallery of the building and was shouting “save, save” at that time. The witness saw the appellant coming down from the building and was seen cleaning blood stains from his shirt. She pointed out that even the evidence of PW-14 – Sagufta Parvin shows that the deceased was murdered in room no. 3 where the deceased, along with the appellant, were staying together. She further submitted that PW-19 was the appellant’s employer; therefore, it was natural that the appellant would confide with his employer about his guilt. She submitted that there is no [2024] 7 S.C.R. 45 Lal Mohammad Manjur Ansari v. The State of Gujrat reason to discard the testimony of PW-19, which proves extra-judicial confession. Similarly, there is no reason to discard the testimony of PW-24 before whom a dying declaration was made by the deceased that the appellant murdered him. The learned counsel submitted that there is no reason to interfere with the impugned s, which contain elaborate findings recorded after making a detailed analysis of the evidence of the prosecution witnesses. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 6. We have minutely scanned the testimony of the prosecution witnesses. Firstly, we will deal with evidence of PW-19, who claims that the deceased made an extra-judicial confession before him. Even though this witness was declared hostile, the prosecution relied upon a part of his testimony.