Section 161 deals with the adverse party’s right as to the writing used [2024] 2 S.C.R. 797 Shailesh Kumar v. State of U.P. (Now State of Uttarakhand) to refresh memory. It can, therefore, be seen that, the right of the accused to cross-examine the police officer with reference to the entries in the police diary is very much limited in extent and even that limited scope arises only when the Court uses the entries to contradict the police officer or when the police officer uses it for refreshing his memory. 11. In other words, in case if the Court does not use such entries for the purpose of contradicting the police officer or if the police officer does not use the same for refreshing his memory, then the question of the accused getting any right to use entries even to that limited extent does not arise. The accused persons cannot force the police officer to refresh his memory during his examination in the Court by referring to the entries in the police diary. 12. Section 145 of the Evidence Act consists of two limbs. It is provided in the first limb of Section 145 that a witness may be cross-examined as to the previous statements made by him without such writing being shown to him. But the second limb provides that, if it is intended to contradict him by the writing, his attention must before writing can be proved, be called to those parts of it which are to be used for the purpose of contradicting him. Sections 155(3) and 145 of the Evidence Act deal with the different aspects of the same matter and should, therefore, be read together. 13. Be that as it may, as mentioned supra, right of the accused to cross-examine the police officer with reference to the entries in the police diary is very much limited in extent and even that limited scope arises only when the Court uses such entries to contradict the police officer or when the police officer uses it for refreshing his memory and that again is subject to the provisions of Sections 145 and 161 of the Evidence Act. Thus, a witness may be cross-examined as to his previous statements made by him as contemplated under Section 145 of the Evidence Act if such previous 798 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports statements are brought on record, in accordance with law, before the Court and if the contingencies as contemplated under Section 172(3) CrPC are fulfilled. Section 145 of the Evidence Act does not either extend or control the provisions of Section 172 CrPC. We may hasten to add here itself that there is no scope in Section 172 CrPC to enable the Court, the prosecution or the accused to use the police diary for the purpose of contradicting any witness other than the police officer who made it.” (emphasis supplied) First Information Report vis-a-vis Case Diary Section 154 of CrPC “154. Information in cognizable cases.—(1) Every information relating to the commission of a cognizable offence, if given orally to an officer in charge of a police station, shall be reduced to writing by him or under his direction, and be read over to the informant; and every such information, whether given in writing or reduced to writing as aforesaid, shall be signed by the person giving it, and the substance thereof shall be entered in a book to be kept by such officer in such form as the State Government may prescribe in this behalf…” 28.