Earlier (vide para 21, SCC) the connotative meaning of royalty being “share in the produce of land” has been noted. But for the first sentence (in para 34, SCC) which we find to be an apparent error, nowhere else has the majority held royalty to be a tax.” (underlining by me) 23.9 The inference being that there is an apparent error in holding that “royalty to be a tax”, whereas “royalty is not a tax”. However, the above inference loses sight of the fact that in paragraph 34 of the India Cement it has been observed that “Royalty on mineral rights is not a tax on land, but a payment for the user of the land”. This has been held to be a contradiction in 1808 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Kesoram. However, what was actually meant in India Cement was that royalty is a tax on mineral rights. The majority in Kesoram thereafter noted how the matter was dealt with in Mahalaxmi Fabrics Mills and Saurashtra Cement and made observations therein, as noted in paragraph 70 of the . Ultimately, in paragraph 71, it was observed that royalty is not a tax and royalty cannot be a tax and that even in India Cement it was not the finding of the Court that royalty is a tax. 23.10 With regard to decisions post India Cement, the majority expressed its dissent with that part of the in Mahalaxmi Fabrics Mills, which stated that there was “no typographical error” in India Cement. The reasoning in Mahanadi Coalfields was also not subscribed to in Kesoram and it was held that the said case was not correctly decided inasmuch as they applied India Cement and Orissa Cement and therefore, it was over-ruled. 23.11 With great respect to the majority in Kesoram, the aforesaid strong observations were in fact premised on a “typographical error” in para 34 of the in India Cement when there was none. The entire reasoning in paragraph 57 of Kesoram extracted above proceeded on the basis that a typographical error was inadvertently or erroneously committed while typing the correct text of the and therefore, what was a “sensible reading” was supplied by the majority to make an omission or error, namely, “cess on royalty” instead of “royalty” only. 23.12 With respect, I find that the aforesaid understanding by the majority in Kesoram is incorrect, a departure from all precedents right from the of this Court in Hingir- Rampur and contrary to the scheme of Entry 54 – List I and Entry 50 – List II and the architecture of the MMDR Act, 1957 enacted pursuant to Entry 54 - List I and particularly, having regard to Section 2 of the said Act. Therefore, there was no necessity to doubt the proposition that royalty is a tax. On a non-appreciation of what exactly the import of the in the India Cement was, this doubt expressed by the majority in Kesoram has ultimately led to the constitution of this nine- [2024] 7 S.C.R.