81. The main case of the plaintiff as could be gathered from the averments in the plaint is that, before the provisions of DSPE Act can be invoked to authorize the CBI to exercise its powers and jurisdiction within any State, the following conditions are necessary: i) “A notification must be issued by the Central Government specifying the offences to be investigated by CBI (Section 3); ii) An must be passed by the Central Government extending power and jurisdiction of CBI to any area (including railway area) in a State not being an Union Territory in respect of offences specified under Section 3 (Section 5); and iii) Consent of the State Government must be obtained for the exercise of power by CBI in the concerned State (Section 6).” 82. It is the case of the plaintiff that unless the three conditions under Sections 3, 5 and 6 of the DSPE Act are fulfilled, the CBI cannot exercise its powers in any State. It is the case of the plaintiff that after withdrawal of the consent by the plaintiff on 16th November 2018, the CBI could not have continued to register cases and exercise its powers under the DSPE Act. It is the plaintiff’s case that continuation of the registration of cases and exercise of powers after withdrawal of the consent is an act of constitutional overreach. 83. As already discussed hereinabove, the averments in the plaint cannot be read in isolation but are to be read in entirety. It is the case of the plaintiff that the CBI is established by the defendant, its exercise of powers is controlled by the defendant and its functioning is also under the superintendence of the defendant. Therefore, it cannot be said that the plaintiff has not made out any cause of action against the defendant. As has been held by Their Lordships Justice Chandrachud [2024] 7 S.C.R. 729 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India and Justice Bhagwati in the case of State of Rajasthan and Others v. Union of India and Others (supra), the legal right of the States could be sought to be indicated in the suits. In the said case, the Court has disapproved the observations made by five-Judges Bench in the case of State of Bihar v. Union of India and Another (supra) that the legal right which is the subject of dispute must arise in the context of the Constitution and federalism itself. As has been held by this Court in the case of State of Rajasthan and Others v. Union of India and Others (supra), the legal right of the States consists in their immunity, in the sense of freedom from the power of the Union Government. Therefore, in light of DSPE Act and the s of this Court, even this contention is liable to be rejected. VII. CONCLUSION: 84. We find that, in the present suit, the plaintiff is raising the legal issue as to whether after withdrawal of the consent under Section 6 of the DSPE Act, the CBI via the defendant – Union of India can continue to register and investigate cases in its area in violation of the provisions of Section 6 of the DSPE Act.