The Court cannot re-weigh and substitute its notion of expedient solution.” 25 (a) 8. A perusal of the above decisions makes clear two important factors. It is evident that judicial review so far as economic or policy matters is concerned is circumscribed but at the same time it is also apparent that the scope of the possibility of the Court’s intervention has been expanded over time. The generally accepted yardstick would be that the merits of a decision are ordinarily not examined to accommodate the possibility of a better alternative nor does it scuttle the government’s ability to achieve the best outcome through trial and error but at the same time if any of the decisions made are such that the vires of the process would be affected or in other words, that the decision taken is compromised in regard to the manner in which it was arrived at, then, the Courts would be within terms to exercise its jurisdiction of judicial review. 25 (a) 9. Keeping in mind the above standard of judicial review, I now proceed to examine the first issue at hand. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1883 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 25 (a) 10. Adverting to the first contention, the Petitioners have sought to place reliance on the of this Court in Kantha Vibhag Yuva Koli Samaj Parivartan Trust v. State of Gujarat (2-Judge Bench),13 wherein this Court while considering the functions of the NGT observed: “16. Sections 14 and Section 15 entrust adjudicatory functions to the NGT. The NGT is a specialized body comprising of judicial and expert members. Judicial members bring to bear their experience in adjudicating cases. On the other hand, expert members bring into the decision-making process scientific knowledge on issues concerning the environment. In Hanuman Laxman Aroskar v. Union of India (2019) 15 SCC 401, a two- Judge Bench of this Court noted that the NGT is an expert adjudicatory body on the environment. The Court held: “133. The NGT Act provides for the constitution of a tribunal consisting both of judicial and expert members. The mix of judicial and technical members envisaged by the statute is for the reason that the Tribunal is called upon to consider questions which involve the application and assessment of science and its interface with the environment… 134. NGT is an expert adjudicatory body on the environment.” 17. The NGT does not have a dearth of ‘expertise’ when it comes to the issues of environment. 18. Section 15 empowers the NGT to award compensation to the victims of pollution and for environmental damage, to provide for restitution of property which has been damaged and for the restitution of the environment. The NGT cannot abdicate its jurisdiction by entrusting these core adjudicatory functions to administrative expert committees. Expert committees may be appointed to assist the NGT in the performance of its task and as an adjunct to its fact-finding role.” (Emphasis supplied) 13 [2022] 1 SCR 1006 : 2022 SCC Online SC 120 1884 [2024] 7 S.C.R.