26. Promissory estoppel or legitimate expectation can be dealt with on the same status of the executive decision when the prior as well as the subsequent decisions are both taken by the same or similarly placed authorities. Where the executive takes a decision based upon which a party acts and, later on, the executive withdraws that decision to the detriment of the party acting upon the earlier decision, it can be said to be estopped from withdrawing its promise or depriving the party from its legitimate expectation of what had been promised. 27. In situations, such as the one before us, if the previous executive decision is withdrawn, modified or amended in any manner in exercise of legislative power in larger public interest, then the earlier promise upon which the party acts, cannot be enforced as a right and neither can the authorities be estopped from withdrawing its promise, as such an expectation does not give any enforceable right to the party. Applying the above discussion to the present facts, it is evident that the principles of legitimate expectation and promissory estoppel would not apply here, as the appellants cannot be said to have any enforceable legal right in light of the previous law or policy and executive action, which was subsequently changed by the state legislature in light of larger public interest. Thus, the submissions advanced on behalf of the appellants relating to the challenge to the M.P. Act No.12 of 2002 inserting the proviso (c) to Clause(C) to Entry 33 of Schedule 1-A of the IS Act has to be rejected. None of the case-laws relied upon on behalf of the appellants come to the rescue of the appellants and have no application in the facts and circumstances of the present case. 1144 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 28. Now coming to the next submission on behalf of the appellants with regard to the question as to whether the Concession Agreement is a lease or a bond or a license. The definition of lease as given under the IS Act clearly covers any instrument by which tolls of any description are let and also under Section 105 of the TP Act, all the ingredients of a lease are fulfilled. In the present case, we need not reiterate and repeat the same reasoning and findings as given by the High Court in great detail after considering the various clauses of the Concession Agreement. We uphold the finding of the High Court to be clearly justified and based upon a clear understanding of the terms of the concession agreement. We do not find any perversity at all in the reasoning given by the High Court to uphold the Concession Agreement to be a lease. 29. After the of the High Court which is of the year 2010, two further s have been delivered by this Court regarding interpretation of a lease, which have been relied upon by Shri Mishra on behalf of the respondents. Out of the three s relied upon by Shri Mishra, the in the case of Associated Hotels of India Ltd. (supra) has already been considered by the High Court.