The debtor being dissatisfied with the auction conducted under the supervision of the executing court filed an application under XXI Rule 90 of the CPC seeking setting aside of the sale on the ground that the proclamation did not give clear 15 days’ notice and the same was illegal. 30. The Senior Civil Court, Kovvur found no merit in any of the objections raised by the debtor and accordingly dismissed the application. The debtor thereafter preferred an appeal before the High Court. The High Court allowed the appeal and set 506 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports aside the of the executing court inter alia holding that if the debtor deposits a sum of Rs. 7,15,000/- (Rs. Seven Lakh Fifteen Thousand Only) being the price fetched at the public auction within a period of three weeks from the date of the receipt of a copy of the , the sale held would not be given effect to. 31. Aggrieved by the aforesaid, the auction purchaser preferred appeal before this Court. A Division Bench of this Court in Chilamkurti (supra) relying on the decision of this Court in Saheb Khan v. Mohd. Yousufuddin reported in (2006) 4 SCC 476, allowed the appeal filed by the successful auction purchaser holding as under: - “14. The law which governs the controversy involved in this appeal is laid down by this Court in Saheb Khan v. Mohd. Yousufuddin [Saheb Khan v. Mohd. Yousufuddin, (2006) 4 SCC 476] (a three-Judge Bench). While examining the scope of 21 Rule 90 of the Code, Ruma Pal, J. speaking for the Bench held as under: (SCC pp. 480-81, paras 12-14) “12. We are unable to sustain the reasoning of the High Court. 21 Rule 90 of the Code of Civil Procedure allows, inter alia, any person whose interests are affected by the sale to apply to the court to set aside a sale of immovable property sold in execution of a decree on the ground of “a material irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting” the sale. Sub-rule (2) of 21 Rule 90 however places a further condition on the setting aside of a court sale in the following language: ‘90. (2) No sale shall be set aside on the ground of irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting it unless, upon the facts proved, the court is satisfied that the applicant has sustained substantial injury by reason of such irregularity or fraud.’ 13. Therefore before the sale can be set aside merely establishing a material irregularity or fraud will not do. The applicant must go further and establish to the satisfaction of the court that the material irregularity or fraud has resulted in substantial injury to the applicant. Conversely even if the applicant has suffered substantial injury by reason of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 507 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. the sale, this would not be sufficient to set the sale aside unless substantial injury has been occasioned by a material irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting the sale.