On the other hand, rural areas frequently face a scarcity of basic facilities, transport options, and services, creating substantial barriers for PWDs. Recognising these disparities, Article 9 requires States to tailor their accessibility strategies to suit the specific conditions of both urban and rural regions. 18. International Principles and Guidelines on Access to Justice for Persons with Disabilities reinforce the critical role of accessibility within legal systems, embedding it as a non-negotiable aspect of justice.17 Principle 2 emphasizes that justice facilities and related services must be universally accessible, thus preventing discrimination and ensuring that all individuals, regardless of disability, can fully engage in legal processes.18 This includes adapting all modes of transportation within the justice framework to be accessible, allocating financial resources for necessary infrastructure changes, and embedding accessibility in both physical and digital environments. Furthermore, these guidelines call for procedural accommodations such as the use of assistive technologies, sign language interpreters, and simplified formats for legal documentation to remove communication barriers. ii. Accessibility as a Human Right 19. The right to accessibility is not a new or separate human right, but rather an integral part of existing human rights frameworks. Accessibility is embedded within several international human rights treaties, reinforcing its foundational role in ensuring equality and dignity for all individuals, including those with disabilities. For example, access to the physical environment and public transportation 16 Ibid. 17 International Principles and Guidelines on Access to Justice for Persons with Disabilities (2019). Issued by Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities. 18 Ibid, Principle 2. Principle 2 lays down that facilities and services must be universally accessible to ensure equal access to justice without discrimination of persons with disabilities. 984 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is essential for the realisation of freedom of movement, which is guaranteed under Article 13 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights19 and Article 12 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.20 Similarly, access to information and communication is crucial for exercising the right to freedom of opinion and expression, as articulated in Article 19 of the UDHR. These rights are foundational for enabling PWDs to live independently, participate in society, and enjoy their rights on an equal basis with others.21 20. The European Economic and Social Committee,22 in its 2014 Opinion on Accessibility as a Human Right for Persons with Disabilities, recognized that Article 9 of the CRPD represents a human right in itself.23 The EESC stated that accessibility is a crucial prerequisite for ensuring the full enjoyment of civil, political, economic, social, and cultural rights for PWDs.24 21. The accessibility norm, as articulated in Article 9 of the CRPD, mandates that all individuals with disabilities have equal access to facilities, goods, and services, providing them with essential entitlements to ensure they can fully engage with and contribute to society.25 This framing situates accessibility as an essential human right that is indispensable for the realisation of broader social, economic, and political rights. 22. Accessibility is not merely a convenience, but a fundamental requirement for enabling individuals, particularly those with disabilities, to exercise their rights fully and equally.