However, Entry 33(a) - List III is in a way unique inasmuch as the said Entry would have to be read in the context of Entry 52 - List I which relates to the IDRA which is enacted by Parliament under the said Entry and therefore, inter alia, to Section 18G of the IDRA. When Entry 52 - List I and any law such as IDRA empowers the Union or Central Government to take certain steps under the provisions of the said Act, it would imply that the State Legislature is, per se, denuded of its powers to make any law under Entry 33(a) - List III. Applying the above interpretation, when once the Central Government has the powers under Section 18G of the IDRA in the matter of regulating supply and distribution and trade and commerce of any article of a scheduled industry so as to secure the equitable distribution and availability at fair price, the field/ contours as covered under Section 18 of IDRA is occupied by the Parliament and, consequently by the Central Government to issue a notified as and when the necessity arises. 14.7 The reason for holding so is because List III which is the Concurrent List is governed by Article 254 of the Constitution which deals with inconsistency between laws made by [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2143 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Parliament and laws made by the Legislatures of the States. The same is expressed as the doctrine of repugnancy. Clause (1) of Article 254 states that – (i) if any provision of a law made by the Legislature of a State is repugnant to any provision of a law made by Parliament which Parliament is competent to enact, or (ii) to any provision of an existing law with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List, then, subject to clause (2) thereof, the law made by Parliament, whether passed before or after the law made by the Legislature of such State, or, as the case may be, the existing law, shall prevail and the law made by the Legislature of the State shall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be void. Under Article 13(3)(a), law includes any ordinance, , bye- law, rule, regulation, notification, custom or usage having in the territory of India the force of law. 14.8 Clause (2) of Article 254 is an exception to clause (1). It states that where a law made by the Legislature of a State with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the Legislature of such State shall, if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent, prevail in that State. The proviso states that nothing in clause (2) of Article 254 would prevent Parliament from enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the Legislature of the State.