this Schedule. 86 First Schedule of Limitation Act, 1908 Article Description of Suit Period of Limitation Time from which Period begins to run 115 For compensation for the breach Three years When the contract of any contract, express or is broken, or (where implied, not in writing registered there are successive and not herein specially provided breaches) when the for. breach in in respect of which the suit is Instituted occurs, or (where the breach is continuing) when it ceases. 576 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports suit for compensation for the breach of a contract not in writing registered and not specially provided for in the Limitation Act. It is beyond doubt that this article is a general provision applying to all actions ex contractu not specially provided for otherwise; and the present claim certainly arises out of a contract entered into between the parties. The word ‘compensation’ in article 115 as well as in article 11687 has the same meaning as it has in section 7388 of the Indian Contract Act and denotes a sum of money payable to a person on account of the loss or damage caused to him by the breach of a contract. It has been held, and we consider rightly, that a suit to recover a specified sum of money on a contract is a suit for compensation within articles 115 and 116 --- vide Nobocoomar Mookhopadhaya v. Siru Mullick89 and Husain Ali Khan v. Hajiz Ali Khan.90 We are accordingly of opinion that the present claim must be regarded as one for compensation for the breach of a contract, and that there is no special provision in the 87 First Schedule of Limitation Act, 1908 Article Description of Suit Period of Limitation Time from which Period begins to run 116 For compensation for the Six years When the period of limitation breach of a contract in writing would begin to run against registered. a suit brought on a similar contract not registered. 88 The Indian Contract Act, 1872. Section 73. Compensation for loss or damage caused by breach of contract.-- When a contract has been broken, the party who suffers by such breach is entitled to receive, from the party who has broken the contract, compensation for any loss or damage caused to him thereby, which naturally arose in the usual course of things from such breach, or which the parties knew, when they made the contract, would be likely to result from the breach of it. Such compensation is not to be given for any remote and indirect loss or damage sustained by reason of the breach. Compensation for failure to discharge obligation resembling those created by contract.--- When an obligation resembling those created by contract has been incurred and has not been discharged, any person injured by the failure to discharge it is entitled to receive the same compensation from the party in default, as if such person had contracted to discharge it and had broken his contract. Explanation.-- In estimating the loss or damage arising from a breach of contract, the means which existed of remedying the inconvenience caused by the non-performance of the contract must be taken into account 89 (1890) ILR 6 Cal 94 90 (1881) ILR 3 All 600 (FB) [2024] 9 S.C.R.