Najeeb, AIR 2021 SC 712 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 705 Arvind Kejriwal v. Central Bureau of Investigation derail the trial or deface the very criminal justice system which is integral to rule of law. 39. It was submitted during these proceedings that the FIR was registered on 17.08.2022, and since then, the chargesheet along with four supplementary chargesheets have been filed. The fourth supplementary chargesheet was filed as recently as 29.07.2024 and we are informed that the Trial Court has taken cognizance of the same. Additionally, seventeen accused persons have been named, 224 individuals have been identified as witnesses, and extensive documentation, both physical and digital, has been submitted. These factors suggest that the completion of the trial is unlikely to occur in the immediate future. 40. In our considered view, although the procedure for the Appellant’s arrest meets the requisite criteria for legality and compliance, continued incarceration for an extended period pending trial would infringe upon established legal principles and the Appellant’s right to liberty, traceable to Article 21 of our Constitution. The Appellant has been granted interim bail by this Court in the ED matter on 10.05.2024 and 12.07.2024, arising from the same set of facts. Additionally, several co-accused in both the CBI and ED matters have also been granted bail by the Trial Court, the High Court, and this Court in separate proceedings. 41. So far as the apprehension of the Appellant influencing the outcome of the trial is concerned, it seems that all evidence and material relevant to the CBI’s disposition is already in their possession, negating the likelihood of tampering by the Appellant. Similarly, given the Appellant’s position and his roots in the society, there seems to be no valid reason to entertain the apprehension of his fleeing the country. In any case, in to assuage the apprehensions of the CBI, we may impose stricter bail conditions. As regard to Appellant indulging in influencing witnesses, it needs no emphasis that in the event of any such instance, it will amount to misuse of the concession of bail and necessary consequences will follow. 42. Therefore, in the light of these extenuating circumstances and considering the foregoing analysis, it could be resolved that the Appellant satisfies the requisite triple conditions for the grant of bail. We accordingly. 706 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports C. Whether the filing of a chargesheet is a change in circumstances warranting relegation to the trial court for grant of regular bail? 43. It is true that generally the Trial Court should consider the prayer seeking bail once the chargesheet is filed, since the material that an Investigating Authority may have been able to procure would undoubtedly facilitate that court to form a prima facie opinion with regard to (i) the gravity of offence; (ii) the degree of involvement of the applicant; (iii) the background and vulnerability of the witnesses; (iv) the approximate timeline for conclusion of the trial based on the number of witnesses; and (v) the societal impact of granting or denying bail.