Instead, it was argued that the right of an Indian citizen under the Constitution to practice any profession is not an absolute right but can be appropriately limited under Article 19(6). It was submitted that the right to practice as a Chartered Accountant is conferred by the 1949 Act and the same may be limited by conditions and limitations stipulated under the Act or Regulations or Guidelines framed thereunder. The contention 816 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the respondent-Institute was that under Article 19(1)(g), what is available is a right to practice as a Chartered Accountant in accordance with the 1949 Act and the Guidelines or regulations made thereunder which is subject to reasonable restrictions. 5.5 Sri Datar took us through a wide variety of professional work that can be undertaken by a Chartered Accountant in practice such as statutory corporate audit, representation before tax authorities, consultation, audits under Section 44AF, audits under Section 141(3)(g) of the Companies Act, etc. It was contended that the ceiling has been imposed only in respect of the statutory tax audits under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961, which form a class by themselves as they involve more time and effort and are significantly more onerous. 5.6 On the question of professional misconduct, respondent-Institute sought to argue that the expression ‘professional misconduct’ cannot be construed to mean only an irregularity or an act of lowering of dignity of the profession. Rather, the respondent- Institute being a regulatory body of professionals can define misconduct to control and penalize a deviation from the quality compliance standards, inter alia, for which the respondent- Institute has been established by the Parliament to ensure. Reliance was placed on Section 30 of the 1949 Act, read with clause (i) of Part II of the Second Schedule of the 1949 Act, to act effectively for ensuring compliance with standards of the Institute by penalizing a deviation as a misconduct. 5.7 Learned senior counsel for the respondent-Institute argued that a serious public purpose involved behind the Notification is visible under the 1949 Act which seeks to regulate the profession, hence the impugned Guidelines are issued to ensure maintenance of quality and standards in the work done and services rendered by Chartered Accountants. This would also aid in better and equitable distribution of work amongst the Chartered Accountants and to avoid concentration of professional work in a few hands, to ensure which is also a duty cast upon the Council in furtherance of its regulatory functions under the said Act. As per the respondent-Institute, the Council is in the best position to have definite information about deterioration in the quality of work, as also monopolization – both relevant factors [2024] 6 S.C.R. 817 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others in taking a decision on the maximum number of tax audits to be accepted. 5.8 It was also contended that a reduction in income and/or client base is not a ground in itself to say that fundamental rights of a professional are affected.