10. The presence of the antecedents of the accused is only one of the several considerations for deciding the prayer for bail made by him. In a given case, if the accused makes out a strong prima facie case, depending upon the fact situation and period of incarceration, the presence of antecedents may not be a ground to deny bail. There may be a case where a Court can grant bail only on the grounds of long incarceration. The presence of antecedents may not be relevant in such a case. In a given case, the Court may grant default bail. Again, the antecedents of the accused are irrelevant in such a case. Thus, depending upon the peculiar facts, the Court can grant bail notwithstanding the existence of the antecedents. In such cases, the question of incorporating details of antecedents in a tabular form does not arise. If the directions in the case of Jugal Kishore1 are to be strictly implemented, the Court may have to adjourn the 688 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports hearing of the bail applications to enable the prosecutor to submit the details in the prescribed tabular format. 11. When the prosecution places on record material showing antecedents of the accused, and if the Court concludes that looking at the facts of the case and the nature of antecedents, the accused should be denied bail on the ground of antecedents, it is not necessary for the Court to incorporate all the details of the antecedents as required by paragraph 9 of the decision in the case of Jugal Kishore.1 The Court may only refer to the nature of the offences registered against the accused by referring to penal provisions under which the accused has been charged. 12. In a given case, if necessary, the court can incorporate a chart as directed in paragraph 9 while deciding a bail application. However, if a High Court directs that in every bail , a chart should be incorporated in a particular format, it will amount to interference with the discretion conferred on the Trial Courts. Therefore, in our view, what is observed in paragraph 9 of the decision in the case of Jugal Kishore1 cannot be construed as mandatory directions to our Criminal Courts. At the highest, it can be taken as a suggestion which need not be implemented in every case. No Constitutional Court can direct the Trial Courts to write s on bail applications in a particular manner. One Judge of a Constitutional Court may be of the view that Trial courts should use a particular format. The other Judge may be of the view that another format is better. 13. The matter does not rest here. In the dated 4th April 2023 passed in the same bail petition in which the impugned has been passed, it was observed that the directions issued in paragraph 9 have been disregarded by the appellant. The High Court went to the extent of observing that the act of disregarding direction contained in paragraph 9 of the decision in the case of Jugal Kishore1 is not only indiscipline but is a serious matter which may amount to contempt.