However, the said amendment as proposed to Article 366 was not accepted by the Council of States. No doubt, in Excel Wear v. Union of India and Others,5 this Court had held that the addition of the word socialist in the Preamble may enable the Court to lean more in favour of nationalization and State ownership of industries, yet this Court recognized private ownership of industries, which forms a large portion of the economic structure. The majority of this Court in the 9-Judge Constitution Bench in Property Owners Association and Others v. State of Maharashtra and Others6 has cleared any doubt and ambiguity, as it is held that the Constitution, as framed in broad terms, allows the elected government to adopt a structure for economic governance which would sub-serve the 5 [1979] 1 SCR 1009 : (1978) 4 SCC 224 6 2024 INSC 835 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 953 Dr Balram Singh and Others v. Union of India and Another policies for which it is accountable to the electorate. Indian economy has transitioned from the dominance of public investment to the co-existence of public and private investment. 7. The fact that the writ petitions were filed in 2020, forty-four years after the words ‘socialist’ and ‘secular’ became integral to the Preamble, makes the prayers particularly questionable. This stems from the fact that these terms have achieved widespread acceptance, with their meanings understood by “We, the people of India” without any semblance of doubt. The additions to the Preamble have not restricted or impeded legislations or policies pursued by elected governments, provided such actions did not infringe upon fundamental and constitutional rights or the basic structure of the Constitution. Therefore, we do not find any legitimate cause or justification for challenging this constitutional amendment after nearly 44 years. The circumstances do not warrant this Court’s exercise of discretion to undertake an exhaustive examination, as the constitutional position remains unambiguous, negating the need for a detailed academic pronouncement. This being the clear position, we do not find any justification or need to issue notice in the present writ petitions, and the same are accordingly dismissed. 8. Pending applications, including the applications for intervention, shall also stand dismissed. Miscellaneous Application No 835 of 2024 1. The Miscellaneous Application is allowed. The Registry is directed to register the Writ Petition (Civil) Diary No. 14904 of 2024. 2. In view of the passed in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 645 of 2020 and Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1467 of 2020, the Writ Petition shall be treated as dismissed. Result of the case: Writ Petitions dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan