He further observed that maybe, the State may, when social conditions warrant, justifiably restrict harijan benefits to the harijans among the harijans and forbid the higher harijans from robbing the lowlier brethren. 220. Again, in paragraph 98, he considered the argument that there are rich and influential harijans who rob all the privileges leaving the serf- level sufferers as suppressed as ever. He advised the Administration to innovate and classify to weed out the creamy layer of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes. However, he observed that the Court cannot force the State in that behalf. 221. In K.C. Vasanth Kumar, Chandrachud, C.J. in paragraph 2, observed that the reservation in employment and education in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes must continue without the application of a means test for a further period not exceeding 15 years. He observed that after the said period of 15 years, the test of economic backwardness ought to be made applicable even to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Insofar as Other Backward Classes are concerned, he stated that two tests should be conjunctively applied for identifying them for the purpose of reservations in employment and education: One, that they should be comparable to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the matter of their backwardness; and two, that they should satisfy the means test such as a State Government may lay down in the context of prevailing economic conditions. 222. Desai, J. in paragraph 31, observed that the approach suggested by him does not deal with reservation in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes since thousands of years of discrimination [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1565 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. and exploitation cannot be wiped out in one generation. However, he suggested that even in their cases economic criterion is worth applying by refusing preferred treatment to those amongst them who have already benefited by it and improved their position. 223. Chinnappa Reddy, J. in paragraph 51 did not agree with the view that while determining the social backwardness of other classes, the test to be applied is nearness to the conditions of existence of the Scheduled Castes. He observed that such a test would practically nullify the provision for reservation for socially and educationally backward classes other than Scheduled Castes and Tribes. 224. Chinnappa Reddy, J. in paragraph 79, notes that a few members of those castes or social groups may have progressed far enough and forged ahead to compare favourably with the leading forward class economically, socially and educationally. He suggests that in such cases, perhaps an upper income ceiling would secure the benefit of reservation to such of those members of the class who really deserve it. 225. As already discussed hereinabove, the 9-Judge Bench of this Court in Indra Sawhney has in unequivocal terms held that further classification of backward classes into more backward classes is permissible in law. 226. Jeevan Reddy, J. in paragraph 802, in the case of Indra Sawhney, gives an illustration with regard to two occupational groups viz., goldsmiths and vaddes (traditional stonecutters in Andhra Pradesh).