[2024] 1 S.C.R. 1105 : 2024 INSC 71 Baitulla Ismail Shaikh and Anr. v. Khatija Ismail Panhalkar and Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 1543 of 2016) 30 January 2024 [Aniruddha Bose* and Bela M. Trivedi, JJ.] Issue for Consideration The appellants-landlords purchased the subject-premises in the year 1992 from its erstwhile owner. Both the tenants were inducted by the erstwhile owner of the building in question. On 23.01.2002, a demolition notice was issued by the Municipal Council. Thereafter, the notices for eviction were subsequently sent to the tenants, on the various grounds including municipality’s demolition notice and bonafide requirement of landlord. In the present appeals, the appellants are assailing a delivered by a Single Judge of the High Court on 04.08.2015 exercising his revisional jurisdiction invalidating eviction decrees against two tenants in respect of two portions of the same building. Headnotes Maharashtra Rent Control Act, 1999 – ss. 15 and 16 – The Trial Court opined that the landlord was the best judge of his own requirement and on that basis the issue of bona fide need was decided in favour of the appellants-landlords – The Appellate Court sustained the and decree on the ground of bona fide need as also necessity to effect demolition of the subject-building – The Revisional Court on analysing the provisions of ss. 15 and 16 of the said statute set aside the and decree and allowed the revision applications of the tenants – Propriety: Held: The High Court correctly held that there was no satisfaction in the manner contemplated in s.16 (2) of the 1999 Act as far as bona fide need in terms of s.16(1)(g) was concerned – In the impugned , the High Court has dealt with in detail the list of properties which were with the landlords and on that basis gave its own finding in that regard, there is no perversity in such view taken by the High Court – Sub-section (6) of s.16 also mandates satisfaction of the conditions stipulated in sub-clauses (a) to (d) thereof – Subclause (d) in particular, contemplates the landlord to * Author 1106 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports give undertaking in terms of paragraphs (i), (ii), (iv) and (v) of that subclause, while dealing with landlord’s eviction claim based on s.16(1)(i) of the said statute – These are all mandatory requirements and one cannot find any flaw with the of the High Court to the extent it rejects the claim of the landlord for non-compliance of the aforesaid provisions – As far as demolition notice by the Municipal Authority is concerned, section 16(1)(k) of the said Act permits recovery of possession of tenanted premises on the ground that the premises are required for immediate purpose of demolition ed by any municipal or other competent authority – The Court trying an eviction proceeding under the aforesaid provision has very limited role in determining as to whether demolition is really necessary or not, but it does not automatically follow therefrom that the Court would mechanically adopt the view of municipal authority of there being urgent need of demolition – The conditions under which a landlord can bring an eviction action under clauses (i) and (k) of s.16(1) are different in their operations – In respect of an eviction proceeding founded on the former provision, it contemplates a lesser degree of immediacy or urgency – But the latter provision requires a greater degree of urgency and it is within the jurisdiction of the Court to test this factor, as held in the cases of M.L.