The source of legislative power of the State is found in Article 246, by virtue of which the Legislature of any State has power to make laws with respect to any matters enumerated in List III of the Seventh Schedule along with the Parliament, and has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II of the said Schedule. 52. As held in Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. vs. State of Bihar and Others 21 “19……………….. …. Article 162 prescribes the extent of executive power of the State, it lays down that the executive power of a State shall extend to the matters with respect to which the legislature of the State has power to make laws. Thus, the executive power of the State Government is co-extensive with the legislative power of the State legislature. If the State legislature has power to enact laws on a matter enumerated in the State List or in the Concurrent List the State has executive power to deal with those matters subject to other provisions of the Constitution……………………. Moreover, the proviso to Article 162 itself contains limitation on the exercise of the executive power of the State. It lays down that in any matter with respect to which the legislature of a State and Parliament have power to make laws, the executive power of State shall be subject to limitation of the executive power expressly conferred by the Constitution or by any law made by Parliament upon the Union or authority thereof. The limitation as contained in the proviso to Article 162 was necessary to avoid conflict in the exercise of executive power of State and the Union Government in respect of matters enumerated in List III of the Seventh Schedule. ..……………………….” 21 [1990] 3 SCR 744 : (1990) 4 SCC 557 1628 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 53. Though the executive power of the State Government is co-extensive with the legislative power of the State Legislature, none of the entries, either in List II or List III of the Seventh Schedule confers any legislative power upon the State to rationalize the reservations, by sub-classifying or sub-dividing the castes enumerated in the Presidential List prepared under Article 341(1), as was sought to be done by the State of Andhra Pradesh by passing Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Castes (Rationalization of Reservations), Act 2000, nor does it confer any power to provide or reserve the quota for a particular caste or castes from amongst the “Scheduled Castes” enumerated in the Presidential List prepared under Article 341(1) of the Constitution, as was sought to be done by the State of Punjab and Haryana by passing the Punjab Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes (Reservation in Services) Act, 2006. In absence of any executive or legislative powers, the States are not competent to divide/sub-divide/ sub-classify/regroup the castes, races or tribes from amongst the “Scheduled Castes”nor could they give any preferential treatment by reserving a quota for a particular caste, race, tribe out of the quota reserved for the entire “Scheduled Castes”.