We may mention at this very stage that the issue in these appeals is about validity of the repatriation s that were passed by the appellant APSRTC, relegating the respondents to the zones of their initial appointment. 3. Returning to the chronology of facts, it needs to be noted that on 18.06.2015 the Government of India reconstituted the APSRTC Board of Directors with members from the central government, State of Andhra Pradesh, and State of Telangana to determine the permanent allocation of employees between the Corporations. On 16.08.2017, the Board prepared a detailed Agenda Note, which was approved on 24.08.2017. The Agenda Note sets out the modalities for allocation of state cadre, zonal and regional cadre of employees of the Corporations. 4. Before the finalisation of the Agenda Note, the appellant issued a notification dated 08.06.2017 repatriating employees who were on deputation, including the present respondents, to their parent cadres in TSRTC, i.e., to the zones in which they were initially appointed. 3 Hereinafter “TSRTC”. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 79 Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation & Ors. v. V.V. Brahma Reddy & Anr. The respondents challenged this notification and the consequent repatriation s passed by Depot Managers by filing writ petitions before the High Court. 5. The writ petitions were heard and allowed by the Single Judge by an dated 10.11.2017 on the ground that, upon bifurcation of the two Corporations the guidelines for allocation of employees between them had not been finalised. Thus, the single judge set aside the repatriation s. 6. The appellant filed the writ appeals and brought the Agenda Note dated 16.08.2017 and its approval dated 24.08.2017 to the notice of the division bench. Taking note of the guidelines for allocation formulated by both Corporations, the High Court passed an interim dated 18.04.2018 suspending the of the single judge and directing the respondents to report in their parent zones under the TSRTC, where they were initially appointed, as the guidelines for allocation of employees were jointly finalised by APSRTC and TSRTC. The matter was listed for further hearing on the issue of payment of salaries. The relevant portion of the is extracted herein: “We are informed that the posts, with which we are concerned in this batch of cases, are not State level posts and the s of repatriation, which were subjected to challenge, merely sought to send back the employees concerned who were on transfer in zones other than the zones in which they were appointed. As the posts were only zonal posts, the question of allocation of the employees occupying such posts between the two new States would not arise. We are also informed that the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) and the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) have come out with guidelines jointly with regard to the employees of the erstwhile APSRTC and allocation and apportionment of such employees. In the light of the passed by the learned Judge setting aside the repatriation s, the employees, who are on transfer in Zones 1 to 4 of Andhra Pradesh, though they were appointed either in Zone 5 or in Zone 6 in the State of Telangana, are still working at 80 [2024] 9 S.C.R.