Taking note of certain indisputable and undisputed factual position, this Court arrived at the conclusion that the first respondent-builder was well aware of the pendency of the C.C. No.945 of 2019 before the NCDRC and went on to hold thus: - “The conduct on the part of respondent-builder in not filing written statement does not entitle him to any further 828 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports benefit. It must, therefore, be declared that the respondent has forfeited his right to have filed written statement and it is hereby declared so. The appeal, therefore, stands allowed. The C.C.No.945 of 2019 shall now be proceeded further without the written statement of the respondent-builder. It shall however, be open to the respondent-builder to participate in the proceedings.” 5. We will refer to the contentions raised based on Annexure P-18 and its tenability or otherwise, a little later. Subsequent to Annexure P-18 , NCDRC considered C.C. No.945 of 2019, which culminated in the impugned in this appeal. 6. Heard, Mr. Ajit Kumar Sinha, Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants and Mr. Balaji Srinivasan, learned counsel for the first respondent. 7. A scanning of the impugned would reveal that the NCDRC has recorded a clear finding that there occurred delay in handing over the flats to the appellants. As a necessary sequel to such finding and findings on the other allied grievance and claims, the impugned was passed on 15.09.2022. The operative portion of the impugned reads thus: - “In view of the aforesaid discussions, the complaint is partly allowed. The opposite party is directed to pay delayed compensation in the shape of interest @ 6 % per annum on the deposit of the complainants from due date of possession as determined for each buyer in the manner as provided in paragraph-8 of the till the date of offer of possession and construct Green Jogging Track and Convenience Store, within a period of two months from the date of this judgement.” 8. It is to be noted that despite the nature of the impugned and creation of liability on the first respondent, as above, the complainants alone have chosen to prefer appeal and the first respondent No.1 has not chosen to challenge the same. In the said circumstances, the findings of NCDRC on delayed handing over of the flats to the complainants and on non-construction of Green Jogging Track and Convenience Store can only be taken as having become final. Ergo, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 829 Kaushik Narsinhbhai Patel & Ors. v. M/s S.J.R. Prime Corporation Private Limited the scope of this appeal is limited to a few questions, which we will discuss and deal with later. 9. For a proper disposal of this appeal, it is apposite to refer to paragraph 8 of the impugned , which reads as follows: - “In the present case, due date of possession was September, 2014, while “occupancy Certificate” was obtained 17.05.2017 and possession was delivered thereafter. The complainants have not given date-wise payment schedule. Schedule-E of this agreement contained “Construction Linked Payment Plan” under which, total sale consideration was payable in 12 instalments on different levels of the construction.