xxx xxx xxx 78. The expression “no proceedings” that finds place in Section 22(1) is of wide spectrum but is certainly not free of exceptions. The framers of law have given a definite meaning to the expression “proceedings” appearing under Section 22(1) of SICA 1985. These proceedings are for winding up of the industrial company or for execution, distress or the like against any of the properties of the industrial company or for the appointment of a Receiver in respect thereof. 79. The expression “the like” has to be read ejusdem generis to the term “proceedings”. The words “execution, distress or the like” have a definite connotation. These [2024] 5 S.C.R. 365 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited proceedings can have the effect of nullifying or obstructing the sanctioning or implementation of the revival scheme, as contemplated under the provisions of SICA 1985. This is what is required to be avoided for effective implementation of the scheme. The other facet of the same section is that, no suit for recovery of money, or for enforcement of any security against the industrial company, or any guarantee in respect of any loan or advance granted to the industrial company shall lie, or be proceeded with further without the consent of BIFR. In other words, a suit for recovery and/or for the stated kind of reliefs cannot lie or be proceeded with further without the leave of BIFR. Again, the intention is to protect the properties/assets of the sick industrial company, which is the subject-matter of the scheme. 80. It is difficult to state with precision the principle that would uniformly apply to all the proceedings/suits falling under Section 22(1) of SICA 1985. Firstly, it will depend upon the facts and circumstances of a given case, it must satisfy the ingredients of Section 22(1) and fall under any of the various classes of proceedings stated thereunder. Secondly, these proceedings should have the impact of interfering with the formulation, consideration, finalisation or implementation of the scheme.” (Emphasis supplied) 83. While the decisions in each of the aforesaid cases should be seen in the context of the specific factual situation therein, there is a common thread that binds them all together. All of the aforesaid decisions proceed on the footing that any proceeding which can possibly interfere with the formulation, consideration, finalisation or implementation of a rehabilitation scheme as envisaged under Chapter III of the Act, has to be suspended under Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act. 84. It is the above purpose which the scheme of Section 22(1) seeks to achieve by suspending the proceedings of the nature either mentioned specifically in the provision, or the proceedings of a like nature. Although this Court has interpreted the provision liberally by widening the ambit of its protective umbrella, yet it has also been mindful to 366 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports extend such protection only to such cases where the refusal to allow such extension would result in miscarriage of the very purpose of the Act, which is the expeditious revival of sick companies.