Digital Supreme Court Reports education and provides for establishment and incorporation of private self-financed Universities in the State of Punjab. By the 2010 Policy, it was decided to permit establishment of self-financed universities which shall not receive any grant or aid from the State Government. However, it provided for laying down a rationale proposal and well- defined conditions for the establishment of such universities in to safeguard the interest of the stakeholders, ex-students, staff members and genuine promoters. 15. In furtherance of the 2010 Policy, Khalsa Society (appellant No.2) applied to the State Government for establishing Khalsa University. The State Government vide communication dated 5th March 2011 issued Letter of Intent to the Khalsa Society on various conditions mentioned therein. 16. Subsequently, the 2016 Act came to be enacted on 7th November 2016. It will be relevant to refer to the SOR of the 2016 Act, which read thus: “STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS As the Punjab Private Universities Policy - 2010 has been formulated to provide greater access and to ensure quality in higher education, the Government of Punjab wishes to allow the establishment of self financed private universities to supplement the efforts of the State Universities. The object of the Khalsa University is to impart comprehensive education at all levels to achieve excellence and to promote research and teaching in areas of Education, Engineering and Technology, Languages, Laws, Life Sciences and other courses under the general heads of the Arts and Humanities, Social Sciences etc. 2. As the establishment of such private self financed universities requires a broadly uniform set of guidelines for ensuring academic standards, prevention of commercialization and mismanagement etc., it deemed, therefore, expedient to provide for promulgation of ‘The Khalsa University Bill- 2016.” 17. Subsequent to the enactment of the 2016 Act, Khalsa University (appellant No.1) received a communication dated 15th February 2017 from the UGC informing it that, in view of its establishment, its name [2024] 10 S.C.R. 455 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another has been included in the list maintained by the UGC. It was also informed to it that it was required to follow the UGC (Establishment of and Maintenance of Standards in Private Universities) Regulations, 2003. 18. It appears that thereafter there was a change of regime in the Government of Punjab. It further appears that from April, 2017 onwards, Khalsa University started receiving communications that it should not admit any more students till the Statutes of the University were approved by the State Government. 19. Thereafter on 30th May 2017, the State Government promulgated an Ordinance thereby repealing the 2016 Act. The Impugned Act came to be passed by Punjab Vidhan Sabha, which received the assent of the Hon’ble Governor on 4th July 2017 and published in the Punjab Government Gazette (Extraordinary) on 17th July 2017. 20. The SOR of the Impugned Act read thus: “STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS The Khalsa University (Repeal) Ordinance, 2017 aims to repeal the Khalsa University Act, 2016 with a view to protect heritage character of Khalsa College, Amritsar.