The former charge originates from the fact that the witnesses were related to the deceased, and the latter charge originates from the fact that the witnesses had no rea-son to be present at the place of offence and they just appeared unexpectedly as a matter of chance. Let us examine both the aspects. We may first examine the testimonies of the witnesses independently, without going into their relationship with the deceased. 20. The informant PW18 has deposed that he was standing near a rickshaw outside his house and the deceased was sleeping inside the house. PW18 was standing along with three independent persons namely, Doman Tenti, Daso Mistry and Soordas. The seven accused persons came along with 15 other persons. A-6 and A-7, along with unknown persons, first came to PW18 and took him away towards the well and confined him there. Thereafter, the remaining accused persons, along with other unknown assailants, entered the house wherein the deceased was sleeping. Interestingly, as 118 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports per the version of the informant, the house was bolted from inside and was opened by a tenant namely Kumud Ranjan Singh. The problem with the informant’s version begins from this point itself. As per his version, the first eye witnesses of the incident ought to have been Doman Tenti, Daso Mistry, Soordas and Kumud Ranjan Singh. One person, namely Soordas, was stated to be blind and thus, he may be excluded. Nevertheless, the prosecution ought to have examined the three natural witnesses of the incident namely, Doman Tenti, Daso Mistry and Kumud Ranjan Singh. There is no explanation for non-examination of the natural eye witnesses. The version becomes more doubtful when it is examined in light of his statement that he could not prevent the accused persons as A-6 had threatened him with a pistol. In the FIR, no pistol has been attributed to A-6, whereas in the statement recorded before the Trial Court, this fact was introduced for the first time, which is indicative of improvement. Furthermore, PW18 got it recorded in the FIR that A-6 and others had assaulted him with fists and slaps, but the said fact was not deposed before the Trial Court in his examination in chief. The discrepancy assumes greater seriousness in light of the fact that no pistol has been recovered from any of the accused persons and if the factum of branding of pistol is un-der the cloud of doubt, the entire conduct of PW18 becomes doubtful and unnatural, as he did not try to prevent the accused persons from entering the premises or from abducting the deceased or from taking away the deceased on their shoulders in front of his eyes as he was the brother-in-law of the deceased. 21. The other eye witnesses, PW2, PW4 and PW5, de-posed collectively in favour of the prosecution as they had arrived at the scene of crime together. At around 10:00 PM on the fateful night, the said eye witnesses happened to be present at Sikandra Chowk and they heard some hue and cry at the house of the deceased.