11. Having heard learned counsel for the respective parties, we note that admittedly the original opposite party was in the business of real estate and as a developer, had entered into the Development Agreement dated 30.07.1996 with the complainants. According to the complainants-respondents herein, they were entitled to eight residential flats and there were various other terms and conditions of the said Development Agreement which imposed an obligation on the original opposite party. 12. The question is: what would happen to the obligations imposed personally on the original opposite party on his demise? No doubt, the estate of the original opposite party would be liable for any monetary decree or directions for payment issued in the present case. However, what about the obligations which had to be performed under the Development Agreement such as certain construction to be made and certain approvals etc. to be obtained by him on completion of the construction. Can the legal representatives be liable to comply with those obligations under the Development Agreement on the demise of the original opposite party? 13. In this regard, it is necessary to discuss the jurisprudential status of a proprietary concern. In a report of the Insolvency Law Committee submitted in February, 2020, the definition of ‘Proprietorship Firms’ reads as under: “2. DEFINITION OF ‘PROPRIETORSHIP FIRMS’ 2.2 Proprietorship firms are businesses that are owned, managed and controlled by one person. They are the most common form of businesses in India and are based in unlimited liability of the owner. Legally, a proprietorship is not a separate legal entity and is merely the name under which a proprietor carries on business. [Raghu Lakshminarayanan vs. Fine Tubes (2007) 5 SCC 103.] Due to this, proprietorships are usually not defined in statutes. Though some statutes define proprietorships, [2024] 3 S.C.R. 137 Vinayak Purshottam Dube (Deceased), Through Lrs v. Jayashree Padamkar Bhat & Others such definition is limited to the context of the statute. For example, Section 2 (haa) of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 defined a ‘sole proprietorship’ as “an individual who engages himself in practice of accountancy or engages in services…”. Notably, ‘proprietorship firms’ have also not been statutorily defined in many other jurisdictions.” [Source: Report of the Insolvency Law Committee, Page No.117-118, Government of India (Ministry of Corporate Affairs, February, 2020).] 14. According to Salmond, there are five important characteristics of a legal right: 1. It is vested in a person who may be distinguished as the owner of the right, the subject of it, the person entitled, or the person of inherence. 2. It avails against a person, upon whom lies the correlative duty. He may be distinguished as the person bound, or as the subject of duty, or as the person of incidence. 3. It obliges the person bound to an act or omission in favour of the person entitled. This may be termed the content of the right. 4. The act or omission relates to something (in the widest sense of that word), which may be termed the object or subject matter of the right.