vs. N.M. Thomas & Ors.,7 it was clear that the castes once included in the Presidential List, form a class by themselves. If they are one class under the Constitution, any division of these classes of persons based on any consideration would amount to tinkering with the Presidential List. (Paragraph 26) (ii) It is well settled principle in law that reservation to a backward class is not a constitutional mandate. It is the prerogative of the State concerned if it so desires, with an object of providing opportunity of advancement in the society to certain backward * (2005) 1 SCC 394 [Ed note: This * mark refers to footnote 4] 7 [1976] 1 SCR 906 : (1976) 2 SCC 310 1586 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports classes which include Scheduled Castes, to reserve certain seats in educational institutions under Article 15(4) and in public services of the State under Article 16(4). That part of its constitutional obligation having been fulfilled by the State, it was not open to the State to sub-classify a class already recognized by the Constitution and allot a portion of the already reserved quota amongst the State created sub-class within the list of Scheduled Castes. (Paragraph 31) (iii) The primary object of the impugned enactment was to create groups of sub-castes in the list of Scheduled Castes applicable to the State and, apportionment of the reservation was only secondary and consequential. Whatever may be the object of such sub-classification and apportionment of the reservation, the State cannot claim legislative power to make a law dividing the Scheduled Castes List of the State by pressing its legislative competence to Entry 41 of List II or Entry 25 of List III. In pith and substance, the enactment was not a law governing the field of education or the field of State Public Services. (Paragraph 31) (iv) The conglomeration of castes given in the Presidential , should be considered as representing a class as a whole. The very fact that a legal fiction has been created is itself suggestive of the fact that the legislature of a State cannot take any action which would be contrary to or inconsistent therewith. The very idea of placing different castes or tribes or group or part thereof in a State as a conglomeration by way of a deeming definition clearly suggests that they are not to be sub-divided or sub-classified further. If a class within a class of members of the Scheduled Caste is created, the same would amount to tinkering with the list. Such sub-classification would be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. If the benefits of reservation are not percolating to them equitably, measures should be taken to see that they are given such adequate or additional training so as to enable them to compete with the others, but the same could not mean that in the process of rationalising the reservation to the Scheduled Castes, the constitutional mandate of Articles 14, 15 and 16 could be violated.