4 ‘2. Written statements when not to be filed. – No written statement of a defendant shall be filed unless an appearance has first been entered. No written statement or voluntary statement shall be filed, after the time limited for filing the same by the writ of summons, or any rule, or any , as the case may be, has expired, except under an obtained by summons in Chambers taken out prior to the expiry of such time.’ 5 ‘3. Where written statement is not filed, suit may be transferred to the Peremptory Undefended List. - Except as provided by Chapter X, rule 27, (a) where the written statement of a sole defendant is, or the written statements of all the defendants are, Not filed within the time fixed by the summons, or within such further time as may be allowed, or (b) where one or more of several defendants has or have failed to enter appearance, and the other or others has or have entered appearance but failed to file a written statement within the time fixed by the summons or further time allowed, or (c) where a defendant, who having obtained an for transfer of a suit to this Court under section 39 of the Presidency Small Cause Court Act (XV of 1882), and having been directed under the provisions of section 40(2) of that Act to file a written statement, has failed to file the same within the time fixed, the suit shall, unless otherwise ed by the Judge, Registrar or Master, upon requisition by the plaintiff in writing to the Registrar and production of a certificate showing such default, be transferred to the peremptory list of undefended suits.’ 6 ‘27. Undefended suits may be kept out of the Peremptory Undefended List by requisition. - An undefended suit or proceeding Not in the Peremptory List of Undefended Suits, may be kept out of such list for any specified period, on the requisition, in writing of the plaintiff’s Advocate acting on the Original Side, or of the plaintiff, if acting in person, under the direction of the Registrar.’ [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1415 PIC Departmentals Pvt. Ltd. v. Sreeleathers Pvt. Ltd. 13. It was further submitted that due to sudden listing of the suit on 17.01.2017, which surprised the respondent, by way of abundant caution, it promptly filed G.A. No.693/2017 in bona fide. He prayed for dismissal of the appeal. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 14. Having bestowed our anxious thoughts to the entirety of the lis and the submissions canvassed at the Bar, we do not find any ground for interference, particularly with reference to the facts noted above. The propositions laid down in the precedents pressed into service by the learned senior counsel for the appellant cannot be quarrelled with. Yet, they do not aid the appellant due to the unique factual prism herein. 15. Learned senior counsel for the appellant is correct that the power to extend time for filing Written Statement should not be employed as a matter of course, but with great caution so that the purpose of the procedural statute is not defeated and unscrupulous litigants do not abuse the process of the Court by adopting dilatory tactics.