Some of the speeches in the Constituent Assembly give expression to this vision. On behalf of the Adivasi community, Jaipal Singh Munda shared the following sentiments and expectations from the Constitution: “Mr. Chairman, Sir, I rise to speak on behalf of millions of unknown hordes-yet very important-of unrecognised warriors of freedom, the original people of India who have variously been known as backward tribes, primitive tribes, criminal tribes and everything else, Sir, I am proud to be a Jungli, that is the name by which we are known in my part of the country... Sir, if there is any group of Indian people 20 Granville Austin, The Indian Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation, Oxford University Press (1966), p. xi 21 Marc Galanter, Law and Society in Modern India, Oxford University Press (1989), 2018 Reprint, p. 185 22 Granville Austin, The Indian Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation, Oxford University Press (1966), p. xii 23 Granville Austin, Working A Democratic Constitution: The Indian Experience, Oxford University Press (1999), p. 7 24 Granville Austin, The Indian Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation, Oxford University Press (1966), p. xii 518 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that has been shabbily treated it is my people. They have been disgracefully treated, neglected for the last 6,000 years… You cannot teach democracy to the tribal people; you have to learn democratic ways from them. They are the most democratic people on earth… We want to be treated like every other Indian.”25 H.J. Khandekar, a leader from the Dalit community, raised the plight of the so-called “criminal tribes”: “We have been given according to this Constitution freedom of speech and freedom of movement and so on. But there is no freedom of movement for one crore of unfortunate people in this country. That is, the Criminal Tribes. Nothing is said about them in this Constitution. Will the Government repeal the Criminal Tribes Act and give every freedom to the Criminal Tribes?”26 Dakshayani Velayudhan, the lone Dalit woman in the Constituent Assembly, noted: “The working of the Constitution will depend upon how the people will conduct themselves in the future, not on the actual execution of the law. So I hope that in course of time there will not be such a community known as Untouchables and that our delegates abroad will not have to hang their heads in shame if somebody raises such a question in an organisation of international nature.”27 Dr Ambedkar, as Chairman of the Drafting Committee, remarked in his last address to the Constituent Assembly: “On the 26th of January 1950, we are going to enter into a life of contradictions. In politics we will have equality and in social and economic life we will have inequality. In politics we will be recognizing the principle of one man one vote and one vote one value. In our social and economic life, we shall, by reason of our social and economic structure, continue to deny the principle of one man one value. How 25 Constituent Assembly Debates (19 December 1946) 26 Constituent Assembly Debates (21 November 1949) 27 Constituent Assembly Debates (29 November 1948) [2024] 10 S.C.R.