Private resources first become the “resources of the community” through the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 233 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. methods adopted by the State either through nationalisation, acquisition or vesting of such resources in the State and once they become resources vested in the State they get transformed as “material resources of the community”. Therefore, the expression “material resources” though including private resources must ultimately get transformed as “material resources of the community”. “Material resources of the community” means the community at large would be entitled to claim a benefit of said resources when they are so distributed by the State or retained by the State for a public purpose. In other words, material resources privately owned or controlled by the private persons cannot straightaway be construed to be“material resources of the community”. 12.14 The expression “of the community” must be given its true meaning. This is because it is only material resources of the community which can be distributed by the State and not privately owned material resources. So distributed as best to subserve the common good: 13. The next limb of clause (b) of Article 39 is “distribution” of “material resources of the community”“as best to subserve the common good”. Therefore, distribution must be in to subserve the “common good” and not solely for private good. This would imply that firstly, what is to be distributed is “material resources of the community” and not material resources of the private persons, per se, and secondly, the distribution must subserve the common good, which means that it is for the benefit of the public at large. Thus“common good” cannot be equated to private good which means distributed to other private persons and not being distributed to the public at large, unless distribution to other private persons is for the purpose of the common good and with a public purpose. 13.1 Thus the expression “distribution” as “best to subserve the common good” would not always envisage allocation or assignment or transfer to deserving or eligible persons. For instance, on nationalisation of banks, the Central Government exercises control over the banks as nationalized banks. Additionally, for instance, on nationalization of buses , they could be utilized for the benefit of the general public through 234 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a State owned department or through a Corporation or entity created by the State, such as a Government company, a corporation, a society etc. Similarly, land acquired for a public purpose could be used by the State for serving the common good while retaining ownership and control over it and using it for the benefit of the general public which is also a public purpose. Alternatively, by allocation of said land or other immovable property in the form of house sites etc. being allotted, assigned, transferred, conveyed to eligible and deserving persons distribution of ownership and control of material resources of the community to subserve the common good is achieved. 13.2 As far as the lands or other immovable property which vest with the State by virtue of operation of law are concerned, the persons who are entitled to grant of occupancy rights may make an application under the relevant laws in respect of the vested land as erstwhile tenants and seek registration of occupancy rights for the purpose of cultivation on certain terms and conditions.