17.2. The evidence of P.W.1 also proceeds to state that the complainant along with PW.2 and P.W.3. and Lokayukta Inspector and his staff started to go to the Sub Treasury Office in a jeep and they parked their jeep in the bus stand; then, the complainant and shadow witness (P.W.2) went inside the office of the respondent; the complainant met the respondent and enquired about the passing of the bill; at that time, the respondent demanded the bribe amount and also took the complainant to a hotel, in which, the complainant handed over the amount; after counting the currency notes, the respondent kept the same in his left side pant pocket; and on giving signal, the Lokayukta police came to treasury [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1485 The State of Karnataka v. Chandrasha office, caught hold of the respondent, after following due procedure, seized the tainted currency notes from the left side pant pocket of the respondent and thereafter, prepared seizure mahazar (Ex.P11), besides collecting the material objects (M.O.2 to M.O.7); and the photographs taken during such seizure, were marked as Exs.P12 to P17. 17.3. The deposition of P.W.1 was corroborated by P.W.2 and P.W.3 panch witnesses. The shadow witness Basawaraj (P.W.2) who accompanied the complainant at the time of trap, categorically stated in his evidence about the drawing of seizure mahazar (Ex.P11), more particularly, the recovery of tainted currency notes from the possession of the respondent and the pant worn by the respondent at the time of trap. The trap witness Ishappa (P.W.3) also stated about the same in his evidence. Thus, the evidence of P.W.1 to P.W.3 clearly demonstrated the successful completion of trap, the demand and acceptance of illegal gratification by the respondent for passing the bill pertaining to the complainant and others. 17.4. P.W.4 and P.W.5 are the officials working in the office of the Sub Treasury of Afzalpur, who produced the records connected with this case, as directed by the Investigating Officer. PW.4 - Basawaraj deposed in his evidence that on the date of alleged trap, himself and the respondent were working in the Sub Treasury Office of Afzalpur. Through him, the copy of the work allotment was placed on record as Ex.P.29, which states that the respondent was working as First Division Assistant, who was looking after the section of passing the bills for encashment of surrender leave salary, which were liable to be submitted to his higher officials for approval. The evidence of PW.4 coupled with Ex.P29 makes it clear that the respondent was entrusted with the work of receiving and checking the surrender leave salary bill presented by the complainant. Further, P.W.4 in his chief examination, categorically stated that the money was recovered from the respondent; and in the cross-examination stated that the bills prepared in the school were produced to treasury through staff and he did not know that the respondent has no pending work relating to the complainant as on 05.08.2009. The certified copies of Attendance register, Token receipt, 1486 [2024] 11 S.C.R.