Accordingly, all deliberations of TEC sounded to me like a fault finding mission. • Some members continued relying solely on reports of contrarian scientists and propounded their views/opinions, while ignoring the fact that such - isolated research claims had been examined thoroughly and rejected by a wide section of scientific community as well as by the regulatory authorities of their respective countries as well as other well reputed regulatory bodies. • As mentioned earlier, no other member provided any input on the TOR nor did they respond to any of the write-ups provided by me. As a result, no substantive evidence-based discussion could take place during the meetings in to arrive at general consensus/understanding. • The only shared document was the part draft report (26 pages), which did not reflect general deliberations held nor did it follow the agreed format. I did convey my concern over adopting this entirely different approach with utter disregard to decisions taken in earlier meetings, but with no positive output. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1913 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. • In a scenario like this, reflecting considerable lack of transparency, I am left with no other alternative but to submit this report separately - the last thing I would have wished otherwise.” 28.7. While these lapses pointed out by Dr. Paroda pertained to procedural aspects of the TEC however among other minor differences, twin substantial differences in respect of a) conducting field trials which the former recommends continuation in the interest of scientific development and the latter recommends against given numerous regulatory lacunae; and b) the former does not oppose the development of HT crops while the latter, once again in view of the lacunae, bats for a wholesale ban. 28.8. Dr. Paroda recommended that there should be development of comprehensive guidelines for Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) with consultation with all stakeholders and the general public. A full time Risk Assessment Unit with permanent staff consisting of a multidisciplinary team of scientists should be established. National Agriculture Research System (NARS) should lead agronomic performance testing and release of GM varieties/hybrids in line with the National Seed Policy while making use of already existing procedures under AICRP. 28.9. He was further of the view that the proper evaluation of a Genetically Engineered plant is scientifically not tenable in a contained greenhouse and confined field testing is the right option for a realistic evaluation of any GE plant. Each confined field trial must be monitored by a ‘site specific monitoring committee’. A well-designed case-to-case post-release monitoring system must be put in place to address specific post-release issues identified during the event approval by GEAC. RCGM and GEAC should review isolation distances for confined field trials and suitability of additional measures. Research projects must be funded by DBT, ICAR and relevant arm of the Government. Accredited laboratories must be notified for detection of GM crops. The regulatory authorities should develop a system of examining papers or reports about the adverse effects of GM crops and communicate the same to public.