The word “forest” must be understood according to its dictionary meaning. This description covers all statutorily recognised forests, whether designated as reserved, protected or otherwise for the purpose of Section 2(i) of the Forest Conservation Act. The term “forest land”, occurring in Section 2, will not only include “forest” as understood in the dictionary sense, but also any area recorded as forest in the Government record irrespective of the ownership. This is how it has to be understood for the purpose of Section 2 of the Act. The provisions enacted in the Forest Conservation Act, 1980 for the conservation of forests and the matters connected therewith must apply clearly to all forests so understood irrespective of the ownership or classification thereof…” 1042 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 102. Though we find that for the sustainable development of the State and on account of the availability of the timber, sanction of granting licenses can be permitted to continue, however, as a responsible State, it needs to ensure that environmental concerns are duly attended to. We, therefore, direct the State Government to ensure that while granting permission for felling trees of the prohibited species, it should strictly ensure that the permission is granted only when the conditions specified in the Notification dated 7th January 2020 are satisfied. The State Government shall also ensure that when such permissions are granted to the applicants, the applicants scrupulously follow the mandate in the said notification of planting 10 trees against 1 and maintaining them for five years.” 121. It is needless to state that, this Court, in a series of s and s passed in the case of T.N. Godavarman Thirumulkpad v. Union of India and Others36 and lastly vide dated 26th April 2023, passed by a three-Judges Bench to which one of us (B.R. Gavai, J.) was a member, has emphasized the need to have a balance between the requirement of development and preservation of ecology and environment. 122. It is thus clear that while ensuring the developmental activities so as to meet the demands of growing population, it is also necessary that the issues with regard to environmental and ecological protection are addressed too. V. CONCLUSION 123. We have gone through the development plan. The development plan has been finalized after taking into consideration the reports of various expert committees and the studies undertaken with regard to various aspects including environmental and ecological aspects. 124. We, however, clarify that we have not considered the development plan in minute details. Upon its prima facie consideration, we have come to a view that there are sufficient safeguards to balance the need for development while taking care of and addressing the 36 [2023] 6 SCR 601 : 2023 INSC 430 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1043 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another environmental and ecological concerns. We may however not be construed as giving our imprimatur to the said development plan. At the same time, it cannot be ignored that the development plan has been finalized after various experts from various fields including those concerned with urban planning, environment etc., were taken on board.