14. The sole simple issue herein for our opinion is whether interest is payable on interest or whether 15% interest per annum awarded would be on the principal sum award plus 12% per annum interest on it for the pre-award period. 15. Section 29 of the Act provides that the court may in the decree interest at the rate deemed reasonable to be paid on the principal sum as adjudged by the award meaning thereby in drawing the decree, the court may for payment of interest on the principal sum as adjudged by the award. In other words, the court cannot for payment of interest on interest but only on the principal sum adjudged. 16. Since the award under the Act is in the nature of a decree in terms of Section 17 of the aforesaid Act, it attracts the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure2 also to a limited extent namely insofar as award of interest is concerned and for the execution of the decree drawn pursuant to the award. 17. Section 34 of the CPC provides that where the decree is for payment of money, the court may interest at such rate as the court deems reasonable to be paid on the principal sum adjudged. Again, 2 hereinafter referred to as “CPC” 118 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the reading of the aforesaid Sub-Section (1) of Section 34 CPC would reveal that the interest is payable on the principal sum adjudged and not on interest part of the award. 18. The Interest Act, 1978 vide Sub-Section (3) of Section 3 specifically lays down that nothing in Section 3 which permits the court to award interest shall empower the court to award interest upon interest. It means that ordinarily the courts are not entitled to award interest upon interest unless specifically provided either under any statute or under the terms and conditions of the contract. 19. In Oil and Natural Gas Commission vs. M.C. Clelland Engineers S.A.3 which was also a case under the Act, this Court observed that there cannot be any doubt that the Arbitrators have power to grant interest akin to Section 34 CPC and it is clear that interest is not permissible upon interest awarded but only upon the claim made. In the aforesaid case, the claim made was in two parts, and in the second part, interest on delayed payment was also claimed. In that situation, the court held that the interest awarded would form part of the damages or compensation for delayed payment and would become part of the principal amount and thus, in that circumstances, Arbitrator has the power to grant interest on interest which partakes the compensation awarded. 20. In State of Haryana and Others vs. S.L. Arora and Company,4 it was observed that interest, unless otherwise specified, refers to simple interest and that interest is payable only on principal amount and not on any accrued interest. It was further held that the compound interest can be awarded if there is a specific provision under the statute or in the contract for compounding of interest but no general discretion lies with the courts or tribunals to award compound interest or interest upon interest.