It is pertinent to note that in the commission report Exh.122, the commissioner has given actual position of every room situated in C.T.S.No.111/B. In his conclusion he has opined that, the building is approximately 96 to 97 years old and the life of building is over. Considering all the material he opined that the portion shown as ‘C’ in the map is dangerous and is required to be demolished. It is important to note that, said portion shown as ‘C’ is the room which is in possession of plaintiffs and adjacent to suit property. The commissioner has also filed number of photographs showing the position of property at Exh. 135 to Exh. 148. Further, if D.W.1 Vivek’s deposition is perused it is clear that he has supported his commission report. In cross examination, he admitted that, if the cementing strength of soi! used for construction is gone then there may be cracks to the wall ·and to reconstruct the said wall the previous wall is required to be demolished, further, if the base of construction is not strong then new construction can also collapse. He further admitted that, if the portion shown by red ink in the map i.e. ‘C’ is demolished the entire roof on the property is also required to be removed and if said roof is removed it will create danger to the roof of the property on the western side and ta the roof on ‘B’ portion. Further, if total evidence of D.W.1 Vivek is considered it cannot be said that, he had opined that, suit property is in dilapidated condition though he had admitted that the life of suit property is over.” (Emphasis supplied) 6. It would be evident from this part of the of the Trial Court that there was no specific finding that the portions in respect of which the respondents have tenancy required immediate demolition. It was a portion of the premises in possession of the landlords which, in the opinion of the Commissioner was dangerous. The Trial Court proceeded on the basis that it could not sit in appeal over the decision of Municipal Council requiring demolition. On plaintiffs’ plea of default, the Trial Court rejected that contention holding that the tenants were 1112 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ready and willing to pay the rent of the suit property and during the pendency of the suit, they had deposited the rent. The Trial Court also rejected the landlord’s contention that the subject-property was sublet or permanent structure was made without consent of the landlord. The Trial Court, however, opined that the landlord was the best judge of his own requirement and on that basis the issue of bona fide need was decided in favour of the appellants. 7. The Appellate Court sustained the and decree on the ground of bona fide need as also necessity to effect demolition of the subject-building. In addition, it overturned the Trial Court’s finding on there being no default in payment of rent on the ground that the provisions of Section 15(3) of the 1999 Act could not support the tenant’s case.