623 Sunil @ Sonu Etc. v. State NCT of Delhi record would show that deceased Sachin had already been taken to BJRM Hospital. If that be so, then the conduct of Rahul (PW-1) in leaving the BJRM Hospital in search of deceased Sachin appears to be strange. It can further be seen that, though in the statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., Rahul (PW-1) admitted that he and deceased Sachin had consumed liquor, he has denied the same in his cross-examination. Rahul (PW-1) has admitted that there is one case registered against him for the offence punishable under Section 307 of IPC with respect to the present incident. It is further to be noted that though in his examination-in-chief, Rahul (PW-1) tried to give explanation that he could not lodge the FIR expeditiously since he fell unconscious, he admitted in his cross-examination that he regained consciousness in the morning of the next day. Then the question is what prevented him from lodging the FIR till 21:15 hours. Shivani (PW-2) also deposed almost to the same effect. There are various contradictions in her deposition. She also admitted that Rahul (PW-1) was also arrested by the police and that she gave her statement after Rahul (PW-1) was arrested by the police. 13. In the FIR lodged at the instance of appellant Sunil @ Sonu, it is stated that Rahul (PW-1) and deceased Sachin had come to the shop of Satish in a heavily drunken condition, and they had tried to assault the appellants. The medical certificates of appellants Sunil @ Sonu and Nitin @ Devender would show that they had sustained the following injuries: “Injuries sustained by appellant Sunil @ Sonu: 1) Pain and bleeding from Right side of parietal region. 2) Abrasions on middle finger of the right hand. Injuries sustained by appellant Nitin @ Devender 1) Incised contused lacerated wound on parietal region of size 3 x 1 x 0.5 cm. 2) Abrasion over left side of abdomen of size 3 x 0.5 cm.” 14. Undisputedly, the said injuries are not explained by the prosecution. 15. The defence of the accused persons is specific that, it is the deceased Sachin and Rahul (PW-1) had come in a drunken condition at the shop of Satish and they started abusing and assaulting the appellants. The evidence of SI Suresh, Investigating Officer (PW-19) would reveal that when he visited the BJRM Hospital on 28th November 2016, 624 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports he found not only deceased Sachin but also found all the accused persons admitted in the said hospital. He has also admitted that he did not find Rahul (PW-1) in the said hospital. SI Rakesh Kumar (DW-3), who is an IO in FIR No. 664/2016 which was registered at the instance of appellant Sunil @ Sonu, also deposed that all the accused persons were medically examined and had received injuries which were exhibited vide Ex.DW-3/A to Ex.DW-3/D. It can thus clearly be seen that the defence of the appellants is a possible defence.