This Court held that the State had the competence to enact the impugned laws under Entry 8 of List II because the legislations are confined to ensuring the proper utilisation of rectified spirit in the manufacture of medicinal and toilet preparations.143 After referring to the decision of this Court in FN Balsara (supra), the Bench held that only medicinal preparations which are capable of being misused for “noxious” purpose can be considered ‘intoxicating liquor’.144 This Court held that the test to determine if it can be misused is whether the article in question can be used as a beverage: “19. The general test for determining what medicinal preparations containing alcohol are capable of being misused and, therefore, must be considered intoxicating within the meaning of the term “intoxicating 142 (1981) 4 SCC 391 143 (1981) 4 SCC 391 [14] 144 “18. … The power to legislate with regard to intoxicating liquor carries with it the power to regulate the manufacture, sale and possession of medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol, not for the purpose of interfering with the right of citizens in the matter of consumption or use for bona fide medicinal and toilet preparations, but for preventing intoxicating liquors from being passed on under the guise of medicinal and toilet preparations. It was within the competence of the State legislature to prevent the noxious use of such preparations, i.e. their use as a substitute for alcoholic beverages.” [emphasis supplied] 2010 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports liquor”, is the capability of the article in question for use as a beverage. The impugned provisions have been enacted to ensure that rectified spirit is not misused under the pretext of being used for medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol. It was argued that this definition was therefore ultra vires the powers of the State legislature, which could only make laws related to alcoholic beverages.” (emphasis supplied) 81. The observations of this Court in Southern Pharmaceuticals (supra) follow the precedent in FN Balsara (supra) that preparations which contain alcohol will be covered by the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ in Entry 8 to prevent its ‘noxious use’. In Indian Mica (supra), the appellant challenged the vires of the rule levying licence fee to possess denatured spirit. The Rules were framed under the Bihar and Orissa Excise Act 1915. The State would have the competence to enact a law levying fee on denatured spirit under Entry 66 of List II145 if the spirit was covered by the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ in Entry 8 of List II. Denatured spirit in this case was used as a raw material for the preparation of another product (micanite). In this case, the Constitution Bench held that denatured spirit is ‘intoxicating liquor’ and thus, covered by Entry 8 of List II.146 Further it was held that the fee charged will be valid if the levy has a reasonable relationship with the services rendered by the Government.147 82. It is clear from the analysis of the above s that the meaning of the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ in Entry 8 of List II has been expanded beyond the narrow definition of alcoholic beverages that produce an ‘intoxicating effect’ upon consumption.