Petitioners therefore sought the reliefs as noted above by allowing the writ petitions. Submission of the Respondents: 5. Per contra, learned senior counsel Sri Arvind Datar, ably assisted by learned counsel Sri Nikunj Dayal, contended that the Guideline with regard to exceeding the specified number of tax audits being a misconduct was inserted pursuant to the communication received from the CBDT and with the aim of maintaining quality in tax audits. According to learned senior counsel, putting a cap on the tax audits to be undertaken by the Chartered Accountants under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961, would not in any way restrict the freedom envisaged under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India. The said cap has been envisaged in public interest and therefore saved under Article 19(6) of the Constitution of India. 5.1 Learned senior counsel Shri Datar submitted that all writ petitioners herein have breached the Guideline and undertaken more than the specified number of tax audits as envisaged, thereby clearly committing a misconduct. Therefore, they would have to face the disciplinary proceedings initiated by the respondent-Institute and cannot assail the validity of the Guideline by either questioning the competence of the [2024] 6 S.C.R. 815 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others respondent-Institute in making such a Guideline or the manner in which the said Guideline was introduced on the statute book. 5.2 That, the Guidelines dated 08.08.2008 were issued in exercise of powers under clause (i) of Part II of the Second Schedule of the 1949 Act and in its role as the only statutory body for regulating and governing the profession of Chartered Accountants, the respondent-Institute can define misconduct to ensure quality and professional good conduct. Further, the object is not to prohibit practice of but only to maintain quality in audit work, which is wholly in the interest of the general public including the ITD. It was further contended that the objects of both, the instant Guidelines dated 08.08.2008 and the erstwhile Notification dated 13.01.1989 have been to ensure efficiency, improve quality service, ensure maintenance of high standards of performance and to have equitable distribution of tax audit work amongst members of the respondent-Institute. 5.3 Learned senior counsel for the respondent-Institute submitted that the notified limit on tax audits has been decided by the Council, an expert body, on consideration of all pragmatic limitations and other work undertaken by a Chartered Accountant besides tax audit under Section 44AB, IT Act,1961. Section 139 of the IT Act, 1961 mandatorily requires every assessee, governed by provisions of Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961, to file tax audit report along with his return before the due date – presently, 30th September of every year. That being the case, the respondent-Institute contended that a Chartered Accountant cannot conceivably complete more than the specified number of audits in a period of 25-30 weeks, i.e., from April-September of the relevant assessment year. 5.4 Learned senior counsel sought to repel the argument that the petitioners’ right under Article 19(1)(g) is violated by the restriction.