Thus, this Court in BGS SGS SOMA (supra) laid down a three- condition test as to when ‘venue’ can be construed as ‘seat’ of arbitration. The conditions that are required to be fulfilled are as under: - i. The arbitration agreement or clause in question should designate or mention only one place; ii. Such place must have anchored the arbitral proceedings i.e., the arbitral proceedings must have been fixed to that place alone without any scope of change; iii. There must be no other significant contrary indicia to show that the place designated is merely the venue and not the seat. Where the aforesaid conditions are fulfilled, then the place that has been designated as ‘venue’ can be construed as the ‘seat’ of arbitration. It is clarified that, while applying the aforesaid test, it must be borne in mind that where a supranational body of rules has been stipulated in an arbitration agreement or clause, such stipulation is not to be regarded as a contrary indicium, such stipulation does not mean that no seat has been designated rather such stipulation is a positive indicia that the place so designated is actually the ‘seat’. 54. The aforesaid test was approvingly applied by this Court in Mankastu Impex Private Ltd. v. Airvisual Ltd. reported in (2020) 5 SCC 399 and it was held that where the reference to a place in the arbitration agreement is not simply as “venue” and rather a reference as place for final resolution by arbitration, such place shall be construed as the seat of arbitration. The relevant observations read as under: - “20. It is well settled that “seat of arbitration” and “venue of arbitration” cannot be used interchangeably. It has [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1219 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze also been established that mere expression “place of arbitration” cannot be the basis to determine the intention of the parties that they have intended that place as the “seat” of arbitration. The intention of the parties as to the “seat” should be determined from other clauses in the agreement and the conduct of the parties. 21. In the present case, the arbitration agreement entered into between the parties provides Hong Kong as the place of arbitration. The agreement between the parties choosing “Hong Kong” as the place of arbitration by itself will not lead to the conclusion that the parties have chosen Hong Kong as the seat of arbitration. The words, “the place of arbitration” shall be “Hong Kong”, have to be read along with Clause 17.2. Clause 17.2 provides that “… any dispute, controversy, difference arising out of or relating to MoU shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration administered in Hong Kong….”. On a plain reading of the arbitration agreement, it is clear that the reference to Hong Kong as “place of arbitration” is not a simple reference as the “venue” for the arbitral proceedings; but a reference to Hong Kong is for final resolution by arbitration administered in Hong Kong.