1281 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. (c) the woman has obtained a divorce from her husband and that she had voluntarily surrendered her rights to maintenance or interim maintenance, as the case may be after her divorce, cancel the from the date thereof. (4) At the time of making any decree for the recovery of any maintenance or dowry by any person, to whom a monthly allowance for the maintenance and interim maintenance or any of them has been ed to be paid under Section 125, the Civil Court shall take into account that sum which has been paid to, or recovered by, such person as monthly allowance for the maintenance and interim maintenance or any of them, as the case may be, in pursuance of the said .” The learned judge clarified that Section 127(3)(b) does not refer to mahr or dower or the maintenance paid during the iddat period as these are not the sums ‘payable on divorce’ under the personal law. What was encompassed by the terms was the amount of alimony or compensation paid upon dissolution of marriage under customary or personal law. Expositing the intent and scheme of Section 125 read with Section 127, it was held that the Parliament did not intend to take away by one hand what is given under Section 125 by the other hand. 14. Krishna Iyer, J.’s in Bai Tahira vs. Ali Hussain Fidaalli Chothia (1979) 2 SCC 316 is also instructive in this respect. This Court was confronted with the application of Section 125 of the CrPC by a Muslim woman who had been divorced through a consent decree. The husband had challenged the award of maintenance before the Sessions Judge on the ground that the Magistrate lacked jurisdiction to ascertain whether the petitioner-wife was a ‘wife’ within the meaning of Section 125. Since the High Court had not interfered with the view of the Sessions Judge, the Supreme Court granted leave and held that a destitute divorcee would be covered within the protection of Section 125 since she was suffering neglect. Krishna Iyer, J. emphasised the constitutional import of Section 125 in the following words: “7. The meaning of meanings is derived from values in a given society and its legal system. Article 15(3) has 1282 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports compelling, compassionate relevance in the context of Section 125 and the benefit of doubt, if any, in statutory interpretation belongs to the ill-used wife and the derelict divorcee. This social perspective granted, the resolution of all the disputes projected is easy. Surely, Parliament, in keeping with Article 15(3) and deliberate by design, made a special provision to help women in distress cast away by divorce. Protection against moral and material abandonment manifest in Article 39 is part of social and economic justice, specificated in Article 38, fulfilment of which is fundamental to the governance of the country (Article 37). From this coign of vantage we must view the printed text of the particular Code.” (emphasis supplied) 15.