Furthermore, the currency notes were handed back to Mahesh Garg(PW-1) without any of the Court which is an act of gross misconduct on the part of the Investigating Officer(PW-37). Rather, this Court is compelled to observe that perhaps the entire exercise of recording disclosure statements and the recovery of the currency notes is totally sham and that is why, the currency notes were neither deposited in the malkhana of the police station/bank nor were the same produced in the Court thereby, creating strong doubt on the very factum of the recovery. vii. That the prosecution failed to examine the most relevant witness, namely, Shamlal Garg which compels the Court to draw an adverse inference against the prosecution. 53. The High Court as well as the trial Court failed to advert to these important loopholes and shortcomings in the evidence available on record which are fatal and completely destroy the fabric of the prosecution case. 54. As a consequence, this Court is of the firm opinion that entire story of the prosecution is nothing but a piece of fabrication and the accused were framed in the case for ulterior motive. There is no iota of truth in the prosecution story what to talk of proof beyond all manner of doubt which establishes the guilt of the accused. The fabric of the prosecution case is full of holes which are impossible to mend. Thus, conviction of the accused appellants as recorded by the trial Court and affirmed by the High Court cannot be sustained. The impugned s do not stand to scrutiny. 364 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 55. Resultantly, the dated 26th September, 2005 passed by the trial Court and the dated 19th January, 2009 passed by the High Court are hereby quashed and set aside and the appeals are accordingly allowed. 56. The appellants are acquitted of the charges. They are on bail and need not surrender. Their bail bonds are discharged. 57. Pending application(s), if any, stand(s) disposed of. Result of the case: Appeals allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain