It was further submitted that once a grave error is found in the decision of the Trial Court, the High Court was fully empowered to re-appreciate the entire evidence and reach a different conclusion. Analysis & Conclusions 19. The case of the Prosecution rests on circumstantial evidence, the testimonies of P.W.-1 to P.W.-4 read with the reports of medical examination (Exhibit P.3), Postmortem Report (Exhibit P.4.) and the 1766 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports evidence of the doctors. Admittedly there are no direct eyewitness to the said incident. In such cases, an inference of guilt must be sought to be drawn from a cogently and firmly established chain of circumstances. 20. This Court in its decision in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra (1984) 4 SCC 116, has laid down following five golden principles, which constitutes the panchsheel of proof, for a case based on circumstantial evidence: insofar as the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, and the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency; they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved; there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused. 21. The prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt, established the complete chain of circumstances including the; (i) motive (ii) presence of the Appellants at the time of incident (iii) false explanation in the statement under Section 313 of the CrPC (iv) the conduct of the Appellants before and after the incident & most pertinently (v) the medical evidence; which in all human probability only correspond to the guilt of the Appellants. 22. At the outset, the medical evidence in the present case, clearly shows that the Deceased i.e., Rajalakshmi had sustained multiple ante-mortem injuries, including external injuries over the left upper arm, left shoulder, right shoulder and neck. Pertinently, the Deceased’s hyoid bone was also found to be broken. P.W.-10. in his deposition discloses that the death of the Deceased occurred from suffocation in breathing & there was no chance of consuming liquid for a person whose hyoid/Navaldi bone had been fractured. It was deposed that Deceased could have died due to pressure on the neck & problem in breathing. P.W.-11 also noted that no poison found in the internal organs of the Deceased and it was her ultimate opinion that the deceased appeared to have died of compression over neck. The medical record clearly establishes that the Deceased had died due to external injuries, which could not have been a natural consequence of consuming paint, as alleged by the Appellants. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1767 Uma & Anr. v. The State Rep. by the Deputy Superintendent of Police 23. The presence of the Appellants at the time and place of incident is demonstrable from their conduct before and after the incident.