154. The US Supreme Court held that the intention of the Speech and Debate Clause was not to create an absolute privilege in favour of members of Congress. The clause, the Court held, is only attracted to “legislative activities” and would not protect republishing of defamatory statements. The Court held that: “Whatever imprecision there may be in the term “legislative activities,” it is clear that nothing in history or in the explicit language of the clause suggests any intention to create an absolute privilege from liability or suit for defamatory statements made outside the Chamber. … Claims under the clause going beyond what is needed to protect legislative independence are to be closely scrutinized. … Indeed, the precedents abundantly support the conclusion that a Member may be held liable for republishing defamatory statements originally made in either House. We perceive no reason from that long-established rule.” (emphasis supplied) 155. The principle which emerges from the approach taken with regard to privileges in the United States is that a member of Congress is not immune for engaging in bribery to perform legislative acts in terms of speech or vote. The Speech and Debate Clause does not give any absolute immunity to a legislator with respect to all things bearing a nexus with legislative activity. The immunity is attracted only to those functions which are essential and within the legitimate sphere of legislative business. The only privilege a Congressperson may attract in a prosecution is that the content of the speech, vote or legislative acts may not be produced as evidence by the prosecution. 562 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 156. The majority in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) has interpreted Johnson (supra) and the dissenting opinion in Brewster (supra) to arrive at the same conclusion which it did upon a reflection of the law in the UK. Here too, the majority fails on two accounts. Firstly, it fails to account for the fact that the Speech and Debate Clause which is substantially borrowed from Article IX of the English Bill of Rights confers immunity to the speech and vote made in parliament. The understanding arrived at in the majority was not informed by the evolution of law in a line of cases in the United States. On the contrary, the majority relied solely on the dissenting opinion in Brewster (supra) without adequate substantiation for such reliance. Secondly, the majority has extended its interpretation of the Speech and Debate Clause and pigeon-holed the interpretation of Article 105(2) to satisfy this understanding. III. Canada 157. The precise question of whether bribing legislators to vote in a certain direction falls within the ambit of parliamentary privilege was adjudicated upon by the Queen’s Bench in R v. Bunting et al.76 In that case, the defendants had sought the quashing of an indictment for conspiracy to change the Government of the Province of Ontario by bribing members of the legislature to vote against the government. The Court conclusively held that the offence of bribery and conspiracy to bribe members of the legislature fell within the jurisdiction of the court and such an inquiry would not encroach on parliamentary privilege.