It may also be indicated that although such FIRs were filed in 1987 and 1989, the Banks have not chosen to institute any case against the alleged erring officials despite allegations made against them in the FIRs. Considering that the investigations had not been completed till 1991 even though there was no impediment to complete the investigations and further investigations are still pending and also considering the fact that the claims of the Banks have been satisfied and the suits instituted by the Banks have been compromised on receiving payments, we do not think that the said complaints should be pursued any further…………..” [Emphasis supplied] 16. It could thus be seen that this Court in the case of Duncans Agro Industries Ltd found that the Banks had already filed suits for recovery of the dues of the Banks on account of credit facility and the said suits had been compromised on receiving the payments from the companies concerned. The Court found that even if an offence of cheating is prima facie constituted, such offence is a compoundable offence and compromise decrees passed in the suits instituted by 658 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Banks, for all intents and purposes, amounted to compounding of the offence of cheating. 17. In the case of Nikhil Merchant (supra), this Court was considering a civil dispute with certain criminal facets. The matter also involved offences which were not compoundable in nature. This Court, therefore, considered the question as to whether the criminal proceedings could be quashed under Article 142 of the Constitution of India on the basis of compromise, even where non-compoundable offences are involved. 18. An argument was advanced on behalf of the Union that this Court should not exercise its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India in to quash the proceedings for non-compoundable offences. This Court observed thus: “25. It was urged that even if no steps have been taken by CBI since the charge-sheet was filed in 1998, the same would not be a ground for quashing the criminal proceedings once the charge-sheet had been filed. He submitted that in view of the decision of this Court in Supreme Court Bar Assn. v. Union of India [(1998) 4 SCC 409] this Court would possibly not be justified in giving directions in the instant case even under Article 142 of the Constitution, since the Constitution Bench had held that in exercise of its plenary powers under Article 142, this Court could not ignore any substantive statutory provision dealing with the subject. It is a residuary power, supplementary and complementary to the powers specifically conferred on the Supreme Court by statutes, exercisable to do complete justice between the parties where it is just and equitable to do so. It was further observed that the power under Article 142 of the Constitution was vested in the Supreme Court to prevent any obstruction to the stream of justice. 26. The learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that the power under Article 142 is to be exercised sparingly and only in rare and exceptional cases and in the absence of any exceptional circumstances the appeal was liable to be dismissed.