I shall elaborate on the above aspects. 8. The perspective articulated in the proposed of the learned Chief Justice rests upon certain key deductions, which are culled out hereinunder: i. That, the framers of the Constitution did not want to impose a rigid socio-economic under which all private property could vest with the State and any legislation to convert private ownership to public ownership would fall within the ambit of Article 39(b). ii. That, the text of Article 39(b) reveals the following five distinct elements, each of which must be satisfied for any legislation to fall within the purview of this provision and be regarded as advancing the ideal enshrined thereunder: a. Provision relates to “ownership” and “control”; b. “Ownership” and “control” is over “material resources”; c. The material resources which the provision covers are those which are “of the community”; d. The policy of the State must be directed to secure the “distribution” of the ownership and control of such resources; e. The purpose of the distribution must be to “best subserve the common good”. iii. That, the interpretation of Article 39(b) which brings all private property under the umbrella of the phrase “material resources of the community” satisfies only one of the essential elements— [2024] 11 S.C.R. 213 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. namely, that the goods in question constitute a “resource.” This approach overlooks the critical qualifiers that these resources must be both “material” and “of the community.” iv. The language of the provision suggests that not all privately owned resources fall within the scope of the phrase “material resources of the community.” However, private resources are not categorically excluded, and certain privately owned assets may indeed be encompassed. To fall within this ambit, the resource must satisfy two essential qualifiers: it must be both a “material” resource and “of the community.” Consequently, the s questioned before this nine-Judge Bench are flawed insofar as they assert that “all resources” owned by individuals are inherently part of the community and thus include all private property within the scope of “material resources of the community.” v. The determination of whether a particular resource falls within the ambit of Article 39(b) must be assessed in a context-specific manner, guided by a non-exhaustive set of considerations. These include the nature and characteristics of the resource, its impact on the welfare of the community, its scarcity, and the ramifications of such a resource being concentrated in the hands of private entities. Furthermore, the Public Trust Doctrine, as developed by this Court, may also be instructive and guide in identifying resources that qualify as “material resources of the community.” vi. The term “distribution” carries a broad and expansive meaning. The various methods of distribution that the State may adopt cannot be exhaustively enumerated, but they may include the vesting of the relevant resources in the State, acquisition of the resource, or nationalization. The situs of elaboration: 9. I find myself in agreement with the proposed by the learned Chief Justice insofar as the observation that not all privately owned resources fall within the ambit of the phrase “material resources of the community” is concerned.