The time should be fixed in such a manner that the convict gets at least a period of fifteen clear days from the date of receipt of the warrant of execution of the death sentence and the actual date of execution to enable him to take recourse to legal remedies or to allow him to meet his relatives finally. 41. As we are confirming the impugned on the ground of inordinate and unexplained delay in the execution of the death sentence, it is not necessary to decide the controversy whether the convicts were kept in solitary confinement even before the rejection of the mercy petitions. OUR CONCLUSIONS 42. We hold that:- (i) Undue, unexplained and inordinate delay in execution of the sentence of death will entitle the convict to approach this Court under Article 32. However, this Court will only examine the nature of the delay caused and circumstances that ensued after the judicial process finally confirmed the sentence and will have no jurisdiction to reopen the conclusions reached by the Court while finally maintaining the sentence of death. This Court, however, may consider the question of inordinate delay in the light of all circumstances of the case to decide whether the execution of sentence should be carried out or should be commuted to imprisonment for life; [2024] 12 S.C.R. 611 State of Maharashtra & Ors. v. Pradeep Yashwant Kokade & Anr. (ii) Keeping a convict in suspense while considering his mercy petitions by the Governor or the President for an inordinately long time will certainly cause agony to him/her. It creates adverse physical conditions and psychological stress on the convict. Therefore, this Court, while exercising its jurisdiction under Article 32 read with Article 21 of the Constitution, must consider the effect of inordinate delay in disposal of the clemency petition by the highest Constitutional authorities and cannot excuse the agonising delay caused only on the basis of the gravity of the crime; (iii) It is well established that Article 21 of the Constitution does not end with the pronouncement of the sentence but extends to the stage of execution of that sentence. An inordinate delay in the execution of the sentence of death has a dehumanising effect on the accused. An inordinate and unexplained delay caused by circumstances beyond the prisoners’ control mandates the commutation of a death sentence; (iv) The above principles will also apply to a case where there is a long and unexplained delay on the part of the Sessions Court in issuing the warrant of execution in accordance with Section 413 or Section 414 of CrPC. After the of rejection of mercy petitions is communicated to a convict, the sword of Damocles cannot be kept hanging on him for an inordinately long time. This can be very agonising, both mentally and physically. Such inordinate delay will violate his rights under Article 21 of the Constitution. In such a case, this Court will be justified in commuting the death penalty into life imprisonment; (v) No hard and fast rule can be laid down as regards the length of delay, which can be said to be inordinate.