SUBMISSION OF THE APPELLANT 13. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the evidence of PW-1 ought not to have been accepted by both the courts. The report from the hospital had reached the police station much before. The person to whom PW-1 dictated the complaint has not been examined. There is no material for motive and the testimony of PW-1 is contrary to the one given by PW-3, PW-5 and PW-8. Similarly, the presence of PW-2 is extremely doubtful as his evidence was recorded weeks thereafter. He was also not found to be present by PW-3 in the second hospital, though PW-3 deposed otherwise. Therefore, evidence of PW-2 also ought to have been eschewed. His statement that it is PW-1 and himself who took the deceased to the second hospital is found to be incorrect in view of the testimony of PW-8. The courts below ought to have placed adequate reliance upon the evidence of PW-5 and PW-8, the doctors, who were admittedly working in the hospital at the relevant point of time. The fact that the FIR was not registered immediately after the information was received clearly indicates that it was ante-dated. This contention is also strengthened by the inquest report prepared by the police officer of a different police station i.e. by PW-9. 14. Learned counsel vehemently contended that the trial court has committed grave error in not noting the fact that no time, date and adequate particulars were mentioned in the case diary. The object and rationale behind Section 172 of CrPC coupled with Sections 145, 161 and 165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter referred to as “Evidence Act”) have been clearly overlooked by both the courts. The motive has not been proved as witnesses have not spoken about it in their statements under Section 161 of CrPC. It is a case of completely botched up investigation and, therefore, the appellant deserves acquittal. SUBMISSION OF THE RESPONDENT 15. Learned counsel for the State placed substantial reliance upon the recovery of the vehicle. It is stated that admittedly the vehicle belonged to the father of the appellant. That is the reason why [2024] 2 S.C.R. 785 Shailesh Kumar v. State of U.P. (Now State of Uttarakhand) an application was filed seeking its custody, which came to be allowed. Both the courts have rightly held that the discrepancies are bound to happen in view of the passage of time from the date of incident till the deposition is recorded in the Court. PW-2 and PW-3 did not have any ulterior motive or reason to implicate the appellant. PW-3’s statement has been recorded at the earliest. There is nothing wrong in the inquest report submitted by PW-9. As there is no perversity, appreciation by both the courts of the evidence available on record for coming to their conclusion does not warrant any interference. DISCUSSION 16. Before considering the factual submissions of both sides, we shall first deal with the position of law which is relevant for deciding the appeal.