In fact, to the contrary, the course of conduct by SEBI inspires confidence that SEBI is conducting a comprehensive investigation. 37. The petitioners have also raised questions about the delay by SEBI in submitting the status report before this Court. As noted earlier, by an dated 2 March 2023, this Court directed SEBI to conclude its investigation within two months and file a status report before this [2024] 1 S.C.R. 197 VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS Court. This Court by its dated 17 May 2023, granted SEBI an extension of time till 14 August 2023 to submit its status report about its investigation. Eventually, SEBI filed an interlocutory application intimating this Court about the status of the twenty-four investigations undertaken by SEBI on 14 August 2023. SEBI submitted a status report dated 25 August 2023 providing comprehensive details about all the investigations carried out by SEBI. Therefore, there is a delay of only ten days in filing the report. Such a delay does not prima facie indicate deliberate inaction by SEBI, particularly, as the issue involved a complex investigation in coordination with various agencies, both domestic and foreign. 38. Further, as noted in part C of this , no apparent regulatory failure can be attributed to SEBI based on the material before this Court. Therefore, there is prima facie no deliberate inaction or inadequacy in the investigation by SEBI. iii. Reliance on the OCCRP report and the letter by DRI is misconceived 39. To assail the adequacy of SEBI’s investigation thus far, the petitioner has sought to rely on a report published by OCCRP and various newspapers referring to the report. The petitioner’s case appears to rest solely on inferences from the report by the OCCRP, a third-party organization involved in “investigative reporting”. The petitioners have made no effort to verify the authenticity of the claims. 40. The reliance on newspaper articles or reports by third-party organizations to question a comprehensive investigation by a specialized regulator does not inspire confidence. Such reports by “independent” groups or investigative pieces by newspapers may act as inputs before SEBI or the Expert Committee. However, they cannot be relied on as conclusive proof of the inadequacy of the investigation by SEBI. Nor, as the petitioners state, can such inputs be regarded as “credible evidence”. The veracity of the inputs and their sources must be demonstrated to be unimpeachable. The petitioners cannot assert that an unsubstantiated report in the newspapers should have credence over an investigation by a statutory regulator whose investigation has not been cast into doubt on the basis of cogent material or evidence. 198 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 41. In addition to the OCCRP report, the petitioners have also relied on a letter dated 31 January 2014 sent by the DRI to the then SEBI Chairperson. The letter purportedly alerted SEBI about inter alia potential stock market manipulation by the Adani group through over-valuation of the import of power equipment from a UAE-based subsidiary. According to the petitioner, SEBI did not disclose the receipt of the letter and did not take adequate action based on it.