Article 25 of the Constitution is the only provision in Part Ill which subjects the right to other fundamental rights. Article 25 guarantees the freedom of conscience which means the freedom to judge the moral qualities of one’s conduct. '”’ Financial contributions to a political party (as a form of expression of political support and belief) can be traced to the exercise of the freedom of conscience under Article 25.72 It can very well be argued that the right to information of the voter prevails over the right to anonymity of political contributions which may be traceable to the freedom of 171 See Supriyo (supra) [238 , 239]; Aishat Shifa v. State of Karnataka, [2052 S2CR ]42 6 : (2023) 2 SCC 1; 172 See Justice KS Puttaswamy v. Union of India, [20110 7SCR ]56 9 : (2017) 10 SCC 1 [372] (opinion of Justice Chelameswar); 532 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports conscience recognized under Article 25 since it is subject to all other fundamental rights, including Article 19(1)(a). However, the right to privacy of financial contributions to political parties can also be traced to Article 19(1) because the informational privacy of a person’s political affiliation is necessary to enjoy the right to political soeech under Article 19(1)(a), the right to political protests under Article 19(1)(b), the right to form a political association under Article 19(1) (c), and the right to life and liberty under Article 21. The Constitution does not create a hierarchy amongst these rights. Thus, there is no constitutional hierarchy between the right to information and the right to informational privacy of political affiliation. 160. This Court must now apply the double proportionality standard, that is, the proportionality standard to both the rights (as purposes) to determine if the means used are suitable, necessary and proportionate to the fundamental rights. The Union of India submitted that Clause 7(4) of the Electoral Bond Scheme balances the right to information of the voter and the right to informational privacy of the contributor. Clause 7(4) stipulates that the information furnished by the buyer shall be treated as confidential by the authorized bank. The bank has to disclose the information when it is demanded by a competent court or upon the registration of a criminal case by a law enforcement agency. It needs to be analyzed if the measure employed (Clause 7(4)) balances the rights or tilts the balance towards one of the fundamental rights. 161. The first prong of the analysis is whether the means has a rational connection with both the purposes, that is, informational privacy of the political contributions and disclosure of information to the voter. It is not necessary that the means chosen should be the only means capable of realising the purpose of the state action. This stage of the analysis does not prescribe an efficiency standard. It is sufficient if the means constitute one of the many methods by which the purpose can be realised, even if it only partially gives effect to the purpose.