Thus, he denied any privity of contract between himself and the plaintiff. The suit has been instituted under the influence of K.K Vijayadharan Pillai on the strength of some forged and fabricated [2024] 7 S.C.R. 25 R. Radhakrishna Prasad v. Swaminathan & Anr. documents. The defendant no. 2 - Bank did not appear despite receiving summons and was thus proceeded exparte. 4. Before the Trial Court, the plaintiff examined three witnesses and exhibited documents A1 to A8 whereas, on his side, defendant no. 1 examined two witnesses and exhibited two documents B1 and B2. 5. Basing on the undisputed facts that the agreement bears the signatures of defendant no. 1, the Trial Court found that the agreement was executed by the defendant no. 1 and the two witnesses of the agreement namely, K.K. Vijayadharan Pillai (PW-2) and Jose P. George (PW-3) having supported the plaintiff’s case, the agreement is not forged or fabricated. The Trial Court also considered the documentary evidence as contained in exhibit A-1 to A-8 to conclude that the suit notice was duly served on the defendant no. 1 and that he was ready with the sale consideration amount for the execution of the sale deed as reflected in the document exhibit A-7. Therefore, the plaintiff is entitled to a decree for specific performance. This finding was also found supported by the evidence of PW-2 who was examined as a witness to the agreement and the endorsement exhibit A-1(a) and has proved that the documents were exhibited in his presence and the defendant no. 1 had put his signatures on the documents. Similar is the case with the other witness PW-3 – Jose P. George. The Trial Court also considered the evidence of DW-1, a practicing advocate who issued exhibit B-2 notice on the defendant no. 1. However, this witness has been disbelieved by the Trial Court. The defendant no. 1 examined himself as DW-2 who admitted his ownership in the suit property. He maintained his stand that K.K. Vijayadharan Pillai had obtained his signatures on blank papers and blank cheque leaves and the same has been misused to create forged agreement. However, the Trial Court upon consideration of the equitable principles on which a decree for specific performance is granted, was convinced with the case of defendant no. 1 that the suit property would fetch more value than the sale consideration mentioned in the agreement, therefore, considering the principles under Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, the Trial Court denied specific performance and, in the alternative, directed the defendant no. 1 to repay the advance sale consideration of Rs. 18,00,000/- (Eighteen Lakhs only) together with interest at the rate of 12% per annum to the plaintiff. 26 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. Feeling aggrieved by the decree for refund of money passed by the Trial Court, the defendant no. 1 preferred R.F.A. No. 25 of 2010 in the High Court, and the another Ex. F.A. No. 6 of 2011 was preferred by a claimant who had set up a claim over the property of the defendant no.