[2024] 4 S.C.R. 407 Karikho Kri v. Nuney Tayang and Another 18. In terms of Section 36(4) above, a Returning Officer is under a mandate not to reject a nomination paper for a defect unless it is of substantial character. Significantly, Nuney Tayang raised objections to the candidature of Karikho Kri by way of his written representation dated 26.03.2019. Therein, he raised the issue of non-submission of a ‘No Dues Certificate’ in respect of the government accommodation occupied by Karikho Kri during his tenure as an MLA from 2009 to 2014. He also raised the issue of non-disclosure of the vehicles, mentioned in Issue No. 1. By his reply dated 26.03.2019, Karikho Kri informed the Returning Officer, Tezu, that the vehicles, viz., the Kinetic Zing Scooty and the Maruti Omni Van standing in the name of his wife had already been disposed of as was the TVS Star City Motorcycle standing in the name of his dependent second son, which had been gifted away. As regards the non-submission of a ‘No Dues Certificate’, Karikho Kri asserted that there were no outstanding dues against any government accommodation in his name. Karikho Kri submitted documents with his explanation, including those pertaining to the transfer of the vehicles in question as well as the ‘No Dues Certificates’ of 2014. Thereafter, Karikho Kri filed before the High Court, Certificates issued in 2019 by the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited; the Department of Power, Government of Arunachal Pradesh; and the Legislative Assembly Secretariat, Arunachal Pradesh, confirming that there were no outstanding dues. In effect and in fact, there were no dues payable by Karikho Kri in relation to the Government accommodation occupied by him earlier. 19. In any event, it appears that the Returning Officer concerned, being satisfied with the explanation and documents submitted by Karikho Kri, accepted his nomination. No doubt, this preliminary exercise on the part of the Returning Officer did not preclude the Election Tribunal, viz., the High Court, from examining as to whether the acceptance of Karikho Kri’s nomination was improper and, in consequence, whether it would have an impact on his election under the relevant provisions of the Act of 1951. Section 100(1) thereof enumerates the grounds on which an election can be invalidated. To the extent relevant, it reads as under: ‘100. Grounds for declaring election to be void:- (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) if the High Court is of opinion— 408 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) …..; or (b) that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of a returned candidate or his election agent; or (c)…..; or (d) that the result of the election, in so far as it concerns a returned candidate, has been materially affected— (i) by the improper acceptance of any nomination, or (ii) by any corrupt practice committed in the interests of the returned candidate by an agent other than his election agent, or (iii) by the improper reception, refusal or rejection of any vote or the reception of any vote which is void, or (iv) by any non-compliance with the provisions of the Constitution or of this Act or of any rules or s made under this Act, the High Court shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be void.’ 20.