It is also found from decisions of different Hon’ble [2024] 8 S.C.R. 591 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents High Courts that such matters have been dealt with in proper perspective taking into consideration the peculiarity of case placed before the court” (Para 33) xii. “Coming to the present case we find that this is a case of non-exploitative consensual sexual relationship between a minor girl and an older adolescent or may be a young adult. [...]” (Para 38) xiii. “In the present case things are even on better footing. The girl was 14+ when the occurrence happened. The boy was also an old adolescent or a young adult at that time. [. ]” (Para 39)” (emphasis added) 15.1 We need not waste pages dealing with every observation/ finding quoted above. The observations are utterly irrelevant for deciding the controversy. To say the least, these observations are shocking, which will ex-facie invite a finding of perversity. REASONS RECORDED BY THE HIGH COURT FOR ACQUITTAL 16. Now, we come to the reasons recorded by the Division Bench. The Division Bench has invited a very peculiar concept of “non-exploitative sexual acts” while dealing with the offences punishable under Section 376(2)(n) of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act. We fail to understand how a sexual act, which is a heinous offence, can be termed as non-exploitative. When a girl who is fourteen years old is subjected to such a horrific act, how can it be termed as “non- exploitative”? In paragraph 17, the High Court refers to “marital rape”. In this case, there is no evidence of marriage. The Bench has also invented a non-existent category of “older adolescents” and lamented about the lack of recognition of the consensual behaviour of older adolescents. We fail to understand this concept of “older adolescents”. Further, the Division Bench goes on to observe that sexual behaviour in adolescents, particularly from the onset of puberty, is established as being a natural, normative and integral part of an adolescent’s development. 17. We must deal with some of the observations made by the High Court. The High Court concluded that by equating consensual and non-exploitative sexual acts with rape and aggravated penetrative sexual assault, the law undermines the bodily integrity and dignity 592 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of adolescents. The High Court was not called upon to discuss the merits and demerits of the existing laws. What is shocking is the observation made in paragraph 23 of the impugned where the High Court observed that while achieving ostensible objectives to protect all children below 18 years from sexual exploitation, the law’s unintended effect has been the deprivation of liberty of young people in consensual relationship. The Court, surprisingly, carved out a non-existing category of romantic cases in the rape cases. While dealing with the offences under the POCSO Act, shockingly, the Court observed that the law undermines the identity of adolescent girls by casting them as victims, thereby rendering them voiceless. The Court says that, on the other hand, adult boys are discriminately treated as children in conflict with the law.