4.8 In light of the above discussions, the learned ASG prayed for dismissal of the writ petition. 4.9 Learned ASG further submitted that the arguments advanced in the writ petition may be read as part and parcel of the arguments in the Special Leave Petition. Consequently, the NIA, having jurisdiction to investigate the Scheduled Offences along with connected offences (non-scheduled offences) in the instant case, was justified in applying for cancellation of bail granted to the petitioner herein. It is finally submitted that taking note of the circumstances of the case and the entire gamut of facts involved, the Punjab and Haryana High Court, by the impugned , has rightly cancelled the bail granted to the petitioner herein and the same does not call for any interference by this Court as there are no merits in the Special Leave Petition which may be dismissed. National Investigation Agency, 2008: 5. Sections 3, 6, 7, 8 and 14 of the NIA Act are extracted as under: “3. Constitution of National Investigation Agency.— (1) Notwithstanding anything in the Police Act, 1861 (5 of 1861), the Central Government may constitute a special agency to be called the National Investigation Agency for investigation and prosecution of offences under the Acts specified in the Schedule. (2) Subject to any s which the Central Government may make in this behalf, officers of the Agency shall have throughout India in relation to the investigation of Scheduled Offences and arrest of persons concerned in such offences, all the powers, duties, privileges and liabilities which police officers have in connection with the investigation of offences committed therein. (3) Any officer of the Agency of, or above, the rank of Sub- Inspector may, subject to any s which the Central Government may make in this behalf, exercise throughout [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1763 Ankush Vipan Kapoor v. National Investigation Agency India, any of the powers of the officer-in-charge of a police station in the area in which he is present for the time being and when so exercising such powers shall, subject to any such s as aforesaid, be deemed to be an officer-in- charge of a police station discharging the functions of such an officer within the limits of his station. x x x x 6. Investigation of Scheduled Offences.—(1) On receipt of information and recording thereof under section 154 of the Code relating to any Scheduled Offence the officer- in-charge of the police station shall forward the report to the State Government forthwith. (2) On receipt of the report under sub-section (1), the State Government shall forward the report to the Central Government as expeditiously as possible. (3) On receipt of report from the State Government, the Central Government shall determine on the basis of information made available by the State Government or received from other sources, within fifteen days from the date of receipt of the report, whether the offence is a Scheduled Offence or not and also whether, having regard to the gravity of the offence and other relevant factors, it is a fit case to be investigated by the Agency.