The answer to this would be that civil matters will undoubtedly be decided on facts and law as they exist and as they are applicable, but again in to appreciate the facts we have to keep the context in mind. Context is always very important. The above reference was only with that aspect in mind. 6. Another factor which has an extremely important bearing in this case and which has again not been satisfactorily dealt with by the Trial Court and the First Appellate Court is the long delay by the plaintiffs in seeking resumption of their so-called property. It is a settled position of law that in cases of resumption of land or immovable property where there has been long and uninterrupted possession of the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 699 Smt. Naresh Kumari & Ors. v. Smt. Chameli & Ors. defendants, strong evidence is required to be placed by the plaintiffs to set up a claim, when the plaintiff is seeking a decree of possession. In this case, the nature of pleadings have already been referred to in the preceding paragraphs. The entire case of the plaintiffs rests on the proposition that their predecessors-in-interest have gifted this land to the forefathers of the defendants with the condition that the land is being given to them so that they continue to provide lifelong services to the donor as well as to their descendants, and since they have discontinued these services, the land is liable to revert to the descendants/legal heirs of the original donor. This assertion, however, is not backed by any plausible evidence. Moreover, this proposition has legal implications which may go against the plaintiffs. 7. This suit is based on the aforesaid extremely thin proposition of law and on top of it there is no worthwhile evidence placed by the plaintiffs in their case, except for their reliance on words and phrases in the gift deed, to which unfortunately the defendants have also fallen prey. It is the case of none other but the plaintiffs that the agricultural land, which was the subject matter of the suit, was given in gift to the predecessors-in-interest of the defendants, but it was not an unconditional gift. It was an onerous gift with a condition and since the respondents have violated the conditions of the gift, the land is liable to be reverted to the plaintiffs. Even if we look at this case as a land given as a gift to the defendants or their predecessors- in-interest, the nature of the gift, the context in which it has been given and the entire accumulating circumstances including the fact that the possession of land was handed over the same day goes to show that it was actually an absolute transfer of property with transfer of interest in favour of the donees and their descendants, the only exception being that the donees were not given right over the “common land” of the village, known as “shamlat land”. 8. Now the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (for short “TPA”) was not in force in erstwhile Punjab when the gift was executed in 1953,1 yet such provisions in TPA which are based on principles of justice, equity and good conscience have always been enforced by Courts.2 1 Parts of Transfer of Property Act, 1882 came to be enforced in erstwhile Punjab vide Gazette Notification No.