But then, as noticed above, the case of kidnapping and wrongful confinement was disbelieved by the High Court and consequently, the appellant’s conviction under Sections 342 and 365, IPC was set aside and the conviction under Section 306, IPC alone was sustained. It is in the aforesaid context that we have referred to and analysed the provisions under Section 306, IPC and also referred to the decisions in M. Mohan’s case (supra) and Madan Mohan Singh’s case (supra). In the light of the provisions thus analysed with reference to the said decisions the question to be considered is whether the prosecution had succeeded in establishing that there was mens rea on the part of the appellant to commit the offence rather to push the victim to commit suicide and to attract the offence under Section 306, IPC. 13. While considering the said question it is relevant to take into account the fact that though the prosecution had attempted to establish the case that the appellant and the second accused herein had committed the offences under Sections 306, 342 and 365, IPC. With the acquittal of the appellant and the second accused under those offences there can be no case of kidnapping or wrongful confinement of the deceased Senthil Kumar, by the appellant. In paragraph 2.1 of the impugned itself the High Court took note of the prosecution case. It is only apropos to extract paragraph 2.1 which reads thus:- “2.1 It is the case of the prosecution that the deceased Senthil Kumar had borrowed Rs.2,000/- from Vijayakumar (A1), which Vijayakumar (A1) had borrowed from a Finance Company; when Senthil Kumar did not return the money, the Finance Company started mounting pressure on Vijayakumar (A1); therefore, it is alleged that Vijayakumar (A1) and Ravichandran (A2) abducted Senthil Kumar on 06.12.2002 and locked him up in the tailoring shop of Sampath Kumar (PW3) and thereby wrongfully restrained him demanding repayment of the amount; unable to withstand the torment Senthil Kumar committed suicide 1062 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by hanging in the tailoring shop of Sampath Kumar (PW3) on 06.12.2002.” 14. Thus, it is to be considered when the case put forth by the prosecution is abduction and wrongful confinement of the appellant for repayment of the balance amount and the inability to withstand the torment as the instances for accusing the appellant for commission of the offence of ‘abetment of suicide’, how conviction under Section 306, IPC can be sustained in the light of his acquittal under Sections 342 and 365, IPC. 15. In the contextual situation, in view of the analysis of the provisions under Section 306, IPC and the decisions referred to supra, we will also have to consider what is mens rea? ‘Mens rea’ means a guilty mind. As a general rule, every crime requires a mental element, the nature of which, will depend upon definition of the particular crime in question. Although it is impossible to ascribe any particular meaning to the term ‘mens rea’ as the circumstance to determine the existence of mens rea depends upon the ingredients constituting the particular offence and the expression used in the definition of the particular offence to constitute such offence.