[2024] 12 S.C.R. 680 : 2024 INSC 994 Ayub Khan v. The State of Rajasthan (Criminal Appeal No. 5388 of 2024) 17 December 2024 [Abhay S. Oka* and Augustine George Masih, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Adverse observations were made against the appellant, a District and Sessions Judge of Rajasthan Judicial Service by the Rajasthan High Court. High Court observed that while rejecting the bail application, the appellant did not incorporate the details of the antecedents of the accused in the prescribed form in terms of the directions issued to the Trial Courts by the High Court in the case of Jugal Kishore vs. State of Rajasthan. Granting bail to the accused by the impugned , High Court observed that non- compliance of the directions by the appellant, not only amounted to indiscipline but may also amount to contempt. Appellant sought quashing of the adverse directions issued against him. Headnotes† Adverse remarks/observations – Expunction of – Adverse remarks made against the appellant, a Judicial officer in a judicial by the High Court: Held: Principles to be followed while deciding a bail application are well settled – Constitutional Courts can lay down the principles governing the grant of bail or anticipatory bail but, cannot interfere with the discretion of Trial Courts by laying down the form in which an should be passed while deciding bail applications – However, in the case of Jugal Kishore, the High Court made it mandatory for the Trial Courts to incorporate a chart containing details of the antecedents of the accused who applies for bail – The presence of the antecedents of the accused is only one of the several considerations for deciding the prayer for bail made by him – In a given case, if the accused makes out a strong prima facie case, depending upon the fact situation and period of * Author [2024] 12 S.C.R. 681 Ayub Khan v. The State of Rajasthan incarceration, the presence of antecedents may not be a ground to deny bail – There may be a case where a Court can grant bail only on the grounds of long incarceration – The presence of antecedents may not be relevant in such a case – No Constitutional Court can direct the Trial Courts to write s on bail applications in a particular manner – Directions issued by the Rajasthan High Court in Jugal Kishore not binding – Non-compliance therewith by a judicial officer cannot be treated as an act of indiscipline or contempt – Furthermore, even assuming that the appellant was guilty of indiscipline, on the judicial side, the High Court ought not to have passed an calling for an explanation from a judicial officer – The direction calling for an explanation from a judicial officer by a judicial was inappropriate – Explanation of a judicial officer can be called for only on the administrative side – Eventually, the appellant had to tender an apology – The entire exercises done by the High Court while deciding a bail petition was not only unwarranted but illegal – Injustice has been done to the appellant by passing the s – All adverse remarks/observations made against the appellant in the impugned , expunged – Findings in the impugned that the appellant indulged in disobedience of judicial instructions and indiscipline set aside – Observations/directions against the appellant in s dated 4.04.23, 25.04.23 also set aside.