203 The Blue Dreamz Advertising Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. Kolkata Municipal Corporation & Ors. the Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation Ltd. for connection and that it appeared to the Corporation that the company did not have the financial capacity to pay and as such the company was creating problems on one pretext or the other since obtaining the allotment of sites. The also stated that the appellant had set up a bad example to others having interest to enjoy the advertisement rights. 30. All these reasons fall far short of rendering the conduct of the appellant in the present case, so abhorrent as to justify the invocation of the drastic remedy of blacklisting/debarment. The appellant very clearly has been subjected to a disproportionate penalty. The Corporation has lifted a sledgehammer to crack a nut. We disapprove of the said course of action on the facts of this case. 31. The exchange of correspondence resulted in invocation of the arbitration and today it is undisputed that by an award of 26.04.2024, the appellant has been awarded after due set off Rs. 2,23,14,565/- with 8% interest per annum under the very same dispute. We are not here concerned with the correctness of the award. What it does signify is that there was a bona fide contractual dispute between the parties and we hold that the learned Single Judge was right in setting aside the of debarment on the ground that there was a bona fide civil dispute between the parties. 32. What renders the matter a fortiori is that when APOT No. 89 of 2015 along with GA 782 of 2015 filed against the of the learned Single Judge dismissing Writ Petition No. 261 of 2015, the counsel for the Corporation had submitted to the Court that the Show Cause Notice was being withdrawn at that stage and appropriate proceeding was to be taken before the arbitrator. In spite of the statement, the Corporation did not invoke arbitration. 33. The appellant invoked arbitration and no doubt a counter claim was filed by the Corporation before the arbitrator. Ultimately, the counter claim was decreed for Rs. 78,03,435/- and the claim was decreed for Rs. 3,01,18,000/- and after ing set off, an award has been passed for Rs. 2,23,14,565/-. 34. The issues framed by the arbitrator also indicate that the assertions and counter assertions of the appellant and the Corporation were clearly in the nature of a bona fide civil dispute only to demonstrate that aspect, the issues are extracted herein below: 204 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “1. Is the arbitral proceeding barred by reasons of accord and satisfaction? 2. Did the respondents fail to allot 250 street hoardings in terms of tender document? 3. Did the respondents fail and neglect to provide clear sites to the claimants by intervening and removing illegal hoardings for obstructions at the allotted sites? 4. Did the respondents issue ‘no objection certificate’ to the claimants for getting new connections from the CESCP? 5. Was there any mis-match of unit code and the location hoardings?