d. Interpretation of the term “subject to the provisions of this Constitution”: 68. The learned Solicitor General has vehemently argued that, in view of the term “subject to the provisions of this Constitution” used in Article 131 of the Constitution, since various matters are already pending with regard to the subject matter of the present suit, be it the proceedings either under Article 136, Article 32 or Article 226 of the Constitution, the present suit would not be maintainable. 69. No doubt that Article 131 of the Constitution begins with the term “subject to the provisions of this Constitution”. To understand the said term, we can gainfully refer to a few authorities. 70. In Black’s Law Dictionary, 5th Edition at Page 1278, the expression “subject to” has been defined as under: 18 [2010] 2 SCR 979 : (2010) 3 SCC 571 : 2010 INSC 104 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 723 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India “Liable, subordinate, subservient, inferior, obedient to; governed or affected by; provided that; provided; answerable for.” 71. A Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of The South India Corporation (P) Limited v. The Secretary, Board of Revenue, Trivandrum and Another19 also had an occasion to consider the said term, though it was in a case concerning Article 372 of the Constitution. It will be apposite to refer to the following part of the said of the Constitution Bench: “13. ……..Article 372 reads: “(i) Notwithstanding the repeal by this Constitution of the enactments referred to in Article 395 but subject to the other provisions of this Constitution, all the law in force in the territory of India immediately before the commencement of this Constitution shall continue in force therein until altered or repealed or amended by a competent legislature or other competent authority. *** Explanation I.—The expression “law in force” in this article shall include a law passed or made by a legislature or other competent authority in the territory of India before the commencement of this Constitution and not previously repealed, notwithstanding that it or parts of it may not be then in operation either at all or in particular areas.” The object of this article is to maintain the continuity of the pre-existing laws after the Constitution came into force till they were repealed, altered or amended by a competent authority. Without the aid of such an article there would be utter confusion in the field of law. The assumption underlying the article is that the State laws may or may not be within the 19 [1964] 4 SCR 280 : 1963 INSC 163 724 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports legislative competence of the appropriate authority under the Constitution. The article would become ineffective and purposeless if it was held that pre-Constitution laws should be such as could be made by the appropriate authority under the Constitution. The words “subject to the other provisions of the Constitution” should, therefore, be given a reasonable interpretation, an interpretation which would carry out the intention of the makers of the Constitution and also which is in accord with the constitutional practice in such matters.