[2024] 6 S.C.R. 594 : 2024 INSC 401 Mrugendra Indravadan Mehta and Others v. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (Civil Appeal Nos. 16956-16957 of 2017) 10 May 2024 [A.S. Bopanna and Sanjay Kumar,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Trial Court decreed the suit filed by appellants-plaintiffs by accepting the alternative prayer that they should be allotted an extent of 974 sq. mts. in any Town Planning Scheme in the western zone of Ahmedabad, but rejected the main prayer for compensation with interest. Whether the High Court was justified in allowing the first appeal filed by the respondent-Corporation and non-suiting the plaintiffs; Impugned if liable to be set aside as contended by the plaintiffs, on the ground that no points for determination were framed therein, as required by 41 Rule 31, Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. Headnotes† Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Or. 41, r.31 – Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Act, 1976 – ss.52, 54, 70, 71, 81, 82 – Plaintiffs’ father owner of various plots surrendered land pursuant to a Town Planning Scheme – The Corporation allotted two separate final plots out of which possession of one was delivered to the plaintiffs’ father however, the possession of the other plot i.e. Final Plot No.463 was not delivered – Town Planning Scheme was varied later but without any alternative plot being allotted in lieu of Final Plot No.463 – However, under the second varied scheme, plaintiffs were offered Final Plot No.187 which had a smaller area by 974 sq. mts., and as per them they were offered meagre compensation @ ₹25/- per sq. mt. for the deducted area of 974 sq. mts. – Suit filed by plaintiffs against Corporation seeking compensation with interest or, alternatively, for allotment of land, i.e., an extent of 974 sq. mts., in any Town Planning Scheme in the western zone of Ahmedabad – Suit decreed by Trial Court accepting the alternative prayer, main prayer for compensation was rejected – Appeal filed by the Corporation was allowed by High Court, * Author [2024] 6 S.C.R. 595 Mrugendra Indravadan Mehta and Others v. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation cross-objection filed by the plaintiffs were rejected – Plea of the plaintiffs inter alia that the of the High Court is liable to be set aside on the ground that no points for determination were framed therein, as required by Or. 41, r.31 CPC: Held: Mere omission to frame the points for determination would not vitiate the of the first appellate Court, provided that the first appellate Court recorded its reasons based on the evidence adduced by both parties – Thus, even if the first appellate Court does not separately frame the points for determination arising in the first appeal, it would not prove fatal as long as that Court deals with all the issues that actually arise for deliberation in the said appeal – Substantial compliance with the mandate of 41 Rule 31 CPC in that regard is sufficient – High Court did set out all the issues framed by the Trial Court in the body of the and was, therefore, fully conscious of all the points that it had to consider in the appeal – Further, no particular issue that was considered by the Trial Court was left out by the High Court while adjudicating the appeal – No merit in the contention that the impugned is liable to be set aside on this preliminary ground, warranting reconsideration of the first appeal by the High Court afresh – Furthermore, on merits, plaintiffs, being well aware of the fact that Final Plot No.