*'; and b. A provision is manifestly arbitrary even if the provision does not make a classification. *” 195. This Court in previous s has discussed the first of the above applications of the doctrine by distinguishing between the “ostensible purpose” and the “real purpose” of a provision with sufficient clarity. The application of the doctrine of manifest arbitrariness by Chief Justice Misra and Justice Nariman in Navtej Singh Johar (supra) to strike down a provision for not classifying between consensual and non-consensual sex must be understood in the background of two jurisprudential developments on the interpretation of Part Ill of the Constitution. The first, is the shift from reading the provisions of Part Ill of the Constitution as isolated silos to understanding the thread of reasonableness which runs through all the provisions and elevating unreasonable (and arbitrary) action to the realm of fundamental rights. The second is the reading of Article 14 to include the facets of formal equality and substantive equality. Article 14 consists of two components. “Equality before the law” which means that the law must treat everybody equally in the formal sense. “Equal protection of the laws” signifies a guarantee to secure factual equality. The legislature and the executive makes classifications to achieve factual equality. The underlying premise of substantive equality is the recognition that not everybody is equally placed and that the degree of harm suffered by a group of persons (or an individual) varies because of unequal situations. This Court has in numerous s recognized that the legislature is free to recognize the degrees of harm and confine its benefits or restrictions to those cases where the need is the clearest.2°° The corollary of the proposition that it is reasonable to 201 Justice Chandrachud, Justice Malhotra, and Justice Nariman in Navtej Singh Johar (supra); Justices Chandrachud and Nariman in Joseph Shine (supra). 202 Chief Justice Misra in Navtej Singh Johar (supra) 203 Mohd. Hanif Quareshi v. State of Bihar, AIR 1958 SC 731; Binoy Viswam v. Union of India, [20177 ]SC R 1: (2017) 7 SCC 59; Charanjit Lal Chowdhuri v. Union of India, (1950) SCC 833 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 548 Digital Supreme Court Reports identify the degrees of harm, is that it is unreasonable, unjust, and arbitrary if the Legislature does not identify the degrees of harm for the purpose of law. 196. It is undoubtedly true that it is not the constitutional role of this Court to second guess the intention of the legislature in enacting a particular statute. The legislature represents the democratic will of the people, and therefore, the courts will always presume that the legislature is Supposed to know and will be aware of the needs of the people. Moreover, this Court must be mindful of falling into an error of equating a plenary legislation with a subordinate legislation. In Re Delhi Laws Act 1912,7°* Justice Fazl Ali summed up the extent and scope of plenary legislation and delegated legislation, in the following terms: “32. The conclusions at which | have arrived so far may now be summed up: (1) The legislature must normally discharge its primary legislative function itself and not through others.