A marriage can be dissolved by a decree of divorce, inter alia, on the ground when the other party “has, after the solemnization of the marriage treated the petitioner with cruelty”. In our considered opinion, a marital relationship which has only become more bitter and acrimonious over the years, does nothing but inflicts cruelty on both the sides. To keep the façade of this broken marriage alive would be doing injustice to both the parties. A marriage which has broken down irretrievably, in our opinion spells cruelty to both the parties, as in such a relationship each party is treating the other with cruelty. It is therefore a ground for dissolution of marriage under Section 13 (1) (ia) of the Act.” 1376 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports In light of the above observations, this Court had granted a decree of divorce and dissolved the marriage between the parties in that case. 8.2 The aforementioned position has since then been followed by this Court in several cases while exercising power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution. For instance, in a recent delivered by a co-ordinate bench of this Court in Vikas Kanaujia vs. Sarita, (2024) 7 SCR 933, this Court granted the decree of divorce on account of irretrievable breakdown of marriage in light of the overall facts and circumstances of the case, even though the wife therein had submitted that she was willing to live with the husband believing in the sanctity of marriage. 8.3 Similarly, in the case of Prakashchandra Joshi vs. Kuntal Prakashchandra Joshi @ Kuntal Visanji Shah, (2024) 1 SCR 697, a co-ordinate bench of this Court observed that it was a case of irretrievable breakdown of marriage as there was no possibility of the couple staying together and used the powers under Article 142(1) to dissolve the marriage between the parties, despite the fact that the wife in that case chose not to appear in the proceedings before this court and was proceeded ex-parte. 8.4 Another co-ordinate bench of this Court in the case of Vineet Taneja vs. Ritu Johari, vide dated 22.07.2024 passed in M.A. No.2009 of 2023 in SLP (C) No.3667 of 2023, MANU/ SCOR/93862/2024, granted a decree of dissolution of marriage taking into consideration the irretrievable breakdown of the marriage between the parties, on the miscellaneous application filed by the wife seeking dissolution of the marriage in exercise of powers under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India and the husband had vehemently opposed the application. 8.5 The aforesaid decisions have followed the proposition of law confirmed by the constitution bench in the case of Shilpa Sailesh. However, even before the said , this Court had not hesitated from dissolving the marriage on the ground of irretrievable breakdown where the relationship between the parties had deteriorated to a level that no reconciliation appeared [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1377 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda possible and where such a dissolution was necessary to do complete justice between the parties in exercise of power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, even though one of the spouses had opposed such a prayer or had shown interest in continuing with the marital bond.