It is also admitted that they had identified the accused persons, who were essentially the relatives of the eye witnesses. In such circumstances, as per natural human conduct, the least that they could have done was to follow the accused persons in their jeep. They admittedly had a ready vehicle with them. Despite so, there was no such attempt on their part, so much so that the dead body of Neelam was not even discovered until the following morning as none of the eye witnesses had any clue as to where the accused persons had taken away the deceased after abducting her. 26. One crucial foundational fact in the present case is that the deceased was residing in her father’s house at Simaltalla. Although, the Trial Court and High Court have not doubted the said fact, we have our reservations regarding the same. In addition to the statements of PW18 (informant), PW23 (sister of deceased) and PW7 (maternal uncle of deceased), no other witness has deposed to prove the factum of residence. The admitted evidence on record sufficiently indicates that various other tenants were residing in the same house, including Kumud Ranjan Singh, Education Officer Ram Chabila Singh along with his daughter and son. 27. The investigating officer PW21 had inspected the house and no direct material, except some make-up articles, could be gathered so as to indicate that Neelam was actually residing there. Admittedly, another woman namely, Chando Devi (sister of Ram Chabila Singh) was also residing in the same portion of the house. The High Court did take note of this fact but explained it away by observing that since Chando Devi was a widow, the make-up articles could not have belonged to her as there was no need for her to put on make-up being a widow. In our opinion, the observation of the High Court is not only legally untenable but also highly objectionable. A sweeping observation of this nature is not commensurate with the sensitivity and neutrality expected from a court of law, specifically when the same is not made out from any evidence on record. 28. Be that as it may, mere presence of certain make-up articles cannot be a conclusive proof of the fact that the deceased was residing in the said house, especially when another woman was admittedly residing there. Furthermore, if Neelam was indeed residing there, her other belongings such as clothes etc. ought to have been found 122 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the house and even if not so, the other residents of the same house could have come forward to depose in support of the said fact. 29. Notably, certain clothes such as two sarees, two blouses and two petticoats were recovered along with the dead body of the deceased. The prosecution version is that the accused persons had taken away the said clothes from the house of the deceased while abducting her. There is absolutely no explanation for the said conduct on the part of the accused persons.