Therefore, on the aforesaid premise, the High Court may be requested to consider the present case without reference to the aspect regarding the validity of the notice. In the alternative, it was submitted that the proviso to Article 254 may be applied and the validity of the notice issued under Section 106 of the T.P. Act may be sustained. 5. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent(s) submitted that as a reference was pending before the High Court, the impugned was correctly passed and the case has to be heard subsequent to the answer given by the larger Bench on the reference . In the circumstance, there is no merit in this appeal 6. We have perused the impugned , which reads as under: “It is agreed between the parties that the matter involved in this case qua period of notice under Section 106 of Transfer of Properties Act is pending decision by Larger Bench under the reference of a concurrent Bench of this Court dated 9.9.2019 passed in Matter under Article 227 No. 5718 of 2019 and so this matter may either be connected with the said matter or be listed after of the larger Bench. In the circumstances I direct the office to list this matter after the reference made in Matter under Article 227 No.5718 of 2019 stands answered by the larger Bench. Interim , if any, shall continue to operate in the meanwhile until further s.” The aforesaid has been passed in a revision petition filed under Article 227 of the Constitution by the respondent-tenant against an of ejectment. 1496 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7. Section 106 of the T.P. Act, as it stood prior to 31.12.2002, read as under: “106. Duration of certain leases in absence of written contract or local usage.— In the absence of a contract or local law or usage to the contrary, a lease of immovable property for agricultural or manufacturing purposes shall be deemed to be a lease from year to year, terminable, on the part of either lessor or lessee, by six months’ notice expiring with the end of year of the tenancy; and a lease of immovable property for any other purpose shall be deemed to be a lease from month to month, terminable, on the part of either lessor or lessee, by fifteen days’ notice expiring with the end of a month of the tenancy. Every notice under this section must be in writing, signed by or on behalf of the person giving it, and either be sent by post to the party who is intended to be bound by it or be tendered or delivered personally to such party, or to one of his family or servants at his residence, or (if such tender or delivery is not practicable) affixed to a conspicuous part of the property.” 7.1 As far as the State of U.P. is concerned, by amendment dated 30.11.1954, Section 106 was amended as under - “(i) omit the word “expiring with the end of a year of the tenancy” and “expiring with the end of a month of the tenancy”; (ii) for the words “fifteen days’ notice” substitute the words “thirty days’ notice” 7.2 However, the Parliament, by Act 3 of 2003, substituted Section 106 with effect from 31.12.2002.