Similarly, this Court in Swiss Ribbons (supra), in response to which Regulation 30A was amended, specifically observed that in cases where withdrawal is sought after initiation of CIRP, but before the CoC is constituted, the NCLT must decide on the application after “hearing all the parties concerned and considering all relevant factors on the facts of each case.” Therefore, the NCLT does conduct an adjudicatory exercise when the application for withdrawal is placed before it, and the procedure is not a mere technicality. iii. Scope of ‘Inherent Powers’ under Rule 11 67. Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure47 reads as follows: “151. Saving of inherent powers of Court.—Nothing in this Code shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the inherent power of the Court to make such s as may be necessary for the ends of justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the Court.” 68. Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules 2016 and Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules 2016, which preserve the inherent powers of the NCLT and the NCLAT respectively, mirror Section 151 of the CPC and read as follows: “11. Inherent powers.- Nothing in these rules shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the inherent powers of the Appellate Tribunal to make such s or give such directions as may be necessary for meeting the ends of 47 “CPC” 1846 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the Appellate Tribunal.” 69. In a consistent line of precedent, this Court has held that ‘inherent powers’ may be exercised in cases where there is no express provision under the legal framework. However, such powers cannot be exercised in contravention of, conflict with or in ignorance of express provisions of law. We may helpfully refer to the observations of a two-judge bench of this Court in one such case. In Ram Chand and Sons Sugar Mills (P) Ltd. v. Kanhayalal Bhargava,48 a two-judge bench of this Court, speaking through Justice K Subba Rao (as the learned chief Justice then was), opined: “5. … Having regard to the said decisions, the scope of the inherent power of a court under Section 151 of the Code may be defined thus: The inherent power of a court is in addition to and complementary to the powers expressly conferred under the Code. But that power will not be exercised if its exercise is inconsistent with, or comes into conflict with, any of the powers expressly or by necessary implication conferred by the other provisions of the Code. If there are express provisions exhaustively covering a particular topic, they give rise to a necessary implication that no power shall be exercised in respect of the said topic otherwise than in the manner prescribed by the said provisions. Whatever limitations are imposed by construction on the provisions of Section 151 of the Code, they do not control the undoubted power of the Court conferred under Section 151 of the Code to make a suitable to prevent the abuse of the process of the Court.” (emphasis supplied) 70.