Similarly other castes do not take cooked food or water from these castes. Malas and Madigas have separate wells and temples. Malas do not take food and water from Mastu, Gurram Malas and Madigas. But all these castes take food and water from priestly class of Malas. The singari, the gurus to Madigas, strictly refrain from eating food touched or cooked by Madigas or other satellite caste. Bindla though enjoys higher social status in Madigas satellite caste. The 198 Ravinchandran Bathran, The many omissions of a concept: Discrimination amongst Scheduled Castes, Economic & Political Weekly (Vol L1 No. 47, November 19, 2016) 1342-1346 199 Uma Ramaswamy, Protection and Inequality among Backward Groups, Economic & Political Weekly (Vol. 21 No. 9, 9 March 1986) 200 Justice Usha Mishra Report on National Commission to Examine Issue of Sub-Categorisation [327] [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1413 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. higher castes do not take either cooked food or water from Bindlas. Being worshippers of Shakti (the power) they do not take food or water from the hands of their satellite castes, since they consider themselves as sacred. Sindhu, the entertaining caste of Madigas” do not take food or water from Dakkals but their food or water is acceptable for Madigas. Dakkals who occupied a lowest social status in social hierarchy accept food and water from all castes, except Vishwa Brahamaa. The food or water of Dakkals is not acceptable to any other caste. Dakkals have to take food or water standing outside Madiga houses. Thus the higher caste Dalits do not drink or dine in common. These commenalities indicate the foundation of Panchama hierarchy and heterogeneous caste cleavages within Scheduled Castes in Andhra Pradesh.” 142. Empirical evidence indicates that there is inequality even within the Scheduled Castes. The Scheduled Castes are not a homogenous integrated class. vi. The power of the State to sub-classify under Articles 15 and 16 143. Article 16(4) provides the State with the enabling power to make provisions for reservations in appointments or posts in favour of “any backward class of citizens”. The provision, unlike Article 15(4), does not distinguish amongst the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and other Socially and Educationally Backward Classes. In Indra Sawhney (supra), this Court defined the backward class in terms of social backwardness. Social backwardness is attributable to several identities such as caste, gender and disability. Though, the backwardness caused due to these multiple identities are all collectively within the ambit of the backward class for the purposes of Article 16(4), the State is free to recognize the heterogeneity amongst the class and provide separate reservation to women and the Scheduled Castes to deal with the purpose. 144. Article 15(4) recognizes the power of the State to make “any” special provisions for the advancement of “any” socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for “the” Scheduled Castes and “the” Scheduled Tribes. Article 15(5) is similarly worded. It was submitted before this Court that the use of the preposition “any” before the 1414 [2024] 8 S.C.R.