Further, it was held that the other members of the selection board would have been influenced by the Chief Conservator’s opinion about other candidates. Resultantly, this Court struck down the entire selection made by the board. 84. In J Mohapatra v. State of Orissa,164 the State government had constituted a committee to select books for general reading to be kept in school and college libraries. For the years 1980 to 1982, the committee selected and purchased books in a prescribed manner. The list of books prepared by the committee was challenged before the High Court. One of the grounds of challenge was that some of the members of the committee were themselves authors of books that were selected and purchased. The High Court rejected the challenge on two grounds: (i) the decision of the committee was subject to the approval of the State government; and (ii) the role played by an individual member of the committee was insignificant and could not have influenced the decision of the committee. 163 A K Kraipak (supra) [15]. [15. […] But then the very fact that he was a member of the selection board must have had its own impact on the decision of the selection board. Further admittedly he participated in the deliberations of the selection board when the claims of his rivals particularly that of Basu was considered. He was also party to the preparation of the list of selected candidates in of preference. At every stage of his participation in the deliberations of the selection board there was a conflict between his interest and duty. Under those circumstances it is difficult to believe that he could have been impartial. The real question is not whether he was biased. It is difficult to prove the state of mind of a person. Therefore what we have to see is whether there is reasonable ground for believing that he was likely to have been biased. We agree with the learned Attorney General that a mere suspicion of bias is not sufficient. There must be a reasonable likelihood of bias. In deciding the question of bias we have to take into consideration human probabilities and ordinary course of human conduct. It was in the interest of Naqishbund to keep out his rivals in to secure his position from further challenge. Naturally he was also interested in safeguarding his position while preparing the list of selected candidates.] 164 (1984) 4 SCC 103 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2237 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company 85. This Court observed that a person who has written a book that is submitted for selection has an interest in the matter of selection. It was further observed that there is a direct correlation between the selection of books by the committee and an increase in sales of the books. The increased sales resulted in increased royalties for the authors. Therefore, it was held that an author benefits financially if their book is selected by the committee.