The question that will have to be considered is, as to whether the properties of the persons, who are accused of committing certain crimes or for that matter even convicted for commission of criminal offences, can be demolished without following the due process of law or not? [2024] 11 S.C.R. 751 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures 13. For considering the said question, we will be required to consider the principle of the rule of law, which is the very foundation of democratic governance. We will also have to consider the rights guaranteed under the Constitution that provide protection to individuals from arbitrary state action. We will also have to consider in this case the issue with regard to fairness in the criminal justice system, which mandates that the legal process should not prejudge the guilt of the accused. We will also have to touch upon the concept of separation of powers and the doctrine of public trust in respect of government officials holding their offices. II. RULE OF LAW 14. The rule of law has been succinctly conceptualized by AV Dicey,2 which can be summarized into three postulates: (1) “no man is punishable or can be lawfully made to suffer in body or goods except for a distinct breach of law established in the ordinary legal manner before the ordinary courts of the land”, as contrasted to the “the exercise by persons in authority of wide, arbitrary, or discretionary powers of constraint”; (2) “no man is above the law”, and that “every man, whatever be his rank or condition, is subject to the ordinary law of the realm and amenable to the jurisdiction of the ordinary tribunals”; and (3) “the predominance of the legal spirit” or that “the general principles of the constitution… are with us the result of judicial decisions determining the rights of private persons in particular cases brought before the courts”. 15. There can be no doubt with the principle that, no one is above the law of the land; that everybody is equal before the law. 16. There can also be no doubt with the principle that, under the constitutional framework there is no scope for arbitrariness by officials, and that no one can be punished or made to suffer in body or goods 2 AV Dicey, Introduction to the Study of the Law of the Constitution, Macmilan and Co. Ltd. (1952), pp. 183-205. 752 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports except for a distinct breach of law established in the ordinary legal manner before the ordinary courts of the land. It is only the courts which are independent adjudicators of the rights of the parties and under the constitutional framework it is only they which can impose punishment. 17. Though the basic principle, as conceptualized by Dicey, largely remains the same, the concept of ‘rule of law’ has been discussed subsequently by various scholars. It has been described to mean that “government officials and citizens are bound by and have to abide by the law” and that there “must be mechanisms or institutions that enforce the legal rules if they are breached”.3 It ensures that “courts should be available to enforce the law and should employ fair procedures”.4 The law must be just and fair, and “protect the human rights and dignity of all members of society”.5 Above all, “the essential purpose of the rule of law is to prevent the abuse of power”.6 Lord Bingham sets out as one of the facets of the rule of the law, the following7: “(4) Ministers and public officers at all levels must exercise the powers conferred on them in good faith, fairly, for the purpose for which the powers were conferred, without exceeding the limits of such powers and not unreasonably.” 18.