A creditor opts for insolvency where an amount of such threshold is unpaid, that the creditor has an apprehension that the debtor in its current state and under the existing management in all likelihood will be unable to repay that debt in the future i.e., there is no likely prospect of any recovery, and thus it would be beneficial to take the risk of initiating insolvency which even though does not guarantee full recovery, in for a new management to take over the corporate debtor and to recover at least some amount of debt before it is too late. Thus, the underlying intention behind initiating insolvency is not with the intention of recovering the amount owed to it, but rather with the intention that the corporate debtor is resolved / rehabilitated through a new management as soon as possible before it becomes unviable with no prospect of any meaningful recovery of its dues in the near future. 106. Thus, by no stretch of imagination can insolvency proceedings be construed as being for the same relief as any ordinary recovery proceedings, and therefore no case is made out for exclusion of time under Section 14(2) of the Limitation Act, 1963. 107. As the relief sought in an application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 is not the same as the relief sought in an application under Section 9 of the IBC, the benefit of Section 14(2) cannot be given to the respondent in the present case. 108. In Yeshwant Deorao Deshmukh v. Walchand Ramchand Kothari reported in (1950) 1 SCR 852 this Court held that the relief sought under insolvency is completely different from the relief sought under an execution application for a decree for recovery of money. In the former, the estate of the insolvent is apportioned or realised for the benefit of all creditors whereas in the latter the money due is [2024] 12 S.C.R. 191 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad sought to be realised only for the benefit of the decree-holder alone. Although both proceedings envisage an aspect of recovery of debt, yet in insolvency, the recovery is a mere consequence and not the ultimate relief. Thus, insolvency proceedings are not one for recovery of debt and cannot be equated with execution proceedings as both proceedings are different in nature and for different reliefs and as such no benefit can be given under Section 14(2) of the Limitation Act which stipulates the requirement of “same relief”. The relevant observations read as under: - “5. [...] There could be no exclusion for the time occupied by the insolvency proceedings which clearly was not for the purpose of obtaining the same relief. The relief sought in insolvency is obviously different from the relief sought in the execution of application. In the former, an adjudication of the debtors as insolvency is sought as preliminary to the vesting of all his estate and the administration of it by the Official Receive or the Official Assignee, as the case may be, for the benefit of all the creditors; but in the latter the money due is sought to be realised for the benefit of the decree-holder alone, by processes like attachment of property and arrest of person.