17. The appellant is before us challenging the above of the High Court on the grounds that the respondent has played a fraud on the Courts by concealing material/relevant documents and by filing false affidavits in support of her enhancement application, and that the son could not be granted maintenance till the age of twenty-six years as per the law. The interest @ 12% per annum in punitive in nature even though he had never defaulted in payment of interim maintenance. 18. We heard the parties in camera to discuss the possibility of an amicable solution but during the proceedings both the parties submitted that they are willing to have the marriage annulled by mutual consent as there remains no possibility of a reunion between them. 552 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. During the interaction before this Court, we found both the parties to be fair and reasonable in their approach, demeanor and conduct. They have shown an honest intention to amicably settle their disputes instead of maligning each other and unnecessarily delaying the proceedings. 20. Learned senior counsels for the respective parties have made their submissions at length. The parties have also filed their affidavits of assets as directed by this Court. 21. Before we proceed further, it is relevant to note that the parties stayed together only for around five years of the marriage, and even though they have a son out of the wedlock, they have been staying separately for almost over two decades now. They have made multiple serious allegations against each other and have been conducting litigations. They have no intention of reconciling, their marriage exists only for namesake, and there has been no cohabitation between the parties since 2004. Though the petition for dissolution of marriage has been withdrawn by the appellant, the interim maintenance proceedings have been going on between the parties since 2004. 22. The admitted long-standing separation, nature of differences, prolonged litigations pending adjudication, and the unwillingness of the parties to reconcile, are evidence enough to show that the marriage between the parties has completely broken down irretrievably. 23. A Constitution Bench of this Court in its in the case of Shilpa Sailesh v. Varun Sreenivasan,4 laid down that it has the discretionary power to dissolve a marriage which in its opinion and on the evidence has broken down irretrievably. The Court is required to exercise this discretion cautiously while analyzing the facts and evidence of each case. In to arrive at the decision regarding whether the marriage has irretrievably broken down, the Court needs to factually examine and firmly establish the same, after careful consideration. 24. In Shilpa Sailesh (Supra), this Court further laid down the factors to be considered for such examination, and the same were reiterated in the case of Kiran Jyot Maini v. Anish Pramod Patel.5 This Court 4 [2023] 5 SCR 165 : (2022) 15 SCC 754 5 [2024] 7 SCR 942 : (2024) SCC OnLine SC 1724 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 553 Parvin Kumar Jain v. Anju Jain in both these s opined that the factors to be examined include the period of cohabitation between the parties, the period of separation, the attempts made for reconciliation, nature and gravity of allegations made between the parties, and such other similar factors.