The aforesaid observations were made by the High Court in its dated 22.09.2023 which has been impugned by the appellant in SLP(C) No. 7220 of 2024. After making the above quoted observations in favour of the respondent, the High Court directed that the arbitration application be listed before an appropriate bench in accordance with the roster. In pursuance of the said , the matter came to be listed before the Chief Justice of the High Court, wherein an for appointment of arbitrator was passed. The said dated 01.12.2023 has been impugned by the appellant in SLP(C)No. 3792 of 2024. 858 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 25. Mr Ketan Paul, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, submitted that a full and final settlement was arrived at between the parties thereby indicating that a distinct understanding was arrived at between them. No plea or assertion has been made by the respondent, nor any prima facie evidence has been adduced to establish that the appellant had made the execution of the discharge voucher a pre-condition to the payment of the claim, or offered the amount on a “take it or leave it basis”. Seen thus, the test laid down by this Court in paragraph 52(iv) of the National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab reported in (2009)1 SCC 267 can neither be said to have been alleged nor satisfied. 26. It was further submitted that there has been an inordinate delay on the part of the respondent in levelling allegations of coercion. Such allegations came to be so levelled for the first time in the arbitration notice dated 02.03.2020, that is, almost 14 months after the payment of the subject claim and five months after the payment of the second claim. The counsel submitted that the claim amount as per the assessment of the loss by the surveyor was known to the respondent since 24.12.2018, thereby indicating that the allegations of coercion were an afterthought. 27. In support of his aforesaid submission, the counsel placed reliance on the decision of this Court in NTPC Ltd. v. SPML Infra Ltd. reported in (2023) SCC OnLine SC 389. He submitted that even when examined through the “eye of the needle” test, the claim could be said to be deadwood and the arbitration application ought to have been rejected by the High Court on this count alone. The counsel also placed reliance on the decision of this Court in New India Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Genus Power Infrastructure Ltd. reported in (2015) 2 SCC 424 to submit that arbitration ought to be refused in case of inordinate delay in raising the dispute or levelling allegations of coercion by the party seeking the referral of disputes to arbitration. 28. One another submission made by the counsel was that the pleadings of the respondent lack the basic material particulars about any alleged coercion and the poor financial condition of the respondents. It was further submitted that even in the arbitration notice all that the respondents have stated is that had they not signed the discharge [2024] 7 S.C.R.