when a counter claim is raised or set off is pleaded by defendant; iii. when the court directs or permits a replication being filed. (5) Court would direct or permit replication being filed when having scrutinised plaint and written statement the need of plaintiff joining specific pleading to a case specifically and newly raised in written statement is felt. Such a need arises for the plaintiff introducing a plea by way of ‘confession and avoidance’. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 65 Sheikh Noorul Hassan v. Nahakpam Indrajit Singh & Ors. (6) A plaintiff seeking leave of the Court has to present before it the proposed replication. On applying its mind the court may grant or refuse the leave. (7) A mere denial of defendant’s case by plaintiff needs no replication. The plaintiff can rely on rule of implied or assumed traverse and joinder of issue. (8) Subsequent pleadings are not substitute for amendment in original pleadings. (9) A plea inconsistent with the plea taken in original pleadings cannot be permitted to be taken in subsequent pleadings. (10) A plea which is foundation of plaintiff’s case or essentially a part of cause of action of plaintiff, in absence whereof the suit will be liable to be dismissed or the plaint liable to be rejected, cannot be introduced for the first time by way of replication.” (Emphasis supplied) 11. Now we shall have a look at the provisions of the 1951 Act in respect of addressing disputes regarding elections. Part VI of the 1951 Act, which comprises of five Chapters, deals with disputes regarding elections. Chapter I contains the definition clause (i.e., Section 79). Chapter II comprising of Sections 80 to 85 deals with presentation of election petitions to the High Court. Section 80 provides that no election shall be called in question except by an election petition presented in accordance with the provisions of Part VI. Section 80A, inter alia, provides that the High Court shall have jurisdiction to try an election petition. Section 81, inter alia, provides that an election petition calling in question any election may be presented on one or more of the grounds specified in sub-section (1) of Section 100 and Section 101 to the High Court by any candidate at such election or any elector within 45 days from the date of election. Section 829 specifies as to 9 Section 82. Parties to the petition. — A petitioner shall join as respondents to his petition— (a) where the petitioner, in addition to claiming declaration that the election of all or any of the returned 66 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports who shall be the parties to an election petition. Whereas, Section 8310, inter alia, specifies as to what an election petition must contain. Section 8411 speaks of the reliefs which an election petitioner may claim. Section 85, which dealt with the procedure on receiving petition, has been omitted with effect from 14.12.1966 by Act No.47 of 1966. 12. Chapter III comprising of Sections 86 to 107 deals with trial of Election Petitions.