If it is found to be an unfair trade practice, the Act provides for compensation and other remedies. 9 Section 2(a) of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 defines ‘proposal’ as follows: “2. Interpretation-clause.—In this Act the following words and expressions are used in the following senses, unless a contrary intention appears from the context:— (a) When one person signifies to another his willingness to do or to abstain from doing anything, with a view to obtaining the assent of that other to such act or abstinence, he is said to make a proposal;” 10 Section 2(b) of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 defines ‘promise’ as follows: “(b) When the person to whom the proposal is made signifies his assent thereto, the proposal is said to be accepted. A proposal, when accepted, becomes a promise;” 11 Section 2(h) of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 defines ‘contract as follows: “(h) An agreement enforceable by law is a contract;” ‘Agreement’ has been defined in Section 2(e) as follows: “(e) Every promise and every set of promises, forming the consideration for each other, is an agreement;” 12 It is well-established in contractual jurisprudence that an advertisement generally does not constitute an offer and is merely an ‘invitation to offer’ or ‘invitation to treat’. See Halsbury’s Laws of England, vol 22 (5th edn, LexisNexis 2012), para 240; Pollock and Mulla, The Indian Contract and Specific Relief Acts, vol I (14th edn, LexisNexis 2013), p. 42. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 153 Yash Raj Films Private Limited v. Afreen Fatima Zaidi & Anr. 16. The term ‘unfair trade practice’ is defined in Section 2(1)(r) of the Act and the relevant portions are as follows: “2. Definitions.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— (r) “unfair trade practice” means a trade practice which, for the purpose of promoting the sale, use or supply of any goods or for the provision of any service, adopts any unfair method or unfair or deceptive practice including any of the following practices, namely:— (1) the practice of making any statement, whether orally or in writing or by visible representation which,— *** (ii) falsely represents that the services are of a particular standard, quality or grade; *** (iv) represents that the goods or services have sponsorship, approval, performance, characteristics, accessories, uses or benefits which such goods or services do not have;” 17. In various decisions,13 this Court has held that a false statement that misleads the buyer is essential for an ‘unfair trade practice’.14 A false representation is one that is false in substance and in fact, and the test by which the representation must be judged is to see whether the discrepancy between the represented fact and the actual fact would be considered material by a reasonable person.15 Further, “statements of the nature which are wilfully made knowingly false, or made recklessly without honest belief in its truth, and made with the purpose to mislead or deceive will definitely constitute a false or misleading representation. In addition, a failure to disclose a material fact when a duty to disclose that fact has arisen will also constitute 13 Lakhanpal National Ltd v. MRTP Commission [1989] 2 SCR 979 : (1989) 3 SCC 251, para 7; KLM Royal Dutch Airlines v. Director General of Investigation and Registration [2008] 14 SCR 245 : (2009) 1 SCC 230, paras 16-20; Ludhiana Improvement Trust, Ludhiana.