Learned counsel has referred to the omissions and contradictions in the statements of these witnesses. 14. On the contrary, learned counsel appearing for the State of Haryana would submit that conviction of Mohd. Jamil (A2) under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC is born out from the evidence on record, which is unimpeachable, therefore, no interference is called for. Challenging the acquittal of Mohd. Yunus (A1) for offence under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC (in Criminal Appeal No.1307/2012), learned counsel for the State of Haryana argued that the same set of evidence, which holds good for convicting Mohd. Jamil (A2) should have been given due weightage for upholding the conviction of Mohd. Yunus (A1) for the offence under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC. According to him, the High Court ought not to have acquitted Mohd. Yunus (A1) of the charge under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC. 15. We have heard learned counsel for the parties at length and perused the material available on record. 16. The High Court has rejected the argument qua delay in registration of FIR or that it is ante-time, and we see no reason to disagree with the High Court’s finding on this aspect of the matter. 17. It is to be noticed that as per the first version of the incident narrated by the informant-Deenu in the FIR lodged by him, Ghasita (A3) gave a Pharsa blow on the head of the deceased and second blow was given by Akhtar Hussain (A4) by Pharsa over his head and third blow was given by Mohd. Jamil (A2) with Kulhari on his head and when the deceased fell down, Mohd. Yunus (A1) gave a lathi blow and Ghasita (A3) gave another blow over the head of the deceased. When Akhtar Hussain (A4) was sent for trial, Deenu was examined as PW-7 who maintained his statement that Mohd. Jamil (A2), Ghasita (A3) and Akhtar Hussain (A4) assaulted the deceased with Pharsa and Kulhari. Comparing the statement of the Deenu (PW-7) with the statement of Ahmad (PW-8), the Trial Court found major contradictions and disbelieved the statement of Deenu (PW-7) while acquitting Akhtar Hussain(A4) of the charges under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC. It was also held in the said of the Trial Court that PW-7 and PW-8 are interested witnesses and cannot be relied upon in the circumstances of the case. Further it [2024] 1 S.C.R. 411 State of Haryana v. Mohd. Yunus & Ors. was noticed that PW-7 is changing his stand inasmuch as in his earlier statement dated 08.07.1999 he denied that Ghasita (A3) and Akhtar Hussain (A4) were armed with Pharsa which he stated in the trial against Akhtar Hussain (A4). The Trial Court was of the opinion that both the important witnesses namely, Deenu (PW-7) and Ahmad (PW-8) made improvements in their statements. Therefore, when the statements are contrary, facts are twisted and improvements are made, no reliance can be made upon such statement. 18.