Secondly, the valuation of the property was not properly mentioned in the documents concerned so as to enable the parties to know its proper valuation prevailing on the date of sale. Thirdly, the market value of the property on the date of auction was more than the price actually fetched in the auction, and fourthly, no proper publication including beating of drum was made before the date of auction due to which there was less participation of the bidders in the auction-sale. 17. The executing court dealt with all the four objections with reference to the record of the proceedings and found as a fact that none of the objections had any merit. The High Court, however, found fault in the same though not in all but essentially in the matter relating to giving of clear 15 days’ notice and the manner in which it was issued and finding merit in the objection, set aside the sale on imposing certain conditions enumerated above. 18. In our considered opinion, as mentioned above, the executing court was justified in overruling the objections [2024] 7 S.C.R. 509 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. and we concur with the reasoning and the conclusion of the executing court. xxx xxx xxx 24. The law on the question involved herein is clear. It is not the material irregularity that alone is sufficient for setting aside of the sale. The -debtor has to go further and establish to the satisfaction of the Court that the material irregularity or fraud, as the case may be, has resulted in causing substantial injury to the - debtor in conducting the sale. It is only then the sale so conducted could be set aside under 21 Rule 90(2) of the Code. Such is not the case here.” 32. Thus, the dictum as laid by this Court in Chilamkurti (supra) relying upon Saheb Khan (supra) is that a charge of fraud or material irregularity in XXI Rule 90 CPC must be specifically made with sufficient particulars. Mere bald allegation would not be sufficient. The fact must be established which could reasonably sustain such charge. The dictum as further laid is that the sale conducted by the court in the execution proceedings should not ordinarily be set aside merely on the basis of some material irregularity or fraud. The party concerned must go further and establish to the satisfaction of the court that the material irregularity or fraud has resulted in substantial injury to such party. 33. XXI Rule 90 of the CPC reads as under: - “90. Application to set aside sale on ground of irregularity or fraud. (1) Where any immovable property has been sold in execution of a decree, the decree-holder, or the purchaser, or any person entitled to share in a rateable distribution of assets, or whose interests are affected by the sale, may apply to the Court to set aside the sale on the ground of a material irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting it.