1 may not be interfered with. 794 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports D. SUBMISSIONS OF BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT NOS. 3, 4 AND 5. 34. Ms. Nanita Sharma, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent nos. 3, 4, and 5 respectively submitted that the Uttar Pradesh police was bent upon falsely implicating her clients for the offence under Sections 302 and 120-B IPC. This is evident from the following – (a) he statements of Ramesh Yadav and Barelal were recorded under Section 161 CrPC after a gap of one year from the date of the offence committed at Firozabad i.e., 12.10.2007, (b) the address of Barelal as recorded by the IO while recording his statement under Section 161 CrPC was found to be incorrect and as per the information of the Sarpanch, no person with the name of Barelal had ever lived at the said address. The permanent address of the witness Barelal was not in existence even as per the certificate given by the Parshad of the area on 28.12.2008, (c) Ramesh Yadav had also never lived at the address which was given by him to the IO during his statement recorded under Section 161 CrPC and the same was clear from the certificate issued by the Sarpanch of Bada Gaon, Murar Police Station, Gwalior. 35. The counsel also submitted that the respondent nos. 3, 4 and 5 respectively had never been named in the FIR registered in Case Crime No. 617 of 2007 nor their names were ever disclosed by any of the witnesses whose statements had been recorded by the IO under Section 161 CrPC after the commission of the offence at Firozabad. It was never pointed out that there was any conspiracy between the respondents and the main accused, Ashok Dixit. It was submitted that the respondent nos. 3, 4 and 5 respectively or their family members are neither relatives nor known to the accused, Ashok Dixit, in any manner. 36. The counsel submitted that the IO at Firozabad has falsely implicated the respondent nos. 3, 4 and 5 respectively in the murder case which occurred at Firozabad even though they had no role to play in the case. They have been implicated only because of the rivalry between the two police establishments and the refusal of the D.I.G., Gwalior to grant sanction to prosecute them. It was submitted that the respondents had only performed their duty without suspecting any kind of manipulation in both the arrest and release of Ashok Dixit because they were merely following the instructions of their superior officer i.e., the T.I. (SHO), D.S. Khushawa of the Murar Police Station. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 795 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. 37. The counsel in the last submitted that the High Court was justified in quashing the criminal proceedings against the respondent nos. 3, 4 and 5 for want of sanction. E. ISSUE(S) FOR DETERMINATION 38. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only issue that falls for our consideration is: a.