Before the learned Single Judge, grounds of violations of natural justice were argued. Apart from that, one of the other main grounds argued was that the role played by the relatives has not been examined and that it was not established whether the selection was influenced by their participation. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 201 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. 23. It was pointed out that pursuant to the resolution passed before the selection by the Standing Committee on 01.08.1998, the relatives concerned had left the process of selection during the interview of the candidates who were their relatives. It was also pointed out that the marks to be given by the relatives were, as per the resolution, allotted to the Chief Executive Officer, who gave the marks. As such, it was argued that there was no reason to set aside the selection merely because there were relatives in the Selection Committee since they had recused when the case of the relatives came up. Yet another ground about the maintainability of the appeal was raised. Since that was not pressed before us, that is not being elaborated herein. Reasons of the learned Single Judge: 24. The learned Single Judge permitted inspection of the records to the counsel for the appellants. The learned Single Judge held that the argument of violation of natural justice was to be tested on the touchstone of actual prejudice. It was held by the learned Single Judge that when action or s are challenged on the ground of non-grant of hearing, mechanical interference is not to be resorted to. The learned Single Judge held that the prejudice caused due to non-grant of hearing and the fact of the prejudice on the final outcome ought to be established. 25. The learned Single Judge noticed that wherever statutes contemplate a hearing, hearing ought to be given. However, the learned Single Judge overlooked the specific provision in Rule 9 of the A&R Rules which applied to the present case. The learned Single Judge relied on the of State Bank of Patiala and Others vs. S.K. Sharma, (1996) 3 SCC 364 and held that the setting aside the appointment could not be quashed on the grounds of violation of natural justice. The learned Single Judge also held that the proceedings did not stop with the Collector; that the matter travelled to the Commissioner where full opportunity of hearing was granted. The learned Single Judge held that the Commissioner decided the revision afresh on merits after hearing each and every objection of the appellants. Here again, the learned Single Judge completely overlooked Rule 5(1)(b) of the A&R Rules which clearly stipulated that an application for revision by any party shall be entertained only on point of law and not on facts. 202 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 26. The learned Single Judge further held that, during the course of hearing in the writ petition, entire documents were made available. It was held that the petitioners were not able to demonstrate as to what prejudice was caused by non-grant of hearing by the Collector.