74. It was submitted that the third Condition Precedent was the requirement of Slot Allotment Approval as provided under Clause 7.6.1(c). The counsel rejected the contention of the Appellants that the slots were not provided because the airport charges were not paid and stated that the airport charges are a part of the CIRP costs which could be met as and when the Resolution Plan was operationalized. It was further submitted that the SRA had obtained 48 slots on the Effective Date when it was supposed to secure only 46 slots. The NCLT in its dated 21.06.2022 had also held that it was not possible for the SRA to obtain the slots that were historically available to the Corporate Debtor. Therefore, this Condition Precedent has also been met. 2104 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 75. The counsel submitted that the fourth Condition Precedent related to obtaining the International Traffic Right Clearance as stated under Clause 7.6.1(d) of the Resolution Plan. This Condition Precedent had to be satisfied in accordance with the “applicable laws”. Upon applying for the Clearance, the MoCA had informed the SRA that, Clause 8(b) of the National Civil Aviation Policy, 2016 requires a minimum of 20 aircrafts to be deployed for domestic operations before applying for international clearance and that therefore, the same can be granted when 20 aircrafts of the Corporate Debtor are in operation. The Business Plan only envisages 6 aircrafts and the SRA can operationalize 20 aircrafts once the operations of the Corporate Debtor begin. This is evident from Clause 8.2.6(f) that states that the restart of international operations can be envisaged only after the completion of 12 months of operating the airline. Since this condition requires operations to re-commence before it can be satisfied, this Condition Precedent has also been complied with. 76. Mr. Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned senior counsel also appearing for the Respondents, concurred with all the aforesaid submissions made on behalf of the SRA. In addition to bringing our attention to Clause 6.4.4 on the issue of adjustment of the PBG, he also referred to Clause 6.4.12 of the Resolution Plan which stated that the PBG will bring financial flexibility for the SRA and help the SRA to advance the committed payments and achieve its goal of re-commencing the operations of the Corporate Debtor at the earliest. 77. It was submitted that the NCLAT dated 28.08.2023 rightly recognized that Regulation 36B(4A) of the 2016 Regulations only provides for the PBG requirement for the purposes of the RFRP and the same has been complied with by the SRA. Further, the counsel pointed out that Clause 6.4.4 (a)(i) elaborates on the “Committed Cash Payments” to be made to the Financial Creditors. In the table, under the heading “Date of release of Security”, the PBG of Rs. 150 Crore was not mentioned while the other two forms of security find a mention. Thus, the intention was that, the PBG be adjusted in making the first tranche payment. 78. The counsel further submitted that there is no specific consequence provided under the Resolution Plan for a default in the creation of security.