7. Upon completion of all the formalities, the Work s dated 18.10.2022 were issued by the Executive Engineer, pursuant to which the appellant commenced his work in terms of the contract. 8. On 01.12.2022, the Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Department, Government of West Bengal issued an directing that the maintenance of the roads and drainage of the E.M. Bypass including the two subject underpasses shall be handed over by the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) i.e., the respondent herein to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC). The said reads as under: - “Government of West Bengal Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Department NAGARYAN, DF-8, Sector-I Salt Lake, Kolkata - 700 064 Memo No. 5783 – UDMA-22012(14)/11/2022 Date : 01.12.2022 544 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports KMDA was the custodian for the maintenance of the E.M Bypass connecting the northern and southern part of the city and starts from northern hub Ultadanga to Garia in the South. The road length is 15.6 Km which runs along the eastern ring of the city. After careful consideration it has been decided that the maintenance of the road alongwith the drainage be handed over from KMDA to KMC with the following scope of activities. (1) The defects in carriageway would be maintained and restored by KMC henceforth. (2) The existing carriageway alongwith the surface and underground drainage would be maintained by KMC. The conservancy in and around the Eastern Bypass would also be maintained by KMC. (3) Subject to clearance from KMDA, KMC would issue NOC to all utility and service providers. The cost of road restoration from the charges to be levied is to be paid to KMC by all utility and service providers. (4) The right of collecting revenues from the advertisement displays will remain with KMDA. (5) All the structures, as the new or old Bridges, Culverts, FoBs etc. will be under the custody of KMDA. (6) All development activities along the road except for the Bridges, Culverts, FoBs etc. will be taken up by KMC. (7) KMC would remain custodian for illumination of the Bypass. (8) The green verge along the E.M. Bypass to be maintained by KMC. The is issued in the interest of public service. Sd/- Principal Secretary to the Govt. of West Bengal” 9. As per the aforesaid dated 01.12.2022, the maintenance and restoration of carriageway, structures, underground drainage and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 545 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. development activities of the E.M. Bypass Area was taken over by the KMC. However, the specifically, clarified that the right of collecting revenue from advertisements displayed would continue to remain with the KMDA. 10. Thereafter, in light of the aforesaid , the Executive Engineer, KMDA under instructions issued by the competent authorities sent a notice dated 24.01.2023 to the appellant herein asking him to stop all work in respect of the maintenance of the two underpasses with immediate effect in view of the handing over of the maintenance of the E.M.