We have restrained ourselves from declaring the law as inapplicable to the district of South Kanara from today but we would like to make it clear that if the Karnataka Legislature does not 1224 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports act promptly and remove the inequality arising out of the application of the Madras Act of 1951 to the district of South Kanara only, the Act will have to suffer a serious and successful challenge in the not distant future. We do hope that the Government of Karnataka will act promptly and move an appropriate legislation, say, within a year or so. A comprehensive legislation which will apply to all temples and Mutts in Karnataka, which are equally situated in the context of the levy of fee, may perhaps afford a satisfactory solution to the problem. This, however, is a tentative view-point because we have not investigated whether the Madras Act of 1951, particularly Section 76(1) thereof, is a piece of hostile legislation of the kind that would involve the violation of Article 14. Facts in regard thereto may have to be explored, if and when occasion arises.” (Emphasis supplied) 195. This Court, has on many occasions, struck down provisions for having become temporally unreasonable, that is, for having become obsolete and discriminatory with the passage of time. 196. In Motor General Traders v. State of A.P., reported in (1984) 1 SCC 222, a two-Judge Bench of this Court was examining the validity of Section 32(b) of the A.P. Buildings (Lease, Rent and Eviction) Control Act, 1960. The impugned provision exempted all buildings constructed after 26.08.1957 from the application of the said Act. This Court held that a temporary exemption having nexus with the object of the Act to promote new builders had become obsolete with the passage of time, and was acting in the form of a permanent bonanza without any rational basis. The Bench proceeded to strike down the impugned provision. The relevant observations read as under: "24. It is argued that since the impugned provision has been in existence for over twenty-three years and its validity has once been upheld by the High Court, this Court should not pronounce upon its validity at this late stage. There are two answers to this proposition. First, the very fact that nearly twenty-three years are over from the date of the enactment of the impugned provision and the discrimination is allowed to be continued unjustifiably for such a long time [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1225 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 is a ground of attack in these cases. As already observed, the landlords of the buildings constructed subsequent to August 26, 1957 are given undue preference over the landlords of buildings constructed prior to that date in that the former are free from the shackles of the Act while the latter are subjected to the restrictions imposed by it. What should have been just an incentive has become a permanent bonanza in favour of those who constructed buildings subsequent to August 26, 1957.