The declaration so published shall notwithstanding anything contained in the said Act, be deemed to be a declaration duly made under the said Section 6 of the said Act: Provided that no such declaration in respect of any particular land covered by a notice under Section 26 or 1682 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 27 shall be made after the expiry of three years from the date of such notice. (3) On the publication of such declaration, the Collector of the district within whose jurisdiction the land is situate shall proceed to take for the acquisition of such land under the said Act; and the provisions of that Act shall, so far as may be apply to the acquisition, of the said land, with the modification that the market value of the land shall be the market value prevailing on the date of the publication of the notice in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette under Section 26 or Section 27, as the case may be. 38. Release of land.—If within three years from the date of the publication of the notice in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette under Section 26 or Section 27— (a) no declaration as provided in sub-section (2) of Section 37 is published in respect of any land reserved, allotted or designated for any purpose specified in a regional plan, master plan, detailed development plan or new town development plan covered by such notice; or (b) such land is not acquired by agreement such land shall be deemed to be released from such reservation, allotment or designation. 39. Right to compensation.—(1) Any person whose property is injuriously affected by virtue of any of the provisions contained in any regional plan, master plan, detailed development plan or a new town development plan made under this Act shall, if he prefers a claim for the purpose to the Tribunal with such particulars and within such period as may be prescribed, be entitled to obtain compensation in respect thereof as determined by the Tribunal: Provided that property shall not be deemed to be injuriously affected by reason of any of the provisions inserted in any development plan which impose any condition or restriction in regard to any of the matters specified in clause (f) of sub-section (2) of Section 15, or in clauses (k) and (f) of [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1683 Pradhan Babu and Others v. Nachimuthu Nagar Kudiyiruppor Nala Sangam and Others sub-section (2) of Section 17 or in clauses (m) and (n) of sub-section (1) of Section 20, as the case may be. (2) If at any time after the day on which any regional plan master plan, detailed development plan or a new town development plan has come into force, such plan is varied, or revoked, any person who has incurred any expenditure for the purpose of complying with such plan, shall, if he prefers a claim for the purpose to the Tribunal with such particulars and within such time as may be prescribed, be entitled to obtain compensation in respect thereof as determined by the Tribunal, if by reason only of the variation or revocation of such plan, such expenditure has ceased to be in any way beneficial to him.’ 21.