Until that point, forty-four beneficiaries of the leak had been identified; j. The investigating agency stated that it was beyond doubt that the plan to provide answers during the exam was prepared and executed by an organised gang with a network spreading across the country; and k. The Inspector General of Police, Haryana admitted that it may not be possible to identify every single beneficiary of the leak. 88. On the basis of the information before it, the Court noted that it could choose one of two alternatives – direct that the results of the forty-four beneficiaries of malpractice be withheld and permit the counselling process to proceed or direct the conduct of a fresh exam. The Court was of the opinion that the modus operandi of the leak made it likely that numerous candidates, apart from the forty- four who had been identified at the time, were likely to have been beneficiaries of that system of malpractice. It held that it was not possible to identify all the beneficiaries of the leak. Further, it ruled that the segregation of the forty-four identified beneficiaries of the leak was not a viable solution because there was a possibility that unidentified beneficiaries would stand to gain at the cost of honest candidates. The Court, finding that the sanctity of the exam had been compromised, cancelled the exam and directed the conduct of a fresh exam. 89. Tanvi Sarwal’s case (supra) is distinguishable from the case before us on many counts. First and foremost, the unscrupulous candidates in that case used sophisticated technology including vests fitted with micro SIMs to cheat. No such technology has come to light at 88 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports present, in this case. Second, the question paper was found to have been shared on WhatsApp before the date of the exam. Once shared through social media, it is exceedingly difficult to trace the journey of a post or message or document. Here, the record at present does not indicate that the question paper was shared on social media before the date of the exam. Third, In Tanvi Sarwal’s case (supra), the assistance of a gang with a nationwide network was stated to have been taken and calls were made by the accused to persons living in numerous states in the country. No such nationwide ring is seen at present in this case. Fourth, the Court found that it was not possible to separate the beneficiaries of the leak from the honest candidates. Here, the Court has concluded that the fraudulent candidates may be identified by the investigating agency. For these reasons, the decision in Tanvi Sarwal (supra) does not support the case of the petitioners. The allegations in this case are not substantiated by the material on record. 90. In Sachin Kumar’s case (supra), the two-Judge Bench of this Court (of which one of us, D Y Chandrachud, J., was a part) was concerned with the recruitment process for the post of Head Clerk. The Government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi cancelled the process on the basis of certain irregularities in the conduct of the examination.