9. We will now deal with the following aspects in to arrive at a just and proper conclusion. (1) What the Constitution of India provides regarding preparation of list for Scheduled Castes for different States. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 801 Dr. Bhim Rao Ambedkar Vichar Manch Bihar, Patna v. The State of Bihar & Ors. (2) How a list declared under the Presidential can be altered, modified or amended. (3) What does the Constitution provide regarding the Backward Classes for every State. (4) The entries in the Presidential of 1950 and the subsequent Amendments made by the Parliament in the list published under the Presidential of 1950. (5) What the State decides regarding the Backward Classes. (6) The correspondence between the State of Bihar and the Central Government/Union of India. (7) The stand of the Union of India before the High Court and before this Court. (8) The arguments advanced on behalf of the appellants, respondents and the intervenors. (9) Analysis of the arguments. (10) Conclusion. 10. “Scheduled Castes” is defined in the Constitution under Article 366(24) thereof. It reads as follows: “366(24). "Scheduled Castes" means such castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within such castes, races or tribes as are deemed under article 341 to be Scheduled Castes for the purposes of this Constitution.” 11. Article 341 confers power on the President of India to specify the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes which, for the purpose of the Constitution, be deemed to be Scheduled Castes in relation to that State or Union Territory. Further, sub-Clause 2 of Article 341 provides that the Parliament may, by law, include or exclude from the list of Scheduled Castes specified in a Notification issued under Clause-1 any caste, race or tribe or part of or group within any caste, race or tribe. It further creates a prohibition that, save as aforesaid, a Notification issued under Clause-1 shall not be varied by any subsequent Notification. Article 341 of the Constitution reads as follows: 802 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “Article 341. (1) The President may with respect to any State or Union territory, and where it is a State, after consultation with the Governor thereof, by public notification, specify the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes which shall for the purposes of this Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Castes in relation to that State or Union territory, as the case may be. (2) Parliament may by law include in or exclude from the list of Scheduled Castes specified in a notification issued under clause (1) any caste, race or tribe or part of or group within any caste, race or tribe, but save as aforesaid a notification issued under the said clause shall not be varied by any subsequent notification.” 12. From a plain reading of the above Article and in particular sub- Clause 2, two things are clear – first, the list specified under the Notification under Clause-1 can be amended, altered only by law made by Parliament and, second, it prohibits that but for a law made by Parliament a notification issued under sub-Clause-1 cannot be varied by any subsequent notification.