This Court had held that the principle of restitution is not excluded from its application to interim s. 28. This court has also held that the court should be mindful to neutralize the effect of wrong interim s which they have been persuaded to pass. (See Indore Development Authority v. Manoharlal & Ors. (2020) 8 SCC 129 and Bhupinder Singh v. Unitech Ltd. 2023 SCC OnLine SC 321). 29. This Court has also held that the maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit will apply in such a scenario, and s of restitution can be passed directing the party which obtained the advantage to compensate the party which suffered the disadvantage (See Kalabharati Advertising v. Hemant Vimalnath Narichania & Ors. (2010) 9 SCC 437). 30. Applying these principles to the facts of the present case, we find the following. The vacant seat ed could not be filled because by the time the Writ Petitions were disposed of, the counselling had concluded and the cut-off date for admissions were also over. The colleges will have to carry that vacant seat for the entire duration of the MBBS Course. In the first case, the Writ Petition was dismissed. Though, in the second case also, the Writ Petition was dismissed ultimately at the student’s behest, the High Court was set aside and the student was accommodated for the succeeding academic year. The fact remains that even in the case of the second appellant herein (RKDF Homeopathy Medical College), the seat could not be filled and continued to remain vacant. The colleges have been prejudiced for no fault of theirs. In both cases, the Writ Petitions were disposed of after the admissions deadlines were over. 31. ing an additional seat in the succeeding academic year is not an option, in view of the pronouncement of this Court referred to hereinabove. Even in the S. Krishna Sradha (supra), the exception 712 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports carved out was to create an additional seat where the student was prejudiced. In this case, it is the college which has been prejudiced. The prejudice is because, with the seat remaining vacant for the entire duration of the course, to that extent they will be deprived of the fees, while their expenditure will remain same. 32. In the special facts of the case and considering that it is a case of one seat in each college, we feel that ends of justice will be served if we grant liberty to the appellant colleges to make a representation to the Fee Fixation Committee/Fee Fixation Authority of the State highlighting the vacancy caused due to the interim of the High Court. If such a representation is made, the Fee Fixation Committee/ Fee Fixation Authority shall, while fixing the fees for college (for future batches) reckon the deficit in fees that has resulted due to the single vacant seat and fix the fees by adding such amount to the total fees proposed to be fixed which will restitute the colleges monetarily.