26 “Section 24. Meeting of committee of creditors.--- (1)……… (2)………….. (3) The resolution professional shall give notice of each meeting of the committee of creditors to— (a) members of committee of creditors, including the authorized representatives referred to in sub-sections (6) and (6A) of section 2 and sub-section (5); (b) members of the suspended Board of Directors or the partners of the corporate persons, as the case may be; (c). operational creditors or their representatives if the amount of their aggregate dues is not less than ten percent of the debt 274 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports plan(s) received by him conform(s) to the conditions referred to in sub-section (2) of Section 30 of the IBC as elaborated in Regulations 3727 and 3827A of the CIRP Regulations 2016. 27. The resolution plan that conforms to the conditions referred to in sub-section (2) of Section 30 is to be presented by the RP to the COC for its approval. Thereafter, under sub-section (4) of Section 3028, the COC may approve the plan after considering its feasibility 27 Regulation 37. Resolution Plan.-- A resolution plan shall provide for the measures as may be neces- sary, for insolvency resolution of the corporate debtor for maximization of value of its assets including but not limited to the following:- [a] transfer of all or part of the assets of the corporate debtor to one or more persons; (b) sale of all or part of the assets whether subject to any security interest or not; [ba] restructuring of the corporate debtor, by way of merger, amalgamation and demerger; [c] the substantial acquisition of shares of the corporate debtor or the merger or consolidation of the corporate debtor with one or more persons; [ca] cancellation or delisting of any shares of the corporate debtor if applicable; [d] satisfaction or modification of any security interest; [e] curing or waving of any breach of the terms of any debt due from the corporate debtor; [f] reduction in the amount payable to the creditors; [g] extension of a maturity date or change in interest rate or other terms of a debt due from the corporate debtor; [h] amendment of the constitutional documents of the corporate debtor; [i] issuance of securities of the corporate debtor for cash, property, securities, or in exchange for claims or interest, or other appropriate purpose; [j] change in portfolio of goods or services produced or rendered by the corporate debtors; [k] change in technology used by the corporate debtor; and [l] obtaining necessary approvals from the central and state governments and other authorities. 27A Regulation 38. Mandatory contents of the resolution plan.---(1) The amount payable under a resolution plan----- (a) to the operational creditors shall be paid in priority over financial creditors; and (b) to the financial creditors, who have a right to vote under sub- section (2) of Section 21 and did not vote in favour of the resolution plan, shall be paid in priority over financial creditors who voted in favour of the plan.