19. The dated 15th April, 2009 whereby it was communicated to the appellant that it had been decided to recover a sum of Rs.63,765/- paid in excess due to mistake in fixation of pay, also indicates that a departmental inquiry was conducted against the appellant which had led to the impugned action. On a pertinent query being made in this regard, the learned counsel candidly conceded that no such departmental inquiry was ever conducted against the appellant. 20. Without prejudice to the above findings, we are of the view that no departmental action could have been initiated by the State against the appellant after eight years following his superannuation because the employer employee relationship had come to an end after the appellant’s superannuation. The directing reduction in pay scale and recovery from the appellant was manifestly not preceded by any show cause notice and was thus, passed in gross violation of the principles of natural justice. Pursuant to the dated 20th July, 2009 passed in the Writ Petition No. 6714 of 2009 filed by the appellant, he submitted a representation to the Secretary, Food and Consumer Protection Department, Government of Bihar, which vide dated 8th October, 2009 was rejected, preceded by a personal hearing. A perusal of the said would indicate that the Secretary 386 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports took a view that as per paragraph 11 (supra) of the Government Resolution, the first/second time bound promotion of the appellant had come to an end automatically w.e.f. on 1st January, 1996 and thus, the appellant was required to be redesignated to the post of Marketing Officer and would be entitled to the revised pay of Rs.5500-9000 w.e.f. 1st January, 1996 as recommended by the Fitment Committee. Thus, even in this , the promotion conferred to the appellant to the post of ADSO on 10th March, 1991 is not doubted. 21. We firmly believe that any decision taken by the State Government to reduce an employee’s pay scale and recover the excess amount cannot be applied retrospectively and that too after a long time gap. In the case of Syed Abdul Qadir and Others v. State of Bihar and Others,1 this Court held that when the excess unauthorised payment is detected within a short period of time, it would be open for the employer to recover the same. Conversely, if the payment had been made for a long duration of time, it would be iniquitous to make any recovery. The relevant paras of the Syed Abdul Qadir (supra) are extracted hereinbelow: - “57. This Court, in a catena of decisions, has granted relief against recovery of excess payment of emoluments/ allowances if (a) the excess amount was not paid on account of any misrepresentation or fraud on the part of the employee, and (b) if such excess payment was made by the employer by applying a wrong principle for calculating the pay/allowance or on the basis of a particular interpretation of rule/, which is subsequently found to be erroneous.