It was argued that Azeez Basha [supra] holds that a university incorporated by a statute would lose its status as a minority institution and therefore, the reasoning is flawed. 173. The parties defending the of the High Court, in this regard assert that the understanding of the Appellants of the in Azeez Basha [supra] is incorrect as the is not merely premised on the fact that the AMU was established by way of a statute rather the said , in depth, studies the antecedent facts prior to the establishment of the university and the nature of the legislation establishing the university, to ascertain the character of the university at the time of its initial establishment, and thereafter arrives at a factual finding. It is argued that the findings of the in Azeez Basha [supra] are findings of fact at the time of the establishment of the AMU in 1920 and do not lay down any straightjacket formulation of law. 174. Before adverting the countering versions, it is necessary to study the in Azeez Basha [supra]. The judgement can be divided in ten parts. In the first part, the Court notes the broad parameters of challenge before it and the principal arguments by both sides. The Court notes that amendments made to the AMU Act, 1920 in the years 1951 and specifically 1965, were impugned before it. The Court noted assertion of the Petitioners therein, to the effect that, the AMU was established by the Muslim minority. It was claimed that therefore, the Muslim minority possess the right to administer it, and any provisions within the Acts of 1951 and 1965 that diminish or curtail this right are beyond the scope of Article 30(1) and hence, invalid. The argument of the Union of India at the said time was that the AMU was established by the 1920 Act and therefore, the Parliament possessed the authority to amend that statute as deemed necessary for the advancement of education. It was argued that the minority did not establish the AMU and thus cannot assert the right to administer it. Furthermore, it was contended that the provision in the 1920 Act, stipulating that the Court of the AMU was to be composed entirely of Muslims, did not confer any administration rights upon the Muslim community and the administration remained under the jurisdiction of the secular authorities established by the 1920 Act. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1997 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 175. The next part of the notes in some detail the history prior to the AMU coming in to being. The said portion is relevant as it represents a specific, fact-based enquiry that the Court carried out. The Court noted that it was “necessary to refer to the history” prior to the establishment of the AMU in 1920 in to “understand the contentions raised on either side”. The Court notes the establishment of the MAO College by efforts of Sir Syed Ahmad Khan. The Court notes that the at the end of the 19th century, the idea of establishing a Muslim University gathered strength and by 1911 some funds were collected and a Muslim University Association was established.