The power to acquire private resources, in certain situations, continues to be traceable to other provisions in the Constitution, including the sovereign power of eminent domain. Acquisition of property, for instance, is a Concurrent list subject in Entry 42 of List III of the Seventh Schedule. Further, where a legislation falls within the ambit of Article 39(b), the law is only protected against a challenge under Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution. Even if a law is in furtherance of Article 39(b) and protected by Article 31C, it is susceptible to a challenge to its constitutionality under other provisions of the Constitution, including Article 300-A. Similarly, a law which falls outside the ambit of Article 39(b), may still be valid. All other benefits and protections granted by the Constitution under inter alia Articles 31A and 31B continue to be applicable to such a law. With this in mind, we turn to determining the correctness of the above interpretation of Article 39(b), i.e. that all private property is covered within the ambit of Article 39(b). a. The interpretation is inconsistent with the text of Article 39(b) 204. Five significant elements emerge from the text of Article 39(b), which has been reproduced in paragraph 2 of this Judgement. These are: 170 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a. The provision relates to “ownership and control”; b. The ownership and control of “material resources” is dealt with by the provision; c. The material resources which the provision covers are those which are “of the community”; d. The policy of the state must be directed to secure the “distribution” of the ownership and control of such resources; e. The purpose of the distribution must be to “best subserve the common good”. 205. The question before this Court is whether privately owned resources fall within the ambit of the phrase ‘material resources of the community’. To define the phrase ‘material resources of the community’, the law lexicons and legal dictionaries draw our attention to the definitions by this Court in Ranganatha Reddy, Sanjeev Coke and Abu Kavur Bai. These judgements have been doubted in the reference before us. Thus, we need to consider the terms afresh to understand the correct interpretation of the phrase. We may begin by looking at the terms ‘material’, ‘resources’ and ‘community’, independently. 206. Black’s Law Dictionary defines the expression ‘resources’ in the following terms: “a factor of production or economy needed for an activity. Basic resources are labour, land, and capital. Others can include information, energy, entrepreneurship, expertise, time and management.”141 207. The term ‘material’ is defined as: “1. Of or relating to matter; physical (material goods). 2. Having some logical connection with the consequential facts (material evidence). 3. Of such a nature that knowledge of the item would affect a person’s decision-making; significant; essential (material alteration of a document).”142 141 Black’s Law Dictionary, 8th Edition, South Asian Edition, 2015. 142 Ibid. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 171 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 208.