463 Delhi Development Authority v. Hello Home Education Society vi) The plea of a legitimate expectation raised by the Society on the basis of the in-principle approval of the Lieutenant Governor also was unfounded in law. The said doctrine of legitimate expectation would not be affected in the present case, for the reason that once a policy decision had been taken in larger public interest and also to maintain transparency in dealing with land belonging to the State, to be settled by way of auction or tender, the liberty was also given to the Society to apply and participate. vii) The request for allotment was made as far back as March, 2003. The policy had changed on 15.12.2003, the 1981 Rules had also been amended later on in April 2006, the rejection for allotment was made in 2008 and 2012, the Society for the first time challenged the rejection only in July 2014. It never challenged the change in the policy decision nor the amendment to the 1981 Rules. As such there was an inordinate delay of 10 years on the part of the Society in filing the writ petition. Today after 20 years, there can be no justification for making any such allotment. viii) Learned Single Judge as also the Division Bench committed factual and legal error in allowing the writ petition and dismissing the appeal of the appellant respectively. It was thus prayed that the appeal be allowed and the impugned be set aside and the writ petition filed by the Society be dismissed. ARGUMENTS BY RESPONDENT 17. On the other hand, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned senior counsel, defended the impugned s while making the following submissions: i) The appellant had been continuously changing its stand in the pleadings filed before the High Court and before this Court. Most of the arguments advanced before this Court were not pleaded or raised before the High Court. This Court may, therefore, not consider such pleadings, documents and arguments which are not available before the High Court. ii) In particular, it was pointed out that the fact regarding the CBI enquiry was never raised before and was being raised for the first time before this Court. The fact that there was no need for 464 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a school in Vasant Kunj area is also being raised for the first time before this Court. The fact that Vasant Kunj and Jasola fall in different Zones has also been raised for the first time before this Court. iii) The Lieutenant Governor being the highest executive authority and having approved in-principle allotment in favour of the Society in Vasant Kunj area on 24.03.2003, nothing further was required to be deliberated upon and it was just a ministerial act of issuing the allotment letter pursuant to the said approval which was required. The appellant for reasons best known to it delayed the issue of allotment letter and over a period of time have been raising all kinds of frivolous pleas to deprive the Society from the allotment and establishing an educational institution in Vasant Kunj area.