Unlimited corporate funding would increase the use of black money for political funding through shell companies; and b. Capped corporate funding ensured that only profitable companies with a proven track record could donate to political parties. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 462 Digital Supreme Court Reports V. Electoral Bond Scheme 24. On 2 January 2018, the Ministry of Finance in the Department of Economic Affairs notified the Electoral Bond Scheme 2018 in exercise of the power under Section 31(3) of the RBI Act. The Electoral Bond is a bond issued in the nature of promissory note which is a bearer banking instrument and does not carry the name of the buyer.”* The features of the Scheme are as follows: a. The Bond may be purchased by a person who is (i) a citizen of India; or (ii) incorporated or established in India.” ‘Person’ includes (a) an individual; (0) a Hindu undivided family; (c) a company; (c) a firm; (d) an association of persons or a body of individuals, whether incorporated or not; (e) every artificial juridical person, not falling within any of the above categories; and (f) any agency, office, or branch owned or controlled by such a person. An individual can buy bonds either singly or jointly with other individuals;7° An Electoral Bond can only be encashed by an eligible political party.” A political party, to be eligible to receive an electoral bond, has to be registered under Section 29A of the RP Act, and ought to have secured not less than one per cent of the votes polled in the last general election to the House of the People or the Legislative Assembly of the State.”® An eligible political party can encash a bond only through a bank account with an authorised bank.?? The scheme has notified the State Bank of India as the bank authorised to issue and encash bonds;*° The instructions issued by the Reserve Bank of India regarding KYC apply to buyers of the bond. The authorised bank may call for additional KYC documents if necessary;*' 24 Electoral Bond Scheme, Clause 2(a) 25 Electoral Bond Scheme, Clause 3(1) 26 Electoral Bond Scheme, clause 3(3) 27 Electoral Bond Scheme, Clause 12 28 Electoral Bond Scheme, Clause 3(8) 29 Electoral Bond Scheme, Clause 3(4) 30 Electoral Bond Scheme, Clause 2(b) 31 Electoral Bond Scheme, Clause 4(2) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 463 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Payments for the issuance of the bond are accepted in Indian rupees, through demand draft, cheque, Electronic Clearing System or direct debit to the buyer’s account. Where payment is made by cheque or demand draft, it must be drawn in favour of the issuing bank at the place of issue;*? The bonds are issued in denominations of Rs 1000, 10,000, 1,00,000, 10,00,000 and 1,00,00,000;%° The bond is valid for fifteen days from the date of issue. No payment will be made to a political party if the bond is deposited after the expiry of fifteen 08५57. If the bond is not encashed within fifteen days, it will be deposited by the authorised bank with the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund;*5 A buyer who wishes to purchase electoral bond(s) can apply in the format specified in Annexure II of the Scheme.