Further, while a bicycle differs from a motorcycle, it possesses characteristics similar to those of an electric motorcycle since both these vehicles do not emit pollution in the park. Simultaneously, an electric motorcycle is comparable to a fuel-based motorcycle due to their shared propulsion method by an engine, despite their disparity in pollution emissions. In light of these considerations, would such a classification be deemed reasonable if bicycles and electric motorcycles were grouped together as one class, excluding fuel-based motorcycles? Since different variables exist for checking the similarities and dissimilarities, how do we ascertain that ‘similar’ elements are effectively grouped together? 173. This Court has held that the classification must withstand the test akin to the Wednesbury principles such that the classification shall consider all the ‘relevant’ similarities and disregard insubstantial or microscopic differences.126 However, this also does not answer the question conclusively, as one must still know the criterion for gauging ‘relevance’. For instance, in the example above, we still do not know whether being propelled by an engine should be a relevant criterion or not causing pollution should be the basis of classification! 174. This leads to the second prong of the test, which requires the classification to be as per the object of the statute.127 This Court has held that while determining who qualifies ‘similarly situated’ individuals in the given circumstances, the court must see the purpose of law:128 "54. A reasonable classification is one which includes all who are similarly situated and none who are not. The question then is: what does the phrase “similarly situated” mean? The answer to the question is that we must look beyond the classification to the purpose of the law. A reasonable classification is one which includes all persons who are similarly situated with respect to the purpose of the law. The purpose of a law 126 Ramesh Chandra Sharma v. State of Uttar Pradesh (2024) 5 SCC 217, para 45; Roop Chand Adlakha v. DDA, 1989 Supp (1) SCC 116, para 19. 127 Special Courts Bill, supra note 120, para 72; D.S. Nakara v. Union of India (1983) 1 SCC 305, para 11. 128 State of Gujarat v. Shri Ambica Mills Ltd. (1974) 4 SCC 656, para 54. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1079 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 may be either the elimination of a public mischief or the achievement of some positive public good.” 129 [Emphasis supplied] 175. Hence, in the hypothetical above, the purpose of the law behind restricting the entry of vehicles inside the park will provide the standard of relevance for differentiating vehicles into separate classes. For instance, if the purpose is to stop pollution inside the park, electric motorcycles and bicycles can be grouped in the class of permissible vehicles. In contrast, vehicles based on petrol or diesel can be grouped into separate classes of restricted vehicles. However, if the purpose of the statute is to prevent people inside the park from getting hurt, children’s bicycles might be allowed, but other vehicles might be grouped and restricted.