[2024] 8 S.C.R. 71 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India & Ors. Statement II: Atoms of each element are stable and emit their characteristic spectrum. In light of the above statements, choose the most appropriate answer from the options given below: (1) Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is correct. (2) Both Statement I and Statement II are correct. (3) Both Statement I and Statement II are incorrect. (4) Statement I is correct but Statement II is incorrect.” 46. We have not specified the question number, as both the question and the options may vary across different series of the question paper. Initially, the NTA answer key indicated that the fourth option was correct. 47. Subsequently, based on representations submitted to NTA, a decision was taken to treat both option (2) and option (4) as correct answers. The representations highlighted that the second option was based on an older edition of the NCERT textbook. Many candidates had relied on the outdated textbook and accordingly, sought the award of four marks if they had marked option (2) as the correct answer. They also relied on the NTA Information Bulletin 2024. This bulletin states that if a question is found to be incorrect or dropped after key verification, all candidates will be awarded four marks, regardless of whether they attempted the question.8 The relevant portion is as follows: “(vi) If none of the options is found correct or a Question is found to be wrong or a Question is dropped then all candidates who have appeared will be given four marks (+4) irrespective of the fact whether the question has been attempted or not attempted by the candidate.” In response to the representations from aspirants, NTA amended its answer key and awarded marks to all students who had selected either option (2) or option (4). 8 NTA Information Bulletin 2024, Chapter 3: Examination Scheme, Clause 3.2 - Pattern of the Test. 72 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 48. Some petitioners argue that this change in marking led to unfair advantages for some students while disadvantaging others, thereby impacting the overall merit list and the rankings. This discrepancy could have altered admission outcomes for many students who narrowly missed the cut-off marks or ranks due to the inclusion of the second option as correct. As held in Kanpur University v. Samir Gupta,9 if prima facie a question is considered ambiguous, such a question should be deleted. This precedent emphasizes the need for clarity and precision in competitive examinations to maintain fairness and transparency. 49. On 22 July 2024, this Court requested the Director of IIT, Delhi to constitute a three-member committee to determine the correct answer. The Director and Professor from the Department of Energy Science & Engineering, reported on 23 July 2024, that a committee had been formed. This committee consisted of Professors Pradipta Ghosh, Aditya Narain Agnihotri, and Sankalpa Ghosh from the Department of Physics. 50. The expert team constituted has opined that option (4) is the correct answer.