The appellant, however, contends that there is no connection between the charges levied on A-6 and the transactions because of which he has been made an accused, whereas the Prosecution submits that both A-6 and A-17 are part of the same, continuing, ongoing transactions. Whether or not actually the case is a question to be decided on the basis of evidence adduced at trial, and not at this stage, by this Court. In State of U.P. v. Paras Nath Singh,66 the Court observed as under: “8. …As the provision itself mandates that no finding, sanction or by a court of competent jurisdiction becomes invalid unless it is so that a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned because of any error, omission or 66 [2009] 8 SCR 85 : (2009) 6 SCC 372 378 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports irregularity in the charge including in misjoinder of charge, obviously, the burden is on the accused to show that in fact a failure of justice has been occasioned.” Therefore, we leave it to the appellants to raise this issue before the Trial Judge, who shall, if such a question is raised, decide it promptly at the appropriate stage. ISSUE No. 4 – Whether Section 22A applies to the Appellant? 47. Section 22A of the UAPA reads as under: “22A. Offences by companies.— (1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every person (including promoters of the company) who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person (including promoters) liable to any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised reasonable care to prevent the commission of such offence. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to, any neglect on the part of, any promoter, director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such promoter, director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,— (a) “company” means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals; and (b) “director”, in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 379 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. 48. For Section 22A to apply :- (a) offence has to committed by a company; (b) all persons who at the time of the offence were in control of, or responsible for, the company’s affairs shall be deemed guilty; (c) such person would be saved from guilt as under (b) if they can demonstrate that such act was (i) not in their knowledge; (ii) they had taken reasonable care to prevent such offence from taking place.