It is trite law that the statement recorded u/s. 313 CrPC cannot form the sole basis of conviction. Therefore, the presence of the appellant cannot be found solely based on his statement, notwithstanding the lack of independent evidence led by the prosecution. Further, this Court has previously considered the consequences when a particular defence plea was not taken by accused u/s 313 CrPC and held that mere omission to take a specific plea by accused when examined u/s 313 CrPC, is not enough to denude him of his right if the same can be made out otherwise. See: Periasami Vs. State of Tamil Nadu, (1996) 6 SCC 457 34. The case of the prosecution has, from the very start, been that the appellant was seen jointly along with Rani Kaur in the appellant’s house on 18.05.99 and they were seen leaving the house together on 19.05.99. They were both tried together on charges of having administered poison and killing the deceased on the intervening night of 18.05.99 & 19.05.99. Though the Trial Court has convicted both of them under Section 302, the High Court has extended the benefit of doubt to Rani Kaur and acquitted her of all criminal charges. According to the High Court, ‘apart from the evidence of Melo Kaur PW3 and Gurmel Singh PW4, there is no other evidence to show that she was present in the house on the fateful night’. However, even though it was the very same evidence that was sought to be used to prove the presence of the appellant in the house, the benefit of doubt has not been similarly extended to him. The High Court reasoned that the appellant, being the husband, it was only natural for him to be present in the house. 35. It is important to notice that the respondent-State has not challenged the acquittal of Rani Kaur before this Court. It has accepted the verdict and therefore, the acquittal has reached 266 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS finality. The State cannot on the one hand accept the verdict of the Court that the presence of Rani Kaur along with the appellant is doubtful and at the same time, maintain its case that the two of them were jointly present, committed the offence together and escaped together. 36. According to us, if the evidence of PW 3 and PW 4 was not sufficient to prove presence of Rani Kaur at the appellant’s house, as a natural corollary, such evidence cannot be relied on to conclude that the appellant was present in the house. The manner in which the High Court has sought to distinguish the case of the appellant from Rani Kaur is perverse and does not seem to impress us. The case of the prosecution has consistently been that the accused persons were seen present together in the house on the night of 18.05.99 and seen leaving together in the wee hours of the next morning. In fact, PW 5 has deposed that he had seen them together in the jeep travelling towards Hiro Kurd.