In the grounds of the challenge, ground EE has been taken explicitly on this aspect. We have perused the counter affidavit filed by the MoEF&CC in these appeals. We find from the counter affidavit that the contention raised regarding the illegal invocation of power under sub-rule (4) of Rule 5 has not been dealt with. We are not going into the question of whether it was necessary for the Central Government to specify reasons in the impugned notification itself why it came to the conclusion that in the public interest, the requirement of public notice should be dispensed with. However, the reasons for the said conclusion ought to have been set out in the counter affidavit filed before the NGT or, at least, in the counter affidavit filed before this Court. The document recording the satisfaction of the competent authority about the existence of public interest and the nature of the public interest ought to have been produced by the Ministry. But, no such document was produced. Only one conclusion can be drawn. The drastic decision to invoke sub-rule (4) of Rule 5 was made without any application of the mind. Hence, the decision-making process has been vitiated. 24. The impugned notification was issued two days after the nationwide lockdown was imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. At that time, the work of linear projects, such as roads, pipelines, etc., had come to a grinding halt. So, there was no tearing hurry to modify the EC notifications. Apart from the fact that no reasons have been assigned in the counter affidavit filed by the Central Government for coming to the conclusion that in the public interest, the requirement of prior publication of notice was required to be dispensed with, we fail to 1270 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports understand the undue haste shown by the Central Government in issuing the impugned notification during the nationwide lockdown. Therefore, the inclusion of item 6 of the substituted Appendix-IX will have to be held illegal. We have already given reasons for not dealing with the challenge to item 7 of the impugned notification. ARBITRARINESS 25. There is one more important ground for striking down item 6. But for item 6 in Appendix-IX to the impugned notification, for extraction, sourcing, or borrowing of ordinary earth for linear projects, prior EC would have been required in terms of the first EC notification. The very object of issuing the first EC notification incorporating the mandatory requirement of obtaining EC for projects was that the damage to the environment must be minimised while implementing projects. When an exception is sought to be carved out by incorporating Appendix- IX to the requirement of obtaining EC in the first EC notification, the exception must be specific. Item 6 grants exemption for “extraction or sourcing or borrowing of ordinary earth for linear projects, such as roads, pipelines, etc.” There is no specification about the quantum of ordinary earth, which can be extracted on the basis of the exemption.