The Division Bench held therein that there was no error in the reasoning of the learned Judge. 10. It is this that is subjected to challenge before us. One set of appeals was filed by the KPSC while the other three sets of appeals were filed by candidates holding DCA/higher qualifications. One such set of appeals was filed by Anoop M and twenty-nine candidates who were not parties to the subject proceedings before the Kerala High Court. 11. We may note, at this stage, that the issue of non-impleadment of all the affected candidates was not argued before us. However, as it has been raised in the grounds, we deem it proper to consider the same also. Rule 148 of the Kerala High Court Rules states that all persons directly affected should be made parties to the petition but where such persons are numerous, one or more of them may, with the permission of the Court, be impleaded on behalf of or for the benefit of all persons so affected, but notice of the original petition, on admission, should be given to all such persons either by personal service or by public advertisement. As already noted, several candidates possessing DCA/higher qualifications were either impleaded or got impleaded in the two writ petitions. In all, 101 of them figured as parties therein. This aspect was noted by the Division Bench and it was held that there was sufficient representation of their collective interest. Further, the very purpose of Rule 148 is to protect the interest of those affected persons who may be ignorant of the litigation and would be taken by surprise by the adverse developments therein. Given the long history of this litigation, none of the affected candidates can be presumed to have remained unaware of it. We, therefore, find no merit in this ground. 12. The qualification set out in the Notification dated 16.07.2012 for the post of LDC was strictly in keeping with the qualification prescribed therefor at Category No.27 in ‘Wing II – Ministerial Service’ in the Kerala Water Authority (Administrative, Ministerial and Last Grade) 332 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Service Rules, 2011 (for brevity, ‘the Rules of 2011’). Rule 6 of the Rules of 2011 provides that the rules relating to reservation of appointments, i.e., General Rules 14 to 17 of the Kerala State and Subordinate Service Rules, 1958 (for brevity, ‘the Rules of 1958’), shall apply to the appointments by direct recruitment to the categories of posts therein. Rule 10 of the Rules of 2011 speaks of the applicability of Parts I, II and III of the Rules of 1958 to the ‘employees’ of the Kerala Water Authority in matters of pay fixation, joining time, travelling allowances, leave, pension, other retirement benefits, etc. 13. Given the phraseology of the Rules of 2011, the Rules of 1958 will not have general and all-pervasive applicability at the stage of direct recruitment even before a candidate is selected and appointed to any of the posts in the categories covered by the Rules of 2011, i.e., before he/she becomes an ‘employee’ of the Kerala Water Authority.