Thereafter, he was promoted as Senior Divisional Accountant in Grade L(IA) on 01.04.2009. He was redesignated as Business Supporting Officer (Managerial Post) w.e.f. 01.08.2014. He was transferred from Finance Department to Sales Administration w.e.f. 01.01.2015 and again from Agency Sales Administration to Agency Sales w.e.f. 15.05.2017. On account of Departmental restructuring resulting in changes in roles and responsibilities of different officers, the Respondent No.1 became surplus and redundant in the company and there being no alternative work available for his adjustment, however, his services were dispensed with, as per the terms of appointment and a communication was sent to the Respondent No.1 on 25.07.2017 by the company. A sum of ₹ 1,07,787/- was transferred in his bank account in lieu of notice for termination. The Respondent No. 1 was earning a salary of ₹35,929/- per month, as was his last drawn salary for the month of June 2017. Further, it was argued that the Respondent No.1 was working on a managerial post, by no stretch of imagination he could be treated as workman, entitling him to invoke the jurisdiction of the Tribunal by raising an industrial dispute. The passed by the Tribunal was totally without jurisdiction. This basic issue should have been examined by the Tribunal even on the facts, which were brought on record. 5.2 The of the Tribunal was challenged before the High Court placing the aforesaid facts and also explaining the lapse on the part of the counsel, who was later removed from the panel of the advocates engaged to conduct cases on behalf of the company. However, the writ petition was dismissed. The submission is that an opportunity be granted, and the matter may be remitted back to the Tribunal for re-examination on merits after impleadment of proper parties. 6. On the other hand, learned counsel for the Respondent No.1 submitted that after due service of notice, no one had appeared before the Tribunal, hence, they were proceeded against ex-parte. The management was well within knowledge of the pendency of the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 985 Tarun Chugh, CEO and Managing Director, Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd. v. Saroj Kumar Panda matter before the Tribunal, hence,it cannot be allowed to take the plea that employer was not impleaded as such,as senior officers were already before the Tribunal, as such a hyper-technical submission deserves to be rejected. Once service to the Respondent No.1 before the Tribunal was complete, which is not disputed by the Appellant before this Court, there is no good reason for setting aside the Award of the Tribunal only because of the Appellant’s lapse in appearance. The appeal deserves to be dismissed. 7. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the paper book. 8. The facts as evident from the record are that the Respondent No.1 was appointed as Branch Accountant on 09.05.2006. Thereafter, he was promoted as Senior Divisional Accountant in Grade L(IA) on 01.04.2009. He was redesignated as Business Support Officer (Managerial Post) w.e.f. 01.08.2014. Further, he was transferred from Finance Department to Sales Administration w.e.f.