She invited our attention to what is stated in paragraph 16 of the counter filed by the second respondent; (d) Her submission is that the High Court has not done its duty of verifying whether there was any settlement; (e) Her submission is that it is not clear whether the Advocate whose appearance is shown in the impugned as representing the appellant had filed vakalatnama/ authority signed by the appellant; (f) Her contention is that since the affidavits are no affidavits in the eyes of law, the same cannot be the basis of recording a finding that there was a settlement. She submitted that these things are suspicious which call for inquiry and (g) Even assuming there was a settlement, the High Court ought not to have quashed the charge sheet considering the gruesome nature of the offence, which is against society. 5. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the second respondent pointed out that the affidavit in English is also executed at Rajkot. Inviting our attention to the said affidavit, he submitted that as the same was to be filed in the quashing petition to be filed in the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad, the title of the affidavit is “In the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad”, but the stamp of the notary shows that it was executed at Rajkot. He submitted that the affidavits had been counter-signed by the appellant’s brother (Mohan Chauhan). He pointed out that copies of the Aadhar cards were annexed to the 796 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports affidavits. He also invited our attention to a letter dated 11th November, 2023 in the Hindi language sent by the appellant to the Officer-in- charge of the concerned police station and, in particular, the last paragraph of the said letter, which records that she had affixed her thumb impressions on certain documents and the second respondent paid a sum of Rs.3,00,000/- to her husband. He submitted that, as stated in the counter affidavit, on a date fixed for hearing of the bail application filed before the High Court by the second respondent, the appellant was personally present in the High Court along with her husband. 6. Learned Senior Counsel representing the State has supported the submissions made by learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant. OUR VIEW 7. The offences alleged were very serious. The offences alleged were under Section 376(2)(N) of the IPC and the Atrocities Act. When petitions are filed before the High Court by invoking either Article 226 of the Constitution of India or Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, ‘the Cr.P.C.’) for quashing criminal proceedings of non-compoundable offences on the ground of settlement, the High Court must satisfy itself that there is a genuine settlement between the victim and the accused. Without the Court being satisfied with the existence of a genuine settlement, the petition for quashing cannot proceed further. If the Court is satisfied about the existence of a genuine settlement, the other question to be considered is whether in the facts of the case, the power of quashing deserves to be exercised.