Form XVIII which is required to be filed by a person who is eligible to acquire citizenship under Section 6A(3) in terms of Rule 4 requires the submission of details relating to the declaring such person as a foreigner.201 110. As explained above, the object of Section 6A is not limited to conferring citizenship but also extends to excluding a class of migrants from securing citizenship. Section 6A is one of the provisions in the larger citizenship project. The legal regimes on detecting foreigners and the citizenship law overlap at more than one point. Section 6A is one pea in the pod of a long-time redressal of issues. The effectiveness (or the impact) of Section 6A must be viewed from this holistic perspective. b. Section 6A(3) is not unconstitutional on the ground of temporal unreasonableness 111. The opinion of Justice Pardiwala refers to the doctrine of temporal unreasonableness to hold that even if Section 6A(3) was constitutional at the time of its enactment in 1985, it has acquired unconstitutionality by the efflux of time because the provision has not been effective enough to redress the problem. 112. One of the settled principles of judicial review is that an enactment which was reasonable and valid at the time of enactment, may become arbitrary over time. In Motor General Traders v. State of 200 G.S.R 488(E) 201 “[…] 11. Date from which ordinarily resident in Assam 12. Date and place of detection as a foreigner 13. Name and address of the Tribunal declaring him as a foreigner; case number and date of .” 1304 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Andhra Pradesh,202 the constitutional validity of Section 32(b) of the Andhra Pradesh Buildings (Lease, Rent and Eviction) Control Act 1960 which exempted all buildings built on or after 26 August 1957 from the purview of the Act was challenged. The petitioners challenged the provision on the ground that it had become unreasonable over the course of time. This argument was accepted by a two-Judge Bench of this Court. Justice ES Venkataramiah (as the learned Chief Justice then was), writing for the Bench observed that a non-discriminatory provision may in the course of time become discriminatory and violative of Article 14.203 The learned Judge noted that legislation may become arbitrary over the course of time if the classification does not share a nexus with the object anymore: "23. […] The long period that has elapsed after the passage of the Act itself serves as a crucial factor in deciding the question whether the impugned law has become discriminatory or not because the ground on which the classification of buildings into two categories is made is not a historical or geographical one but is an economic one. Exemption was granted by way of an incentive to encourage building activity and in the circumstances such exemption cannot be allowed to last for ever. 30. After giving our anxious consideration to the learned arguments addressed before us, we are of the view that clause (b) of Section 32 of the Act should be declared as violative of Article 14 of the Constitution because the continuance of that provision on the statute book will imply the creation of a privileged class of landlords without any rational basis as the incentive to build which provided a nexus for a reasonable classification of such class of landlords no longer exists by lapse of time in the case of the majority of such landlords.