A passenger is not treated as a backseat driver. (Prosser and Keeton on Torts, 5th Ed., 1984, pp. 521-22.) It is therefore clear that even if the driver of the passenger vehicle was negligent, the Railways, if its negligence was otherwise proved — could not plead contributory negligence on the part of the passengers of the vehicle. What is clear is that qua the passengers of the bus who were innocent, — the driver and owner of the bus and, if proved, the Railways — can all be joint tortfeasors.” (emphasis supplied) 19. It is clear from the ratio of the above that the contributory negligence on the part of a driver of the vehicle involved in the accident cannot be vicariously attached to the passengers so as to reduce the compensation awarded to the passengers or their legal heirs as the case may be. 20. Thus, we have no hesitation in holding that the Courts below committed gross error in law while reducing the compensation awarded to the appellant-claimants, being the dependents of the deceased-passengers and Smt. Sushma as the claims of these claimants cannot be truncated by attaching the vicarious liability with the driver. However, the claim of the dependents of the deceased driver Saiprasad Karande would stand on a different footing. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 435 Sushma v. Nitin Ganapati Rangole & Ors. 21. We shall now proceed to discuss whether the Courts below were justified in fastening partial liability on the driver of the car on the basis of contributory negligence in causing the accident. 22. The High Court, after adverting to the evidence available on record, made the following observations on the aspect of contributory negligence: - “12. The Investigation Officer has filed charge sheet against the driver of the car as also the driver of truck. Exhibit P4-spot mahazar establishes the fact that the offending truck was parked on the middle of the road. Undisputedly, accident took place at 9.10 pm and the truck is a Heavy Goods Vehicle. Exhibit P6-Photograph of the place of accident substantiate that the offending truck was fourteen wheeled heavy truck which was parked on the middle of the road. Though Shri G.N. Raichur, learned counsel submitted that the truck was parked on the extreme left of the road, however, perusal of the photographs would clearly substantiate the fact that the truck was parked on the middle of the road and on the other hand, the learned counsel for the claimants submitted that there was fog at the time of the accident. There are no eye-witnesses to the incident. Taking into consideration the facts in totality, it may be stated that if the driver of the car was cautious, he would have avoided the accident and accordingly, the rule of last opportunity would be squarely applicable to the facts of the case and therefore, the finding recorded by the Tribunal fastening 50% contributory negligence on the drivers of both the vehicles in question, is just and proper. In view of the same, the finding recorded by the Tribunal on issue No.1 is, hereby, affirmed and the appeals filed by the Insurance Company challenging the liability are required to be rejected, accordingly rejected.” (emphasis supplied) 23.