438 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Writ Petition No. 18129 of 2017 shall stand disposed of in light of the above and the directions issued herein. The select list drawn up pursuant to the advertisements in question insofar as it includes candidates who do not hold a CCC certificate conferred or recognised by NIELIT is quashed. The respondents shall in consequence redraw the select list restricting it to candidates who hold a recognised CCC certificate or a qualification recognised in ‘law as being equivalent thereto. The Commission shall as a result of the above, reframe the merit list and publish the results thereof afresh. All consequences to follow.” [emphasis supplied] 15. It could thus be seen that the learned Single Judge held that a recognized qualification is an essential facet of Article 16 of the Constitution of India. It was held that no rights can be recognized in a candidate aspiring to enter public service on the strength of an unrecognized qualification or one granted by an institution which is not conferred the authority to grant the same in accordance with law. It was held that the equivalence of qualifications could not be left to depend or rest upon a self-certification of candidates. It was further held that no certificate could possibly be accorded with equivalence unless an enquiry is addressed towards its course content and syllabus. 16. The learned Single Judge, in unequivocal terms, has held that inclusion of such of the candidates who did not possess CCC certificate had clearly tainted the recruitment exercise. It is also pertinent to note that the learned Single Judge had set aside the select list only insofar as those candidates who did not hold the CCC certificate conferred or recognized by DOEACC/NIELIT. The learned Single Judge directed that the respondent-Corporation shall in consequence redraw the select list restricting it to candidates who hold a recognized CCC certificate or a qualification recognized in law as being equivalent thereto. 17. Subsequent to the of the learned Single Judge, the Electricity Service Commission, on 13th October 2017, directed [2024] 11 S.C.R. 439 Mukul Kumar Tyagi v. The State of Uttar Pradesh and Others the Chief Engineer(s) and Superintending Engineer(s) to send the attested photocopies of CCC certificates of selected candidates and to check at their own level, whether the CCC certificate attached is issued by an institution recognized by DOEACC/NIELIT or its equivalent or not. Subsequently on 13th May 2018, the Electricity Service Commission published a list of candidates whose selection was not found in accordance with the eligibility as per the direction of the learned Single Judge of the Allahabad High Court. The said list also contained the names of the candidates who were possessing the CCC certificate on the date of their interview. Consequently, their services also came to be terminated. 18. Various writ appeals came to be filed before the Division Bench of the High Court. The learned Division Bench, vide and dated 9th May 2019, held that the finding of the learned Single Judge that possession of CCC certificate from DOEACC/NIELIT was erroneous.