Now, if Ms. Doshi’s argument that the rights of the original tenant vested in the defendants on his death on 25th December, 1999 was true, then there would be no occasion for the legislature to enact that the status of a tenant would cease on expiry of five years from the date of the Act or five years after the death whichever was later. If the legislature had intended to protect the heirs of a tenant under the 1956 Rent Act, the tenant having died before coming into force of the new Rent Act, the legislature would have only prescribed five years from the date of death which must occur on or after coming into force of the new Act. Or better still it could have said five years from the death and no more. The legislature need not have said any more…” But to our mind, the Single Judge bench while deciding this case did not consider the observations made in Goutam Dey (supra). Eventually, this issue came before a Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court. 14. In Sushil Kumar Jain (supra), the Division Bench, in its effort to give meaning to the words of sec. 2(g) of the 1997 Act, held that there appears to be ‘a different intention’ on the part of the legislature, which was to dilute the rights of the tenant given under the old Act. A challenge against this decision was also made before this Court, which came to be dismissed without issuance of notice at the admission stage itself with the following :2 “We see no reason to interfere with the impugned passed by the High Court at Calcutta. The Special Leave Petition is, accordingly, dismissed. 2 SLP(C) No.2750/2018, decided on 07.02.2018. 662 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports However, as prayed for, one month’s time is granted to vacate the suit premises subject to filing usual undertaking in the Registry of this Court within two weeks from today, stating that the petitioners shall not create any third party rights, will clear all the rent/dues/ occupational charges in the meanwhile and will peacefully vacate the suit premises concerned at the end of one month positively.” Here, we want to pause for a while to note that this dismissal of SLP is no bar on us to decide the issue at hand. The dismissal of an SLP at the admission stage before issuance of notice, with a non-speaking , does not mean that this Court has affirmed the law laid down by impugned . [See: P.Singaravelan v. District Collector, Tiruppur (2020) 1 SCC (L&S) 453; Palam Gas Service v. CIT (2017) 7 SCC 613; Kunhayammed v. State of Kerala (2000) 6 SCC 359] 15. Subsequently, the view taken in Sushil Kumar Jain (supra) by the Calcutta High Court, was reiterated by another Division Bench in Satyanarayan More v. Milagrina Rose Correia, 2020 SCC OnLine Cal 957. Both these s have put much emphasis on the object behind the promulgation of the 1997 Act.