Dealing with the argument of the claimants/land owners that the Commissioner could not sit in appeal against the proposed award, the High Court rightly rejected the plea stating that in the reference proceedings all the issues have been raised and as such no prejudice has been caused to the claimant land owners. Dealing with the situs of the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2291 Kazi Akiloddin v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. land, the High Court recognized the fact that the land was in close proximity to the various institutions of prominence in Akola City. It recorded the following finding: “20. ….It is to be noted that in the award passed by the SLAO, a reference has been made to the prominent location of the acquired land. The distance of the acquired land from various institutions of prominence and the close proximity of the land to Akola city has been mentioned. It has been proved that on the Northern side of the acquired land, there are police quarters known as Rahat Nagar, Sneh Nagar and to the North-west, there is Ambedkar Nagar, Vijay Oil Industries and Krushi Utpanna Bazar Samiti market. So also, near the acquired land, there are Ramkrushna Vivekanand Ashram, Maa Sharda Balak Mandir, Ramkrushna Vivekanand Sahitya Kharedi Vikri Kendra and Saint Anne’s School of Hyderabad etc. It has been proved that temple of Lord Vyankatesh Balaji, Maratha Seva Sangh, Swami Vivekanand High School, Jijau Vasatigruha. Vyankatesh Restaurant, Wholesale Grain Merchant’s Housing and Commercial Complex Society and Alankar Petrol Pump, are located in the close proximity of the acquired land. 21. PW2 Brijmohan Modi, a registered valuer, examined by the claimants has proved the Valuation Reports at Exhs.63 and 64. The map drawn by the valuer is at Exh.83. On the basis of the evidence of PW1 and PW2, prominent location of the acquired land in close proximity of Akola city has been proved. It has been proved that in the vicinity of the acquired land, there has been development. There are residential and commercial complexes. Evidence adduced in rebuttal by the respondents is not sufficient to disprove the above aspects. The only statement reiterated time and again by the respondents is that the acquired land being situated on the bank of Morna river, it had no future prospects of development. In our opinion, this contention of the respondents cannot be accepted in view of the positive evidence adduced by the claimants. Learned Presiding Officer of the Reference Court has accepted this evidence. We do not see any reason to discard or disbelieve this evidence.” 2292 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 106. Analysing Exh. 75 to Exh. 78 relied upon by the Appellants, the High Court observed as follows: 23. In to prove that the market price of the land on the date of Section 4 notification was not less than Rs.200/- per sq.ft., the claimants have placed on record four sale instances at Exhibits-75 to 78. Exh.75 is the sale deed dated 12.02.1999 of plot no.78 of Akoli (Bk.)