39. We note and acknowledge the able assistance rendered by the learned amicus curiae which has immensely benefitted this Court in settling the questions of law at hand. 40. The Impugned dated 13.12.2023 passed by the High Court of Telangana is affirmed. Accordingly, the Appeal is dismissed in the above terms. 41. Pending application(s), if any, also stand disposed of. 1274 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Nagarathna J. I have perused the proposed by my learned brother Augustine George Masih, J. and I agree with the same. Having concurred with his opinion, I would like to record additional reasons regarding the interpretation of Section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, “CrPC”) and Section 3 of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Divorce) Act, 1986 (for short, “1986 Act”). Section 125 of the CrPC reads as under: “Section 125. for maintenance of wives, children and parents. – (1) If any person having sufficient means neglects or refuses to maintain; a) his wife, unable to maintain herself, or b) his legitimate or illegitimate minor child, whether married or not, unable to maintain itself, or c) his legitimate or illegitimate child (not being a married daughter) who has attained majority, where such child is, by reason of any physical or mental abnormality or injury unable to maintain itself, or d) his father or mother, unable to maintain himself or herself, a Magistrate of the first class may, upon proof of such neglect or refusal, such person to make a monthly allowance for the maintenance of his wife or such child, father or mother, at such monthly rate as such magistrate thinks fit, and to pay the same to such person as the Magistrate may from time to time direct; Provided that the Magistrate may the father of a minor female child referred to in clause (b) to make such allowance, until she attains her majority, if the Magistrate is satisfied that the husband of such minor female child, if married, is not possessed of sufficient means; Provided further that the Magistrate may, during the pendency of the proceeding regarding monthly allowance for the maintenance under this Sub-Section, such person to make a monthly allowance for the interim maintenance of his wife or such child, father or mother, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1275 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. and the expenses of such proceeding which the Magistrate considers reasonable, and to pay the same to such person as the Magistrate may from time to time direct; Provided also that an application for the monthly allowance for the interim maintenance and expenses of proceeding under the second proviso shall, as far as possible, be disposed of within sixty days from the date of the service of notice of the application to such person. Explanation. — For the purposes of this Chapter,- a) “minor” means a person who, under the provisions of the Indian Majority Act, 1875 (9 of 1875) is deemed not to have attained his majority; b) “wife” includes a woman who has been divorced by, or has obtained a divorce from, her husband and has not remarried.