That apart, through registered sale deeds, all the appellants herein had purchased the shops constructed on the subject property for valuable consideration and have been occupying the premises since then and earning their livelihood. However, the Respondent No.1 without issuing notice under section 82 of the U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 19653 to the appellants, erroneously took steps to demolish the entire construction in the subject property by treating the same as illegal and unauthorized one and also obtained the demolition from the High Court, which is arbitrary, illegal and in violation of the principles of natural justice. In support of the same, the learned counsel placed reliance on the decision of this 3 For short, “the Act” [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1327 Rajendra Kumar Barjatya and Another v. U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad & Ors. Court in Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana v. Inderjeet Singh,4 wherein, demolition of commercial property was carried out by Municipal Corporation, without serving proper notice on the respondent i.e., notice was served on a dead person and in such circumstances, it was observed by this Court that ‘had a proper show cause notice been served upon the first respondent, he could have shown that the alleged violation of the provisions of the Act is of negligible character, which did not warrant an of demolition.’ 6.1. Elaborating further, the learned counsel for the appellants submitted that without issuing notice to the appellants and occupants of the shops, the High Court has ed demolition of the entire construction in the subject property. According to the learned counsel, the High Court, before ing demolition, should have directed the authorities to explore the possibility of regularizing the alleged illegal construction in the subject property. It is also submitted by the learned counsel that there were initially about 15 to 20 shops and now, there are more than 600 commercial establishments run in the area earmarked as ‘Central Market’, but the Respondent No.1 failed in its statutory duty to keep pace with the booming development and therefore, this situation has arisen. It is further alleged that the Respondent No.1 adopted a pick and choose policy, whereby the construction made on the subject property was cherry picked for demolition, whereas in the entire vicinity of the Central market, buildings like this have blossomed and mushroomed. The learned counsel ultimately, submitted that the right of the Respondent No.1 to seek demolition is barred by delay and laches and they were negligent and acted hand in glove with the people responsible for such sorry state of affairs and that, in terms of Sections 92 to 94 r/w Sections 3, 7 and 8 of the Act, the State Government has full rights and control over the Respondent No.1, but they failed to exercise the same in proper perspective. Resultantly, due to no fault on the part of the appellants, their valuable rights are jeopardized and prejudiced at the hands of the Respondent No.1, who are acting in collusion and connivance with dishonest builders and land grabbers.