60. Section 11 stipulates that any person having charge of the child– who promotes or permits a child marriage or fails to prevent it – is liable to rigorous imprisonment which may extend to two years and a fine which may extend to one lakh rupees. Similar to the provision under Section 10 of the PCMA, Section 11 also prescribes a mandate to the sentencing court to impose a sentence of imprisonment as well as a fine. The provision uses the word ‘and’ between the two punishments and the judge does not have the liberty to pick a certain punishment to the exclusion of the other. The person liable under Section 11 may be the parents of the child or a guardian or any other person or organisation. Further, the means by which a person may have the charge of the child is immaterial as the provision stipulates that the charge may be ‘lawful or unlawful’. The section seeks to penalise any person or organisation involved in a child marriage. Its expansive scope allows for the prosecution of any person who may have unlawfully taken the custody of a child and thereafter promoted, permitted or failed to prevent the child marriage. Section 11 also deals with organisations, such as orphanages or schools or hostels, which may have the charge of a child and under whose watch the child is married off. 61. The intention of the provision is to place an obligation on any person who has the charge of a child to ensure that the offence of child marriage is not committed. The provision not only penalises the active participation of the person having charge of a child but also penalises the omission on the part of such a person to prevent child marriage. The provision recognises that children lack the ability to form intelligent consent and may not necessarily know the full ambit of the activity which they are about to commit. Further, children may lack the ability and grit to defend themselves and refuse to participate in the marriage against the pleasure of their custodians or parents. 62. Clause (2) of Section 11 raises a presumption. It stipulates that any person, who is in charge of a child who was married off, is presumed to have negligently failed to prevent the child marriage. The presumption is a rebuttable one and may be defended if the person proves that he could not have prevented the marriage or failed at preventing it, having tried to do so to the best of their ability. This principle is only applicable to an offence under Section 11. 1558 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 63. Having stipulated penal provisions for the commission of child marriage in Sections 9, 10 and 11, the PCMA further stipulates that any child marriage which occurs as a result of another criminal act is void ab initio.91 Section 12 stipulates three instances in which the marriage of a child is null and void. These instances are where a minor child – (i) is taken or enticed out of the keeping of the lawful guardian;92 or (ii) compelled by force or by any deceitful means induced to go from any place;93 or (iii) is sold for the purpose of marriage; and made to go through a form of marriage or if the minor is married after which the minor is sold or trafficked or used for immoral purposes.94 64.