22.7. Learned counsel has referred to the decision of this Court in Calcutta Discount Company Limited Vs. Income Tax Officer, (1961) 41 ITR 1991 and submits that the duty of disclosing all the primary facts relevant to assessment before the assessing authority lies on the assessee. Only when all the primary facts are disclosed, the burden would shift to the assessing authority. 22.8. Asserting that the of the High Court is fully justified, learned counsel seeks dismissal of the civil appeals. 23. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties have received the due consideration of the Court. 24. At the outset, we may advert to certain provisions of the Act as existed at the relevant point of time having a bearing on the present lis. Chapter XIV of the Act comprising Sections 139 to 158 deals with procedure for assessment. Section 139 mandates filing of income tax return. At the relevant point of time, this provision provided that every person, if his total income or the total income of any other person in respect of whom he was assessable under the Act during the previous year had exceeded the maximum amount which is not [2024] 1 S.C.R. 661 M/S Mangalam Publications, Kottayam v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kottayam chargeable to income tax, he shall on or before the due date furnish a return of his income or the income of such other person during the previous year in the prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner, setting forth such other particulars as may be prescribed. 24.1. Since reference was made to sub-section (9)(f) of Section 139, both in the pleadings and in the oral hearing, we may mention that under sub-section (9) of Section 139, where the assessing officer considers that the return of income furnished by the assessee is defective, he may intimate the defect to the assessee and give him an opportunity to rectify the defect within a period of fifteen days from the date of such intimation or within such further period, the assessing officer may in his discretion allow. If the defect is not rectified within the specified period or within the further period as may be allowed, the return shall be treated as an invalid return. In such an eventuality, it would be construed that the assessee had failed to furnish the return. There is an Explanation below sub-section (9) which clarifies that a return of income shall be regarded as defective unless all the conditions mentioned thereunder are fulfilled. Clause (f) says that where regular books of account are not maintained by the assessee but the return is accompanied by a statement indicating the amounts of turnover or gross receipts, gross profit, expenses and net profit of the business or profession and the basis on which such amounts have been computed and also disclosing the amounts of total sundry debtors, sundry creditors, stock in trade and cash balance as at the end of the previous year, such a return shall not be treated as defective.