Powers are either public or private. The former are those which are vested [2024] 6 S.C.R. 249 K.P. Khemka & Anr. v. Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited & Ors. in a person as an agent or instrument of the functions of the state; they comprise the various forms of legislative, judicial, and executive authority…The correlative of power is a liability. This connotes the presence of a power vested in someone else, as against the person with the liability. It is the position of one whose legal rights (in the wide sense) may be altered by the exercise of a power…the most important form of liability is that which corresponds to the various powers of action and prosecution. Such liability is independent of the question whether the particular action or prosecution will be successful, and is therefore independent of (say) the duty to pay damages for a civil wrong” (emphasis supplied) As would be clear from the passage above, a debt is not the same thing as the right of action for its recovery. While the debt is the right in the creditor with the corelative duty on the debtor the right of action for recovery is in the nature of a legal power. While the process of filing a civil suit may be barred because of the statute of limitation, the power to recover vested through Section 32-G of the State Financial Corporations Act read with Section 2(c) and Section 3 of the Recovery of Dues Act is a distinct power which continues notwithstanding that another mode of recovery through a civil suit is barred. Understood in that sense, it does appear that there is an additional right to enforce the claims of the financial corporations notwithstanding the bar of limitation. The same is the case with the provisions of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act which fell for consideration of this Court in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra). 19. No doubt, even where the statute of limitation does not apply, the power has to be exercised within a reasonable time. In that scenario the further question would be: Whether the time available would analogously be the time available for execution of decrees? Since no specific arguments have been advanced and since the Division Bench in the Impugned was not engaged with that issue, we refrain from dealing with the same. 20. In the context of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act, the decision in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra) needs to be discussed. The relevant portions of the is extracted hereinbelow: 250 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “3. ...Under Section 71, however, there is a provision for extending the Act to recovery of certain other dues if the Government is satisfied that it is necessary to do so in public interest. Under Section 71 it is provided as follows: “71. Power of Government to declare the Act applicable to any institution.—The Government may, by notification in the Gazette, declare, if they are satisfied that it is necessary to do so in public interest, that the provisions of this Act shall be applicable to the recovery of amounts due from any person or class of persons to any specified institution or any class or classes of institutions, and thereupon all the provisions of this Act shall be applicable to such recovery.” 4.