In case where the deceased employee had been awarded minor penalty or disciplinary proceedings against the employee was pending or contemplated at the time of death of the employee, which would prima-facie have resulted in award of minor penalty, appointment on compassionate grounds of the dependents will be considered with the approval of the bank’s board. In case where the deceased employee had been awarded major penalty or disciplinary proceedings against the employee was pending or contemplated at time of death of the employee, which would prima-facie have resulted in award of major penalty, appointment on compassionate grounds of the dependents will be considered with the approval of the Government of India, Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs (Banking Division). 7. The afore-quoted clause specifies two exceptions, first, in the cases where minor penalty had been awarded or disciplinary proceedings against the deceased employee was pending or contemplated at the time of death of employee which would prima facie result in award of minor penalty, there would not be any impediment to consider the case of dependents for compassionate appointment with the approval of Bank’s board. While in the second exception it is clarified that where the deceased employee had been awarded major penalty or the disciplinary proceedings against the employee was pending or contemplated at the time of death of employee which would prima facie result in award of major penalty, the consideration of appointment on compassionate ground of the dependents of such employee may be made with the approval of the Government of India, Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs (Banking Division). 8. The letter of the Bank of India in Board Meeting dated 20.06.2002 has been relied upon which was issued in reference to the revised [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1309 Bank of India & Ors. v. Pankaj Srivastava Government guidelines vide letter F. No. 18/80/97-IR dated 19.02.2002. The relevant portion of the letter dated 20.06.2002 is reproduced as thus: - “Scheme for appointment of dependents of deceased employees on compassionate ground cases involving major penalty proceeding referred to Government of India for clearance as per earlier Government guidelines vide its letter F. No. 18/80/97-IR dated 03.11.1998 Revised Government guidelines vide letter F. No. 18/80/97-IR dated 19.2.2002 delegating authority to Bank in the above cases. Apropos the directive given at the Board Meeting held on 20.04.2002 that the Board would decide on case to case basis upon resubmission of the above referred 12 individual cases to it, memorandum No. P/A/SSG/2002-03/212 dated 27.05.2002, together with annexures, embodying the factual details of the said 12 cases, submitted by Personal Department, was considered. The Board DIRECTED that employment on compassionate ground need not be considered in cases where major penalty was awarded considered/contemplated to employees on account of fraud/forgery/misappropriation, on account of any vigilance angle/negligence and authorized the Executive Director to consider only those cases not involving the above, for employment of dependent of deceased employees on compassionate ground. Stamp Bank of India Board of Meeting 20.06.2002” 9. On perusal of Clause 10(iv) of the Scheme and the amended directions in bank’s Board Meeting dated 20.06.2002, it is luculent that even in cases where the disciplinary proceedings against the employee were pending or were under contemplation prior to his death which would prima facie result in award of major penalty, the case of the dependents of the deceased employee on compassionate ground has not been completely refused from consideration and it was subject to approval of the Government.