If the minority had the right to administer the Aligarh University, then it can have any administration it liked; it can change the administration and it can close down the University; it can change the constitution of the court or the Executive Council. Can it do so? Even the constitution of the court, of the executive council and of the academic council is regulated and not by the minority committee but by the Parliament. There is another aspect of the matter which Mr. Anthony has completely forgotten. He has attached great importance to the fact that under the Act of 1920, the British Government, as a concession, said that the court shall consist wholly of Muslims. Now everybody know that the University is administered by the executive council and not by the court. The court of course is the supreme authority and it is like a show-piece. It meets once a year; lots of people come there and make speeches and pass resolutions. But the day-to day administration, selection, appointments, and so on are carried on by the executive council and it is significant that even in the British days it was not provided that the executive council shall consist only of Muslims. That clearly shows that the British Government did not concede the argument. Although there is no Constitution then the arguments is now advanced by Mr. Anthony that the minority has a right to administer a particular institution. I say that this institution was not established by the minority; nor is it being administered by the minority [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1907 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. community. That is the legal position as far as Article 30 is concerned.”51 (emphasis supplied) 118. Prof. Nurul Hasan, a reputed historian, followed in the footsteps of Mr. M.C. Chagla as the Minister of Education. This is what Prof. Hasan had to say in Parliament: “**Regards the third objection that as a minority institution it is only Muslims who should be on the Court and on the Executive Council and they should have an exclusive hand in the management of the University, hon Members are aware of the writ which had been filed in the Supreme Court. It has since been withdrawn. Mr. Chagla has expressed his opinion on the legal aspect of the matter. He thinks that this University was not established by the minorities, but by Parliament and, therefore, this objection is not right. As far as interpretation of the Constitution is concerned, I see no reason to differ from the interpretation given by him. I do feel, however, that the spirit underlying the Constitution should not be lost sight of. As far as the objection that there should be only Muslims, who should manage the affairs of the University, is concerned, I know that one of our learned colleagues, Shri P. N. Sapru, has been on the Executive Council of the University for quite a number of years.” 119. The inclusion of AMU in Entry 63 of List I conferred upon it a distinct status of being an “institution of national importance”.