The adjudicating authority (NCLT) must reject the application of the operational creditor in the circumstances specified in clauses (a) to (e) of Section 9(5)(ii) IBC. 75. Significantly, the legislature has in its wisdom used the word “may” in Section 7(5)(a) IBC in 1304 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports respect of an application for CIRP initiated by a financial creditor against a corporate debtor but has used the expression “shall” in the otherwise almost identical provision of Section 9(5) IBC relating to the initiation of CIRP by an operational creditor. 76. The fact that the legislature used “may” in Section 7(5)(a) IBC but a different word, that is, “shall” in the otherwise almost identical provision of Section 9(5)(a) shows that “may” and “shall” in the two provisions are intended to convey a different meaning. It is apparent that the legislature intended Section 9(5)(a) IBC to be mandatory and Section 7(5)(a) IBC to be discretionary. An application of an operational creditor for initiation of CIRP under Section 9(2) IBC is mandatorily required to be admitted if the application is complete in all respects and in compliance of the requisites of the IBC and the rules and regulations thereunder, there is no payment of the unpaid operational debt, if notices for payment or the invoice have been delivered to the corporate debtor by the operational creditor and no notice of dispute has been received by the operational creditor. The IBC does not countenance dishonesty or deliberate failure to repay the dues of an operational creditor.” (emphasis added) 35.6 In C.N. Paramasivan (supra), one of the questions that fell for consideration before this court was whether the phrase “as far as possible” used in Recovery of Debts due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 199351 that contemplates certain provisions of the Income Tax Act to apply with the modification to the amount due under the Debt Recovery Act instead of the Income Tax Act, referring the Rule 57 of the Income Tax Rules which mandates deposit of 25 per cent of the purchase amount of an immovable property by a purchaser and contemplates 51 In short Debt Recovery Act, 1993 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1305 V.S. Palanivel v. P. Sriram, CS, Liquidator, Etc. the consequence of resale in such a default of deposit, this Court held thus: “27. There is nothing in the provisions of Section 29 of the RDDB Act or the scheme of the Rules under the Income Tax Act to suggest that a discretion wider than what is explained above was meant to be conferred upon the Recovery Officer under Section 29 of the RDDB Act or Rule 57 of the Income Tax Rules which reads as under: “57.Deposit by purchaser and resale in default.—(1) On every sale of immovable property, the person declared to be the purchaser shall pay, immediately after such declaration, a deposit of twenty-five per cent on the amount of his purchase money, to the officer conducting the sale; and, in default of such deposit, the property shall forthwith be resold.