Since no one can be assured of the same in a modern liberal society which is marked by vertical mobility in the 3 Humiliation: Claims and Context (supra), pp. 23-40 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1139 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr. social structure, there is no incentive for anyone to have a regimented system of humiliation. 68. Resistance is internal to humiliation, and some scholars have argued that humiliation is only defined on the basis of the claims made against it. Thus, those who are humiliated also inherently possess the capacity to protest against it. However, those who protest also run the risk of inciting opposition from those who want to push the traditionally humiliated groups to the margins. This apprehension of opposition and push back from the dominant against the marginalised is also evident from the Statements of Objects of the Act, 1989, as discussed by this Court in Ram Krishna Balothia (supra). 69. What appears from the aforesaid discussion is that the expression “intent to humiliate” as it appears in Section 3(1)(r) of the Act, 1989 must necessarily be construed in the larger context in which the concept of humiliation of the marginalised groups has been understood by various scholars. It is not ordinary insult or intimidation which would amount to ‘humiliation’ that is sought to be made punishable under the Act, 1989. The Parliament, by way of different legislations, has over the years sought to target humiliation based on different grounds and identities which exist in the society. The Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 seeks to punish humiliation based on gender inequalities by specifically including the term ‘humiliation’ in the definition of “domestic violence”. Similarly, The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 includes treatment causing humiliation to a female employee and which may likely affect her health and safety within the definition of sexual harassment. 70. In our considered view, it is in a similar vein that the term ‘humiliation’ as it appears in Section 3(1)(r) of the Act, 1989 must be construed, that is, in a way that it deprecates the infliction of humiliation against members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes wherein such humiliation is intricately associated with the caste identity of such members. 71. We would also like to refer to Section 7(1)(d) of The Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1955 (“Civil Rights Act”) at this juncture to give a more meaningful construction to Section 3(1)(r) of the Act, 1989. The provision reads as follows: 1140 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “7. Punishment for other offences arising out of “untouchability”.—(1) Whoever— xxx xxx xxx (d) insults or attempts to insult, on the ground of “untouchability”, a member of a Scheduled Caste; shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term of not less than one month and not more than six months, and also with fine which shall be not less than one hundred rupees and not more than five hundred rupees.” 72.