NCDRC came to the conclusion that the patient had on his own changed the dressing of operated eye which caused the displacement of lens and the infection appears to be traumatic in nature. Therefore, it was held that the development of endophthalmitis was due to traumatic injury and cannot be attributed to any fault or deficiency on the part of the respondent during the cataract surgery. 16. Accordingly, the NCDRC allowed the revision filed by the respondent and, accordingly, the appellant’s complaint was dismissed, against which the instant appeal has been preferred. Further, the revision filed by the appellant for enhancement was dismissed. 17. We have heard the learned Counsel for the appellant and perused the material on record. However, despite service of notice, nobody has put in appearance on behalf of the respondent-doctor and we are accordingly proceeding with the matter ex-parte. 18. It has been submitted by the appellant that he had made five visits to the treating doctor before he took a second opinion and, on each visit, he was reassured that his operation was successful. However, a perusal of all the opinions by other eye specialists corroborate the fact that the appellant suffered from endophthalmitis which is an infection caused due to contaminated instruments. Further, it was submitted that when negligence was apparent on the face of it, there was no need of any expert evidence or testimony and the principle of res ipsa loquitor would become applicable. 19. The appellant has also submitted that even though NCDRC erroneously held that medical negligence is not visible from the record as the appellant had changed his own bandage while ignoring the fact that the records submitted by the respondent were ante dated, an observation clearly inferred by the State Commission. It was lastly submitted that the State Commission was absolutely correct in its finding that the appellant developed infection and abscess after the operation of cataract which the respondent-doctor failed to diagnose and also further failed to take corrective steps, thereby amounting to medical negligence. 1882 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 20. Even though the respondent has not entered appearance before us, the main defence adopted by him across the three forums basically hinge on the contention that the appellant-patient has himself failed to follow post-operation care instructions. Instead, it was submitted in the respondent’s reply before the District Forum that, on 23.01.1999, the appellant visited him with a new dressing and pad which was not put by him and the appellant failed to provide any explanation as to where it came from, post which the respondent prescribed him treatment for trauma. Therefore, the moment since when the appellant adopted any outside treatment and put on the new dressing and pad which caused trauma, the respondent is discharged of his liability and cannot be held guilty. 21. However, it must be noted that at this stage before the District Forum, the respondent had not produced any case papers or prescription details to corroborate his written version, as has been rightly observed by the State Commission.