6. The Trial Court framed six issues as extracted below: "1. Whether the land mentioned in para 1 of the suit is the land and house in the ownership and possession of the plaintiff? Plaintiff 2. Whether the defendants forcibly wanted to demolish the plaintiff’s house? Plaintiff 3. Whether the plaintiff has tried to unauthorisedly acquire the land which is in the ownership of Nagar Vikas Pranyas? Defendant 4. Whether in absence of pleading the Gram Panchayat Titardi as necessary party, the suit of the plaintiff is not maintainable? Defendant 5. Whether the Gram Panchayat Titardi was not authorized to issue the patta in favour of the plaintiff, the patta issued in favour of plaintiff is forged? Defendant 6 Rajasthan Urban Improvement Act, 1959 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 655 The Tehsildar, Urban Improvement Trust And Anr. v. Ganga Bai Menariya (Dead) Through Lrs. And Others 6. Whether without declaration suit for injunction filed by the plaintiff is not maintainable? Defendant” 7. Issues No. 1 to 3 and 5, being inter-related, were decided together. The respondents-plaintiffs had not been able to make out the pleaded case on the basis of evidence led by them and the same were decided against them. Issue No. 4 was decided against the plaintiffs and in favour of the defendants and so was the finding recorded on issue No. 6. Finally, the Trial Court found that the respondents-plaintiffs were found to be in illegal possession of the land and were not entitled to the injunction prayed for. It was specifically noticed that the suit had not been filed for declaration as it was merely for injunction and the encroachers on the land were not found entitled to the relief of injunction. 8. In appeal before the First Appellate Court by the respondents, the findings recorded by the Trial Court were reversed and the suit was decreed. Even the issue regarding non-impleadment of Gram Panchayat, Titardi as necessary party in the suit was reversed. So was the position with regard to maintainability of the suit simpliciter for injunction without praying for relief of declaration. This is despite the fact that the respondents-plaintiffs had claimed their title or legality of possession on the land from the Gram Panchayat, which was not impleaded. 9. The High Court upheld the and decree of the First Appellate Court in an appeal filed by the present appellants. The High Court noticed that allotment of land in favour of the respondents-plaintiffs in the year 1959 was proved with the evidence of two witnesses, who were members of the Gram Panchayat at the relevant time. The High Court also recorded that patta (lease) is in existence, which was granted by a statutory body, Gram Panchayat, Titardi. The respondents-plaintiffs were entitled to decree of permanent injunction. The suit simpliciter for injunction was held to be maintainable without seeking declaration. The High Court found that no substantial question of law was involved in the second appeal. C.A. Nos.8977/2012, 468/2013, 524/2013, 467/2013 and Civil Appeal @ S.L.P. (C)No.25200/2013 10.