9 Constitution of Mexico of 1917, First Title, Chapter II & IV. 10 Id, Article 34. 11 Id, Article 35. 12 AmeriCAn sAmoA, U.S. Department of the Interior, https://www.doi.gov/oia/islands/american-samoa. 13 Igartua De La Rosa v. United States [2000], 80 F.3d 29, (1st Cir. 2000). [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1005 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 and subsequent relations among the nations and people in our subcontinent. In addition to such identification by fellow members of society, citizenship is also a key determinant in enabling an individual to achieve their aims and objectives; since citizenship grants access to certain exclusive rights in society. Additionally, citizenship provides a sense of belongingness and esteem, apart from furthering the self- actualization needs of individuals. Collectively, citizenship provides an ‘identity’ to individuals, which has a significant impact on the quality of their lives and their individual psyche. 10. Second, beyond the conceptual understanding that citizenship grants an assemblage of certain rights in a community, the rights that may be conferred depend on the municipal policies of that country. While some countries like India reserve the right to vote exclusively for citizens, countries like the United Kingdom also extend it to Commonwealth citizens. Further, countries such as the USA do not bestow the right to vote even to some citizens. 11. Third, most nations have multiple classes of citizenship or nationality instead of a rigid dichotomy of citizens and non-citizens. In addition to this division, countries also have categories such as overseas citizens, nationals, subjects, etc. However, while the basket of rights differs inter-se such categories, citizenship is generally the highest basket a person can be classified under. Hence, though citizenship is one sub-set among many possible ways of being a member of a polity, it is the most significant one. Nonetheless, reality is often more nuanced, with numerous exceptions, caveats, entrenched inequalities and discriminatory legal regimes. 12. The conditions to acquire citizenship also vary across jurisdictions. Given that the Petitioners are challenging a specific mode of conferment of citizenship, it would be helpful to understand the manner in which citizenship is conferred both across the world and under our constitutional scheme. This will help us trace whether Section 6A is merely an aberration that does not fit into our domestic conceptualization of conferring citizenship or if it is another piece of a much more complicated puzzle. Modes of acquiring citizenship 13. Broadly, there are three approaches for granting citizenship: (i) jus soli, i.e., on the basis of birth within that particular country; 1006 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) jus sanguinis, i.e., citizenship by blood/descent; and (iii) through special recognition by law, such as citizenship by registration, naturalization, incorporation of a foreign territory, etc. Globally, countries have adopted different models for constructing their citizenship regimes. While most countries in North America follow a jus soli regime, a majority of European nations follow a jus sanguinis regime. In contrast, Australia and the African nations follow a mixed regime.14 14. There are varied academic perspectives deliberating as to the reasons why a country chooses one mode of conferring citizenship over another.