This according to the SRA is an affirmation of the fact that the PBG could have been adjusted against the first tranche payment. However, it must be pointed out that Clause 6.4.12 was amended vide an Addendum to the Resolution Plan dated 02.10.2020. The erstwhile Clause 6.4.12 of the Resolution Plan reads thus: “6.4.12. Request for the consideration of the CoC - The Resolution Applicant shall provide a performance security bank guarantee for a total sum of Rs. 47.5 Crores, which will bring financial flexibility for the Resolution Applicant and help the Resolution Applicant advance the committed payments and achieve its goal of re-commencing the operations of Jet Airways at the earliest.” However, the aforesaid Clause 6.4.12 of the Resolution Plan was deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2123 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. “6.4.12. Request for the consideration of the CoC - As required under the RFRP, the Resolution Applicant shall provide the performance security bank guarantee (“PBG”) for a total sum of Rs. 150 Crores. The PBG will be provided in two parts, with the first PBG of Rs. 47.5 Crores provided within 7 (seven) days from the date of receipt of LOI; and PBG for the remaining sum of Rs. 102.5 Crores provided on the Effective Date.” A reading of the amended Clause 6.4.12 of the Resolution Plan indicates that the parties had mutually agreed to do away with the phrase “which will bring financial flexibility for the Resolution Applicant and help the Resolution Applicant advance the committed payments and achieve its goal of re-commencing the operations of Jet Airways at the earliest”. What can be plainly deduced from such a deletion is that the PBG cannot be used by the SRA to advance any payments that are required to be paid under the scheme of the Resolution Plan. This, additionally, cements the idea that the PBG could not be adjusted towards any consideration or payment which had to be made by the SRA. Such an amendment in Clause 6.4.12 only brought the Resolution Plan further in line with the terms of the RFRP. 104. An adjustment of the PBG against the first tranche payment would also be in violation of Regulation 36B(4A) of the 2016 Regulations which was inserted by Notification No. IBBI/2019-20/GN/REG040 dated 24.01.2019. The same is reproduced hereinbelow: “(4A) The request for resolution plans shall require the resolution applicant, in case its resolution plan is approved under sub-section (4) of section 30, to provide a performance security within the time specified therein and such performance security shall stand forfeited if the resolution applicant of such plan, after its approval by the Adjudicating Authority, fails to implement or contributes to the failure of implementation of that plan in accordance with the terms of the plan and its implementation schedule. Explanation I. – For the purposes of this sub-regulation, “performance security” shall mean security of such nature, value, duration and source, as may be specified in the request for resolution plans with the approval of the 2124 [2024] 11 S.C.R.