Conversely, if the attachment is merely to facilitate the use of the item itself, it is to be treated as movable, even if the attachment is to an immovable property. 3. Intendment of the parties: The intention behind the attachment, whether express or implied, can be determinative of the nature of the property. If the parties intend that the property in issue is for permanent addition to the immovable property, it will be treated as immovable. If the attachment is not meant to be permanent, it indicates that it is movable. 4. Functionality Test: If the article is fixed to the ground to enhance the operational efficacy of the article and for making it stable and wobble free, it is an indication that such fixation is for the benefit of the article, such the property is movable. 5. Permanency Test: If the property can be dismantled and relocated without any damage, the attachment cannot be said to be permanent but temporary and it can be considered to be movable. 6. Marketability Test: If the property, even if attached to the earth or to an immovable property, can be removed and sold in the market, it can be said to be movable. 11.9 The plea of the Revenue is that the items in issue are attached to the earth, fixed permanently and not marketable, hence immovable, as also accepted by the Bombay High Court. 11.9.1 What is “attached to the earth” to make it an immovable property would have to possess any of the three attributes as specified under Section 3 of the Transfer of Property of Act, namely, [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1577 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune (a) rooted in the earth, as in the case of trees and shrubs; (b) imbedded in the earth, as in the case of walls or buildings; or (c) attached to what is so imbedded for the permanent beneficial enjoyment of that to which it is attached: 11.9.2 The present items in issue are not the ones which are rooted in the earth as in the case of trees and shrubs [sub- clause (a)]. Therefore, the next consideration will be whether these are embedded in the earth, as in the case of walls or buildings [sub-clause (b)], or whether these are attached to what is so embedded for the permanent beneficial enjoyment of that to which these are attached to the earth [sub-clause (c)]. The attachment of tower to the earth/building, however, does not partake of the character of walls or buildings imbedded in the earth. 11.9.3 It is on the tower that the antennas are mounted and affixed at proper height, to make these stable. Since the antennas are used for receiving and sending radio signals, these need to be attached at a certain height, and these are required to be stable and wobble-free. It is not in dispute that the mobile tower is attached and fastened to the earth or building to provide stability to the same and to make antennas unshakable due to wind, rain or any other external force(s).