According to the appellant Chandra Mohan Badaya, the amount was transferred as a loan, however, according to the complainant the said payments were made for purchase of land/building situate between plot No.A-47 to A-55, Sikar House, near Chandpole, Jaipur, Rajasthan. Relevant to mention here that there is no written agreement with respect to the purpose of the transfer of said amount, whether it was a loan or an advance towards purchase of land/building referred to above. 5.2. According to Chandra Mohan Badaya, out of Rs.75 lakhs received by him and his two concerns, he repaid Rs.37 lakhs to the complainant from his personal and proprietorship accounts by way of bank transfer. This amount was repaid in 2016-2017. Further, according to Chandra Mohan Badaya, he executed two sale deeds with respect to two properties situate in Chaksu, Jaipur in favour of wife (Smt. Shalini Agarwal) and sister-in-law (Smt. Jaya Agarwal) , Shri Anil Agarwal, Power of Attorney holder of the complainant proprietor. Although the total sale consideration for both the sale deeds was Rs.1.08 Crores, out of which an amount of Rs.27 lakhs each i.e. total Rs.54 lakhs only was received by the petitioner. These sale deeds are dated 10.10.2016. It was much after all these transactions that the FIR in question was lodged on 23.11.2017 against the following persons: 628 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports i) Sh. Chandra Mohan Badaya ii) Sh. Rajesh Natani iii) Smt. Shashi natani iv) Sh. Kishan Badaya v) Smt. Tina Badaya vi) Smt. Sushila Devi Badaya 5.3. During investigation, some of the names mentioned in the FIR were dropped and others were added. Finally, chargesheet was submitted against eight persons: i) Sh. Chandra Mohan Badaya ii) Smt. Tina Badaya iii) Sh. Rajesh Natani iv) Sh. Pawan Agrawal v) Sh. Kamal Agrawal vi) Smt. Hemani Agrawal vii) Sh. Manish Kumar tambi viii) Ms. Alpana Tambi 5.4. On the basis of the said chargesheet, cognizance was taken by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Senior Division, Pasighat, East Siang district, Arunachal Pradesh, and a case bearing GR No.225 of 2017 was registered. 5.5. As already noted above, two sets of petitions were filed before two different High Courts namely Gauhati High Court and Rajasthan High Court. The challenge before the High Court was primarily on two grounds, firstly, that no part of offence had been committed in Arunachal Pradesh as such there was lack of complete territorial jurisdiction for registration of FIR in Arunachal Pradesh. The Police ought not to have investigated the said matter for the reason that all the accused persons were residents of Rajasthan, the properties were situated in Rajasthan, the transfer by the sale deed with respect to the [2024] 4 S.C.R. 629 The State of Arunachal Pradesh v. Kamal Agarwal & Ors. Etc. property was also in Rajasthan, even the power of attorney holder and the complainant were residents of Rajasthan and therefore, the FIR ought to be quashed on this ground alone. 5.6. The second ground taken was that even if it is assumed that the State of Arunachal Pradesh would have jurisdiction to entertain the FIR and investigate, it was purely a civil dispute relating to transaction of funds and transfer of properties and being purely a civil/commercial dispute, the lodging of the FIR was just a misuse of the process of law and the same ought to be quashed, in view of the law laid down in case of State of Haryana vs. Bhajan Lal3.