The role of Directive Principles was placed subordinate to fundamental rights. This Court adopted the view that the government should undoubtedly frame legislation advancing Directive Principles, but the fundamental rights in Part III, interpreted autonomously, would continue to serve as constraints on these endeavours. Similar observations were echoed by this Court in Golak Nath v. State of Punjab,122 marking an entry into the era of harmonious construction of Directive Principles and fundamental rights. 143. Subsequently, in the landmark decisions in Kesavananda Bharati and Minerva Mills, the insistence of this Court on a harmonious reading and interplay between fundamental rights and Directive Principles became even stronger. In Minerva Mills, this Court 120 HM Seervai, Constitutional Law of India, Vol 2 (4th ed, Universal Law Publishing 2002) 1934–40. 121 [1959] 1 SCR 629 : 1957 SCC OnLine SC 17 [12] 122 [1967] 2 SCR 762 : 1967 SCC OnLine SC 14 [16, 19] : 1967 INSC 45 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 133 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. (speaking through Chief Justice YV Chandrachud) quoted Granville Austin and observed that Part III and Part IV of the Constitution are “two wheels of a chariot, one no less important than the other”. This Court made the following observations: “56. The significance of the perception that Parts III and IV together constitute the core of commitment to social revolution and they, together, are the conscience of the Constitution is to be traced to a deep understanding of the scheme of the Indian Constitution. Granville Austin’s observation brings out the true position that Parts III and IV are like two wheels of a chariot, one no less important than the other. You snap one and the other will lose its efficacy. They are like a twin formula for achieving the social revolution, which is the ideal which the visionary founders of the Constitution set before themselves. In other words, the Indian Constitution is founded on the bedrock of the balance between Parts III and IV. To give absolute primacy to one over the other is to disturb the harmony of the Constitution. This harmony and balance between fundamental rights and directive principles is an essential feature of the basic structure of the Constitution. 57. […] It is in this sense that Parts III and IV together constitute the core of our Constitution and, combine to form its conscience. Anything that destroys the balance between the two parts will ipso facto destroy an essential element of the basic structure of our Constitution.” (emphasis supplied) 144. In the background of these decisions, which mandated that fundamental rights and Directive Principles must be construed harmoniously, an important principle began to emerge in the jurisprudence of this Court. Courts began to rely on Directive Principles while adjudicating on the ‘reasonableness’ of the restriction imposed on fundamental rights. This has been affirmed in a line of precedent of this Court.123 123 See Indian Handicrafts Emporium v. Union of India (2003) 7 SCC 589 : 2003 INSC 427; M.R.F.