f. The Constitution Bench in Azeez Basha (supra),when it holds that since Section 6 of the AMU Act, 1920 stipulates that degrees conferred by AMU would be recognised by the Government, it could not have been ‘brought into existence by a private individual or body’, is seemingly incorrect. Accordingly, and for the reasons assigned in paragraphs 190(b) and (c),the said decision to that extent is hereby modified and clarified. g. The minority institutions established in the pre-Constitution era are also entitled to the protection conferred by Article 30. h. Educational institutions, with reference to Article 30 include universities as well. i. In to seek protection under Article 30 of our Constitution, the minority institution must satisfy the conjunctive test, namely that it was established by a minority community and has been/ is being administered by such a community. j. The true import and meaning of the expressions ‘establish’ and ‘administer’, which comprise the very core of Article 30, are to be construed and understood strictly in accordance with the indicia in paragraphs 141 and 181. k. The question pertaining to whether AMU satisfies the above- mentioned test of ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ so as to seek protection of Article 30 of the Constitution, and which will concomitantly entail a mixed question of facts and law, will be determined by a Regular Bench. 193. The reference is answered in the above terms. ed accordingly. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1855 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. Dipankar Datta J. prologue 1. There is a saying, “the past refuses to lie buried”. Possibly, no other case would demonstrate the validity of this statement more poignantly. 2. A Constitution Bench of 5 (five) Judges of this Court delivered its verdict in the celebrated case of Union of India vs. Tulsiram Patel1 on 11th July, 1985, i.e., a little less than 40 (forty) years back. As the youngest member of the bench, Hon’ble M.P. Thakkar, J. (as His Lordship then was) expressed lament in the following words: “178. A benevolent and justice-oriented decision of a three-Judge Bench of this Court, rendered ten years back in a group of service matters, [D.P.O., Southern Railway v. T.R. Challappan, (1976) 3 SCC 190], is sought to be overruled by the proposed to be delivered by my learned Brother Madon, J., with which, the majority appear to agree. Challappan having held the field for such a long time, it would have been appropriate if a meeting of the Judges constituting the Bench had been convened to seriously deliberate and evolve a consensus as to whether or not to overrule it. A ‘give’ and ‘take’ of ideas, with due respect for the holders of the opposite point of view (in a true democratic spirit of tolerance), with willingness to accord due consideration to the same, would not have impaired the search for the true solution. Or hurt the cause of justice. The holders of the rival view points could have, perhaps, successfully persuaded and converted the holders of the opposite point of view.