It is also possible, as in the present case, that as a consequence of the breach, the party not in breach obtains a benefit, in such cases, where no loss or damage has been occasioned to the party not in breach, such party cannot extract any money merely on account of such breach, as the entitlement in law to compensation is not upon the commission of breach, but only upon any loss or damage suffered as a consequence thereof. That is elementary. xxx xxx xxx 12. Rule 9(5) of the said Rules of 2002 has to be seen as an enabling provision that permits forfeiture in principle. However, such Rule cannot be conferred an exalted status to override the underlying ethos of Section 73 of the Contract Act. In other words, Rule 9(5) has to yield to the principle recognised in Section 73 of the Contract Act or it must be read down accordingly. Thus, notwithstanding the wide words used in Rule 9(5) of the said Rules, a secured creditor may not forfeit any more than the loss or damage suffered by such creditor as a consequence of the failure on the part of a bidder to make payment of the consideration or the balance consideration in terms of the bid. It is only if such principle as embodied in Section 73 of the Contract Act, is read into Rule 9(5) of the said Rules, would there be an appropriate answer to the conundrum as to whether a colossal default of the entirety of the consideration or the mere default of one rupee out of the consideration would result in the identical consequence of forfeiture as indicated in the provision. 13. In any event, notwithstanding the reference to Section 35 of the Act of 2002, the apparent overriding effect of the provisions of the Act of 2002 has to be tempered in the light of Section 37 of the Act. Though Section 37 of [2024] 2 S.C.R. 31 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu the Act refers to several statutes by name, the residual limb of such provision recognises “or any other law for the time being in force”, which would embrace the Contract Act within its fold. It is completely unacceptable that by virtue of the delegated legislation as in the Rules of 2002, the fundamental principle envisaged in the Contract Act would get diluted or altogether disregarded.” (Emphasis supplied) (ii) Secondly, the High Court was of the view that the forfeiture of the entire earnest money deposit by the appellant amounts to unjust enrichment which is not permissible. It observed that under the SARFAESI Act, a secured creditor is not entitled to obtain any amount more than the debt due to it, and as such any forfeiture under the SARFAESI Act ought to be assessed by computing damages on the basis of evidence. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “18. It was completely open to the appellate authority to enhance the quantum as awarded by the DRT.