Undoubtedly, the annual contribution from the Government has been substantial and it would not be wrong to say that they perhaps constitute the main source of funding, yet some money has been coming from other sources. In later years, foreign funding came to be regulated and, therefore it became necessary to provide that without Government clearance, like any other institution, ICPS was not to receive foreign donation. No material has been placed before us for the stand that the Society was not entitled to receive contributions from any indigenous source without Government sanction. Since Government moneys has been coming, the usual conditions attached to Government grants have been applied and enforced. If the Society’s affairs were really 2204 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports intended to be carried on as part of the Lok Sabha or Parliament as such, the manner of functioning would have been different. The accounts of the Society are separately maintained and subject to audit in the same way as the affairs of societies receiving Government grants are to be audited. Government usually impose certain conditions and restrictions when grants are made. No exception has been made in respect of the Society and the mere fact that such restrictions are made is not a determinative aspect. Considerable attempt has been made by Mr. Rao, learned Counsel for the appellant, to show that in the functioning of the Society there is deep and pervasive control of Government. We have examined meticulously the correspondence and the instances where control was attempted to be exercised or has, as a fact, been exercised but these again are features which appear to have been explained away.” 27. In spite of the above facts and circumstances, this Court held that the institute was not a “State” or State instrumentality or other authority. 28. If the Authority/Body can be treated as a “State” within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India, then in such circumstances, it goes without saying that a writ petition under Article 226 would be maintainable against such an Authority/Body for the purpose of enforcement of fundamental and other legal rights. Therefore, the definition contained in Article 12 is for the purpose of application of the provisions contained in Part III. Article 226 of the Constitution, which deals with powers of the High Courts to issue certain writs, inter alia, stipulates that every High Court has the power to issue directions, s or writs to any person or authority, including, in appropriate cases, any Government, for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III and for any other purpose. 29. So far as Article 12 of the Constitution is concerned, the “State” includes “all local and other Authorities within the territory of India or under the control of the Government of India”. The debate on the question as to which body would qualify as “other authority” & the test/principles applicable for ascertaining as to whether a particular body can be treated as “other authority” has been never ending.