This delegation to define and enumerate a misconduct by way of a regulation or a Guideline is a legislative device adopted by the Parliament so as to leave it to the discretion of the Council of the respondent-Institute to incorporate, define and insert a Guideline or a regulation, the breach of which would result in a misconduct committed by a Chartered Accountant. 13.2 The delegation of this power under Part II of the Second Schedule of the 1949 Act made by Parliament in favour of the Council of the respondent-Institute cannot be faulted with. This is on account of the fact that the 1949 Act itself defines certain types of misconduct vis-à-vis a Chartered Accountant. But in the year 1949, the Parliament could not have envisaged every possible variety or type of commission or omission which could be a misconduct by a Chartered Accountant. Therefore, the delegation has been made by the Parliament to the Council of the respondent-Institute to make regulations or Guidelines, the breach of which would result in a professional misconduct. The aforesaid delegation of the Parliament to the Council of the respondent-Institute is clearly to define possible types of misdemeanours in the Second Schedule in the form of a regulation or a Guideline, the breach of which would result in a misconduct in futuro. This is in to avoid the Parliament itself amending the Schedules to the 1949 Act every time a different type of misconduct is to be inserted to the Schedules by way of an amendment to the Act. Therefore, the regulation or Guideline issued by the Council, the breach of which would result in a professional misconduct, being a part of clause 1 of 840 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Part II of the Second Schedule have to be read as part and parcel of the 1949 Act itself. The delegation of powers to add newer types of misconducts by way of a regulation or a Guideline is neither excessive nor ultra vires under Section 22 of the 1949 Act which deems any breach of a regulation or Guideline as a misconduct as per Clause 1 of part II of Schedule II to the 1949 Act. 13.3 In the circumstances, we hold that the Council of the respondent- Institute had the legal competence to frame the impugned Guideline restricting the number of tax audits that a Chartered Accountant could carry out which was initially thirty and later raised to forty-five and thereafter to sixty in an assessment year. Therefore, the Council of the respondent-Institute having the legal competence to frame the Guidelines, the breach of which would result in professional misconduct, in terms of clause 1 of Part II of the Second Schedule of the 1949 Act cannot be held to be vitiated on account of there being lack of competency or powers to frame the impugned Guideline by the Council of the respondent-Institute. The argument advanced by the petitioners regarding the issuance of the Guidelines dated 08.08.2008 by the respondent-Institute is hit by the vice of excessive delegation, is hence without substance.