Explanation 2--- For the avoidance of doubt, the test as to whether there is a contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law, shall not entail a review on the merits of the dispute. (2A) An arbitral award arising out of arbitrations other than international commercial arbitrations, may also be set aside by the Court, if the Court finds that the award is vitiated by patent illegality appearing on the face of the award: Provided that an award shall not be set aside, merely on the ground of an erroneous application of the law or by reappreciation of evidence. (3) An application for setting aside may not be made after three months have elapsed from the date on which the party making that application had received the arbitral award or, if a request had been made under section 33, from the date on which that request had been disposed of by the arbitral tribunal: Provided that if the court is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from making the application within the set period of three months it may entertain the application within a period of 30 days, but not thereafter. 19 Section 23.-- What consideration and objects are lawful, and what not. -- The consideration or object of an agreement is lawful, unless – it is forbidden by law; or is of such a nature that, if permitted, it would defeat the provisions of any law; or is fraudulent; or involves or implies, injury to the person or property of another; or the court regards it as immoral, or opposed to public policy. In each of these cases, the consideration or object of an agreement is said to be unlawful. Every agreement of which the object or consideration is unlawful is wide. 526 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports agreement is lawful, unless, inter alia, opposed to public policy. That is, a contract which is opposed to public policy is void. 31. In Chitty on Contracts,20 scope of public policy, largely accepted across jurisdictions for invalidation of contracts, has been summarized in the following terms: “Objects which on grounds of public policy invalidate contracts may, for convenience, be generally classified into five groups: first, objects which are illegal by common law or by legislation; secondly, objects injurious to good government either in the field of domestic or foreign affairs; thirdly, objects which interfere with the proper working of the machinery of justice; fourthly, objects injurious to marriage and morality; and, fifthly, objects economically against the public interest, viz contracts in restraint of trade…..” 32. In Gherulal Parakh v. Mahadeodas Maiya and others,21 a three- Judge Bench of this Court, in the context of Section 23 of the Contract Act, summarized the doctrine of public policy as follows: “Public policy or the policy of the law is an elusive concept; it has been described as untrustworthy guide, variable quality, uncertain one, unruly horse, etc; the primary duty of a court of law is to enforce a promise which the parties have made and to uphold the sanctity of contracts which formed the basis of society, but in certain cases, the court may relieve them of their duty on a rule founded on what is called the public policy; for want of better words Lord Atkin describes that something done contrary to public policy is a harmful thing, but the doctrine is extended not only to harmful cases but also to harmful tendencies; this doctrine of public policy is only a branch of common law, and, just like any other branch of common law, it is governed by precedents; the principles have been crystallized under different heads and though it is permissible for courts to expound and apply them to different situations, it should only be invoked in clear and incontestable cases of harm 20 Volume 1, 35th Edition, paragraph 19-112 21 [1959] Supp.