6. Learned counsel for the petitioner-wife has affirmed that his client has stopped instructing him in the matter. Acting on the terms of the settlement, the respondent-husband has already withdrawn the matrimonial case on 23rd April, 2024 which fact is recorded in the sheet of the Family Court placed on record with I.A. No. 112620 of 2024 and thus he is abiding by the terms of settlement in letter and spirit. 7. It seems, the petitioner-wife having taken advantage of the settlement executed before the Mediator has managed to get the matrimonial case instituted by the respondent-husband withdrawn. She has also accepted a sum of Rs.50 lakhs from the respondent-husband towards part payment of the permanent alimony and thereafter, she is trying to resile from the settlement without any justification. The conduct of the petitioner-wife is clearly, recalcitrant inasmuch as she has disregarded the terms and conditions agreed before the Mediator in the settlement proceedings which were undertaken pursuant to the directions of this Court. Not only this, because of her conduct, the respondent-husband has been put to grave disadvantage inasmuch as he has withdrawn the matrimonial case and has also paid a significant proportion of the permanent alimony to the petitioner-wife in terms of the settlement agreement. 8. Learned counsel for the respondent-husband on instructions states that his client undertakes to abide by the remaining terms and conditions of the settlement agreement in letter and spirit and shall make due payments on the schedule dates if the marriage is dissolved. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 571 Trisha Singh v. Anurag Kumar 9. A similar situation was examined by this Court in the case of Ruchi Agarwal v. Amit Kumar Agrawal and Others1, the relevant excerpts whereof read as follows: - “4. It is the above of the High Court that is under challenge before us in this appeal. During the pendency of the proceedings before the courts below and in this Court, certain developments have taken place which have a material bearing on the merits of this appeal. The complaint which the appellant herein filed is dated 10-4-2002. Thereafter, a divorce petition was filed by the appellant wife before the Family Court at Nainital. In the said divorce petition a compromise was arrived at between the parties in which it was stated that the first respondent husband was willing for a consent divorce and that the appellant wife had received all her stridhan and maintenance in lump sum. She also declared in the said compromise deed that she is not entitled to any maintenance in future. It is also stated in the said compromise deed that the parties to the proceedings would withdraw all criminal and civil complaints filed against each other which includes the criminal complaint filed by the appellant which is the subject-matter of this appeal. The said compromise deed contains annexures with the particulars of the items given to the appellant at the time of marriage and which were returned. The said compromise deed is signed by the appellant.