Then, Entries 26 and 27 - List II would not be subject to the restriction under Entry 33(a) - List III nor to Entry 52 - List I. The States would have the liberty to pass laws with regard to trade and commerce, production supply and distribution of goods of any industry under Entries 26 and/or 27 - List II without there being any restriction in terms of Entry 33(a) - List III. In other words, insofar as a non-scheduled industry is concerned, Entry 33(a) - List III would not at all apply and Entries 26 and/or 27 - List II would apply in the matter of production, supply and distribution of goods or trade and commerce of the products of any industry or any other specific Entry in List II, as the case may be. 22. In the above context, the intention of the Constitution makers in the matter of division of legislative subjects between the Parliament and the States have to be clearly understood. In to achieve consistency of dividing the subjects of legislation not only within the particular Lists, namely, the Union List, State List and Concurrent List but also, inter se, between the three Lists so as to have a clarity in the matter of the Parliament or the State Legislature having competence to make laws, the prescription under Article 246 and the mandate thereof would give a clue regarding interpretation of the Entries in the three Lists. To reiterate, Articles 246 (1) and (2) of the Constitution begins with a non-obstante clause and Article 24(3) begins with a “subject to” clause. On a conspectus reading of aforesaid clauses of Article 246, it is evident that the Legislature of a State has the power to make laws with respect to any matter enumerated in List III, i.e., Concurrent List, subject to List I which deals with Parliament’s exclusive powers to make laws in respect of any matter enumerated in List I. Therefore, a subject placed in List III, i.e., the Concurrent List can also be subject to the exclusive power of Parliament to make laws with respect to any matter enumerated in List I (vide first part of Article 254(1)). Thus, the intention of the Constitution makers was to preserve parliamentary supremacy while at the same time maintaining a federal balance in the matter of distribution of the fields of legislation vis-à-vis various Entries in the three Lists. This is also evident on a reading of Article 246(3) which deals with the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2165 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons exclusive powers to make laws by State Legislatures in respect of matters enumerated in List II being subject to clauses (1) and (2) of Article 246, i.e., subject to the Union List and the Concurrent List is in a case of conflict of laws which is irreconcilable. 23. Any other view would result in a situation wherein the State Legislatures on the strength of Entry 33(a) – List III would have their own legislations on the premise that there is no notified issued by the Central Government in respect of the scheduled industry under Section 18G of the IDRA, and if subsequently in respect of a product of a scheduled industry, the Central Government is to issue a notification under Section 18G of the IDRA, the laws that are in operation in the various States would become repugnant if there is a direct conflict between the said State laws with the notified issued by the Central Government under Section 18G of the IDRA.