The petitioner inter alia sought that this Court: a. Issue directions to the respondents to urgently frame and implement an emergency response plan for the protection and recovery of the GIB, including directions for the installation of bird diverters, an immediate embargo on the sanction of new projects and the renewal of leases of existing projects, 3 Government of Rajasthan, Forest Department, ‘Project Great Indian Bustard’ <https://forest.rajasthan. gov.in/content/raj/forest/en/footernav/department-wings/project-great-indian-bustard.html> 4 IUCN Red List (n 2). 1328 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports dismantling power lines, wind turbines, and solar panels in and around critical habitats, installation of predator- proof enclosures in breeding habitats, implementation of a population control program for dogs, provision of no-grazing zones and restricted grazing zones in critical and semi-critical habitats, a prohibition on the use of insecticides and pesticides within a radius of 5 km of critical habitats and a prohibition on the encroachment of grasslands in and around critical and semi-critical habitats; b. Issue directions to the concerned respondents to submit a report on the status of the breeding centres at Jaisalmer, Sorsan, and Velavadar; c. Issue directions to the concerned respondents to take all measures necessary for the protection of grasslands including by ensuring that no remaining grasslands are classified as ‘wastelands’ and diverted to other uses, adopting a grasslands conservation policy, and adopting a national grazing policy; d. Issue directions to the Ministry of Defence (Respondent No. 2) to sensitise the armed forces about the need for conservation of the GIB and to collaborate with scientific bodies in conservation efforts; e. Appoint an Empowered Committee to oversee the implementation of the directions issued by the Court, to preserve and manage the endangered species and their habitats; and f. Issue a declaration that the two endangered birds constitute one meta population of the nation and that all state authorities are bound to cooperate and take all steps necessary to ensure their conservation and to implement the decisions of the Empowered Committee. B. The dated 19 April 2021 and subsequent developments 5. In the of this Court dated 19 April 2021, restrictions were imposed on the setting up of overhead transmission lines in a large swath of territory of about 99,000 square kilometres. These directions were in IA No 85618 of 2020 in Writ Petition (Civil) No 838 of 2019. In the operative directions, this Court, observed : [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1329 M K Ranjitsinh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. “ 14. In the light of the contentions urged on this aspect of the matter, we are conscious that the laying of the underground power line more particularly of high-voltage though not impossible, would require technical evaluation on case-to-case basis and an omnibus conclusion cannot be reached laying down a uniform method and directions cannot be issued unmindful of the fact situation. Though that be the position the consensus shall be that all low voltage powerlines to be laid in the priority and potential habitats of GIB shall in all cases be laid underground in future.