Digital Supreme Court Reports (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused. 154. These five golden principles, if we may say so, constitute the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence.” 21. It can thus clearly be seen that it is necessary for the prosecution that the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. The Court held that it is a primary principle that the accused ‘must be’ and not merely ‘may be’ proved guilty before a court can convict the accused. It has been held that there is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between ‘may be proved’ and ‘must be or should be proved’. It has been held that the facts so established should be consistent only with the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except the one where the accused is guilty. It has further been held that the circumstances should be such that they exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved. It has been held that there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probabilities, the act must have been done by the accused. 22. It is settled law that the suspicion, however strong it may be, cannot take the place of proof beyond reasonable doubt. An accused cannot be convicted solely on the ground of suspicion, no matter how strong it is. An accused is presumed to be innocent unless proved guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. 23. In the light of these guiding principles, we will have to examine the present case. 24. The circumstances which have been relied on by the learned trial court are – (i) recovery of hammer; (ii) recovery of blood-stained clothes; and (iii) CCTV Footage which shows that deceased Shobha had come in the building at 03:22 PM and where the appellant was seen going out of his motor-cycle at 04:28 PM. However, the High [2024] 10 S.C.R. 767 Vishwajeet Kerba Masalkar v. State of Maharashtra Court itself has disbelieved the said circumstance in paras 58-59 of its . 25. Insofar as the first circumstance i.e. recovery of the hammer alleged to have been used in the crime is concerned, according to the prosecution, the said hammer was recovered at the instance of the appellant on a statement recorded under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. Firstly, it is to be noted that the said recovery is from a canal. The recovery panchnama shows that the said hammer was having blood-stains. It is the prosecution case that the hammer was packed in a bag which was put in water.