7. We have heard Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Mr Sidharth Luthra, learned senior counsels for the appellants and Mr. Shrirang B Varma, learned counsel for the State of Maharashtra and Mr. Sanjeev Despande, learned senior counsel for respondent no. 2. 7.1 The learned senior counsels for the appellants have contended that the allegations in the FIR are general and omnibus in nature and lack material particulars bereft of any details, rendering the complaint vague and obscure. There is an existing civil dispute between the father and the son and as such this FIR is an abuse of the process of criminal law. Further, Section 161 statements of witnesses are identical and are based on information from respondent no. 2. They are vague and do not have material particulars about the date and time of the incident. Our attention is also drawn to the and dated 16.01.2019, passed by the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Jalna dismissing identical allegations, but under Section 12 of the Domestic Violence Act. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supported the decision and reasoning adopted by the High Court. 8. Analysis: After identifying certain allegations in the Complaint/FIR, the High Court came to a quick conclusion that there are specific allegations against each of the accused. After referring to certain precedents on the scope and ambit of the power under Section 482 CrPC, the High Court came to a conclusion that exercise of power under Section 482 for quashing an FIR/Complaint is not warranted in [2024] 10 S.C.R. 67 Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. the facts and circumstances of the case. Beyond holding that there are specific allegations, there is no other analysis. The duty of the High Court, when its jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC or Article 226 of the Constitution is invoked on the ground that the Complaint/ FIR is manifestly frivolous, vexatious or instituted with ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance, to examine the allegations with care and caution is highlighted in a recent decision of this Court in Mohammad Wajid and Another v. State of U.P. and Others1: “34. At this stage, we would like to observe something important. Whenever an accused comes before the Court invoking either the inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) or extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution to get the FIR or the criminal proceedings quashed essentially on the ground that such proceedings are manifestly frivolous or vexatious or instituted with the ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance, then in such circumstances the Court owes a duty to look into the FIR with care and a little more closely. We say so because once the complainant decides to proceed against the accused with an ulterior motive for wreaking personal vengeance, etc., then he would ensure that the FIR/complaint is very well drafted with all the necessary pleadings. The complainant would ensure that the averments made in the FIR/complaint are such that they disclose the necessary ingredients to constitute the alleged offence.