3. Before going into the submissions on merit, we shall first deal with the provisions governing the legal position in conducting a trial. VIDEO CONFERENCING Rule 6 of the Rule for Video Conferencing for Courts, 2020 “6. Application for Appearance, Evidence and Submission by Video Conferencing: 6.1 Any party to the proceeding or witness, save and except where proceedings are initiated at the instance of the Court, may move a request for video conferencing. A party or witness seeking a video conferencing proceeding shall do so by making a request in the form prescribed in Schedule II. 6.2 Any proposal to move a request to for video conferencing should first be discussed with the other party or parties to the proceeding, except where it is not possible or inappropriate, for example in cases such as urgent applications. 6.3 On receipt of such a request and upon hearing all concerned persons, the Court will pass an appropriate after ascertaining that the application is not filed with an intention to impede a fair trial or to delay the proceedings. 6.4 While allowing a request for video conferencing, the Court may also fix the schedule for convening the video conferencing. 6.5 In case the video conferencing event is convened for making oral submissions, the may require the 638 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Advocate or party in person to submit written arguments and precedents, if any, in advance on the official email ID of the concerned Court. 6.6 Costs, if directed to be paid, shall be deposited within the prescribed time, commencing from the date on which the convening proceedings through video conferencing is received.” Rule 8 of the Rule for Video Conferencing for Courts, 2020 “8. Examination of persons.— 8.3 Where the person being examined, or the accused to be tried, is in custody, the statement or, as the case may be, the testimony may be recorded through video conferencing. The Court shall provide adequate opportunity to the under-trial prisoner to consult in privacy with their counsel before, during and after the video conferencing.” Rule 11 of the Rule for Video Conferencing for Courts, 2020 “11. Judicial remand, framing of charge, examination of accused and Proceedings under Section 164 of the CrPC.— 11.1 The Court may, at its discretion, authorize detention of an accused, frame charges in a criminal trial under the CrPC by video conferencing. However, ordinarily judicial remand in the first instance or police remand shall not be granted through video conferencing save and except in exceptional circumstances for reasons to be recorded in writing. 11.2 The Court may, in exceptional circumstances, for reasons to be recorded in writing, examine a witness or an accused under Section 164 of the CrPC or record the statement of the accused under Section 313 CrPC through video conferencing, while observing all due precautions to ensure that the witness or the accused as the case maybe is free of any form of coercion, threat or undue influence. The Court shall ensure compliance with Section 26 of the Evidence Act.” [2024] 5 S.C.R.