17. In addition, we hold that the finding of the Courts below, which reduced the claims of the legal heirs of the deceased and the injured, other than the legal heirs of the driver-Saiprasad Karande (deceased) is also invalid in the eyes of law. The Courts below uniformly applied the principle of contributory negligence while directing deduction from the compensation awarded to the respective appellant-claimants, i.e. the dependents of passengers and the injured as well as the dependents of the driver-Saiprasad Karande @ 50%. Thus, the contributory negligence of the driver of the car was vicariously applied to the passengers which is prima facie illegal and impermissible. 18. In the case of Union of India v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd.,5 this Court dealt with the question whether the driver’s negligence in any manner vicariously attaches to the passengers of the motor vehicle of which he was the driver, and it was held as below: - “10. There is a well-known principle in the law of torts called the “doctrine of identification” or “imputation”. It is to the effect that the defendant can plead the contributory negligence of the plaintiff or of an employee of the plaintiff where the employee is acting in the course of employment. But, it has been also held in Mills v. Armstrong [(1888) 13 AC 1, HL] (also called The Bernina case) that principle is not applicable to a passenger in a vehicle in the sense that the negligence of the driver of the vehicle in which the passenger is travelling, cannot be imputed to the passenger. (Halsbury’s Laws of England, 4th Ed., 1984 Vol. 34, p. 74; Ratanlal and Dhirajlal, Law of Torts, 23rd Ed., 1997, p. 511; Ramaswamy Iyer, Law of Torts, 7th Ed., p. 447.) The Bernina case [(1888) 13 AC 1, HL] in which this principle was laid in 1888 related to passengers in a steamship. In that case a member of the crew and a passenger in the ship Bushire were drowned on account 5 [1997] Supp. 4 SCR 643 : (1997) 8 SCC 683 434 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of its collision with another ship Bernina. It was held that even if the navigators of the ship Bushire were negligent, the navigators’ negligence could not be imputed to the deceased who were travelling in that ship. This principle has been applied, in latter cases, to passengers travelling in a motor vehicle whose driver is found guilty of contributory negligence. In other words, the principle of contributory negligence is confined to the actual negligence of the plaintiff or of his agents. There is no rule that the driver of an omnibus or a coach or a cab or the engine driver of a train, or the captain of a ship on the one hand and the passengers on the other hand are to be “identified” so as to fasten the latter with any liability for the former’s contributory negligence. There cannot be a fiction of the passenger sharing a “right of control” of the operation of the vehicle nor is there a fiction that the driver is an agent of the passenger.