But apart from the fact that these observations were obiter, this Court has consistently held that though the word “sale” in its popular sense is not restricted to passing of title, and has a wider connotation as meaning the transaction of sale, and that in that sense an agreement to sell would, as one of the essential ingredients of sale, furnish sufficient nexus for a State to impose a tax..” [emphasis supplied] 151 The judgement in Gannon Dunkerley’s case (supra) was held to be constitutionally superseded on other aspects by subsequent cases including Kone Elevator India (P) Ltd. v. State of T.N. (2014) 7 SCC 1. However, the principle of interpretation referred to in this continues to be good law. 2012 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 85. The of this Court in Gannon Dunkerley (supra) must be read in the context of the settled principle of interpreting legislative entries, that the entries must be conferred the widest meaning possible. Interpreting a phrase or words in the Legislative Lists based on the legal import of the phrase is, thus, in many ways an exception to the settled principle of interpreting entries. This is for the simple reason that the legislative entries delimit the scope of competence of the legislative bodies. If the entries are interpreted based on the meanings or definitions in a legislation, the purpose of the Seventh Schedule may become redundant. Further, the statute does not define phrases based on popular or common parlance meaning but rather based on the scope of the legislation and the manner in which the provisions are drafted. A deeming fiction is often used to define phrases by conferring artificial meanings.152 The interpretation based on ‘legislative meaning’ elucidated in Gannon Dunkerley (supra), which narrows the interpretation of entries, thereby creating an exception to the rule of wide interpretation should only be employed by Courts when the twin tests highlighted above. The tests are (a) the phrase should have acquired a well-recognised, definite and precise meaning in law; and (b) the legal import of the word must be practically unanimous. Additionally, we also are of the view that the legislative meaning interpretation should be adopted only when the deviation from the popular meaning of the phrase is not too wide. The legislative meaning cannot be used to artificially narrow legislative entries. We also deem it necessary to note that we must be cognizant that the standard of ‘legislative meaning’ is employed to identify the ‘intent’ of the framers of the Constitution and belongs to the originalist school of thought, which has been consistently opposed by this Court over the years.153 For these reasons, the principle of interpretation elucidated in Gannon Dunkerley (supra) must be used cautiously by Courts. 152 See Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation v. GTL Infrastructure Limited (2017) 3 SCC 545 [13] “13. “… it would be self-defeating to understand the meaning and scope of Entry 49 of List II by reference to the definition clauses in the Gujarat Act. Definitions contained in the statute may at times be broad and expansive; beyond the natural meaning of the words or may even contain deeming provisions.