(1A) A resolution plan shall include a statement as to how it has dealt with the interests of all stakehold- ers including financial creditors and operational creditors, of the corporate debtor. (1B) A resolution plan shall include a statement giving details if the resolution applicant or any of its related parties has failed to implement or contributed to the failure of implementation of any other resolution plan approved by the adjudicating authority at any time in the past. (2) A resolution plan shall provide: [a] the term of the plan and its implementation schedule; [b] the management and control of the business of the corporate debtor during its term; and [c) adequate means for supervising its implementation. (3) A resolution plan shall demonstrate that---- [a] it addresses the cause of the fault; [b] it is feasible and viable; [c] it has provisions for its effective implementation; (d) it has provisions for approvals required and the timeline for the same; and [e] the resolution applicant has the capability to implement the resolution plan. 28 Section 30 (4). The committee of creditors may approve a resolution plan by a vote of not less than sixty six percent of voting share of financial creditors, after considering its feasibility and viability, the manner of distribution proposed, which may take into account the of priority amongst creditors as laid down in sub-section (1) of section 53, including the priority and value of the security interest of secured creditor and such other requirements as may be specified by the Board: ………………” [2024] 2 S.C.R. 275 Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority v. Prabhjit Singh Soni & Anr. and viability, the manner of distribution proposed, which may take into account the of priority amongst creditors as laid down in sub-section (1) of Section 53, including the priority and value of security interest of a secured creditor and such other requirements as may be specified by the Board. 28. Once the plan is approved by the COC, the RP has to submit it for approval of the Adjudicating Authority. As per sub-section (1) of Section 3129 of the IBC, if the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that the resolution plan as approved by the COC under sub-section (4) of Section 30 meets the requirements of sub-section (2) of Section 30, it has to approve the resolution plan. On its approval, the plan becomes binding on the CD and its employees, members, creditors, including the Central Government, any State Government or any local authority to whom a debt in respect of the payment of dues arising under any law for the time being in force, such as authorities to whom statutory dues are owed, guarantors and other stakeholders involved in the resolution plan. But where the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that the resolution plan does not conform to the requirements referred to in sub-section (1), it may, in exercise of power under sub-section (2) of Section 31, by an , reject the resolution plan. 29. Explaining the scheme of the CIRP under the IBC, in Ghanashyam Mishra & Sons (P) Ltd. vs. Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Co. Ltd.30, a three-Judge Bench of this Court observed that one of the principal objects of the IBC is to provide for revival of the CD and to make it a going concern.