Dealing with this aspect, the Court held: “This is somewhat analogous to cases in which even after conversion certain families and groups continue to be governed by the law by which they were governed before they became 1522 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports converts. But these are all cases of exception and the general rule is conversion operates as an expulsion from the caste; in other words, a convert ceases to have any caste.” In the present case, therefore, we agree with the finding of the High Court that the appellant, on conversion to Christianity, ceased to belong to the Adi Dravida caste and, consequently, the burden lay on the appellant to establish that, on his reverting to the Hindu religion by professing it again, he also became once again a member of the Adi Dravida Hindu caste. …… 21. Almost all these cases laid down the principle that, on reconversion to Hinduism, a person can become a member of the same caste in which he was born and to which he belonged before having been converted to another religion. The main basis of the decisions is that, if the members of the caste accept the reconversion of a person as a member, it should be held that he does become a member of that caste, even though he may have lost membership of that caste on conversion to another religion. In the present case, we do not consider it necessary to express any opinion on the general question whether, if a person is born in a particular caste and is converted to another religion as a result of which he loses the membership of that caste, he can again become a member of that caste on reconversion to Hinduism. That is a question which may have to be decided in any of the appeals that may be brought to this Court from the s of the Andhra Pradesh and the Madras High Courts referred to above. So far as the present case is concerned, we consider that, even if it be assumed that a reconvert can resume the membership of his previous caste, the facts established in the present case do not show that the appellant succeeded in doing so. All these cases proceed on the basis that, in to resume membership of his previous caste, the person must be reconverted to the Hindu religion and must also be accepted by the caste in general as a [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1523 C. Selvarani v. The Special Secretary-Cum-District Collector and Others member after reconversion. We do not think it necessary to refer to specific sentences where these principles have been relied upon in these various s. It is, in our opinion, enough to take notice of the decision in Goona Durgaprasada Rao alias Pedaa Babu, where these two aspects were emphasised by a Full Bench of the Madras High Court. In that case, the first question that arose was whether a person could become a convert to Hinduism without going through a formal ceremony of purification.