Therefore, the statement made by him that he has not been provided with food cannot be believed. The accused in the beginning had stated that, he has a lot of things to say but due his mental condition, he has not been able to express everything clearly. However, it is peculiar to note that during the aforesaid statement made by the accused, he was frequently looking at his Ld. Advocate while giving reply due to which the accused was asked that, “why are you looking at your Advocate and giving reply, ill-treatment is done with you then you must be aware what has happened and it is you who have to give your statement.” Thereafter, he has given his statement. The accused has not complained that he is mentally tortured. At this stage, it is notable to mention that the accused is working as a builder having a reputation in society and in such condition and circumstances, remaining in police custody for interrogation, could have been uncomfortable to him. Taking into consideration the mental state of the accused, the serious allegations made by him against the police could not be found reasonable and justifiable in view of the present case and circumstances. All the aforesaid observations and evaluations made today is noted by directly observing the accused. Sd/-Illegible 16/12/23 6th Add. Sr. Civil Judge & A.C.J.M., Surat.” 10. It is noteworthy that pursuant to the dated 16th December, 2023 granting regular bail, the petitioner was compelled to file fresh bail 250 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports bonds and was ultimately released from custody on 18th December, 2023. Apparently thus, the petitioner was kept in confinement for a period of nearly 48 hours even after the period of police custody remand had come to an end. Immediately after being released from custody, the petitioner filed a complaint(Annexure P-10) to the Commissioner of Police alleging torture by the Deputy Commissioner of Police(contemnor-respondent No. 3), Police Inspector(contemnor- respondent No. 4), Police Constable(contemnor-respondent No. 5) and other police officials of Vesu Police Station. A prayer was made in said complaint to call for and preserve the CCTV footage of the police station, lest the police officials of Vesu Police Station tamper with the evidence in form of the recording and thereby, cause grave prejudice to the petitioner’s complaint case. The Commissioner of Police, however, did not take any cognizance of the said complaint of the petitioner whereupon, the petitioner filed a private complaint against contemnor-respondent Nos. 3, 4 and 5 as well as the complainant i.e. contemnor-respondent No. 6. The petitioner categorically alleged in the complaint that he was tortured in Vesu police station, where the complainant of the case was also present, and was pressurised to make payment to the complainant and compromise the matter. 11. Since the 6th ACJM(contemnor-respondent No. 7) was on leave, the learned Magistrate on duty (8th Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate) took cognizance of the said complaint vide dated 21st December, 2023, with a clear finding that the acts complained of were not committed by the concerned police officials while discharging official duties and therefore, sanction to prosecute was not required under Section 197 CrPC.