In other words, Article 300-A only limits the powers of the State inasmuch as no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law, implying that there can be no deprivation without any sanction of law. Deprivation by any other mode is not acquisition or taking possession under Article 300-A. It was submitted that war between two or more countries is a reason for which no compensation is payable for acquisition of enemy property. The Act as amended has not been (and cannot be) challenged by the Municipal Corporation and has to be treated as valid and be given its full effect. h) that the joint submission of Municipal Corporation and the Union of India that Section 8(2)(vi) of the Act is a law relatable to Article 285 of the Constitution of India was neither raised before the High Court nor in any pleading before this Court and is a clear afterthought raised for the first time during oral replies; [2024] 2 S.C.R. 863 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others i) in the alternative, this Court may balance the equities to make the demand prospective considering the grave hardship that the demand of entire past amount would cause to respondent No.1 in case this Court holds against respondent No.1. With the aforesaid submissions, it was prayed that the present appeal be dismissed as being devoid of any merit and the impugned of the High Court be affirmed. Submissions of the respondent No.2: 7. Learned counsel Sri Rupesh Kumar, appearing on behalf of the Custodian of the subject Enemy Property, respondent No.2 herein, submitted as under: a) that the subject property belongs to a Pakistani National namely, Raja of Mahmudabad and therefore, the property is vested in the Custodian of Enemy Property for India under the Act as amended by the Amendment Act, 2017 and is an undisputed enemy property; b) that the property belonging to the Union Government is exempted from state taxation under article 285(1) of the Constitution of India. However, there is no such exemption in respect of fee/ service charges or other charges and this position has been conclusively decided by this Court in Union of India vs. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2007) 11 SCC 324. Further, this stand has been reiterated by this Court in Rajkot Municipal Corporation. Consequently, the Ministry of Urban Development, Government of India vide No.11025/ 26/2003 UCD dated l7.l2.2009 issued a clarification/direction regarding the levy of taxes and service charges in light of the s passed by this Court. c) that the respondent No.2 Custodian vide his certificate dated 03.10.2002 has already clarified that it is under an obligation to pay house tax and other local taxes as respondent No.1 is running a private business for profit from the said premises and therefore, not similar to a Central Government enterprise and accordingly is liable for taxation by the local authorities; d) that this Court in the case of NDMC has held that private parties are not exempted from taxation.