Section 5(a) empowers these communities to protect wildlife, forests, and biodiversity, ensuring the preservation of their natural habitat. Additionally, Section 5(c) mandates the prevention of activities that harm their cultural and natural heritage. Together, these provisions safeguard the rights of forest communities while promoting sustainable forest management and the conservation of biodiversity. 11 Hereinafter being referred to as ‘Forest Rights Act’. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1853 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. 26. Learned Amicus Curiae drew the Court’s attention to the following observations of this Court in the case of Orissa Mining Corporation Limited v. Ministry of Environment & Forest & Others:12 “55. The definition clauses read with the abovementioned provisions give emphasis to customary rights, rights to collect, use and dispose of minor forest produce, community rights like grazing cattle, community tenure of habitat and habitation for primitive tribal groups, traditional rights customarily enjoyed, etc. Legislative intention is, therefore, clear that the Act intends to protect custom, usage, forms, practices and ceremonies which are appropriate to the traditional practices of forest dwellers.” 27. He further submitted that Section 36-C of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, recognizes ‘community reserves.’ This provision highlights the connection between protecting biodiversity and preserving cultural values and practices. It allows the State Government to declare private or community lands as community reserves, provided the community or individuals voluntarily agree to protect wildlife and its habitat. Once declared, these lands are protected, and no changes can be made in the land use unless approved by the community’s management committee and the State Government. This ensures both ecological and cultural conservation. Therefore, wherever possible, these lands may be recognised and managed as ‘community reserves’ under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. 28. It was further submitted that Section 36(5) of the Biological Diversity Act, 2002 imposes an obligation on the Central Government to “endeavour to respect and protect the knowledge of local people relating to biological diversity” and Section 36B(1) imposes an obligation on the State Government to develop strategies for the conservation of biological diversity: “36-B. State Government to develop strategies and plans for conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity.—(1) The State Government shall develop strategies, plans, programmes for the conservation 12 (2013) 6 SCC 476 1854 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports and promotion and sustainable use of biological diversity, including measures for identification and monitoring of areas rich in biological resources, promotion of in situ, and ex situ, conservation of biological resources, including cultivars, folk varieties and landraces, incentives for research, training and public education to increase awareness with respect to biodiversity, in conformity with the national strategies, plans and programmes. (2) The State Government shall, as far as practicable, wherever it deems appropriate, integrate the conservation, promotion and sustainable use of biological diversity into relevant sectoral policies or cross-sectoral plans and programmes. ]” (ii) ConseRvation goals 29. Learned Amicus Curiae placed reliance upon T.N. Godavarman(87) v. Union of India,13 and submitted that this Court in Para 72 recognised that the National Forest Policy, 1988, has a statutory flavour.