The principles of purposive construction for the said purpose may be resorted to. (See New India Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Nusli Neville Wadia [New India Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Nusli Neville Wadia, (2008) 3 SCC 279 : (2008) 1 SCC (Civ) 850] .) Thus, in the context of a statute, the word “any” may be read as all in the context of the Income Tax Act for which the power of transfer has been conferred upon the authorities specified under Section 127.” (emphasis supplied) 127. The Court in K.P. Mohammed Salim [K.P. Mohammed Salim v. CIT, (2008) 11 SCC 573] again reiterated that the word “any” must be read in the context of the statute. The Court also applied the principles of purposive construction to the term “any” to mean “all”. 128. In Raj Kumar Shivhare [Raj Kumar Shivhare v. Directorate of Enforcement, (2010) 4 SCC 772 : (2010) 3 SCC (Civ) 712], an argument was sought to be advanced that since Section 35 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 uses the words “any decision or ”, only appeals from final could be filed. Rejecting the said contention, this Court observed thus : (SCC pp. 779-80, paras 19-20 & 26) “19. The word “any” in this context would mean “all”. We are of this opinion in view of the fact that this section confers a right of appeal on any person aggrieved. A right of appeal, it is well settled, is a creature of statute. It is 960 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports never an inherent right, like that of filing a suit. A right of filing a suit, unless it is barred by statute, as it is barred here under Section 34 of FEMA, is an inherent right (see Section 9 of the Civil Procedure Code) but a right of appeal is always conferred by a statute. While conferring such right a statute may impose restrictions, like limitation or pre-deposit of penalty or it may limit the area of appeal to questions of law or sometime to substantial questions of law. Whenever such limitations are imposed, they are to be strictly followed. But in a case where there is no limitation on the nature of or decision to be appealed against, as in this case, the right of appeal cannot be further curtailed by this Court on the basis of an interpretative exercise. 20. Under Section 35 of FEMA, the legislature has conferred a right of appeal to a person aggrieved from “any” “” or “decision” of the Appellate Tribunal. Of course such appeal will have to be on a question of law. In this context the word “any” would mean “all”. *** 26. In the instant case also when a right is conferred on a person aggrieved to file appeal from “any” or decision of the Tribunal, there is no reason, in the absence of a contrary statutory intent, to give it a restricted meaning. Therefore, in our in Section 35 of FEMA, any “” or “decision” of the Appellate Tribunal would mean all decisions or s of the Appellate Tribunal and all such decisions or s are, subject to limitation, appealable to the High Court on a question of law.” (emphasis supplied) 129.