63. A perusal of the entire scheme would therefore reveal that right from the constitution of the special police force which is called DSPE, issuance of notifications specifying the offences or classes of offences which are to be investigated by the DSPE, superintendence and administration of DSPE and the extension of powers and jurisdiction of DSPE to the areas beyond the Union Territories, it is the Central Government which is vitally concerned with. Not only that, only such offences which the Central Government notifies in the official gazette, can be investigated by the DSPE. Under Section 4 of the DSPE Act, except the offences under the PC Act in which the superintendence will be with the CVC, the superintendence of the DSPE in all other matters would vest with the Central Government. 64. If the powers and jurisdiction of the members of the DSPE are to be extended to any area including railway areas, in a State not being a Union Territory, the same cannot be done unless the Central Government passes an in that regard. The statutory scheme makes it clear that, for extending such powers under Section 5 of the DSPE Act, it cannot be done without the consent of the Government of that State under Section 6 of the DSPE Act. 65. In that view of the matter, we find that the contention of the learned Solicitor General that even if the CBI, being an independent agency, is considered to be an instrumentality of the State under Article 12 of the Constitution, it cannot be equated to the term Government of India as contemplated under Article 131 of the Constitution, in our view, holds no water. 722 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 66. We further find that the very establishment, exercise of powers, extension of jurisdiction, the superintendence of the DSPE, all vest with the Government of India. In that view of the matter, in our opinion, the reliance placed by the learned Solicitor General on the of this Court in the case of State of Bihar v. Union of India and Another (supra), is not well placed. In our view, the CBI is an organ or a body which is established by and which is under the superintendence of the Government of India in view of the statutory scheme as enacted by the DSPE Act. c. Power of superintendence of the Central Government: 67. Insofar as reliance placed by the learned Solicitor General on the s of this Court in the cases of Vineet Narain (supra) and State of West Bengal and Others v. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal and Others18 is concerned, no doubt that the powers of superintendence of the Central Government would not relate to the superintendence of investigation of a particular case and the investigating agency (CBI) would always be entitled to investigate the offences independently. However, that would not water down the administrative control and superintendence of the DSPE that vests with the Central Government. In that view of the matter, we find that the contention in that regard needs to be rejected.