1 SCR 483 : AIR 1994 SC 2420 3 [1995] Supp. 3 SCR 807 : AIR 1996 SC 305 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 187 Naresh Kumar v. State of Delhi appeared in the prosecution evidence not being put to the appellant while being examined and what is the material prejudice or miscarriage of justice caused consequent to such failure. To make matters worse, a scanning of the impugned of the High Court would not disclose whether before the High Court, the said contention was pressed into service much-less whether it was argued with precision on quintessential materials to establish that the trial qua the appellant was vitiated. In the contextual situation it is relevant to refer to the decision of this Court in Amanullah v. State of U.P.4. Normally, it has to be presumed that all the arguments actually pressed at the hearing in the High Court were noticed and appropriately dealt with and if the of the High Court does not contain discussion on a point, then that point should be assumed prima facie not to have been argued at the bar unless the contrary is specifically shown, it was so, held in the said . In the case on hand though grounds A to Z and AA to GG were taken in this appeal, there is absolute absence of any contention in any one of them to the effect that despite being pressed into the said contention was not taken into consideration and appropriately dealt with by the High Court. Hence, the conclusion can only be that it was not argued. 13. This position takes us to the next question as to whether in such circumstances the contention based on non-examination/inadequate examination under Section 313, Cr.PC, causing material prejudice qua the appellant can be maintained at this stage. In this context, it is only appropriate to refer to the decision of this Court in Shobit Chamar & Anr. v. State of Bihar 5. It was held therein that where the plea as to non-compliance of the provisions of Section 313, Cr.PC, was raised for the first time before the Supreme Court, in case no prejudice had resulted to the accused was proved, the trial could not be held as vitiated. In that case, though the non-compliance was taken for the first time before the Supreme Court, the records showed that the relevant portion of the statement of witnesses were put to the accused in examination under Section 313, Cr.PC, and, thereupon, the plea was rejected. It is to be noted that was also a case of murder. 4 AIR 1973 SC 1370 5 [1998] 2 SCR 117 : AIR 1998 SC 1693 188 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. In the light of the aforesaid question posed for consideration, it is only appropriate to refer to the relevant provisions under Section 313 (1), (4) and (5). “313. Power to examine the accused. — (1) In every inquiry or trial, for the purpose of enabling the accused personally to explain any circumstances appearing in the evidence against him, the Court— (a) may at any stage, without previously warning the accused put such questions to him as the Court considers necessary; (b) shall, after the witnesses for the prosecution have been examined and before he is called on for his defence, question him generally on the case: Provided that in a summons-case, where the Court has dispensed with the personal attendance of the accused, it may also dispense with his examination under clause (b).