23. This brings us to the 146th Meeting of GEAC held on 25.08.2022, wherein pursuant to a presentation by the applicant, the GEAC constituted a committee to examine availability of adequate evidence about impact of transgenic mustard on honeybees and other pollinators to assess the need for conducting field demonstration studies. 24. On 18.10.2022, the 147th Meeting of the GEAC was held wherein it considered the report of the Committee and recommended environmental release of DMH-11. Thereafter on 25.10.2022, a letter was issued to the Applicant stating that the environmental release of genetically engineered mustard/DMH-11 has been recommended. The following conditions, amongst others, were imposed on this release: i. The approval is for 4 years and renewable for two years at a time based on compliance report pursuant to Clause 13 of the 1989 Rules. ii. A Post-Release Monitoring Committee would be constituted by GEAC consisting of 2 subject matter external experts who will visit the growing sites of the approved biological material. iii. The Applicant shall provide detailed step by step testing procedures to the GEAC. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1877 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. iv. Usage of any formulation of herbicide is not permitted for cultivation in farmers’ fields under any situation. v. Commercial use of DMH-11 hybrid shall be subject to Seeds Act, 1966. vi. It is mandatory that all seed packets of DMH-11 and subsequent hybrids derived from the technology should be appropriately labelled indicating the contents including the name of the transgenes, physical and genetic purity etc., in English, Hindi and vernacular language(s). Judicial Review of the Impugned Decision 25. The challenges raised by the Petitioners to this decision can be summarised as follows: a. The GEAC could not have delegated its function to a sub-committee/expert committee, since it is not within the scope of the 1989 Rules. b. Further, in any case, that the GEAC has not independently applied its mind to the report of its expert committee and has not considered other independent scientific reports. 25 (a) 1. At the outset, I must consider, the scope of judicial review to be exercised in such matters. This Court in the case of N.D. Jayal v. Union of India (3-Judge Bench),5 which related to the safety of dams, observed that: “…This Court cannot sit in over the cutting edge of scientific analysis relating to the safety of any project. Experts in science may themselves differ in their opinions while taking decisions on matters related to safety and allied aspects. The opposing viewpoints of the experts will also have to be given due consideration after full application of mind. When the Government or the authorities concerned after due consideration of all viewpoints and full application of mind took a decision, then it is not appropriate for the court to interfere. Such matters must be left to the mature wisdom of the Government or the implementing agency. It is their forte. In such cases, if the situation demands, the 5 [2003] Supp.