She mentioned that there was a promise made by the appellant that he would be marrying her. Thus, the contention of the complainant was that she consented to have physical relationship with the appellant on the misconception of fact that he would marry her because of the promise made by the appellant that he would ultimately marry her. 19. Section 375 of the IPC clearly postulates that a person is said to have committed rape if he performs any of the sexual acts mentioned under sub-clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) without the consent of the woman. As mentioned above, in terms of Section 90 of the IPC, if the consent is given under a misconception of fact, such a consent is no consent in the eyes of law and cannot be considered to be wilful and voluntary consent. 898 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 20. Keeping this aspect in mind as to what amounts to consent with reference to Section 375 of the IPC, this Court has examined and considered in a number of cases that if the person acts with an active understanding of the circumstances, actions and consequences of the act, it would indicate the presence of consent. It was observed in the case of Shambhu Kharwar v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Anr.4 as follows:- “11. In Pramod Suryabhan Pawar v. State of Maharashtra (2019) 9 SCC 608, a two Judge Bench of this Court of which one of us was a part (D.Y. Chandrachud J. ), held in Sonu @ Subhash Kumar v. State of Uttar Pradesh (2021) 18 SCC 517, observed that: “12. This Court has repeatedly held that consent with respect to Section 375 of the IPC involves an active understanding of the circumstances, actions and consequences of the proposed act. An individual who makes a reasoned choice to act after evaluating various alternative actions (or inaction) as well as the various possible consequences flowing from such action or inaction, consents to such action… […] 14. […] Specifically in the context of a promise to marry, this Court has observed that there is a distinction between a false promise given on the understanding by the maker that it will be broken, and the breach of a promise which is made in good faith but subsequently not fulfilled… […] 16. Where the promise to marry is false and the intention of the maker at the time of making the promise itself was not to abide by it but to deceive the woman to convince her to engage in sexual relations, there is a “misconception of fact” that vitiates the woman’s “consent”. On the other hand, a breach of a promise cannot be said to be a false promise. To establish a false promise, the maker of the promise should 4 [2022] 7 SCR 156 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1032 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 899 Mahesh Damu Khare v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. have had no intention of upholding his word at the time of giving it.