162. The Supreme Court of Canada held as follows: “While much latitude is left to each House of Parliament, such a purposive approach to the definition of privilege implies important limits. There is general recognition, for example, that privilege attaches to “proceedings in Parliament”. Nevertheless, as stated in Erskine May (19th ed. 1976), at p. 89, not “everything that is said or done within 77 [2005] 1 SCR 667 566 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Chamber during the transaction of business forms part of proceedings in Parliament. Particular words or acts may be entirely unrelated to any business which is in course of transaction or is in a more general sense before the House as having been ed to come before it in due course.” (This passage was referred to with approval in Re Clark.) Thus in R. v. Bunting (1885), 7 O.R. 524, for example, the Queen’s Bench Division held that a conspiracy to bring about a change in the government by bribing members of the provincial legislature was not in any way connected with a proceeding in Parliament and, therefore, the court had jurisdiction to try the offence. Erskine May (23rd ed.) refers to an opinion of “the Privileges Committee in 1815 that the re-arrest of Lord Cochrane (a Member of the Commons) in the Chamber (the House not sitting) was not a breach of privilege. Particular words or acts may be entirely unrelated to any business being transacted or ed to come before the House in due course. … All of these sources point in the direction of a similar conclusion. In to sustain a claim of parliamentary privilege, the assembly or member seeking its immunity must show that the sphere of activity for which privilege is claimed is so closely and directly connected with the fulfilment by the assembly or its members of their functions as a legislative and deliberative body, including the assembly’s work in holding the government to account, that outside interference would undermine the level of autonomy required to enable the assembly and its members to do their work with dignity and efficiency.” (emphasis supplied) 163. Similarly, the decision of the Supreme Court of Canada in Chagnon v. Syndicat de la fonction publique et parapublique du Québe,78 relies on Vaid (supra) and adopts the test of ‘necessity’ in similar 78 [2018] 2 SCR 687 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 567 Sita Soren v. Union of India terms. In that case, security guards who were employed by the National Assembly of Québec were dismissed from service by the President of the assembly. The dismissal was assailed before the labour arbitrator. This was objected to on the ground that the decision to dismiss the guards is not subject to review and is protected by parliamentary privilege. The Supreme Court of Canada, in its majority opinion, held that the dismissal of the security guards was not protected by parliamentary privilege. The Court opined that the inherent nature of parliamentary privilege indicates that its scope must be anchored to its rationale, i.e.