After disbelieving the testimony of PW-26, who claims to be an eyewitness, after discarding the evidence of the CD of the alleged CCTV footage and after finding that another eyewitness, though available, has not been examined, it is not possible to sustain the conviction of the accused only based on the evidence of recovery. Moreover, all the circumstances forming part of the chain have not been proved. RELIANCE ON INADMISSIBLE EVIDENCE 14. The evidence of PW-27 is relevant for different reasons. It is material to state how his evidence has been recorded. In the examination- in-chief, he has stated thus: “.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. I interrogated accused Randeep Rana and Rajesh @ Don. Both the accused persons admitted about the crime (objected to). Thereafter, they both brought to the police station and were lodged in the lock-up. On 10.7.2013, I interrogated accused Randeep @ Rana and Rajesh @ Don while in police custody one by one, who suffered disclosure statements Ex.P55 and Ex.P56 respectively. Said statements were signed by the respective accused and were witnessed by ASI Dharamvir and HC Sultan Singh. Accused Randeep @ Rana while admitting his involvement in the present case, had 1434 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports disclosed that about 13-14 years back his uncle was murdered by the family member of complainant. Due to that revenge they have hatched a conspiracy and after making planning with co-accused had abducted Gurpal and committed his murder that he could identify the place from where Gurpal was abducted, where he was murdered and where his body was thrown. He had also disclosed that Kaka @ Kanch in whose office the murder of Gurpal was committed was having the knowledge about all the conspiracy as he was the party of the conspiracy. He also disclosed that accused Chaman was also present in the said office. He also disclosed about the role played by accused Naini, Prabhjot, Rajesh @ Don, Vicky @ Kali, Parveen @ Kala, Mohit @ Kaga in the commission of crime of murder of Gurpal (object to being inadmissible) Similarly, accused Rajesh @ Don admitting his involvement in the commission of crime of the present case, has disclosed about the conspiracy of committing murder of Gurpal and he also disclosed about the vehicle used in the crime. He had also disclosed that Kaka @ Kanch in whose office the murder of Gurpal was committed was having the knowledge about all the conspiracy as he was the party of the conspiracy and that accused Chaman Lal was also present in the said office. He also disclosed about the role played by accused Naini, Prabhjot, Randeep Rana, Vicky @ Kali, Parveen @ Kala, Mohit @ Kaga in the commission of crime of murder of Gurpal. The accused also disclosed about the place where they had left the car of Gurpal.