The detailed submissions of the learned counsel have already been adverted to above and, therefore, it is unnecessary to reproduce the same once again. 23.3. Respondent No.3 has challenged the locus of the petitioners in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.319 of 2022 and connected writ petitions and contended that the petitioners therein are not related to the said case and are third-party/strangers to the case. If petitions filed by third- party strangers are entertained by this Court, then it would unsettle the settled position of law and would open floodgates for litigation. Learned counsel for respondent No.3 Sri Rishi Malhotra placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Janata Dal vs. H.S. Chowdhary, (1992) 4 SCC 305 (“Janata Dal”) which was reiterated and followed in Simranjit Singh and in Subramanian Swamy vs. Raju, (2013) 10 SCC 465 (“Subramanian Swamy”) where it has consistently been held that a third party, who is a total stranger to the prosecution has no ‘locus standi’ in criminal matters and has no right whatsoever to file a petition under Article 32. 23.4. In Simranjit Singh, this Court was faced with the situation where a conviction of some of the accused persons by this Court under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, (TADA Act) was sought to be challenged under Article 32 of the Constitution by the President of the Akali Dal (M), namely, Simranjit Singh Mann which was dismissed. In paragraph 5 of the in Simranjit Singh, this Court categorically dealt with the said issue and held that the petition under Article 32 of the Constitution was not maintainable for the simple reason that the petitioner therein did not seek to enforce any of his fundamental rights nor did he complain that any of his fundamental rights were being violated. This Court was of the view that a total stranger in a criminal case cannot be permitted to question the correctness of a decision. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 823 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others 24. Per contra, learned senior counsel, Ms. Indira Jaising, has made her submissions on the issue of locus standi of the petitioner in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.326 of 2022. According to her, even when no specific legal injury is caused to a person or to a determinate class or group of persons by an act or omission of the State or any public authority but when an injury is caused to public interest, a concerned citizen can maintain an action for vindicating the rule of law and setting aside the unlawful action or enforcing the performance of public duty. (Vide B.P Singhal). 24.1. She asserted that the writ petition raises questions of great public importance in that, in a democracy based on the rule of law, no authority has any unfeterred and unreviewable discretion. All powers vested in an authority, are intended to be used only for public good. The exercise of executive power must be informed by the finer canons of constitutionalism, vide Maru Ram. That the impugned decision of granting remission to the convicts violates rule of law, is arbitrary and not based on any relevant consideration.