[Paras 16, 17] Criminal Law – Police investigation – Object and purpose – Discussed. [Para 26] [2024] 6 S.C.R. 89 Sharif Ahmed and Another v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another Non-bailable warrants – Charge sheet filed u/ss.323, 504, 506, 120B, 308, 325, Penal Code, 1860 – Bailable warrants issued – Application for exemption from personal appearance was filed which was rejected – Non-bailable warrants issued – High Court dismissed the petition u/s.482, CrPC to quash the criminal proceedings: Held: Non-bailable warrants cannot be issued in a routine manner and the liberty of an individual cannot be curtailed unless necessitated by the larger interest of public and the State – While there are no comprehensive set of guidelines for the issuance of non-bailable warrants, this Court has observed on several occasions that non-bailable warrants should not be issued, unless the accused is charged with a heinous crime, and is likely to evade the process of law or tamper/destroy evidence – Non-bailable warrants issued in appeal arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 9482/2021 are quashed being unsustainable. [Paras 46] Penal Code, 1860 – ss.406, 420, 503 – Offences under, when not made out – Discussed. [Paras 36, 37, 39] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.205 – Application for exemption from personal appearance was rejected by the Special Chief Judicial Magistrate, recording that as bail was not obtained till then and there is no provision for granting exemption from personal appearance prior to obtaining bail – Correctness: Held: Not correct, as the power to grant exemption from personal appearance under the Code should not be read in a restrictive manner as applicable only after the accused has been granted bail – The power to grant exemption from personal appearance should be exercised liberally, when facts and circumstances require such exemption – s.205 states that the Magistrate, exercising his discretion, may dispense with the personal attendance of the accused while issuing summons, and allow them to appear through their pleader – While provisions of the Code are considered to be exhaustive, cases arise where the Code is silent and the court has to make such as the ends of justice require – In such cases, the criminal court must act on the principle, that every procedure which is just and fair, is understood as permissible, till it is shown to be expressly or impliedly prohibited by law. [Para 47] 90 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Criminal Law – Civil disputes not involving criminal offence – Duty of a Magistrate: Held: A Magistrate needs to be cautious in examining whether the facts of the case disclose a civil or a criminal wrong – Attempts at initiating vexatious criminal proceedings should be thwarted early on, as a summoning , or even a direction to register an FIR, has grave consequences for setting the criminal proceedings in motion – Any effort to settle civil disputes and claims which do not involve any criminal offence, by way of applying pressure through criminal prosecution, should be deprecated and discouraged.