On a careful consideration of the provisions under Section 21, CPC, we are of the considered view that the provisions would undoubtedly make it clear though taking of an objection as to the lack of territorial jurisdiction before the Court of first instance at the earliest opportunity is a condition required to raise that objection before an appellate or revisional Court satisfaction of such condition by itself would not make an award granting compensation a nullity inasmuch as in such cases there would not be inherent lack of jurisdiction in Court in regard to the subject matter. Therefore, in such cases, correction by a Court is open, only if it occasions in failure of justice. The provision thus, reflects the legislative intention that all possible care should be taken to ensure that the time, energy and labour spent by a Court did not go in vain unless there has been a consequent failure of justice. 14. In the above view of the matter the decision in Mantoo Sarkar’s case (supra) and Malati Sardar’s case (supra) that objection of lack of territorial jurisdiction in an appeal against an award granting compensation could not be entertained in the absence of consequent failure of justice, according to us, should be followed with alacrity and promptitude. 15. The question in the instant case is, however, slightly different inasmuch as, here the Tribunal’s decision itself is to the effect that [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1213 Balveer Batra v. The New India Assurance Company & Anr. it lacks territorial jurisdiction and it was that finding which obtained conformance under the impugned of the High Court. A glance at the factual matrix is profitable for considering the moot point involved in the case on hand. Firstly, it is to be noted that the claim petition under Section 166 of the M.V. Act filed in the year 2006 was dismissed on the ground of lack of territorial jurisdiction only on 06.10.2010. Thus, it is evident that the Tribunal which was obliged to decide the question of jurisdiction at the threshold, finding it difficult to decide the same without letting the parties to adduce evidence permitted parties to adduce their evidence. The materials on record would reveal that before the Tribunal, on behalf of the claimants PW1 to PW3 were examined and on behalf of opposite party Nos. 1 and 2 viz., respondents 2 and 3 herein, opposite Party No. 1 Mr. Tula Singh was examined as DW1. Paragraph 7 of the Tribunal’s would further reveal that the first respondent herein viz., the insurance company which was opposite party No. 3 therein, did not examine any witness in support of its pleadings, but cross-examined prosecution witnesses. Add to it, it is a fact that the first respondent-Insurance Company got its branch within the limits of the Tribunal where the subject claim petition was filed. 16. In the context of the question emerging for consideration it is apposite to refer to the relevant provisions prescribing the forum for adjudication of compensation arising out of an accident of the nature specified in sub-section (1) of Section 165 of the M.V.