No. 1 and approved it. It is further to be noted that the appeal challenging the aforesaid of the Madras High Court dated 6th November 2006 has also been dismissed by this Court vide dated 14th September 2017 in the case of Association of Engineers v. Government of Tamil Nadu and Others7. 20. Insofar as the issue in the case of B. Thirumal (supra) is concerned, the same would not be applicable to the facts of the present case. In the said case, the appellant was working as a Junior Engineer (Electrical). He was appointed to the said post by direct recruitment. Aggrieved by the prevalent practice of Assistant Engineers (Electrical) being empanelled for promotion to the post of Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical) only against 25% quota apportioned for members of the Subordinate Engineering Service, he had filed a representation. The said representation came to be rejected. It was sought to be contended in the said case that an Assistant Engineer promoted from Junior Engineer cadre and having obtained a degree in engineering was also entitled to compete with the Assistant Engineers directly recruited for 75% of the quota earmarked for the direct recruits. The Court found that the degree holder Junior Engineers continue to be members of the Subordinate Engineering Service even after they are redesignated as Assistant Engineers upon getting a degree qualification. Upon their getting degree qualification, they could 7 [2017] 11 SCR 713 : 2017 INSC 906 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 557 Association of Engineers and Others Etc. v. The State of Tamil Nadu and Others Etc. be considered only against the 25% quota apportioned for the Subordinate Service and not against 75% apportioned for the State Service members directly recruited to that service or appointed by transfer in terms of the Rules. 21. Such is not the situation here. The Technical Assistants are not claiming against the 75% posts available for direct recruits. Their claim is only towards 25% posts which are required to be filled in from Junior Draughting Officers, Overseers and Technical Assistants who have put five years service and have acquired B.E./A.M.I.E. qualification. It is thus clear that the Technical Assistants are, in no way, encroaching upon the quota apportioned for directly recruited Assistant Engineers. Even if their contention is accepted that once they are brought in the cadre of Assistant Engineers, they would lose their birthmark, in view of the of this Court in the case of B. Thirumal (supra), for the higher post, and there will be no competition amongst direct recruits and promotees. Whereas the direct recruits would be entitled to get promotional posts from 75% quota apportioned for them, the Technical Assistants along with other placed amongst them would be entitled to promotional posts only from 25% posts apportioned for them. 22. It is further to be noted that the contention of the appellants that, the services of the Technical Assistants are not regularized, is also contrary to record. It will be relevant to refer to Clause 4 of G.O.