The word ‘custody’ in Section 170 has to be interpreted liberally and merely connotes presentation of the accused by the investigating officer. This is because personally liberty is an important aspect of the constitutional mandate. Existence of the power of arrest, and justification for exercise thereof are two different aspects. Section 170 of the Code does not impose an obligation on the officer in-charge to arrest each and every accused before or at the time of filing of the chargesheet. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 95 Sharif Ahmed and Another v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another 5. Section 170 of the Code deals with the cases where it appears to the officer that there is sufficient evidence or reasonable ground to proceed. In such an event he is required to submit a police report or chargesheet under Section 173(2) of the Code. Elucidating on Section 173(2) of the Code in Dablu Kujur (supra), this Court observed: “12. We are more concerned with Section 173(2) as we have found that the investigating officers while submitting the chargesheet/Police Report do not comply with the requirements of the said provision. Though it is true that the form of the report to be submitted under Section 173(2) has to be prescribed by the State Government and each State Government has its own Police Manual to be followed by the police officers while discharging their duty, the mandatory requirements required to be complied with by such officers in the Police Report/Chargesheet are laid down in Section 173, more particularly sub-section (2) thereof. 13. It may be noted that though there are various reports required to be submitted by the police in charge of the police station before, during and after the investigation as contemplated in Chapter XII of Cr. P.C., it is only the report forwarded by the police officer to the Magistrate under sub-section (2) of Section 173 Cr. P.C. that can form the basis for the competent court for taking cognizance thereupon. A chargesheet is nothing but a final report of the police officer under Section 173(2) of Cr. P.C. It is an opinion or intimation of the investigating officer to the concerned court that on the material collected during the course of investigation, an offence appears to have been committed by the particular person or persons, or that no offence appears to have been committed. xx xx xx 15. The issues with regard to the compliance of Section 173(2) Cr. P.C., may also arise, when the investigating officer submits Police Report only qua some of the persons-accused named in the FIR, keeping open the 96 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports investigation qua the other persons-accused, or when all the documents as required under Section 173(5) are not submitted. In such a situation, the question that is often posed before the court is whether such a Police Report could be said to have been submitted in compliance with sub-section (2) of Section 173 Cr. P.C. In this regard, it may be noted that in Satya Narain Musadi v. State of Bihar, this Court has observed that statutory requirement of the report under Section 173(2) would be complied with if various details prescribed therein are included in the report.