There was a resurrection of these observations by Justice Krishna Iyer in the decision of five judges of this Court in Sanjeev Coke. As briefly noted above, in this case, the petitioners challenged the nationalisation of their coke oven plants on the ground that nationalising certain coke oven plants, while leaving others out violated Article 14 of the Constitution. The Court proceeded on the assumption that Article 31C remains in force and protects a legislation from challenge under Articles 14 and 19 when the Act bears a nexus 95 Ranganatha Reddy [80-84]. 110 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with the principles in Article 39(b) or (c). This Court held that the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act 1972 is a legislation that gives effect to the policy specified in Article 39(b) and therefore, is immune from a challenge to its constitutionality under Article 14. To establish the nexus between the Act and the principles laid down in Article 39(b), the bench of five judges of this Court (speaking through Chinappa Reddy, J) analysed the scope of Article 39(b) and the meaning of both ‘material resources of the community’ and the concept of ‘distribution to subserve the common good’. 93. The counsel for the petitioner in Sanjeev Coke mirrored the arguments made by some of the appellants in the case before us. It was urged that a coal mine or coke oven plant owned by private parties cannot constitute a “material resource of the community” until it is acquired by the state. It was argued that to qualify as a material resource of the community, the ownership of the resource must vest with the state. A legislation such as the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, it was urged, may be a legislation for the acquisition of coking coal mines and coke oven plants belonging to private parties but cannot be considered to be a legislation in furtherance of Article 39(b). In essence, the petitioners’ case was that acquisition is a pre-requisite for ‘distribution’ and cannot be considered synonymous with distribution. 94. This Court rejected this argument and quoted with approval paragraphs 82 to 83 of the authored by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy for a minority of judges. Relying on the observations of Justice Krishna Iyer, this Court concluded that material resources of the community are not confined to public-owned resources but include “all resources, natural and man-made, public and private-owned”. In this way, the observations in the minority opinion authored by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy were resurrected by a five-Judge Bench of this Court in Sanjeev Coke. b. Sanjeev Coke erred in relying on the observations of the minority in Ranganatha Reddy 95. The first issue which arises is the precedential value of the observations made by Justice Krishna Iyer in his opinion in Ranganatha Reddy and whether a subsequent bench of lesser strength in Sanjeev Coke was in violation of judicial discipline by following these observations. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 111 Property Owners Association & Ors.