40,65,515/- from the date of the award till the date of payment. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 513 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. However, all other claims including counterclaims were rejected. KEY FINDINGS IN THE AWARD 13. The key findings of the Arbitral Tribunal were: (a) Gita Power and OPG are jointly and severally liable – Gita Power, being the holding company of OPG, had actively participated in the negotiations and had placed the purchase s, which were later confirmed by OPG. In fact, they both acted as a single economic enterprise. Therefore, mere issuance of another set of purchase s by OPG with same terms and conditions would not relieve Gita Power of its obligations, rather both would be jointly and severally liable to the claimant (Enexio). (b) Claimant is entitled to the unpaid principal amount with interest – Principal amount of Rs. 6,75,15,631/- is due and payable to the claimant (Enexio) under the terms of the purchase s, subject to reconciliation of Rs.63,40,161 spent on vertical duct erection. Thus, net amount payable to the claimant is Rs. 6,11,75,470 plus interest. (c) No Damages are payable by Enexio to OPG/ Gita Power for the delay – The claimant was entitled to extension up to the date of completion i.e., 21 September 2015. Therefore, Enexio has no liability towards liquidated damages for the delay. Moreover, all the completion requirements were achieved by that date. (d) No liability of Enexio to pay customs duty – Clause 6 of the Supply / Erection Purchase s stipulated that all taxes, duties and local levies payable would be borne and paid by the purchaser. Therefore, liability to pay customs duty would fall upon the purchaser/ employer. (e) Limitation - (i) Declaratory relief sought by Enexio qua the debit notes (i.e., towards liquidated damages and customs duty) is beyond the period of limitation prescribed by Article 58 of the Limitation Act, 1963;4 4 1963 Act 514 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) However, Enexio’s claim for unpaid dues payable under the contract is within the period of limitation; and (iii) OPG’s counterclaim for cost of repair/replacement of gearboxes and fan modules is barred by limitation. Reasoning of the Arbitral Tribunal on limitation: 14. Regarding the finding on limitation, the Arbitral Tribunal (in short the “Tribunal”) observed that the declaratory relief qua the debit notes (i.e., towards: (a) Liquidated damages for the delay; and (b) Customs duty) was sought beyond three years from the date when the right to sue first accrued, therefore it was beyond the limitation period prescribed by Article 58 of the Schedule to the 1963 Act. The Tribunal noticed that the debit note for liquidated damages was issued on 24 August 2015; the claimant acknowledged its receipt vide letter dated 28 August 2015; whereas the request for arbitration was received by ICC Secretariat on 2 May 2019. Likewise, the debit note for customs duty was issued on 12 January 2016 that is, beyond three years from the date of request for arbitration.