34. Apart from the powers and duties of Lt. Governor and the Government of NCTD as noted in Paras 32 and 33, the DMC Act also refers to powers, functions and duties of other authorities such as the Central Government, the Corporation,19 and the Commissioner.20 The specific powers that are entrusted to them are mentioned in the footnote for the purpose of brevity as we are concerned only with the competing power structure between the Lt. Governor and the Government of NCTD. 35. The provisions of the Act relating to the Lt. Governor are relating to matters such as nomination of experts, Election Commissioner, constituting Finance Commission, convening the first meeting of the Corporation, acting as an appellate authority, etc. These functions seem to suggest that they are intended to enable the authority (Lt. Governor) in which the power is vested to act as an independent body. 36. On the other hand, powers and duties entrusted to the Government under the DMC Act are very distinct from that of the Lt. Governor. Para 30 evidences this fact. Powers and duties of Government of NCTD relate to matters such as making of subordinate legislation, having superintendence, making direct recruitment, imposing taxes, 19 See Sections 39, 89, 98, 209 20 See Sections 89, 90, 92, 98 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 233 Government of NCT of Delhi v. Office of Lieutenant Governor of Delhi establishment of Tribunals, appointment of Authorities such as the Municipal Chief Auditor, Valuation Committee, etc. 37. Having examined Section 3(3)(b)(i) of the DMC Act empowering the Lt. Governor to nominate persons having special knowledge to the DMC, we will underscore the point that it is law made by Parliament. As the law requires the Lt. Governor to exercise the power of nomination, it satisfies the exception contemplated under Article 239AA(4) to act in his discretion as he is by or under any law so required to act. We also reject the submission that the word ‘Administrator’ is a relic of the past- a pre-1991 legislation when there was no Legislative Assembly for Delhi, for the reason that Section 3(3)(b)(i) was introduced only in 1993 to give effect to the two constitutional amendments. Apart from the ‘text’ of Section 3(3)(b)(i) specifically requiring the Lt. Governor to nominate, we have also examined the ‘context’ in which the said provision is located, and it evidences the existence of a statutory scheme in which powers and duties are entrusted to different authorities under the Act to subserve the constitutional purposes. The statutory regime makes it clear that the entrustment of the powers is intended to be exercised by Lt. Governor as a statutory duty. 38. We would therefore proceed to add the following two principles to the statement of the relations between Union and NCTD in para 22: (ix) The statutory power under Section 3(3)(b)(i) to nominate persons of special knowledge was vested in the Lt. Governor for the first time by the 1993 amendment to the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 to incorporate the Constitutional changes through Articles 239AA, 239AB and introduction of Part IX-A relating to municipalities.