ISSUE II 24. We now proceed to examine whether the suit for declaration simpliciter was maintainable in view of Section 34 of the SRA, 1963. 25. Section 34 reads as: 34. Discretion of Court as to declaration of status or right.- Any person entitled to any legal character, or to any right as to any property, may institute a suit against any person denying, or interested to deny, his title to such character or right, and the Court may in its discretion make therein a declaration that he is so entitled, and the plaintiff need not in such suit ask for any further relief: Provided that no Court shall make any such declaration where the plaintiff, being able to seek further relief than a mere declaration of title, omits to do so. (Emphasis Supplied) 26. The learned senior counsel for the appellant has contended that it has been settled by the Courts below that the appellant has been in possession of the subject property since 1976. In view of the proviso to Section 34, the suit of the plaintiff could not have been decreed since the plaintiff sought for mere declaration without the consequential relief of recovery of possession. 27. The learned counsel for the Respondent, in rebuttal, contended that since at the time of filing of the suit, the life interest holder was alive, she was entitled to be in possession of the property and therefore, [2024] 2 S.C.R. 345 Vasantha (Dead) Thr. Lr. v. Rajalakshmi @ Rajam (Dead) Thr.Lrs. the Plaintiff not being entitled to possession at the time of institution of the suit, recovery of possession could not have been sought. 28. We now proceed to examine the law on this issue. As submitted by the learned senior counsel for the Appellant, in Vinay Krishna v. Keshav Chandra (2-Judge Bench)29, this Court while considering Section 42 of the erstwhile Specific Relief Act, 1877 to be pari materia with Section 34 of SRA, 1963 observed that the plaintiff’s not being in possession of the property in that case ought to have amended the plaint for the relief of recovery of possession in view of the bar included by the proviso. 29. This position has been followed by this Court in Union of India v. Ibrahim Uddin (2-Judge Bench)30, elaborated the position of a suit filed without the consequential relief. It was observed: “55. The section provides that courts have discretion as to declaration of status or right, however, it carves out an exception that a court shall not make any such declaration of status or right where the complainant, being able to seek further relief than a mere declaration of title, omits to do so. 56. In Ram Saran v. Ganga Devi [(1973) 2 SCC 60] this Court had categorically held that the suit seeking for declaration of title of ownership but where possession is not sought, is hit by the proviso of Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 and, thus, not maintainable. In Vinay Krishna v. Keshav Chandra [1993 Supp (3) SCC 129] this Court dealt with a similar issue where the plaintiff was not in exclusive possession of property and had filed a suit seeking declaration of title of ownership.