41. Further, wherever the facts of the case are not in dispute, and the issue involves the interpretation of rules which are of significant importance having a far-reaching effect, it would be a fit case for this Court to exercise its discretion and entertain the writ petition under Article 32 even if there is an alternative remedy available. 42. It is contended by the petitioners that they had to come before this Court invoking Article 32 of the Constitution instead of Article 226 because the impugned final Select List dated 10.03.2023 which is the subject matter of challenge had been ratified by the High Court in its Full Court meeting. We are not impressed with such a submission as the High Court on its judicial side can always review any decision or action taken by it on its administrative side. It would be erroneous to say that if any decision taken by the High Court on its administrative side is ultimately challenged on any legal ground on its judicial side, then the High Court may not undertake judicial review of such administrative decision dispassionately. 43. In the present case, the facts are not in dispute either at the end of the petitioners herein or at the end of the High Court or the respondents. Moreover, since the issues involve not just the interpretation of Rule 5(1)(I) of the 2005 Rules but also the decision of this Court in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra), we are of the considered opinion that the petition under Article 32 deserves to be entertained. ii. The Legislative History and Scheme of the Gujarat State Judicial Service Rules, 2005. a. Shetty Commission on Judicial Reforms and the Decision of this Court in All India Judges’ Association (3). 44. The subject matter of the controversy with which we are concerned in the present litigation is with regard to the scheme and policy for promotions in the Higher Judicial Services, particularly to the cadre of Additional District & Sessions Judge. The genesis of the same can be traced back to the decision of this Court in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra). [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1101 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. 45. The First Law Commission of India under the Chairmanship of Shri M.C. Setalvad in its 14th Report in the year 1958 expressed concerns over the growing problem of finding capable and competent judicial officers for the District Judiciary. It reported that most of the difficulties brought to the notice of the Commission had their origin in the inefficiency or inexperience of the judicial personnel on account of the falling standards in their recruitment. The relevant observations read as under: - “2. Subordinate Judiciary Personnel 2. As has been said repeatedly elsewhere, the problem of efficient judicial administration, whether at the level of the superior courts or the subordinate courts, is largely the problem of finding capable and competent judges and judicial officers. Delays in the disposal of cases and the accumulation of arrears are in a great measure due to the inability of the judicial officers to arrange their work methodically and to appreciate and apply the provisions of the Procedural Codes.