Digital Supreme Court Reports 45. Article 30 pertains to the right of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions. It provides that all minorities, whether based on religion or language, have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. Article 30(2) enjoins the State not to discriminate against any educational institution in granting aid on the ground that it is under the management of a minority, whether based on religion or language. Article 30 confers a special right on religious and linguistic minorities to instill in them a sense of security and confidence.42 It secures equal treatment of majority and minority institutions and preserves secularism43 by allaying all apprehensions of interference by the executive and legislature in matters of religion.44 The constitutional scheme under Articles 25 to 30 distinguishes between the right of an individual to practice religion and the secular part of religion, which is amenable to State regulation.45 b. Testing the validity of a statute for violation of the basic structure of the Constitution 46. The provisions discussed in the above segment indicate that secularism is embodied in the constitutional scheme, particularly Part III. In Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala, this Court held that Article 368 does not enable Parliament to alter the basic structure or framework of the Constitution.46 It was held that the power of Parliament to amend the Constitution cannot have the effect of destroying or abrogating the basic structure or framework of the Constitution.47 Further, the judges constituting the majority 42 T M A Pai Foundation v. State of Karnataka (2002) 8 SCC 481 [157] 43 Ahmedabad St Xavier’s College Society (supra) [9]; T M A Pai Foundation (supra) [138] [“138. As we look at it, Article 30(1) is a sort of guarantee or assurance to the linguistic and religious minority institutions of their right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. Secularism and equality being two of the basic features of the Constitution, Article 30(1) ensures protection to the linguistic and religious minorities, thereby preserving the secularism of the country. Furthermore, the principles of equality must necessarily apply to the enjoyment of such rights. No law can be framed that will discriminate against such minorities with regard to the establishment and administration of educational institutions vis-à-vis other educational institutions. Any law or rule or regulation that would put the educational institutions run by the minorities at a disadvantage when compared to the institutions run by the others will have to be struck down.”] 44 Ahmedabad St Xavier’s College Society (supra) [75] (Justice H R Khanna) 45 S R Bommai (supra) [183] 46 [1973] Supp. 1 SCR 1 : (1973) 4 SCC 225 47 Kesavananda Bharati (supra) [1426] (Justice H R Khanna) [“1426. […] The word “amendment” postulates that the old Constitution survives without loss of its identity despite the change and continues even though it has been subjected to alterations. As a result of the amendment, the old Constitution [2024] 11 S.C.R. 399 Anjum Kadari & Anr.