[b] the petitioner and the sureties shall affix their photographs and Left Thumb Impression in the surety bond and the Magistrate may obtain a copy of their Aadhar card or Bank pass Book to ensure their identity. [c] the petitioner is directed to report before the respondent police on every Tuesday and Saturday at 10.30 a.m., until further s; [d] the petitioner shall not tamper with evidence or witness either during investigation or trial. [e] the petitioner shall not abscond either during investigation or trial. [f] On breach of any of the aforesaid conditions, the learned Magistrate/Trial Court is entitled to take appropriate action against the petitioner in accordance with law as if the conditions have been imposed and the petitioner released on anticipatory bail by the learned Magistrate/Trial Court himself as laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in P.K.Shaji vs. State of Kerala [(2005)AIR SCW 5560]. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 361 State by the Inspector of Police v. B. Ramu [g] If the accused thereafter absconds, a fresh FIR can be registered under Section 229A IPC.” 6. From the reproduced supra, it is apparent that the learned Single Judge totally ignored the submission of the Public Prosecutor that the respondent-accused was arraigned in three more previous cases (two of which involve offence under the NDPS Act). Furthermore, the learned Single Judge also totally ignored the fact that the recovered ganja was well in excess of the commercial quantity as provided in the schedule to the NDPS Act. 7. During the course of submissions, learned counsel for the respondent vehemently and fervently contended that during the intervening period, the matter has progressed much ahead inasmuch as the investigation has been concluded and charge-sheet has been filed. Now the matter is posted for framing of charges against the accused. 8. Section 37 of the NDPS Act deals with bail to the accused charged in connection with offence involving commercial quantity of a narcotic drug or psychotropic substance. The provision is reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of ready reference:- “[37. Offences to be cognizable and non-bailable.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974),— (a) every offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable; (b) no person accused of an offence punishable for [offences under Section 19 or Section 24 or Section 27-A and also for offences involving commercial quantity] shall be released on bail or on his own bond unless— (i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to oppose the application for such release, and (ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the application, the court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. 362 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) The limitations on granting of bail specified in clause (b) of sub-section (1) are in addition to the limitations under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), or any other law for the time being in force on granting of bail]” 9.