131 Jagmohan and Another v. Badri Nath and Others b. where the sale is by a female of land or property to which she has succeeded through her husband, or through her son in case the son has inherited the land or property sold from his father, the right or pre-emption shall vest- First, in the son or daughter of such husband of the female; Secondly, in the husband’s brother or husband’s brother’s son of such female. 16. Person in whom right of pre-emption vests in an urban immovable property- The right of pre-emption in respect of urban immovable property shall vest in the tenant who holds under tenancy of the vendor the property sold or apart thereof.” Section 2(3) of the 1900 of Punjab Alienation of Land Act, 1900 2. In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, - xx xx xx (3) the expression “land” means land which is not occupied as the site of any building in a town or village and is occupied or let for agricultural purposes or for purposes subservient to agriculture or for pasture, and includes— (a) the sites of buildings and other structures on such land; (b) a share in the profits of an estate or holding; (c) any dues or any fixed percentage of the land-revenue payable by an inferior landowner to a superior land- owner; (d) a right to receive rent; and (e) any right to water enjoyed by the owner or occupier of land as such: 12. The right of the respondents/tenants in the property flows from Section 16 of the 1913 Act. It is not a matter of dispute that the respondents were tenants in the property from the year 1949 onwards 132 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports where the rolling mill had been set up. The term ‘urban immovable property’ has been defined in Section 3(3) of the 1913 Act to mean immovable property within the limits of town, other than agricultural land. Section 3(1) defines any agricultural land to mean land as defined in 1900 Act. The term ‘land’ as defined in Section 2(3) of the 1900 Act excludes any site of any building in a town or village. Meaning thereby that the immovable property would be more than the land only or the land on which the construction has already been made. The fact that the property in dispute is located in a municipal area of Jagadhri is not in dispute. 13. After coming to the conclusion that the property in dispute on which right of pre-emption was sought to be exercised by the respondents was an urban immovable property, the only issue which requires consideration by this Court is as to whether the exemption of pre- emption as granted vide notification dated 08.10.1985 would be available to the property in dispute. 14. A perusal of the notification shows that it has been issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 8(2) of the 1913 Act, which enables the State Government to declare by notification either no right of pre-emption or only limited right will exist in any local area or with respect to any land or property or class of land or property.