If the posts of District Judges are not filled up in time it is likely that sessions cases may not have timely trial, thereby delaying the whole procedure of justice delivery system. We request the High Court to be practical in the matter of promotion and filling up the posts of the District Judges. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) b. Relevant Statutory Provisions of the Gujarat State Judicial Service Rules, 2005. 56. At this stage, it would be necessary to look into the statutory scheme and refer to the relevant provisions governing the promotion of Civil Judges (Senior Division) to the cadre of District & Sessions Judge in the State of Gujarat. 57. The 2005 Rules provide for the service conditions and policies pertaining to the Judicial Officers and the service framework of the District Judiciary in the State of Gujarat. 58. Rule 5 sub-rule (1) of the 2005 Rules provides for the various modes or methods of appointment to the cadre of District & Sessions Judge. Rule 5(1) of the 2005 Rules framed in accordance with the directions issued in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra), lays down three distinct modes of recruitment to the cadre of District & Sessions Judge. The said Rule reads as under: - [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1111 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. “5. Method of recruitment, qualification and age limit. (1) Recruitment to the cadre of District Judges shall be as under, - (I) 50 per cent by promotion from amongst the Senior Civil Judges on the basis of principle of merit-cum-seniority and passing a suitability test. (II) 25 per cent by promotion strictly on the basis of merit through limited competitive examination of Senior Civil Judges having not less than five years qualifying service, and (III) 25 per cent of the posts shall be filled by direct recruitment from amongst the eligible advocates on the basis of the written and viva voce test conducted by the High Court.” 59. Rule 5(1) sub-clause (I) of the 2005 Rules provides that appointment to 50% of the posts in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge shall be by promotion from the cadre of Civil Judges (Senior Division) i.e., the feeder cadre, on the basis of the principle of ‘Merit-cum- Seniority’ and upon passing a Suitability Test. In other words, 50% of the posts of District & Sessions Judge shall be filled by promotions on the basis of the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’. 60. Rule 5(2) sub-clause (II) of the 2005 Rules provides that 25% of the posts in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge shall be filled by promotions on the basis of merit through a limited departmental competitive examination. 61. Rule 5(2) sub-clause (III) provides the third method of recruitment, by which the remaining 25% of the posts in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge shall be filled by direct recruitment of the eligible advocates on the basis of a written exam and viva-voce. 62. Pursuant to the directions of this Court in All India Judges’ Association (4) (supra), Rule 5 referred to above was amended by the Gujarat State Judicial Service (Amendment) Rules, 2011, whereby, the second category of posts being the 25% promotional quota to be strictly filled on the basis of merit, was reduced to 10% and the 50% promotional quota, to be filled on the basis of principle of ‘Merit- cum-Seniority’ and passing a Suitability Test, was increased to 65%.