Therefore, even on the basis of Examination-in-Chief, the Court or the Magistrate can proceed against a person as long as the court is satisfied that the evidence appearing against such person is such that it prima facie necessitates bringing such person to face trial. In fact, Examination-in-Chief untested by Cross Examination, undoubtedly in itself, is an evidence.” 17. Therefore, the complicity of any person sought to be arrayed as an accused can be decided with or without conducting cross-examination of the complainant and other prosecution witnesses, and there is no mandate to decide the application under section 319 CrPC before cross-examination of other witnesses. 18. In the present case, we find that the Trial Court having tried its best to ensure that the prosecution witnesses nos.1, 2 and 3 present themselves for cross-examination and thereafter it would decide the application under section 319 CrPC, the prosecution witnesses repeatedly continued to either absent themselves or file adjournment applications and only insisted for deciding the application under section 319 CrPC first and only thereafter the trial could proceed. The complainant has no such mandatory right to insist that an application be decided in such a manner. Even the Public Prosecutor had not supported the complainant’s counsel in filing of the application under section 319 CrPC. The role of the complainant in a trial does not permit it to act as a Public Prosecutor on behalf of the State. The [2024] 10 S.C.R. 919 Asim Akhtar v. The State of West Bengal & Anr. complainant and its counsel have a limited role in a sessions trial in a State case. The High Court failed to take into consideration all these aspects. Why the prosecution witnesses were shying from facing the cross-examination is not understood. Their only insistence was that the parents of the accused should be summoned and dragged into the trial and to somehow or the other keep the trial pending. 19. In view of the facts and circumstances of the case, we are of the view that the Trial Court was correct in proceeding under section 232 CrPC and accordingly acquitting the appellant-accused, treating it to be a case of no evidence. The Trial court was also correct in rejecting the application under section 319 CrPC for want of admissible evidence on part of the prosecution. 20. For all the reasons recorded above, the appeal is allowed, the impugned of the High Court is set aside and that of the Trial Court is restored. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan