Against such , the contemnor went in appeal and his appeal is also dismissed vide dated 11-11-2024. 9. His grievance is that despite all the aforestated developments, he has not been able to achieve any positive result in his litigation 10. Today, he apprehends threat to himself and his family members at the end of the contemnor. 11. This Miscellaneous Application on the face of it is not maintainable in law. 12. It is high time that this Court says something on the practice of the litigants filing miscellaneous applications in disposed of proceedings and that too after a period of 5 years, 7 years, 10 years. 13. These miscellaneous applications which are being filed on daily basis have something to do with fresh cause of action that might have arisen with a very remote connection with the main proceedings. 482 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. No miscellaneous application is maintainable in a writ petition to revive proceedings in respect of subsequent events. 15. In fact, the Court has no jurisdiction to entertain such application as no proceedings could be said to be pending before it. When proceedings stand terminated by final disposal of the writ petition be it under Article 32 of the Constitution or Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court, it is not open to the Court to re-open the proceedings by means of a miscellaneous application in respect of a matter which provided a fresh cause of action. If this principle is not followed, there would be confusion and chaos and the finality of the proceedings would cease to have any meaning. 16. In the recent past, a co-ordinate bench of this Court observed the following in “Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. and Others vs. Adani Power Rajasthan Ltd. and Another reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 313”:- “We felt it necessary to examine the question about maintainability of the present application as we are of the view that it was necessary to spell out the position of law as to when such post-disposal miscellaneous applications can be entertained after a matter is disposed of. This Court has become functus officio and does not retain jurisdiction to entertain an application after the appeal was disposed of by the of a three-Judge Bench of this Court on 31.08.2020 through a course beyond that specified in the statute. This is not an application for correcting any clerical or arithmetical error. Neither it is an application for extension of time. A post disposal application for modification and clarification of the of disposal shall lie only in rare cases, where the passed by this Court is executory in nature and the directions of the Court may become impossible to be implemented because of subsequent events or developments. The factual background of this Application does not fit into that description.” (Emphasis supplied) 17. Thus, this Court made it abundantly clear that a miscellaneous application filed in a disposed of proceedings would be maintainable only for the purpose of correcting any clerical or arithmetical error.