Digital Supreme Court Reports 3. Reimbursement of electricity and water charges shall be on the quarterly basis on production of proof of payment of the billed amount. 4. This allowance shall be available at the enhanced rates w.e.f. 01.01.2020.” 39. The SNJPC duly considered the objections. While some High Courts suggested the continuance of the existing system of 50% reimbursement, others suggested reimbursement at 75%, while still others at 100%. The High Courts of Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand suggested the fixation of a ceiling on the number of units. The Union of India and almost all States except Jharkhand and Kerala have accepted the recommendation of SNJPC. The State of Jharkhand recommended a ceiling of Rs 1,250 per month for electricity and water charges. 40. Having considered the recommendation, we are of the view that it should be accepted and it is ed accordingly. 9. Higher Qualification Allowance 41. The SNJPC noted that for acquiring higher qualifications in law, specialized study of the subjects concerned is involved and the acquisition of such qualifications in the nature of a post graduate or doctoral degree will improve the quality of work of a judicial officer. The recommendations of the SNJPC are summarized below: “1. The Judicial Officers shall be granted three advance increments for acquiring higher qualification i.e. post- graduation in law and one more advance increment if he acquires Doctorate in Law. 2. The advance increments once granted for post-graduation degree or Doctorate in law shall not be again granted if, in future, the officer acquires post graduate or Doctorate degree in any other subject. 3. The advance increments shall be available to the officer who had acquired the post-graduation degree or Doctorate either before recruitment or at any time subsequent thereto while in service. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 349 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors 4. The advance increments shall be granted from the date of initial recruitment, if the officer has already acquired the post-graduation degree or Doctorate and from the date of acquiring the post-graduation or Doctorate degree, if acquired after joining the service. 5. The advance increments shall be made available to the officers only and only if the higher qualification has been acquired through regular studies (full time or part time) and not through distant learning programmes. 6. The benefit of advance increments shall not be extended at the ACP stage (ACP I or II). However, the advance increment shall be available when the Officer is promoted from Civil Judge (Jr. Div.) to Civil Judge (Sr. Div.) and from Civil Judge (Sr. Div.) to District Judge cadre. 7. The advance increments shall be available in the District Judge Cadre from District Judge (Entry Level) to District Judge (Selection Grade) and from District Judge (Selection Grade) to District Judge (Super Time Scale). 8. The advance increments for all practical purposes shall be part of salary and Dearness Allowance shall be available on the same.” 42. The recommendation made by the SNJPC that the benefit of advance increment shall not be extended at the ACP stage appears to be covered by the of this Court dated 30 September 2022 in State of Maharashtra v Tejwant Singh Sandhu13 where this Court held: “The short question which is posed for consideration of this Court is whether the judicial officers who have acquired the the degree of LL.M.