Mansha Ram and Khazana Ram stated that they had reached a settlement with the appellants, they agreed to the statement of the appellant that suit may be dismissed. At the same time appellants Julfi Ram and others stated that they have reached a settlement with the respondents, they had paid money to Mansha Ram and others, that they shall be owners in possession of the land in dispute and that the suit be dismissed. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1405 Amro Devi & Ors. v. Julfi Ram (Deceased) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. 14. Based on these statements, the District Judge, Hamirpur by dated 20.08.1984 accepted the appeal, set aside the judgement and decree of Trial Court and dismissed the suit. It further directed that decree sheet be prepared and file be consigned to the record. The effect of this decree would be that the suit of the plaintiffs was dismissed. No declaration was granted to the defendants in the said suit. There was no written compromise deed between the parties, there was no verification as such of any written document. 15. At best, under the alleged compromise of dismissal of suit the defendants therein could have claimed to be in possession of the land in suit and no further. The ownership could not have been transferred because of the dismissal of the suit. Even assuming for the sake of argument that ownership rights were also transferred under the alleged compromise deed, the sale deed executed prior to the said compromise will not be affected in any manner as the plaintiffs were not only recorded as land owners but also had a decree of declaration and permanent injunction in their favour at the time when sale deed was executed. 16. The defendants, in the first round of litigation, were admittedly tenants. They could have become owners of the land in suit either by way of a registered sale deed in their favour or by way of a declaration by the Competent Civil Court whether on merits or by way of a compromise decree granting such declaration. Neither of the two happened. Merely because some statement of the parties is recorded by the first Appellate Court that they have settled the dispute and that the suit may be dismissed, would not make the defendants therein from tenants to owners. Dismissal of the suit would only mean that their status as tenants would continue. 17. The first Appellate Court and the High Court failed to consider that there was no challenge to the sale deed dated 22.08.1983. The doctrine of lis pendens or the restriction imposed under section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act, 18823 may not be relevant or applicable in present case considering the fact that one of the parties- plaintiffs in the proceedings and respondents in pending appeal having executed the sale deed during the pendency of appeal, by their subsequent conduct of giving a statement that their suit be dismissed, acted 3 The TP Act. 1406 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in dishonest and unfair manner.