v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. courts on the consequences of a legislation being struck down is undoubtedly of assistance in the Indian context where courts are similarly empowered. 60. Although the decisions of Central Provinces Manganese Ore and DK Trivedi & Sons were rendered by a three-Judge Bench and a two-Judge Bench of this Court respectively, they were also endorsed by a Constitution Bench of five judges of this Court in Supreme Court Advocates-On-Record Association v Union of India.66 The NJAC Decision is particularly relevant to the case before us because it expressly concerns the legal consequences arising out of the invalidation of a constitutional amendment. In the NJAC Decision, a Constitution Bench of this Court was seized of a challenge to the Ninety-Ninth Constitutional (Amendment) Act, 2014.67 The amendment replaced the collegium-led system of appointing judges with a National Judicial Appointments Committee. The Constitution Bench invalidated the ninety-ninth amendment as violating the basic structure. However, the Union of India contended that upon the invalidation of the ninety-ninth amendment, the earlier collegium-led system of judicial appointments would not revive because Article 124(2) in its original form (upon which the collegium-led system is based) had been repealed by the ninety-ninth amendment. A majority of four judges in the NJAC Decision all rejected this argument and held that the earlier system of judicial appointments would stand revived upon the invalidation of the ninety-ninth amendment.68The opinion of Justice JS Khehar(as the learned Chief Justice then was) expressly relied on the decision in Central Provinces Manganese Ore. The learned Judge held: “412.10 What needs to be kept in mind as we have repeatedly expressed above is that the issue canvassed in the judgements relied upon [by the Solicitor General of India] was the effect of a voluntary decision of a legislature in amending or repealing an existing provision. That position would arise, if Parliament had validly amended or repealed an existing constitutional provision. Herein, the impugned constitutional amendment has definitely 66 [2015] 13 SCR 1 : (2016) 5 SCC 1 : 2015 INSC 285 (“NJAC Decision”). 67 “Ninety-ninth amendment” 68 NJAC Decision [413] (Khehar J); [963] (Lokur J); [989] (Joseph J); [1110] (Goel J). 82 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the effect of substituting some of the existing provisions of the Constitution, and also, adding to it some new provisions. Naturally substitution connotes that the earlier provision ceases to exist and the impugned constitutional amendment by a process of judicial review has been set aside. Such being the position, whatever be the cause and effect of the impugned constitutional amendment, the same will be deemed to be set aside and the position preceding the Amendment will be restored. It does not matter what are the stages or steps of the cause and effect of the Amendment, all the stages and steps will stand negated, in the same fashion as they were introduced by the Amendment, when the amended provisions are set aside.” (emphasis supplied) Justice Khehar endorsed the approach whereby the invalidation of an amendment would also reverse any repeals brought about by the amendment.