As against the tendered quantity of 400 MW, the appellant accepted offers for a total quantum of 550 MW. The appellant justified this decision in view of the “likely power shortages in the forthcoming years” and on the ground that the tariff offered was competitive. 6. Seven Power Supply Agreements3 were accordingly executed with the various generators for a total quantum of 865 MW of power. The appellant sought the approval of the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission4 to adopt the tariff laid down in the respective PSAs. The KSERC prima facie observed that the appellant had deviated from the standard bidding guidelines issued by the Ministry of Power, Government of India5 and failed to obtain prior approval from the KSERC or the Central Government in relation to these deviations. Accordingly, by an dated 30 August 2016, the KSERC approved the PSAs with the L1 bidders in both bids, but with regard to the remaining PSAs, it deferred the decision to obtain the approval of the Central Government and the views of the Government of Kerala with respect to the process of bidding which was adopted by the appellant.6 7. In view of the critical need for power procurement in the state, KSERC passed s in 2016-2017 permitting the appellant to provisionally procure power from the generators and, as a consequence, the appellant states that it has been procuring power under the four PSAs since then till 2023. 3 “PSAs” 4 “KSERC” 5 “standard bidding guidelines” 6 OP No. 13 of 2015 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 975 Kerala State Electricity Board Ltd. v. Jhabua Power Limited and Others 8. In 2020, the appellant moved the KSERC seeking approval of the fuel surcharge rate under some of the unapproved PPAs in the second bid. The KSERC did not approve the fuel surcharge rate and directed the appellant to limit payment at the rate of the L1 bidder in the second bid until the PSAs were approved. The case travelled to the APTEL and in parallel, the appellant filed a petition before the KSERC seeking final s on the approval of the PSAs. The of the APTEL was challenged before this Court, and KSERC was called upon to decide the petition for final approval expeditiously, in no later than three months.7 9. By an dated 10 May 2023, KSERC declined to grant approval for the PSAs and concluded that the tariff determined by the appellant did not follow a transparent process and grossly deviated from the standard bidding guidelines. KSERC further held that the deviations were against public interest and created long-term financial implications for the consumers and the state.8 The appellant moved the APTEL in appeal. 10. On 10 October 2023, while the appeal was pending before the APTEL, the Government of Kerala invoked the provisions of Section 108 of the Act9 and issued policy directions highlighting the public interest that would be served by approving the PSAs. The state government opined that the non-approval of the PSAs would compel the appellant to purchase power at higher rates, resulting in immense financial implications and a power crisis in the state.