Digital Supreme Court Reports inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by article 14, article 19 or article 31; and no law containing a declaration that it is for giving effect to such policy shall be called in question in any court on the ground that it does not give effect to such policy:” The appellants acknowledge that such an interpretation would effectively render the protection granted to legislation by Article 31-C nugatory. However, this is not an inadvertent consequence of the appellants’ argument but rather a central plank. It is their case that after the decision in Minerva Mills, Article 31-C may no longer be relied on to immunise legislation, even if such legislation can be justified as giving effect to the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of Article 39. Thus, the tests of Articles 14 and 19 would be unequivocally applicable even to such legislations. The contentions and interpretation advanced by the appellants have significant ramifications not only for the legislations impugned in the underlying appeals before us but also for countless others whose constitutional validity is dependent on the immunity provided by Article 31-C. 46. At its core, the present dispute concerns whether the text of Article 31-C as it stood prior to the Forty-Second Amendment can continue to be given legal effect after the Court in Minerva Mills invalidated Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment. The appellants contended that the unamended Article 31-C (as it stood prior to the Forty-Second Amendment) does not automatically revive after the decision in Minerva Mills. Mr Zal Andhyarujina, learned senior counsel and Mr Sameer Parekh, learned counsel represented the appellants. Their position was supported by Ms Uttara Babbar, learned senior counsel for one of the intervenors. The argument may be briefly summarised as follows: (i) The act of substitution by the Forty-Second Amendment consists of two steps, first the old provision is erased and next, the new provision is inserted. After the new provision is inserted, the old text ceases to exist and cannot be given legal effect. This was described as the “pen and ink” theory. Thus, even if Minerva Mills invalidated the amended text, the judgement’s effect was only to stop the inserted text from being enforced and a judicial cannot reverse the first step of erasure. Only a legislature can modify words in a statute. As a result, [2024] 11 S.C.R. 59 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. after Minerva Mills, the words erased by the Forty-Second Amendment do not revive and the unamended Article 31-C cannot be given effect to. (ii) Further, when a court declares a law to be unconstitutional, this declaration does not repeal the law from the statute books, it merely renders it legally unenforceable. Only the legislature can add or repeal the text from the statute books. Thus, the decision in Minerva Mills only renders the amended text of Article 31-C unenforceable and cannot repeal the Forty-Second Amendment in totality or reinstate the unamended Article 31-C. 47.