It is obvious, therefore, that in view of the vast range of transactions contemplated by the word ‘distribution’ as mentioned in the dictionaries referred to above, it will not be correct to construe the word ‘distribution’ in a purely literal sense so as to mean only division of a particular kind or to particular persons. The words, apportionment, allotment, allocation, classification, clearly fall within the broad sweep of the word ‘distribution’. So construed, the word ‘distribution’ as used in Article 39(b) will include various facets, aspects, methods and terminology of a broad-based concept of distribution. In other words, the word ‘distribution’ does not merely mean that property of one should be taken over and distributed to others like land reforms where the lands from the big landlords are taken away and given to landless labourers or for that matter the various urban and rural ceiling Acts. That is only one of the modes of distribution but not the only mode. In the instant case, as we have already pointed out, distribution is undoubtedly there though in a different shape. So far as the operators were concerned they were mainly motivated by making huge profits and were most reluctant to go to villages or 135 Abu Kavur Bai [74, 75]. 136 Abu Kavur Bai [78-83]. 166 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports places where the passenger traffic is low or the track is difficult. This naturally caused serious inconvenience to the poor members of the community who were denied the facility of visiting the towns or other areas in a transport. By nationalising the transport as also the units the vehicles would be able to go to the farthest corner of the State and penetrate as deep as possible and provide better and quicker and more efficacious facilities. This would undoubtedly be a distribution for the common good of the people and would be clearly covered by clause (b) of Article 39.” 196. The above principles laid down in Ranganatha Reddy, Sanjeev Coke and Abu Kavur Bai have been followed in decisions which dealt with the nationalisation or acquisition of certain resources by the state. These resources include electrical energy [Tinsukhia Electric Supply Co. Ltd. v. State of Assam137 and Maharashtra State Electricity Board v. Thana Electric Supply Co.138], refractory plants [Assam Sillimanite Ltd. v. Union of India139] and land [Basantibai Khetan]. In the interests of brevity, we will not reiterate the findings in each of these decisions. However, it may be noted that these decisions followed the view in Ranganatha Reddy, Sanjeev Coke and Abu Kavur Bai on two broad aspects. Firstly, the phrase ‘material resources of the community’ includes privately owned resources and cannot be restricted to resources owned by the state. Secondly, nationalization or the vesting of these private resources in the State falls within the expression “distribution” and subserves the common good. 197. Another significant decision where a Constitution Bench of this Court explored the meaning of Article 39(b) is Natural Resources Allocation, In re, Special Reference No.