I have in the earlier part of this discussed this question and held the point in favour of the appellant. 30. There are allegations of commission of offences against the appellant under different provisions of the 1860 Code. I have been taken through the memorandum for adding the appellant as accused and also the of the remand Court. The IPC offences also relate to the same or similar set of transactions, for which the aforesaid provisions of the 1988 Act were applied. The substantive offences alleged against the appellant are Section 12 and Sections 13(1) (c) and (d) read with Section 13(2), which is the provisions prescribing punishment. I am not satisfied, at this stage, that the 1988 Act offences are so dominant in the set of allegations against the appellant that once I consider the allegations against the appellant de hors the alleged offences under 1988 Act, the allegations of commission of the IPC offences would automatically collapse. At this stage, in my opinion, the alleged commission of IPC offences are not mere ancillary to the 1988 Act offences, as has been argued by Mr. Salve and Mr. Luthra and if commission of offences by the appellant under the IPC provisions is proved, could form the basis of conviction independent of the offences under the 1988 Act. Thus, the ratio of the judgement of this Court in the case of Ebha Arjun Jadeja and others -vs- State of Gujarat [(2019) 9 SCC 789], to which I was a party, would not aid the appellant. In this , it was held:- “18. In the case in hand, the only information recorded which constitutes an offence is the recovery of the arms. The police officials must have known that the area is a notified area under the TADA Act and, therefore, carrying such arms in a notified area is itself an offence under the TADA Act. It is true that this may be an offence under the Arms Act also but the basic material for constituting an offence both under the Arms Act and the TADA Act is [2024] 1 S.C.R. 577 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. identical i.e. recovery of prohibited arms in a notified area under the TADA Act. The evidence to convict the accused for crimes under the Arms Act and the TADA Act is also the same. There are no other offences of rape, murder, etc. in this case. Therefore, as far as the present case is concerned, non-compliance with Section 20-A(1) of the TADA Act is fatal and we have no other option but to discharge the appellants insofar as the offence under the TADA Act is concerned. We make it clear that they can be proceeded against under the provisions of the Arms Act.” As would be evident from quoted portion of the in the case of Ebha Arjun Jadeja (supra), the Coordinate Bench had permitted proceeding against the appellant therein under the provisions of the Arms Act though basic material for constituting the offences was both under the Arms Act and the TADA.