The impugned only noticed as fact that the Board had formed 810 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports opinion after considering the opinion received from NIMHANS. If scheme of the Act is considered, an appeal against of the Board passed under Section 15 of the Act lies to the Court of Sessions. The appellate authority, to examine the issues, is entitled to get the assistance of experienced psychologists and medical specialists other than those whose assistance has been obtained by the Board. Hence, independent examination is envisaged. The said process has not been followed in the case in hand. We do not want to prejudice the rights of the parties in that regard. 16.2 Hence, we are of the opinion that the CCL can exercise his right of appeal against dated 05.04.2022 passed by the Board within 10 days and appeal, if any filed, shall be decided by the appellate authority within two months thereafter. VII. ADDITIONAL ISSUES 17. Before parting with the , we quote with approval para 25 of the impugned passed by the High Court. The same is extracted below: “25. One more point observed by this Court is that while signing the sheet and also s, the names of the Judicial Member as well as Non-judicial Members are not noted below their signatures. This is coming in the way of anyone knowing the names of the members who were present and who were absent. Therefore, only on the basis of signatures, this Court was able to distinguish as to who was the Non-Judicial Member present on 05.04.2022 and who was the third member who joined in expressing dissenting opinion on 12.04.2022. This Court is of the considered opinion that it would be appropriate to mention the names of the members below their signatures, which would also help the transparency in conduct of the said proceedings and put the members on guard about their roles played in the said proceedings.” 17.1 The High Court has noticed an important issue which arises in judicial and quasi-judicial proceedings throughout the country. The Presiding Officers or Members of the Board, as the case in hand, or Tribunals do not mention their names when the is passed. As a result of which it becomes difficult to find out [2024] 5 S.C.R. 811 Child in Conflict with Law Through his Mother v. The State of Karnataka and Another later on, as to who was presiding the Court or Board or Tribunal or was the member at the relevant point of time. There may be many officers with the same name. Insofar as the judicial officers are concerned, unique I.D. numbers have been issued to them. 17.2 We expect that wherever lacking, in all s passed by the Courts, Tribunals, Boards and the quasi-judicial authorities, the names of the Presiding Officers or the Members be specifically mentioned in the s when signed, including the interim s. If there is any identification number given to the officers, the same can also be added.