The notes that the offence is complete with the acceptance of the money or on the agreement to accept the money being concluded and is not dependent on the performance of the illegal promise by the receiver. The receiver of the bribe would be treated to have committed the offence even when he fails to perform the bargain underlying the tender and acceptance of the bribe. This aspect bearing on the constituent elements of the offence of a bribe finds elaboration in the of Justice Agarwal but is not dealt with in the of the majority. … 26. For the above reasons, prima facie at this stage, we are of the considered view that the correctness of the view of the majority in PV Narasimha Rao should be reconsidered by a larger Bench of seven judges.” 7. The scope of the present is limited to the reference made by the of this Court dated 20 September 2023 doubting the correctness of PV Narasimha Rao (supra). The merits of the appellant’s case and whether she committed the alleged offence are not being adjudicated by this Court at this stage. Nothing contained in this may be construed as having a bearing on the merits of the trial or any other proceedings arising from it. B. Overview of the in PV Narasimha Rao 8. The general elections for the Tenth Lok Sabha were held in 1991. Congress (I) emerged as the single largest party and formed a minority government with Mr PV Narasimha Rao as the Prime Minister. A motion of no-confidence was moved in the Lok Sabha against the government. The support of fourteen members was needed to defeat the no-confidence motion. The motion was defeated with two hundred and fifty-one members voting in support and two hundred and sixty-five members voting against the motion. A group of Members of Parliament5 owing allegiance to the JMM and the 5 “MP” [2024] 3 S.C.R. 481 Sita Soren v. Union of India Janata Dal (Ajit Singh) Group6 voted against the no-confidence motion. Notably, one MP belonging to the JD (AS), namely, Ajit Singh, abstained from voting. 9. A complaint was filed before the Central Bureau of Investigation7 alleging that a criminal conspiracy was devised by which the above members belonging to the JMM and the JD (AS) entered into an agreement and received bribes to vote against the no-confidence motion.8 It was alleged that PV Narasimha Rao and several other MPs were parties to the criminal conspiracy and passed on “several lakhs of rupees” to the alleged bribe-takers to defeat the no-confidence motion.9 10. A prosecution was launched against the alleged bribe-givers and bribe-takers, and cognizance was taken by the Special Judge, Delhi. The accused moved the High Court of Delhi to quash the charges. The High Court dismissed the petitions. Appeals were preferred to this Court and culminated in the PV Narasimha Rao (supra) decision. Two major questions came up for consideration before the Court. First, whether by virtue of Article 105 of the Constitution, an MP can claim immunity from prosecution on a charge of bribery in a criminal court.