Although the State Commission had differed with the District Forum on the presence of the needle, the NCDRC, in para 5 of the impugned and , found the medical record to testify to the presence of a needle in the abdomen and also found that the respondent Hospital was found wanting in terms of post-operative care. 12. The primary ground alleged, in submitting that the finding of medical negligence is unjustified, was that there has been a recorded gap of time where the appellant did not suffer from any pain (1½ years). However, we notice the NCDRC to have observed her period of suffering to be more than 5 years, implying thereby that the gap in suffering aspect has not been accepted. No material has been placed before us to take a different view therefrom. The respondents are not the ones who have approached this Court. As such, we are only required to examine the sufficiency of compensation as awarded by way thereof. The same, though, cannot be appositely done without having appreciated pronouncements of this Court on the scope and purpose of the Consumer Protection Act; medical negligence; and compensation in such cases as also, the rule of tort law known as the ‘eggshell skull’ rule. 12.1 Scope of the Consumer Protection Act 12.1.1 An examination of the decisions of this Court in C. Venkatachalam v. Ajitkumar C. Shah and others5 and J.J. Merchant (Dr) v. Shrinath Chaturvedi6 and Common Cause v. Union of India7 among a host of other pronouncements, reveals the following in this regard:- i. It is a benevolent, socially orientated legislation, the declared aim of which is aimed at protecting the interests of consumers; ii. Its goal is to provide inexpensive and prompt remedies for the grievances of consumers against defective goods and deficient services; 5 [2011] 13 SCR 814 : (2011) 12 SCC 707 6 [2002] Supp. 1 SCR 469 : (2002) 6 SCC 635 7 [1993] 1 SCR 10 : (1997) 10 SCC 729 764 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports iii. For the above-stated objective, keeping in view the accessibility of these grievance redressal bodies to all, to all persons, quasi-judicial bodies have been set up at the district, state, and national levels; iv. These bodies have been formed to save the aggrieved consumer from the hassle of filing a civil suit, i.e., provide for a prompt remedy in the nature of award or where appropriate, compensation, after having duly complied with the principles of natural justice; 12.2 The Law on Medical Negligence 12.2.1 Three factors required to prove medical negligence, as recently observed by this Court in M.A Biviji v. Sunita & Ors.8, following the landmark pronouncement in Jacob Matthew v. State of Punjab9, are :- “36.As can be culled out from above, the three essential ingredients in determining an act of medical negligence are : (1.) a duty of care extended to the complainant, (2.) breach of that duty of care, and (3.) resulting damage, injury or harm caused to the complainant attributable to the said breach of duty.