The words are not static but dynamic. This infuses fertility in the field of interpretation. This equally helps to save an Act but also the cause of attack on the Act. Here the courts have to play a cautious role of weeding out the wild from the crop, of course, without infringing the Constitution. For doing this, the courts have taken help from the Preamble, Objects, the scheme of the Act, its historical background, the purpose for enacting such a provision, the mischief, if any which existed, which is sought to be eliminated. …” (Emphasis supplied) 98. A similar view was reiterated by this Court in its decision in Calcutta Gujarati Education Society & Anr. v. Calcutta Municipal Corpn. & Ors. reported in (2003) 10 SCC 533, wherein this Court observed that the rule of “Reading Down” is only for the limited purpose of making a provision workable so as to fulfil the purpose and object of the statute. The relevant observations read as under: - “35. The rule of “reading down” a provision of law is now well recognised. It is a rule of harmonious construction in a different name. It is resorted to smoothen the crudities or ironing out the creases found in a statute to make it workable. In the garb of “reading down”, however, it is not open to read words and expressions not found in it and thus venture into a kind of judicial legislation. The rule of reading down is to be used for the limited purpose of making a particular provision workable and to bring it in harmony with other provisions of the statute. It is to be used keeping in view the scheme of the statute and to fulfil its purposes. …” (Emphasis supplied) 99. Thus, the principle of ‘Reading Down” a provision emanates from a very well settled canon of law, that is, the courts while examining the validity of a particular statute should always endeavour towards upholding its validity, and striking down a legislation should always be the last resort. “Reading Down” a provision is one of the many [2024] 2 S.C.R. 81 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu methods, the court may turn to when it finds that a particular provision if for its plain meaning cannot be saved from invalidation and so by restricting or reading it down, the court makes it workable so as to salvage and save the provision from invalidation. Rule of “Reading Down” is only for the limited purpose of making a provision workable and its objective achievable. 100. The High Court in its Impugned resorted to reading down Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules not because its plain meaning would result in the provision being rendered invalid or unworkable or the statute’s objective being defeated, but because it would result in the same harsh consequence of forfeiture of the entire earnest-money deposit irrespective of the extent of default in payment of balance amount. 101. However, harshness of a provision is no reason to read down the same, if its plain meaning is unambiguous and perfectly valid.