Rule 5 has been enacted to give effect to clause (v) of sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the EP Act, which empowers the Central Government to put restrictions on the areas in which industries, operations or processes shall not be carried out or shall be carried out subject to certain safeguards. Rule 5 of the EP Rules reads thus: “5. Prohibition and Restriction on the location of industries and the carrying on processes and operations in different areas. (1) The Central government may take into consideration the following factors while prohibiting or restricting the 1262 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports location of industries and carrying on of processes and operations in different areas- (i) Standards for quality of environment in its various aspects laid down for an area. (ii) The maximum allowable limits of concentration of various environmental pollutants (including noise) for an area. (iii) The likely emission or discharge of environmental pollutants from an industry, process or operation proposed to be prohibited or restricted. (iv) The topographic and climatic features of an area. (v) The biological diversity of the area which, in the opinion of the Central Government needs to be preserved. (vi) Environmentally compatible land use. (vii) Net adverse environmental impact likely to be caused by an industry, process or operation proposed to be prohibited or restricted. (viii) Proximity to a protected area under the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 or a sanctuary, National Park, game reserve or closed area notified as such under the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 or places protected under any treaty, agreement or convention with any other country or countries or in pursuance of any decision made in any international conference, association or other body. (ix) Proximity to human settlements. (x) Any other factor as may be considered by the Central Government to be relevant to the protection of the environment in an area. (2) While prohibiting or restricting the location of industries and carrying on of processes and operations in an area, the Central Government shall follow the procedure hereinafter laid down. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1263 Noble M. Paikada v. Union of India (3) (a) Whenever it appears to the Central Government that it is expedient to impose prohibition or restrictions on the locations of an industry or the carrying on of processes and operations in an area, it may by notification in the Official Gazette and in such other manner as the Central Government may deem necessary from time to time, give notice of its intention to do so. (b) Every notification under clause (a) shall give a brief description of the area, the industries, operations, processes in that area about which such notification pertains and also specify the reasons for the imposition of prohibition or restrictions on the locations of the industries and carrying on of process or operations in that area. (c) Any person interested in filing an objection against the imposition of prohibition or restrictions on carrying on of processes or operations as notified under clause (a) may do so in writing to the Central Government within sixty days from the date of publication of the notification in the Official Gazette.