However, the penalty would be [2024] 5 S.C.R. 277 Commissioner of Central Excise Belapur v. Jindal Drugs Ltd. reduced to 25% of the above amount if the assessee paid the duty determined along with interest within 30 days of receipt of the . The reduced penalty of 25% of the amount of duty so determined would be available to the assessee only if the 25% of the penalty was also paid within the period of thirty days of receipt of the . Otherwise, the penalty imposed under Section 11AC(1) (a) equal to the duty amount would remain. 5.6. Aggrieved by the aforesaid in original passed by the appellant, respondent preferred appeal before the CESTAT. After hearing the matter, both Judicial Member and Technical Member passed separate s on 05.01.2015. 5.7. In his , the Judicial Member recorded that the respondent after clearing the goods in its Jammu unit, received the same in its factory at Taloja and claimed the benefit of notification No. 56/2002-CE(NT) dated 14.11.2002. As per the said notification, the Jammu unit was entitled to refund of the duty paid whereas the Taloja unit was also entitled to avail cenvat credit of the duty paid by the Jammu unit. Judicial Member noted that after receiving the goods at Taloja, respondent affixed two labels on the packages on two different sides and thereafter exported the goods. After referring to the show cause cum demand notice, the Judicial Member opined that the only issue for consideration was whether the labelling/re-labelling or putting additional labels on the containers in the Taloja unit amounted to manufacture in terms of Note 3 to Chapter 18 of the Central Excise Tariff Act. As per Note 3, in relation to products of Chapter 18, labelling or re-labelling of containers or repacking from bulk packs to retail packs or the adoption of any other treatment to render a product marketable to the consumer shall amount to manufacture. Judicial Member opined that all the three activities are independent and separate. Note 3 to Chapter 18 is a deeming provision whereby the processes mentioned therein, if carried out, would amount to manufacture though there may not be any actual manufacture. In the above context, the Judicial Member held that activities of labelling or re-labelling of containers without enhancing marketability amounted to manufacture. A reading of Note 3 would clearly indicate that the activity of labelling or re-labelling of the containers amounted to manufacture. 278 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Thereafter, it was held that both the Jammu unit and the Taloja unit of the respondent are separate units. Therefore, it could not be said that respondent was availing double benefit. The Taloja unit had rightly availed the cenvat credit of the duty paid at Jammu as well as the countervailing duty paid for the imported goods. Consequently, the rebate claim was correctly sanctioned to the respondent. Therefore, the respondent had rightly availed of the cenvat credit. Since the issue, whether the activity of labelling or re-labelling amounted to manufacture as per Note 3 to Chapter 18 of the Central Excise Tariff Act was related to interpretation of a statutory provision, question of any suppression or misrepresentation of fact by the respondent did not arise.