Clause 4 sets out the original members of the Society who were mostly Christians. The composition of the Society also reflects its Christian character inasmuch as the Bishop of the Diocese of Delhi is the Chairman of the Society [Rule 1(a)]. Further, two persons appointed by the Bishop of the Diocese of Delhi, one of whom shall be a senior Presbyter of the Diocese, shall be members of the Society [Rule 1(b)]. One person to be appointed by the Church of North India Synodical Board of Higher Education shall also be a member of the Society [Rule 1(g)]. Similar is the position of a person to be appointed by the Diocesan Board of Education [Rule 1(h)]. Two persons to be appointed by the Executive Committee of the Diocese, one of whom shall be a Presbyter, shall also be members of the Society [Rule 1(i)]. The composition of the Society, therefore, indicates the presence of a large number of Christian members of the Church of North India on it. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1975 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. Management 36. The management of the College is being looked after by the Supreme Council and the Governing Body. The Supreme Council consists of some members of the Society, all of whom must be members of the Church of North India or some other church in communion therewith, or any other duly constituted Christian church. They are: (a) The Bishop of the Diocese of Delhi, who shall be the Chairman. (b) Two persons appointed by the Bishop of the Diocese [under Rule 1(b)]. (c) The person appointed by the Church of North India Synodical Board of Higher Education [under Rule 1(g)]. (d) The person appointed by the Diocese Board of Education [under Rule 1(h)]. (e) The Principal of the College (Member- Secretary).” 37. Rule 3 of the Society provides that the Supreme Council mostly looks after the religious and moral instruction to students and matters affecting the religious character of the College. The Principal of the College is the Member- Secretary of the Supreme Council. Rule 4 provides that the Principal shall be a member of the Church of North India or of a Church that is in communion with the Church of India. The Vice-Principal shall be appointed annually by the Principal. He shall also be a member of the Church of North India or of some other church in communion therewith. 38. True, Rule 5 provides that the Supreme Council of the College has no jurisdiction over the administration of the College and it shall be looked after by the Governing Body. But the Governing Body is not a secular body as argued by learned counsel for the University. Rule 6 provides that the Chairman of the Society (Bishop of Diocese of Delhi) shall be the Chairman of the 1976 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Governing Body. The members of the Society as set out in categories, (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (l) and (m) of clause (1) shall be the members of the Governing Body.