Delivery, on the other hand is the acquisition of possession with the consent and co- operation of the previous possessor. Relation between Possession and Ownership: 14.16 According to Rudolf von Ihering, a jurist “Possession is the objective realisation of ownership”. It is in fact what ownership is in right. Ownership is the guarantee of the law, while the [2024] 2 S.C.R. 899 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others possession is the guarantee of the fact. Normally, ownership and possession co-exist but not always. This aspect of the case is crucial for answering the contentions raised by the respective parties. Analysis: Let us apply the aforesaid jurisprudential principles to the provisions of the Act under consideration. 15. Section 2 (c) of the Act defines enemy property to mean any property for the time being belonging to or held or managed on behalf of an enemy, an enemy subject or an enemy firm: That even when an enemy subject dies in the territories to which the Act extends, or dies in any territory outside India, any property which immediately before his death, belonged to or was held by him or was managed on his behalf, may, notwithstanding his death, continue to be regarded as enemy property for the purposes of the Act. The Act when enacted extended to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir and it applies also to all citizens of India outside India and to branches and agencies outside India of companies or bodies corporate registered or incorporated in India. On a combined reading of the above, it is clear that the Act applies to any property belonging to or held or managed on behalf of an enemy, an enemy subject or an enemy firm, even if, the enemy or enemy subject or enemy firm is outside India and to branches and agencies outside India of companies or bodies corporate registered or incorporated in India. That as per Explanation (1), the definition of enemy property in clause (c) of Section 2, it is clarified that “enemy property” shall, notwithstanding that the enemy or the enemy subject or the enemy firm has ceased to be an enemy due to death, extinction, winding up of business or change of nationality or that the legal heir and successor is a citizen of India or the citizen of a country which is not an enemy, continue and always be deemed to be continued as an enemy property. Explanation (2) states that for the purposes of this clause, the expression enemy property shall mean and include and shall be deemed to have always meant and included all rights, titles and interest in, or any benefit arising out of, enemy property in the context of such property for the time being belonging to or held or managed on behalf of an enemy, an enemy subject or an enemy firm. The Explanation to sub-section (3) of Section 5 of the Act also 900 [2024] 2 S.C.R.