[…] As a stand-alone entity the petitioner does riot fulfil the. conditions laid down in Rule 3 of the Capital Adequacy Rules. However, the Rule 3(2) also stipulates that the net worth of the promoters of the petitioner can be considered for the purpose of computation of the Debt Equity ratio of 30:70 […]. 26(A). The [Commission], in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 14 (b) of the Electricity Act, hereby identifies and recognises M/s. Sundew Properties Ltd. […] as a deemed licensee. 26(D). […] the promoters have to contribute 30% of the total anticipated investment of Rs. 89.53 Crores 746 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which works out to Rs.26.9 Crores on or before 31.03.2016.” e) Aggrieved, the appellant carried an appeal11 from the aforesaid of the TSERC to the APTEL. According to the appellant, the directions of the TSERC were in excess of jurisdiction. APTEL dismissed the appeal, as noticed above. It held that the TSERC was justified in ing infusion of additional equity by the appellant to the tune of Rs.26.90 crore (being 30% of the total anticipated investment of Rs.89.53 crore) as a pre- condition for being identified as a deemed distribution licence. The operative part of the and passed by the APTEL reads as follows: “8.14 […] while the Appellant is not required to apply for grant of license but being a deemed distribution licensee has to fulfil other technical and financial requirements as per prevailing rules and regulations of the State Commission which is mandated to regulate the Electricity business in the state whether it is a DISCOM or any other deemed distribution licensee as in the present case. Accordingly, we are of the opinion that the State Commission has passed the impugned with careful consideration and proper interpretation of the statute and also considering the s passed by Hon’ble Supreme Court in Sesa Sterilite [sic] case (supra) […]” f) It is this and final that the appellant has subjected to challenge in this statutory appeal by invoking the appellate jurisdiction of this Court under section 125 of the Electricity Act. SUBMISSIONS 3. Mr. Singh, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant, challenged the validity of the s of the TSERC and the APTEL by advancing the following submissions: a) The TSERC and the APTEL erred in failing to recognize that under section 14(b) of the Electricity Act, a developer of an SEZ is ipso facto and unconditionally deemed to be a distribution 11 Appeal No.3 of 2017 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 747 M/s Sundew Properties Limited v. Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission & Anr. licensee, thus eliminating the need for a separate licence application. Recognition of the status of a deemed distribution licensee is a ministerial act, effected automatically upon fulfilment of conditions laid down in the SEZ Act, independent of rule 3(2) of the 2005 Rules read with regulation 12 of the 2013 Regulations. b) The status of deemed distribution licensee stands bestowed upon the appellant by virtue of the 2010 Notification, requiring no further action.