By entertaining applications made by individuals, organisations or institutions for allotment of land or for grant of any other type of largesse the State cannot exclude other eligible persons from lodging competing claim. Any allotment of land or grant of other form of largesse by the State or its agencies/instrumentalities by treating the exercise as a private venture is liable to be treated as arbitrary, discriminatory and an act of favouritism and/ or nepotism violating the soul of the equality clause embodied in Article 14 of the Constitution. 1 [2011] 5 SCR 77 : (2011) 5 SCC 29 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 29 City Montessori School v. State of U.P. & Ors. 67. This, however, does not mean that the State can never allot land to the institutions/organisations engaged in educational, cultural, social or philanthropic activities or are rendering service to the society except by way of auction. Nevertheless, it is necessary to observe that once a piece of land is earmarked or identified for allotment to institutions/ organisations engaged in any such activity, the actual exercise of allotment must be done in a manner consistent with the doctrine of equality. The competent authority should, as a matter of course, issue an advertisement incorporating therein the conditions of eligibility so as to enable all similarly situated eligible persons, institutions/ organisations to participate in the process of allotment, whether by way of auction or otherwise. In a given case the Government may allot land at a fixed price but in that case also allotment must be preceded by a wholesome exercise consistent with Article 14 of the Constitution.” (emphasis added) 9. In the facts of the case, there is no dispute that the plot vests in the State. Even assuming that the alleged lessee has leasehold rights concerning the plot, the rights of the State as the owner and lessor can be transferred only by adopting a fair and transparent process by which the State fetches the best possible price. In case of the sale of a leasehold plot by the lessor, the rights of the lawful lessees do not get affected, as their tenancy will be attorned to the purchaser in view of Section 109 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. Therefore, the rights of the State as the lessor can only be sold by a public auction or by any other transparent method by which, apart from the lessee, others too get a right to submit their offer. Selling the plot to its alleged lessee at a nominal price will not be a fair and transparent method at all. It will be arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. ISSUE OF AMENDMENT OF THE WRIT PETITION 10. There is a controversy raised by the alleged lessee about whether the application to amend the Writ Petition made by the school to incorporate the challenge to the conversion and the deed was allowed. However, on page 12 of the impugned , the High Court recorded the submission of the learned counsel for the alleged 30 [2024] 8 S.C.R.