1250 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the second clause and recommended that in addition to the law making power on acquisition and termination of citizenship, a provision for avoiding dual citizenship may be included in the third clause.21 16. The provision on conditions for acquiring citizenship after the commencement of the Constitution, that is, the second clause in the memorandum, was not included in the Draft Constitution of India 194822 submitted by the Drafting Committee on 21 February 1948. The Draft Constitution only included provisions on who would be citizens on the date of the commencement of the Constitution,23 and granted Parliament the power to make provision on acquisition and termination of citizenship and “all other matters relating thereto”.24 Article 5 of the Draft Constitution 1948 included provisions for refugees from East and West Pakistan. Clause (b) of Article 5 provided that every person who or either of whose parents or any of whose grandparents were born in India as defined in the Government of India Act 1935 or in Burma, Ceylon or Malaya and who is domiciled in the territory of India as defined by the Constitution will be a citizen upon the commencement of the Constitution, provided that the person has not acquired the citizenship of any foreign State. The explanation to the provision stated that a person is deemed to be domiciled in the territory of India on depositing a declaration to acquire such domicile after having resided for at least one month in the territory of India.25 According to the explanation, the declaration had to be deposited before the commencement of the Constitution. Thus, migrants from East or West Pakistan to India could be citizens by virtue of Article 5(b) of the Draft Constitution if they submitted a declaration after having resided in India for a month. 17. Dr Ambedkar, as the Chairperson of the Drafting Committee introduced amendments to draft Articles 5 (corresponding to Article 5 of the Indian Constitution) and 6 (corresponding to Article 11). He further introduced Articles 5-A (corresponding to Article 6), 5-B (corresponding to Article 7) and 5-C (corresponding to Article 10) 21 B Shiva Rao, The framing of India’s Constitution: Select Documents (Part II), 683 22 “Draft Constitution” 23 Draft Constitution of India 1948, Article 5 24 Draft Constitution of India 1948, Article 6. 25 Draft Constitution of India 1948, Explanation to Article 5(b) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1251 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 which provided separate provisions for migrants to acquire citizenship.26 While introducing these amendments, Dr Ambedkar noted that the object of the above provisions was not to lay down a permanent law of citizenship but to decide who would be citizens as on the date of the commencement of the Constitution.27 The drafting history of the provisions on citizenship (in particular the deletion of clause 2 of the Memorandum) elucidates that after extensive deliberation in the Constituent Assembly and the Drafting Committee, it was decided that the Constitution would only stipulate who would hold citizenship “on the commencement of the Constitution”.