For the contravention of the Act, rules and regulations, penalty is provided under Section 13 of the Act. This would mean that dealing in foreign exchange de hors the statutory provisions, rules and regulations would be illegal. For violation of foreign exchange regulations, penalty can believe (sic) and such activity is certainly an illegal activity, which is prejudicial to conservation or augmentation of foreign exchange. xii. Shri Appisseril Kochu Muhammed Shaji @ Payasam Shaji i.e. you have indulged yourself in hawala dealings, purchase and sale of foreign currencies from retail customers without raising any invoice and has generated unaccounted income in Indian rupees and foreign currencies to the tune of Rs 25 crores. Thus, you have contravened the Section 3 and Section 4 of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and indulged in the act prejudicial to the conservation or augmentation of foreign exchange. 2. In view of the foregoing, I have no hesitation in arriving at the conclusion that you have been engaging yourself in activities, which have adversely affected the augmentation of foreign exchange resources of the country. Considering the nature and gravity of the activities, your role therein and the well-laid out manner in which you have been indulging in such prejudicial activities, all of which reflect your high potentiality and propensity of engaging yourself in such prejudicial activities in future, I 338 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports am satisfied that unless detained, you are likely to continue to engage in the aforesaid prejudicial activities in future also. Therefore, it is necessary to detain you under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974 with a view to prevent you in future from acting in any manner which is prejudicial to the augmentation of foreign exchange.” [emphasis supplied] 36. It could thus be seen that 8 factual aspects have been taken into consideration by the Detaining Authority while arriving at its subjective satisfaction that the detenu has been engaging himself in activities which have adversely affected the augmentation of foreign exchange resources of the country. 37. A perusal of the narration at clauses (iv) and (v) would reveal that the said clauses refer to the statements of Preetha Pradeep recorded on 5th July 2023 and 6th July 2023. In the said statements, she has stated that Shaji’s person will come to the shop and that they will pay him the required currency which will be collected from Suresh sir’s house through Binu. She has further stated that mostly the same person will come; that’s why she can recognize him. She has further stated that, without any doubt, they will pay the cash and that Suresh sir will arrange everything. She has stated that mostly she or Binu will receive the amount brought by Shaji. She has further stated that M/s Suresh Forex Services Pvt. Ltd. receives INRs minimum 2 times in a month from Mr. Shaji and that each transaction contains approximately Rs.20 Lakhs to Rs. 30 Lakhs. She further stated that in return to that Suresh will give one packet and direct her to handover the same to the representative of Mr. Shaji.