The benefit of confidentiality to contributors ensures and promotes contribution of clean money to political parties; Citizens do not have a general right to know regarding the funding of political parties. Right to know is not a general right available to citizens; This Court has evolved the right to know for the specific purpose of enabling and furthering the voter’s choice of electing candidates free from blemish; and The influence of contributions by companies to political parties ought not to be examined by this Court. It is an issue of democratic significance and should be best left to the legislature. 38. The learned Solicitor General of India made the following submissions: a. The legal framework prior to the enactment of the Electoral Bond Scheme was mostly cash-based which incentivized infusion of [2024] 2 S.C.R. 475 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. ५. Union of India & Ors. black money into political parties, and consequently, into the electoral process in India. The Electoral Bond Scheme is an improvement on the prior legal framework; Donors to a political party often apprehended retribution from other political parties. Such apprehension incentivized donors to contribute unaccounted money to political parties to avoid identification and victimization by other political parties. The Electoral Bond Scheme maintains the confidentiality of donors and thereby incentivizes them to contribute clean money to political parties; In case the donor is a public company, they will have to declare the amount contributed in their books of account without disclosing the name of the political party. Similarly, the political parties will also have to disclose the total amount received through electoral bonds in their annual audited accounts filed before the Election Commission of India. This framework ensures a balance between clean money coming into the system as against the right to information of citizens; The state has a positive obligation to safeguard the privacy of its citizens, which necessarily includes the citizens’ right to political affiliation. The right of a buyer to purchase electoral bonds without having to disclose their preference of political party secures the buyer’s right to privacy; The Electoral Bond Scheme has been enacted in pursuance of a legitimate state interest - to shift from cash driven, unregulated and unaccounted cash based political donations to a regulated, digital and legal political donation framework. The provisions of the Electoral Bond Scheme have a specific object and purpose of curbing black money and protecting donor privacy: |. Clause 3(3) imposes a pre-condition that only a registered political party which has secured at least 1 per cent of the votes polled in the last general election would be eligible to receive bonds. This provision ensures that ghost political parties are barred from seeking and receiving political funding; 476 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ll. Clause 4 requires a buyer of electoral bonds to meet the requisite KYC Norms. This ensures that only KYC compliant persons are entitled to buy electoral bonds; iil. The limited validity period of fifteen days ensures that the bond is not used as a parallel currency; iv.