In the latter case, however, and also where it has been expressly agreed that a part payment shall be forfeited in the event of the payer’s default, equity is prepared within limits to grant relief against the forfeiture.” [2024] 2 S.C.R. 75 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu 87. The observations of Mellish, L.J., in Ex parte Barrell: [L.R.] In Re. Parnell 10 Ch. App. 512 assume importance. The learned Judge observed that even when there is no clause in the contract as to the forfeiture of the deposit if the purchaser repudiates the contract, he cannot have back the money if it was a deposit, as the contract has gone off through his default. It is characteristic of a deposit to entail forfeiture if the depositor commits breach of his obligation. On the contrary it is inherent in a part payment of price in advance that it should be returned to the buyer if the sale does not fructify. The buyer is not disentitled to recover, even if he is the party in breach, because breach of contract on the part of the buyer would only entitle the seller to sue for damages but not to forfeit the advance. A specific forfeiture clause might operate to defeat the buyer’s right of recovery of even an advance payment. But equity might step in to relieve the buyer from forfeiture. If the amount forfeited cannot stand the test of a genuine pre-estimate of damages, it would be unconscionable for the seller to retain it. The question whether the amount is a deposit (earnest) or a part payment cannot be determined by the presence or absence of a forfeiture clause. Whether the sum in question is a deposit to ensure due performance of the contract or not is not dependent on the phraseology adopted by the parties or by the presence or otherwise of a forfeiture clause. The proportion the amount bears to the total sale price, the need to take a deposit intended to act in terrorem, the nature of the contract and other circumstances which cannot be exhaustively listed have to be taken into account in ascertaining the true nature of the amount. In essence the question is one of proper interpretation of the terms of a contract. 88. We would like to refer to a decision of the Court of Appeal in England in Stockloser v. Johnson reported in (1954) 1 All. E.R. 630 and particularly to the observations of Denning, L.J., which, if we may say so with respect, has set out the legal position succinctly and with great clarity. The facts of that case need not be set out and it would be sufficient to refer only to the principle of law laid down by the Court of Appeal. At page 637 Denning L.J., observes thus: “It seems to me that the cases show the law to be this. (i) When there is no forfeiture clause, if money is handed over in part payment of the purchase price, and then the buyer makes default as to the balance, then, so long as the seller keeps the contract open and available for performance, 76 [2024] 2 S.C.R.