As such, the defendant would not have any right to sell the property, nor would the plaintiff have any right to buy these properties. The plaintiff is, thus, not entitled to any relief. 6. Defendant nos. 2, 3 and 4, namely Vinod Aggarwal, Jagdish Aggarwal and Usha Aggarwal, three of the legal heirs of Sushila Devi filed a joint written statement. They denied the contents of the plaint except to the extent that Sushila Devi was the owner of the suit schedule property. It was further stated that she had never executed any Agreement to Sell. It was, thus, claimed that the suit deserves to be dismissed. 7. The subsequent purchasers, under the sale deed dated 18.01.2001, filed a separate written statement denying the plaint allegations. They also denied that any Agreement to Sell dated 30.08.1990 was executed by Sushila Devi. No specific answer has been given as to whether the sale deed dated 18.01.2001 in their favour was executed in violation of the injunction . They also took the plea that the Agreement to Sell required compulsory registration and also payment of sufficient stamp duty which was not done, as such, the same was not admissible in evidence. 8. It was further stated in their written statement that the sale consideration mentioned in the Agreement to Sell was much below the prevailing market rate which indicated mala fide on the part of the appellants. A plea was also raised to the effect that the suit scheduled property was owned by a HUF and as such the Agreement to Sell having been executed only by Sushila Devi without the consent or confirmation of the other members of HUF, the Agreement to Sell was void. On such averments, the defendant nos. 7 to 10 stated that the suit was liable to be dismissed. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2385 Shyam Kumar Inani v. Vinod Agrawal & Ors. 9. The Trial Court, on the pleadings of the parties, framed the following issues as stated in paragraph 8 of the along with its findings on each issue. The same are reproduced hereunder: “ Issues Finding 1. Whether an Agreement was Sushilabai had executed an executed on 30.08.90 with the agreement dated 30.08.90 for plaintiff by the mother of the the sale of disputed land with defendants late Sushilabai for the the plaintiff. sale of the disputed land situated in Godar Mau Khasra No.548 area 3.49 acres? 2. Whether the plaintiff making full All the amount of the bai was paid payment of the Agreement to late by the plaintiff to Sushila bai and Sushilabai obtained the possession the possession of the disputed of the disputed property on 30.08.90 property has been obtained. itself? 3(a) Whether the plaintiff has been In compliance with the agreement always ready to comply with the the plaintif has been willing and Agreement? ready to fulfil. 3(b) Whether the defendants The Defendants have refused to have refused to comply with the comply with the Agreement. agreement? 4. Whether the dispute being of Proved agricultural land, the State of M.P.