58. It is crystal clear from the petitioner’s own showing that the petitioner was required to take the crutches/financial assistance initially from Rajesh 1464 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Habitat Pvt. Ltd., who in turn looked at Vistra ITCL India Ltd. and thereafter having failed with both these entities, with one M/s Sanghvi Associates, which is not for a small amount but for a substantial amount of Rs. 50 crores. Things however would not stop at this and subsequently it appears that now respondent no.6-Veena Developers was roped in, to provide working capital for the entire project described to be the business partners/joint developers of the petitioner as in para 1 of the petition.” 20.3. Mr. Sundaram also brought to our notice certain clauses in agreements with third parties and submitted that this amounts to complete subversion of the scheme. High Court has reflected on these clauses. The following findings of the High Court are important: “73. Certainly, the period of two years as contractually agreed, under the development agreement cannot be stretched to such a long period of almost 17 to 18 years as in the present case, despite these circumstances, an attempt on the part of the petitioner to justify that such delay was not attributable to the petitioner, at least in the facts of the case, is wholly untenable. The AGRC examined the case of the petitioner and of the society and the situation persisting at the ground level. The AGRC however not agreeing with the findings of the Chief Executive Officer- SRA, has reached a conclusion that the petitioner could not take the project forward for reasons which were borne out by the record. 74. In these circumstances to upset the decision of the AGRC would amount to rewarding the petitioner of its defaults and the breaches committed by it, not only of the very terms and conditions of the Development Agreement, but also, the clear statutory mandate in undertaking Slums Rehabilitation Schemes. In fact, the petitioner has betrayed the trust of the society/slum dwellers. Even otherwise, a closer scrutiny of the petitioner’s actions clearly hint of the petitioner’s interest not in the rehabilitation of the slum dwellers but in its own private interest, solely in relation [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1465 Yash Developers v. Harihar Krupa Co-Operative Housing Society Limited & Ors. to the sale component. There cannot be a space for a pure commercial greed in taking up such projects which involves the basic rights of the slum dwellers.” 21. (vi) Re: Submission on maintainability of proceedings before AGRC. Finally, Mr. Sibal submitted that the complaints filed by the 12 members of the managing committee of respondent no.1 on 18.11.2019 were withdrawn by 8 members on 31.12.2019 and by another member on 14.01.2020. Consequently, the show-cause notice dated 04.12.2020, based on these complaints, was rightly withdrawn on 16.03.2021. Secondly, although the managing committee of respondent no. 1 had initially terminated the development agreement on 02.02.2020, this termination was revoked on 28.02.2021. The revocation of termination was because the agreement was terminated by Mr. Rai, who did not have the requisite authorisation.