1 crore as ransom for securing his release. 27. In cross examination, Sachin Garg(PW-2) admitted that the gold chain which had been snatched by the accused appellants was returned to him at Sector 20, Panchkula and the ATM card was returned to him by the police officials. The witness admitted that he was never called by the police officials to join any identification proceedings. He had randomly gone to the CIA officer with his father where he saw the accused from some distance. A pertinent admission was made by the witness that he had identified the accused appellants and had overheard them taking names of each other and that he had disclosed these facts to his father Mahesh Garg(PW-1) and grandfather Shamlal Garg. The witness also admitted that when the police officials recorded his statement, he did not give the description about the features of the accused. 28. A pertinent suggestion was given by the defence to the witness(PW-2) in cross examination that his sister Shivani @ Kaku was involved in a relationship with Gaurav Bhalla(A2) and that both of them eloped on 1st April, 2003. Shivani @ Kaku returned on 14th April, 2003, whereafter, the case was cooked up by concocting a story against Gaurav Bhalla(A2) and other accused who were his friends and relatives. However, he denied the said suggestion. The witness(PW-2) was confronted with his previous statement under Section 161 CrPC statement(Exhibit-DB) wherein he had named Gaurav Bhalla(A2) as the fourth accused. He admitted that his statement was recorded by the police officials for the first time on 20th April, 2003 and that the police officials had visited his house once or twice earlier. 29. Mahesh Garg(PW-1) testified that his son Sachin Garg(PW-2) had gone to play badminton on 2nd April, 2003 at around 6.00 pm. He did not return till 9:00 pm, on which efforts were made to trace his whereabouts, but he could not be located. At 11:00 pm, a telephone call was received by the witness(PW-2) from an unknown person who demanded a ransom of Rs. 1 crore for the safe return of his son. A threat was given that if police was informed, his son would not remain alive. Fearing for his son’s life, Mahesh Garg (PW-1) did not report the matter to the police. However, he discussed the issue with his relatives and friends and collected an amount of Rs. 350 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 1 crore from various sources. The next day, he received a second telephone call informing him the location of the car of Sachin Garg(PW-2) which he collected. He received a third telephone call on 3rd April, 2003 wherein again, the demand of ransom and the threat to kill Sachin Garg(PW-2) was repeated. On the same day at about 7:00-7:30 pm, he received a call directing him to leave his house with the ransom amount. Acting on the directions of the miscreant(s), the witness placed the ransom amount in his car and proceeded towards PGI hospital, Chandigarh.