211. An interpretation of Article 39(b) which places all private property within the net of the phrase “material resources of the community” only satisfies one of the three requirements of the phrase, i.e. that the goods in question must be a ‘resource’. However, it ignores the qualifiers that they must be “material” and “of the community”. The use of the words “material” and “community” are not meaningless superfluities. We cannot adopt a construction of the provision which renders these terms otiose. The words “of the community” must be understood as distinct from the “individual”. If Article 39(b) was meant to include all resources owned by an individual, it would state the “ownership and control of resources is so distributed as best to subserve the common good”. Similarly, if the provision were to exclude privately owned resources, it would state “ownership and control of resources of the state …” instead of its current phrasing. The use of the word “of the community” rather than “of the state” indicates a specific intention to include some privately owned resources. 212. In essence, the text of the provision indicates that not all privately owned resources fall within the ambit of the phrase. However, privately owned resources are not excluded as a class and some private resources may be covered. The resource in question must meet the two qualifiers, i.e. it must be a “material” resource and it must be “of the community”. Thus, the judgements doubted in the reference before us are incorrect to the extent that they hold that “all resources” of an individual are part of the community and thus, all private property is covered by the phrase “material resources of the community”. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 173 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. b. The interpretation amounts to endorsing a particular economic ideology 213. To declare that Article 39(b) includes the distribution of all private resources amounts to endorsing a particular economic ideology and structure for our economy. Justice Krishna Iyer’s in Ranganatha Reddy, which was followed inter alia in Sanjeev Coke and Bhim Singhji, was influenced by a particular school of economic thought. This is evident from various observations made in these judgements. For instance, in Ranganatha Reddy, Justice Krishna Iyer observed that Article 39(b) constitutes “a directive to the State with a deliberate design to dismantle feudal and capitalist citadels of property”.146 In Bhim Singhji, Justice Krishna Iyer cited Karl Marx in his to observe that taking over large conglomerations of land is necessary to make Article 39 a “constitutional reality”.147 Interestingly, in the same decision, Justice Krishna Iyer also expressed his view about the nature of the economy and observed that our economy was “in the transitional stage … undergoing a fabian transformation”.148 Similarly, in Sanjeev Coke, Justice Chinappa Reddy states that “the words and thought of Article 39(b) but echo the familiar language and philosophy of socials as expounded by all socialist writers”.149 In essence, the interpretation of Article 39(b) adopted in these judgements is rooted in a particular economic ideology and the belief that an economic structure which prioritises the acquisition of private property by the state is beneficial for the nation.