The statement shall also indicate the plot or plots for which he claims exemption and also those which he would like to retain as part of the ceiling area applicable to him under the provisions of this Act.] [(2) As soon as may be after the enforcement of the Uttar Pradesh Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holdings (Amendment) Act, 1972, the prescribed authority shall, by like general notice, call upon every tenure-holder holding land in excess of the ceiling area applicable to him on the enforcement of the said Act, to submit to him within 50 days of publication of such notice, a statement referred to in sub-section (1). 712 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports [Provided that at any time after October 10, 1975, the Prescribed Authority may, by notice, call upon any tenure-holder holding land in excess of the ceiling area applicable to him on the said date, to submit to him within thirty days from the date of service of such notice a statement referred to in sub-section (1) or any information pertaining thereto.] [(2-A) Every tenure-holder holding land in excess of the ceiling area on January 24, 1971, or at any time thereafter who has not submitted the statement referred to in sub-section (2) and in respect of whom no proceedings under this act is pending on October 10, 1975 shall, within thirty days from the said date furnish to the Prescribed Authority a statement containing particulars of all land - (a) held by him and the members of his family on January 24, 1971 ; (b) acquired or disposed of by him or by members of his family between January 24, 1971 and October 10, 1975. ] (3) Where the tenure-holder’s wife holds any land which is liable to be aggregated with the land held by the tenure-holder for purposes of determination of the ceiling area, the tenure-holder shall, along with his statement referred to in sub- section (1), also file the consent of his wife to the choice in respect of the plot or plots which they would like to retain as part of the ceiling area applicable to them and where his wife’s consent is not so obtained, the prescribed authority shall cause the notice under sub-section (2) of Section 10 to be served on her separately.] 10. Notice to tenure holders failing to submit a statement or submitting an incomplete or incorrect statement - (1) In every case where a tenure-holder fails to submit a statement or submits an incomplete [2024] 12 S.C.R. 713 State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. v. Suresh Chandra Tewari & Ors. or incorrect statement, required to be submitted under Section 9, the Prescribed Authority shall, after making such enquiry as he may consider necessary either by himself or by any person subordinate to him, cause to be prepared a statement containing such particulars as may be prescribed. The statement shall in particular indicate the land, if any, exempted under 2[Section 6] and the plot --- proposed to be declared as surplus land.