The grounds are separated into two categories: (i) Section 34(2)(a) contains those grounds that have to be proved by the parties; and (ii) Section 34(2)(b) contains grounds that a court has to examine ex officio. The challenge of arbitral awards on ex officio grounds is “of fundamental importance to the institution of arbitration as a whole.”292 157. Section 34(2)(b) specifically provides that an arbitral award may be set aside if the court finds that the arbitral award conflicts with the public policy of India. The provision further clarifies “public policy of India” to only mean that: (i) the making of the award was induced or affected by fraud or corruption or was in violation of section 75 or section 81; (ii) it is in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law; or (iii) it is in conflict with the most basic notions of morality or justice. 158. This Court has construed the expression “public policy of India” appearing under Section 34 to mean the “fundamental policy of Indian law”.293 The concept of “fundamental policy of Indian law” has been held to cover compliance with statutes and judicial precedents, adopting a judicial approach, and compliance with the principles of natural justice.294 In OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. 290 Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. (supra) [36]. [36. The well-recognised examples of non-arbitrable disputes are: (i) disputes relating to rights and liabilities which give rise to or arise out of criminal offences; (ii) matrimonial disputes relating to divorce, judicial separation, restitution of conjugal rights, child custody; (iii) guardianship matters; (iv) insolvency and winding-up matters; (v) testamentary matters (grant of probate, letters of administration and succession certificate); and (vi) eviction or tenancy matters governed by special statutes where the tenant enjoys statutory protection against eviction and only the specified courts are conferred jurisdiction to grant eviction or decide the disputes.] 291 Redfern and Hunter (supra) 552 292 Peter Binder (supra) 274 293 Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. v. NHAI (2019) 15 SCC 131 [34]; NHAI v. P Nagaraju (2022) 15 SCC 1 [39] 294 MMTC v. Vedanta Ltd. (2019) 4 SCC 163 [11]; 2272 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited,295 this Court explained the concept of “fundamental policy of Indian law” thus: “The expression “in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law” by use of the word ‘fundamental’ before the phrase ‘policy of Indian law’ makes the expression narrower in its application than the phrase “in contravention with the policy of Indian law”, which means mere contravention of law is not enough to make an award vulnerable. To bring the contravention within the fold of fundamental policy of Indian law, the award must contravene all or any of such fundamental principles that provide a basis for administration of justice and enforcement of law in this country. Without intending to exhaustively enumerate instances of such contravention, by way of illustration, it could be said that (a) violation of the principles of natural justice; (b) disregarding s of superior courts in India or the binding effect of the of a superior court; and (c) violating law of India linked to public good or public interest, are considered contravention of the fundamental policy of Indian law.” 159.