53. On the perusal of the affidavit of assets and liabilities of the petitioner-wife it reveals that she has acquired 700.414gm gold and 2kg Silver during or after marriage. But the petitioner-wife has not [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1403 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda mentioned it’s value. The cost of said gold as on today is Rs.46,85,100/- and of Silver is Rs.1,53,000/-. Residential Rights 54. The petitioner-wife, in her application vide Exh.8 prays to grand right of resident at her current address i.e. Ivy Glen, Marrygold Co-operative Housing Society, Kalyani Nagar, Pune which is the matrimonial house. According to the respondent it is owned by his old aged father so, it is not her matrimonial home. It is significant to note that the petitioner-wife owns a residentital flat at Cosmos Magarpatta Township, Pune, which she has given it on rent. She receives rent from it. She can live in her own house. If she resides in her own house, she will not get income from rent. So, it can be considered while deciding the quantum of permanent alimony. As she owns her own house it is not necessary to make provision for her separate residence while deciding the permanent alimony. Amount of Permanent Alimony 55. On perusal of bank statements produced by the petitioner-wife, it reveals that there are monthly debit and credit transactions of approximately Rs.2,50,000/-, respectively. Her monthly income is Rs.55,000/-. If petitioner-wife a resides in her own house she will not get the monthly rental income so this factor is required to be considered while deciding the quantum of permanent alimony. So considering the status and standard of living of her husband it reveals that the permanent alimony of Rs.2,00,000/- per month is just and reasonable and if in a lumpsum amount towards permanent alimony is to be granted, an amount of Rs.10,00,00,000/- would be just and proper. Hence, the report is submitted with due respects.” Thus, the lumpsum amount towards permanent alimony determined by the learned Judge of the Family Court at Pune is Rs.10 crores. 1404 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 14.10 We find that since the petitioner has let her flat and is receiving monthly rental income from the flat to the tune of Rs.27,000/- (Rupees Twenty-Seven Thousand only) and she also has interest income from fixed deposits, she is not economically impoverished as such. In the petition filed by the parties jointly seeking dissolution of their marriage by a decree of divorce by mutual consent, respondent herein had agreed to pay a sum of Rs.8 crores towards full and final settlement of all claims of the petitioner. The Family Court at Pune has assessed Rs.10 crores as the quantum of permanent alimony that petitioner could be entitled to. We accept the said finding of the Family Court, Pune. An additional amount of Rs.2 crores is liable to be paid to the petitioner so as to enable her to acquire another flat, in case she is interested in doing so, as we are directing the petitioner to vacate her father-in-law’s flats which she is presently occupying in Pune as well as in Bhopal, if not already vacated.