The application and documents submitted by selected candidate were scrutinized by the application scrutiny committee strictly in line with Selection Brochure 2018. After following all the laid down norms mentioned in Selection Brochure 2018, Letter of Intent was finally issued in favor of respondent no.5. Besides, in consonance with the conditions of letter of Intent, respondent no 5 entered into a lease agreement with the other co-owners on 20.12.2019. Finally the replying respondent received NOC from DC Solan for the subject location dated 1.02.2020. It is further pertinent to mention that the petitioner was never selected for the subject location and therefore there is absolutely no occasion for him to submit any documents to the replying respondent. It is further reiterated that as the petitioner was never selected, the answering respondent could not comment upon his eligibility.” 21. Before this Court also, the Corporation has filed its reply stating as under :- “XII. The said Special Leave Petition deserves to be allowed also because the respondent No. 5 has unnecessarily and wrongly impleaded respondent No. 1 - Union of India as a party respondent in the present proceedings as it is not in any manner whatsoever connected with the issue in question. As such, the Hon’ble High Court ought to have 1262 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports dismissed the writ-petition itself for misjoinder of parties and in the alternative, the respondent No. 1 ought to have been deleted from the parties. XIII. The said Special Leave Petition deserves to be allowed also because as per the Policy Guidelines, online applications were invited from amongst the eligible candidates and the categories of their applications were segregated according to the guidelines. The answering respondent/BPCL did not receive any application under Group 1 category. Hence, the answering respondent/BPCL proceeded with the draw of Lots for candidates under Group 2 category on 17.06.2019, in which the petitioner was selected. Accordingly, he was sent intimation of selection and was also asked to submit all the necessary documents for further verification. Only after meticulously going through all the documents including land papers provided by the petitioner, his case was processed and he was issued the Letter of Intent (LOT) by the answering respondent/BPCL strictly in conformity with the said Brochure of 2018. XIV. The said Special Leave Petition deserves to be allowed also because all the relevant documents received from the petitioner/ selected candidate were thoroughly scrutinized and only after that the Letter of Intent (LOI) was issued in his favour. It is also pertinent to mention that before issuance of the LOI, a compromise had been reached between Sh. Leela Dharand Sh. Dinesh Kumar and the other co-owners of the offered land. Accordingly, Sh. Dinesh Kumar, prepared and submitted an affidavit mentioning the amicable out of court settlement of the dispute between the co-owners of the land offered for establishment of Retail Outlet/Petrol Pump by the petitioner. He also filed an application on 08.08.2019 before the Ld. Civil Judge Arki, District Solan, Himachal Pradesh, for withdrawal of the pending Civil Suit.