This is because it is only material resources “of the community” which can be distributed which would mean exclusion of distribution of private resources per se by the State. This implies that if private resources have to be distributed under clause (b) of Article 39, the private resources must first become the “resources of the community”. How do material resources which are privately owned become “material resources of the community”? The answer to this question lies in the legal devices that are adopted by the State to transform private material resources into the “resources of the community”. This could be, inter alia, in the following five ways which are illustrative and not exhaustive in nature: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 223 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. (i) by nationalisation; (ii) by acquisition; (iii) by operation of law, such as vesting of private resources in the State; (iv) by purchase of the material resource from private persons; and (v) by the owner of the material resource converting it as a material resource of the community by donation, gift, creation of an endowment or a public trust, etc. 11.10 What is the common denominator in the methods adopted by the State for converting private material resources into “material resources of the community”? In all these three devices, at (i), (ii) and (iii) above,what is of significance is that when, by a process of nationalisation, acquisition or vesting of private resources in the State occurs there are certain legal processes which take place: the first process is to convert the private resources into resources of the community by vesting in the State, and the second process is to utilise these community resources for the purpose of distribution for the common good. Distribution could be in two ways: firstly, by actual distribution to the deserving and eligible persons as per the policy to be implemented. Secondly, the State could retain ownership and/or control having regard to the nature of the resources and other relevant factors. The third process is that the private owners of these resources are fairly compensated when they lose all rights, title and possession over such material resources when it becomes a material resource of the community”. 11.11 Thus, when private persons are so deprived of ownership as well as the control of the material resources which belong to them or are controlled by them, they must be compensated justly and fairly. Otherwise, the conversation of private material resources into “resources of the community” would be contrary to Article 300A of the Constitution which states that no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law. In other words, a person can be deprived of his property by the State only by authority of law. 224 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. I shall discuss the various modes by which privately owned material resources can be transformed as resources of the community which I have adverted into in paragraph 11.9. 12.1 How does nationalisation of certain private resources occur?