10. It was further alleged that the respondent-plaintiff’s brother was a commission agent and ran a commission business at Mandi, Amarkot. The appellant-defendant used to sell his agricultural produce through the commission agency of the respondent-plaintiff’s brother. The appellant-defendant was an illiterate simpleton and the respondent- plaintiff, and his brother used to get the thumb impressions of the customers/agriculturists including the appellant-defendant on blank stamp papers. It was specifically asserted in the written statement that the disputed agreement had been prepared by fraudulent means on one of such blank stamp papers, on which the thumb impression of the appellant-defendant had been taken by deceitful means. The appellant-defendant also denied the receipt of sale consideration from the respondent-plaintiff and asserted that he was not bound by the disputed agreement. A plea was also made by the appellant-defendant that the market rate of agricultural land in Village Cheema Khurd was not less than Rs.12,00,000/- per Killa and that there was no reason for the appellant-defendant to have sold his valuable land to the respondent-plaintiff at a throw away rate of Rs.5,00,000/- per Killa, more particularly as the suit land was his only source of livelihood. 11. A pertinent plea was also taken by the appellant-defendant that the suit for specific performance of the disputed agreement and for permanent injunction, was bad for non-joinder of necessary parties because all the co-sharers of the suit land were not arrayed as parties in the subject suit. Based on aforesaid pleadings of the parties, the trial Court framed the following issues for determination: - “1. Whether the defendant no. 1 executed an agreement to sell dated 7.5.2007 regarding land measuring 30 Kanals 8 Marlas in favour of the plaintiff? OPP. 86 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for specific performance of agreement to sell? OPP. 3. Whether the plaintiff is entitled in the alternative to recover Rs.19,00,000/- from the defendant no. 1? OPP. 4. Whether the plaintiff and defendant no. 1 were owner/ co-sharer in possession to the extent of his share in the disputed property? OPP. 5. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to the relief of permanent injunction as prayed for? OPP. 6. Whether the suit is maintainable in the present form? OPP. 7. Whether the plaintiff has locus standi to file the present suit? OPP. 8. Whether the cause of action arisen to the plaintiff for filing of present suit? OPP. 9. Whether the suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties? OPP. 10. Whether the plaintiff has not come to the court with clean hands? OPD. 11. Whether the plaintiff is estopped by his own act and conduct from filing the present suit? OPD. 12. Relief.” 12. The issue No.2(supra) regarding entitlement of the respondent- plaintiff for specific performance of the disputed agreement and the affiliated issue No. 5(supra) for the relief of permanent injunction were decided against the respondent-plaintiff. However, issue No.3(supra) regarding the alternative relief seeking recovery of the amount to the tune of Rs.