The phone call was allegedly traced as being of one Ravi Kumar Dwivedi but no evidence was placed on record to establish the demand of ransom before the Court which was absolutely necessary in view of the law laid done by this Court in Rajesh v. State of Madhya Pradesh, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1202. 54 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 15. For making out a case under Section 364-A, the first condition i.e., kidnapping or abduction must be coupled with either the second or the third condition as held by this Court in Shaik Ahmed (supra)2. Under the said provision, the accused is liable to be punished either by death or imprisonment for life and is also liable to be fined considering the gravity of the offence. In the present case, even if it is presumed for the sake of argument that an offence under Section 364 is made out, we do not find that the offence would come under the ambit of Section 364A. ‘Abduction’ is defined under Section 362 which reads as under: “362. Abduction.—Whoever by force compels, or by any deceitful means induces, any person to go from any place, is said to abduct that person.” The offence which is made out is definitely under Section 364 which read as under: “364. Kidnapping or abducting in to murder.— Whoever kidnaps or abducts any person in that such person may be murdered or may be so disposed of as to be put in danger of being murdered, shall be punished with [imprisonment for life] or rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.” 16. However, in to come under the ambit of Section 364A, something more than abduction is required, which is demand of ransom. We do not find that there was a demand of ransom as alleged by the prosecution. There is no worthwhile evidence placed by the prosecution in this regard. The demand of ransom does not come in the examination in chief of the complainant (PW-6). He sticks to his theory of abduction, attempt to murder, etc., but there is no whisper about any demand of ransom, though in his supplementary statement before the Police (under Section 161 of Criminal Procedure Code), on 21.03.2013, he says that while he was lying on the ground after an attempt to strangulate him was made by the two accused, he had heard Neeraj Sharma telling Ashwani Kumar Yadav that they should now demand a ransom 2 Para 33 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 55 NEERAJ SHARMA v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH from his father. The only deposition in Court regarding demand of ransom has come as a bald statement by Praneet Sharma (PW-5) who is the father of the complainant that on 03.01.2013 when he was in the hospital one Ravi Kumar Dwivedi demanded Rs.8,00,000/- as ransom. Ravi Kumar Dwivedi the third accused, has already been acquitted by the Trial Court. There was no evidence at all before the Trial Court to have convicted the appellants under Section 364A, IPC.