“9. […] Section 28 of the Act which falls in Chapter V provides for notice for payment of duties which has been demanded by the notice in this case. Therefore, it is submitted on behalf of the Centre that demand of customs duty and the for payment of the same is relatable to only Section 28(1) of the Customs Act, as also found by the CEGAT. That being the position, the notice was beyond time and not by a competent officer authorised to issue the same. The argument, as advanced, though seems to be attractive but on scrutiny, we find no merit in it […]” 9.3. On the other hand, the Department defended its position by submitting as follows: “8. […] It is submitted that the copy of the notice, as annexed, does not mention Section 28(1) of the Customs Act, in any case if it is taken to be there, as contended, that would make no difference. The submission is that sub-section (2) of Section 125 of the Customs Act provides that where any fine in lieu of confiscation of goods is imposed, the importer shall also, in addition, be liable to any duty and charges payable in respect of such goods.” 9.4. It is in the context of the above-referred submissions, that the court considered the fact that an option under Section 125 was given and it was in fact exercised. Thus, the liability to pay customs duty arose under Section 125(2) and therefore, the court held that the separate notice under Section 28 is not required. This is exactly what the court ruled by holding: “12. Whenever an confiscating the imported goods is passed, an option, as provided under sub- section (1) of Section 125 of the Customs Act, is to be given to the person to pay fine in lieu of the confiscation and on such an being passed according to sub-section (2) of Section 125, the person “shall in addition be liable to any duty and charges payable in respect of such goods” […]”. 9.5. Again, in the same paragraph, the court notes that the occasion, origin, or the circumstance in which the liability to pay duty arose in 1200 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the confiscation proceedings under Section 125 (2). In this case, the court was considering and rejecting the submission made on a misplaced premise that the proceedings have originated under Section 28. Payment of customs duty has not arisen either under Section 12 or Section 28, it has arisen because of Section 125(2). Therefore, a notice under Section 28 is not necessary. This is how the needs to be understood, and it is in this perspective that the court has in fact rejected the importer’s objection to the payment of duty. “12. Whenever an confiscating the imported goods is passed, an option, as provided under sub- section (1) of Section 125 of the Customs Act, is to be given to the person to pay fine in lieu of the confiscation and on such an being passed according to sub-section (2) of Section 125, the person “shall in addition be liable to any duty and charges payable in respect of such goods.” A reading of sub-section (1) and (2) of Section 125 together makes it clear that liability to pay duty arises under sub-section (2) in addition to the fine under sub-section (1).