Some of the relevant observations made by this Court in In Re: Interplay (supra) are extracted hereinbelow: “179. […] However, the effect of the principle of competence- competence is that the arbitral tribunal is vested with the power and authority to determine its enforceability. The question of enforceability survives, pending the curing of the defect which renders the instrument inadmissible. By appointing a tribunal or its members, this Court (or the High Courts, as the case may be) is merely giving effect to the principle enshrined in Section 16. The appointment of an arbitral tribunal does not necessarily mean that the agreement in which the arbitration clause is contained as well as the arbitration agreement itself are enforceable. The arbitral tribunal will answer precisely these questions. xxx xxx xxx 185. The corollary of the doctrine of competence- competence is that courts may only examine whether an arbitration agreement exists on the basis of the prima facie standard of review. The nature of objections to the jurisdiction of an arbitral tribunal on the basis that stamp-duty has not been paid or is inadequate is such as cannot be decided on a prima facie basis. Objections of this kind will require a detailed consideration of evidence and submissions and a finding as to the law as well as the facts. Obligating the court to decide issues of stamping at the Section 8 or Section 11 stage will defeat the legislative intent underlying the Arbitration Act. 898 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 186. The purpose of vesting courts with certain powers under Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act is to facilitate and enable arbitration as well as to ensure that parties comply with arbitration agreements. The disputes which have arisen between them remain the domain of the arbitral tribunal (subject to the scope of its jurisdiction as defined by the arbitration clause). The exercise of the jurisdiction of the courts of the country over the substantive dispute between the parties is only possible at two stages: a. If an application for interim measures is filed under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act; or b. If the award is challenged under Section 34. Issues which concern the payment of stamp-duty fall within the remit of the arbitral tribunal. The discussion in the preceding segments also make it evident that courts are not required to deal with the issue of stamping at the stage of granting interim measures under Section 9.” (Emphasis supplied) 95. We would like to analyse and elaborate some of the observations from the aforesaid decision which are highly pertinent to the dispute at hand. a. Arbitral Autonomy 96. The principle of judicial non-interference permeates the scheme of the Act, 1996. The principle of competence-competence as contained in Section 16 of the Act, 1996 indicates that the arbitral tribunal enjoys sufficient autonomy from the national courts. The underlying principle behind arbitral autonomy and judicial non-interference is that when parties mutually decide to settle their disputes through arbitration, they surrender their right to agitate the same before the national courts.