(2) Any criminal Court may send for the police diaries of a case under inquiry or trial in such court, and may use such diaries, not as evidence in the case, but to aid it in such inquiry or trial. (3) Neither the accused nor his agents shall be entitled to call for such diaries, nor shall he or they be entitled to see them merely because they are referred (to) by this Court.” (emphasis supplied) 22. While it is the responsibility and duty of the Investigating Officer to make a due recording in his case diary, there is no corresponding right under sub-section (3) of Section 172 of CrPC for accused to seek production of such diaries, or to peruse them, except in a case where they are used by a police officer maintaining them to refresh his memory, or in a case where the court uses them for the purpose of contradicting the police officer. In such a case, the provision of Section 145 or Section 161, as the case may be, of the Evidence Act, shall apply. 792 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 23. Law is quite settled that an improper maintenance of a case diary by the Investigating Officer will not enure to the benefit of the accused. Prejudice has to be shown and proved by the accused despite non-compliance of Section 172 of CrPC in a given case. However, this does not take away the mandatory duty of the police officer to maintain it properly. As the court is the guardian of truth, it is the duty of the Investigating Officer to satisfy the court when it seeks to contradict him. The right of the accused is, therefore, very restrictive and limited. Bhagwant Singh v. Commissioner of Police, (1983) 3 SCC 344, “17. The other inference which disturbs us is that the entries in the police case diary (set forth in the annexure to the counter-affidavit on the record) do not appear to have been entered with the scrupulous completeness and efficiency which the law requires of such a document. The haphazard maintenance of a document of that status not only does no credit to those responsible for maintaining it but defeats the very purpose for which it is required to be maintained. We think it to be of the utmost importance that the entries in a police case diary should be made with promptness, in sufficient detail, mentioning all significant facts, in careful chronological and with complete objectivity.” (emphasis supplied) 24. Baleshwar Mandal v. State of Bihar, (1997) 7 SCC 219, “5. Under Section 172 CrPC read with Rule 164 of Bihar Police Manual dealing with the investigation, an Investigating Officer investigating a crime is under obligation to record all the day-to-day proceedings and information in his case diary, and also record the time at which the information was received and the place visited by him, besides the preparation of site plan and other documents. The Investigating Officer is also required to send bloodstained clothes and earth seized from the place of occurrence for chemical examination.