As the first cheque in the sum of Rs. 2,20,00,000/- was dishonoured, a complaint was filed after the service of a statutory notice alleging the commission of an offence punishable under Section 138 of the N.I. Act on which the learned Magistrate took cognizance of the offence. Application under Section 143A of the NI Act 4. Before the Court of the learned Magistrate, the respondent moved an application under Section 143A of the N.I. Act seeking a direction against the appellant/accused to pay 20 per cent of the cheque amount as compensation. By the dated 7th March 2020, the learned Judicial Magistrate allowed the application and directed the 444 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports appellant to pay an interim compensation of Rs. 10,00,000/- to the respondent within 60 days. The Sessions Court affirmed the of the learned Magistrate in a revision application. The said s were subjected to a challenge before the High Court. The learned Judge of Jharkhand High Court dismissed the petition by the impugned . These s are the subject matter of challenge in the present criminal appeal. SUBMISSIONS 5. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant pointed out that sub-section (1) of Section 143A of the N.I. Act uses the word ‘may’. Therefore, the provision is discretionary. He submitted that the Trial Court cannot pass an to pay interim compensation mechanically. He submitted that the Court must apply its mind to the facts of the case before passing the drastic of deposit. He submitted that the existence of a prima facie case is essential for exercising the power under Section 143A. Only after prima facie consideration of the merits of the complainant’s case and defence of the accused, the Court must conclude whether a case is made out for the grant of interim compensation. After the Court comes to the conclusion that a case for grant of interim compensation has been made out, the Court has to apply its mind to the quantum of interim compensation. In every case, the Court cannot grant 20 per cent of the cheque amount as interim compensation. 6. The learned counsel appearing for the respondent submitted that considering the very object of Section 138 of the N.I. Act, sub-section (1) of Section 143A will have to be held as mandatory. He submitted that there is a presumption under Section 139 of the N.I. Act that unless a contrary is proved, the holder of a cheque received the cheque for the discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or liability. He submitted that the question of rebutting the said presumption would arise only after the evidence is adduced. Therefore, the defence of the accused at the stage of considering an application under sub- section (1) of Section 143A is irrelevant. In every case, an of payment of interim compensation must follow. He submitted that unless it is held that sub-section (1) of Section 143A is mandatory, the very object of the legislature of enacting this provision will be frustrated.