The doctrine of prospective overruling is applicable only when the invalidates a legislation or introduces a new interpretation by overruling its earlier decision. The doctrine of prospective overruling has never been applied to situations where the declaration of law attaches validity to taxing legislation; b. If MADA (supra) is applied prospectively, India Cement (supra) will have to operate till 25 July 2024. Resultantly, all relevant state legislation will be tested on the anvil of India Cement (supra) and may be declared ultra vires. This consequence is unjust and against the public interest; and c. In State of West Bengal v. Kesoram Industries Ltd,3 a Constitution Bench upheld the validity of legislation enacted by the State of West Bengal. After Kesoram (supra), several states such as Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan enacted legislation which was upheld by the respective High Courts. Giving prospective effect to MADA (supra) will result in a discriminatory situation. While West Bengal will continue to collect tax (which it has been doing since 1992), other states with similar enactments may be deprived of collecting tax from the date of their enactments. 4. We have also heard Mr Pitambar Acharya, Advocate General of the State of Orissa, who emphasized the importance of protecting the financial interests of States. C. Prospective overruling 5. The doctrine of prospective overruling is applied when a constitutional court overrules a well-established precedent by declaring a new rule but limits its application to future situations. The underlying objective is to avert injustice or hardships.4 The doctrine was applied by the courts in the US on the basis that the US Constitution “neither prohibits nor 3 (2004) 10 SCC 201 4 Great Northern Railway Co. v. Sunburst Oil and Refining Co., 287 U S 358 (1932) [2024] 8 S.C.R. 551 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. requires retroactive effect.”5 The US Supreme Court has considered the existence of a statute or judicial decision as an “operative fact” having “consequences which cannot justly be ignored” or “erased by a new judicial declaration.”6 Therefore, it was held that the effect of a subsequent ruling as to invalidity may have to be considered in light of various aspects.7 6. In Chevron Oil Company v. Huson,8 the US Supreme Court identified three separate factors to be considered while deciding the applicability of prospective overruling: (i) the decision to be applied prospectively must establish a new principle of law, either by overruling clear past precedent on which litigants may have relied, or by deciding an issue of first impression whose resolution was not foreshadowed; (ii) the court must weigh the merits and demerits in each case by looking to the prior history of the rule in question, its purpose and effect, and whether retrospective operation will further or retard the operation of the rule; and (iii) whether the application of nonretroactivity avoids substantial inequitable results, injustice or hardships. 7. This Court has adopted the doctrine of prospective overruling, partly inspired by the jurisprudence developed in the US.