126. With respect to the Airport dues, the impugned of the NCLAT had taken into consideration Clauses 6.4.1(e), 6.4.1(h) and 6.4.1(m) respectively. Specifically dealing with Clause 6.4.1(h), it said that this provision dealt with the treatment of outstanding CIRP costs which included parking charge i.e., Airport Charges. While considering so, the following observations were made: “54. The provisions of Resolution Plan as noted above clearly indicates that CIRP costs includes Airport Charges. SRA is also entitled to use funds available with the Corporate Debtor as on effective date to meet any portion of CIRP costs. The submission of the Appellants that the entire Airport Charges have to be borne by the SRA upfront cannot be accepted nor non-payment of Airport Charges by SRA as on date makes the allotment of slot unavailable to the SRA. Allotment of slot having been achieved by the SRA as noted above, non-payment of airport charges upfront by SRA cannot be said to be a reason to not accept the fulfillment of condition of slot allotment. The payment of Airport Charges has to be made as per the Resolution Plan 2138 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports when the implementation of the plans commences as per the Resolution Plan. We thus do not find any substance in the submission of Learned Counsel for the Appellant that allotment of slot is not completed since airport charges have not been paid by the SRA. 55. With regard to submission of the Appellant that old dues of Airport Charges having not been settled, the Adjudicating Authority has rightly observed that settling old dues cannot be conceded as non-allotment of slots. We thus fully concur with the finding of the Adjudicating Authority that conditions precedent under Clause 7.6.1(c) were fulfilled.” (emphasis supplied). 127. The case of the Appellants is that upon consideration of Clause 6.4.1(h), the NCLAT erroneously concluded that the Airport Charges would be a part of the CIRP costs. Clause 6.4.1(h) of the Resolution Plan is reproduced hereinbelow: “(h) Based on the information provided, the Resolution Applicant have assumed that the amounts standing to the credit of the bank account of the Corporate Debtor (including amounts estimated to be received subsequently) are sufficient to cover for the CIRP Costs of the Corporate Debtor (excluding parking charges, rental charges, employee dues, taxes etc). Accordingly, the Resolution Applicant has set aside a sum of Rs. 25 Crores as CIRP Costs towards payment of any such costs until the Approval Date. Any expenses incurred by the Corporate Debtor from the Approval Date until the Effective Date will be incurred out of the positive bank balance of the Corporate Debtor.” (emphasis supplied) 128. A plain reading of Clause 6.4.1(h) reveals that the amount standing to the credit of the bank account of the Corporate Debtor would be sufficient to cover the CIRP costs of the Corporate Debtor but that this would exclude the parking charges, rental charges, employee dues, taxes etc. Therefore, the clause does not expressly exclude Airport Charges from the ambit of CIRP costs entirely but only states that [2024] 11 S.C.R.