22.2 In my view, the aforesaid distinction brought out in Goodricke between the levy of cess on royalty and levy of cess on yield from land, clearly indicates that in India Cement, the cess was struck down as not coming within the scope and ambit of Entry 49 - List II as the cess was not on land directly. Cess was on a payment of royalty by a lessee conducting a mining operation which is not a cess directly on the land but on exercising a mineral right which aspect was under the control of the Union by virtue of the MMDR Act, 1957. 22.3 However, in Goodricke, it was observed that tax imposed on land measured with reference to or on the basis of its yield, is certainly a tax directly on the land. Apart from income, yield or produce, there can perhaps be no other basis for levy. Merely, because a tax on land or building is imposed with reference to its income or yield, it does not cease to be a tax on land or building. The income or yield of the land/building is taken merely as a measure of the tax; it does not alter the nature or character of the levy. It remains a tax on land or building. The aforesaid reasoning would not apply to the present case. The payment of royalty on exercise of mineral right is itself a tax and the royalty being considered as a measure for the purpose of payment of tax on land within the scope and ambit of Entry 49 – List II would not arise in view of there being a separate Entry 50 – List II. 22.4 Moreover, in Goodricke, what was considered was Entry 52 – List I and not Entry 54 – List I. Entry 50 – List I which is subjected to Entry 54 – List I and the same being a unique Entry, would not apply while considering Entry 49 – List II in the context of Entry 52 – List I. This is because Entry 52 – List I does not impose any limitation on Entry 49 – List II and if the tax on exercise of mineral right squarely falls within the ambit 1802 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of Entry 50 – List II then the limitation in the context of Entry 54 – List I would have to be borne in mind before the State can embark upon levying any further tax on the basis of royalty as a measure. 22.5 Having noted this sui generis relationship above, I may observe the difficulty in drawing any further analogy between Goodricke and the instant case. Every facet concerning minerals, whether it be taxation, regulation, or development, is without an iota of doubt an important question of national concern for, it has ramifications on the stability of national economy, environmental degradation, labour laws, rights of tribal communities, etc. That the aforesaid sentiment was shared and acted upon by our Constitutional framers is explicit vide insertion of a unique and special apparatus in the Constitution through Entry 54 - List I, Entry 23 – List II and Entry 50 – List II.