But, this is only a broad distinction, not necessarily always true. …..” 50. Though, this Court, in the celebrated case of Cynamide India Ltd. (supra) observed that any attempt to draw a distinct line between legislative and administrative functions is difficult in theory and impossible in practice, it attempted to draw a line between the two inasmuch as different legal rights and consequences may ensue, in exercise of such functions. It has been held that the distinction between the two has usually been expressed as “one between the general and the particular”. A legislative act is the creation and promulgation of a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases; whereas an administrative act is the making and issue of a specific direction or the application of a general rule to a particular case in accordance with the requirements of policy. It has been held that legislation is the process of formulating a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases and usually operating in future. Whereas, administration is the process of performing particular acts of issuing particular s or of making decisions which apply general rules to particular cases. It has also been held that rule- making is normally directed towards the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class; whereas an adjudication, on the other hand, applies to specific individuals or situations. 51. When we apply the aforesaid principles to the facts of the present case, it will be amply clear that the preparation of draft development plan under Section 18 of the TCP Act, finalization of the same under Section 19 of the TCP Act by the Director and grant of approval by 1004 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the State under Section 20 of the TCP Act are all legislative functions. The provisions enable the delegated legislative body to formulate the provisions which will have a general application to all members of the broadly identifiable classes. 52. In the case of Tulsipur Sugar Co. Ltd. v. The Notified Area Committee, Tulsipur21, again a challenge was made to the notification issued under Section 3 of the U.P. Town Areas Act, 1914 on the ground that before issuance of final notification, the principles of audi alteram partem were not followed. While rejecting the said contention and holding the exercise of powers as a piece of conditional legislation, this Court observed thus: “7. …..The power of the State Government to make a declaration under Section 3 of the Act is legislative in character because the application of the rest of the provisions of the Act to the geographical area which is declared as a town area is dependent upon such declaration. Section 3 of the Act is in the nature of a conditional legislation. Dealing with the nature of functions of a non-judicial authority, Prof. S.A. De Smith in Judicial Review of Administrative Action (3rd Edn.) observes at p. 163: “However, the analytical classification of a function may be a conclusive factor in excluding the operation of the audi alteram partem rule.