42. As has been demonstrated hereinabove, the statutory documents under the MRTP Act demarcating the blue zone/blue line came in its draft form only in 2000 as far as the development plan was concerned and in 2002 as far as the regional plan was concerned. The Section 4 notification under the Act in this case is of 03.06.1999. Before the Reference Court, the document that was available was Exh.141 map. However, we are not inclined to place any reliance on the same for the reason that DW-1 K.S. Bhoyar, Sub-Divisional Engineer, who filed his affidavit in chief on 05.01.2008 clearly deposed that he 2268 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was not in a position to definitely say as to in which year Exh.141 was prepared. He also deposed that he had not brought the original map on the basis of which Exh.141 was prepared. Since under the MRTP Act, there is a procedure for notifying the plans and since the whole process commenced after the Section 4 notification dated 03.06.1999 was issued, it will be very unsafe to proceed on the basis of the proposal, if any, in the letter of the Executive Engineer dated 18.01.1999, though it may have the basis for ultimately drafting the regional plan and the development plan. 43. If an acquiring body relies on a statutory injunction, to establish that the land has no potential, then the burden is on the said acquiring body to demonstrate without any ambiguity that such a statutory interdict is in place. In the present case, the VIDC has not discharged the burden in demonstrating that statutorily there was a valid demarcation of a “Blue Zone” on the date of the Section 4 notification, under the Act. What has been established is only the existence of the byelaw i.e. “Standardised Building Byelaws and Development Control Rules for “B” and “C” Class Municipal Councils of Maharashtra”. 44. The statutory regime that was in force admittedly, according to the State, was the Standardized Building Byelaws and Development Control Rules for ‘B’ and ‘C’ class Municipal Councils of Maharashtra which by a Government resolution of 02.04.1974 was even made applicable to lands outside Municipal limits. Going by that, the building permissions could be denied only if the site was within 9 meters of the highest water mark and if there be a major water course nearby, the distance of the plot from the same shall be 9 meters from the average high flood mark or 15 meters from the defined boundary of water course whichever is more. 45. There is no definitive evidence on record to indicate as to what was the highest water mark or the average high flood mark, with the result we conclude, in the peculiar facts of the case, that as on 03.06.1999, i.e. the date of the Section 4 notification for the appellant’s land, the no construction zone can only be taken as 15 meters from the defined boundary of the water course which is the Morna river.