We regret to say that this case is typical of the unfortunate but frequent phenomenon of repeat performance with the review label as passport. Nothing which we did not hear then has been heard now, except a couple of rulings on points earlier put forward. May be, as counsel now urges and then pressed, our refusing special leave was capable of a different course. The present stage is not a virgin ground but review of an earlier which has the normal feature of finality.” [Emphasis supplied] 67. Thus, the decisions referred to above make it abundantly clear that when a court disposes of a case without due regard to a provision of law or when its attention was not invited to a provision of law, it may amount to an error analogous to one apparent on the face of record sufficient to bring the case within the purview of XLVII Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. In other words, if a court is oblivious to the relevant statutory provisions, the would in fact be per incuriam. In such circumstances, a rendered in ignorance of the applicable law must be reviewed. 68. From here onwards, our endeavour is to ascertain whether the relevant provisions of law including the notifications issued by the Board from time to time were brought to the notice of the Court while deciding Canon India (supra). 69. A three-Judge Bench in Canon India (supra) examined whether officers of the DRI are proper officers for the purpose of issuing recovery notices under the provisions of Section 28 of the Act, 1962. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 257 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. 70. The Court while deciding the aforesaid question held as under: “11. There are only two articles “a (or an)” and “the”. “A (or an)” is known as the indefinite article because it does not specifically refer to a particular person or thing. On the other hand, “the” is called the definite article because it points out and refers to a particular person or thing. There is no doubt that, if Parliament intended that any proper officer could have exercised power under Section 28(4), it could have used the word “any”. 12. Parliament has employed the article “the” not accidently but with the intention to designate the proper officer who had assessed the goods at the time of clearance. It must be clarified that the proper officer need not be the very officer who cleared the goods but may be his successor in office or any other officer authorised to exercise the powers within the same office. In this case, anyone authorised from the Appraisal Group. Assessment is a term which includes determination of the dutiability of any goods and the amount of duty payable with reference to, inter alia, exemption or concession of customs duty vide Section 2(2)(c) of the Customs Act, 1962 [ “2. Definitions.— In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— ***(2) “assessment” means determination of the dutiability of any goods and the amount of duty, tax, cess or any other sum so payable, if any, under this Act or under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975) (hereinafter referred to as the Customs Tariff Act) or under any other law for the time being in force, with reference to—(a)-(b)***(c) exemption or concession of duty, tax, cess or any other sum, consequent upon any notification issued therefor under this Act or under the Customs Tariff Act or under any other law for the time being in force;”] .