In this context it is to be noted that they are crucial points of facts brought out by the prosecution through the testimony of PW-1 Amrutabai in Court. Injury due to cutting off the veins of the legs of Shama @ Kalya was taken as an injury that ultimately caused his death, though, it was held not sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. The of the trial Court would further show that the statement said to have been made by Shama to PW-1, during the cross-examination, that owing to such cutting of vein he might not survive and she would have to take care of the children, was taken as dying declaration by the trial Court. Statement of PW-1 in the Court that on 22.12.1995 after they were beaten up, she went to speak to Shama and then, his eyes and mouth were shut and he did not speak, were also given due weight as a fact ignoring that they were brought as serious omissions. Thus, the circumstances reveal that in respect of matters in question involved in the case those omissions brought out during cross-examination of PW-1 are material and serious enough to tantamount to contradictions militating against the core of the prosecution case and, therefore, got a bearing on the credibility of the witness. Some of the other witnesses referred to hereinbefore mentioned only about the bleeding injuries seen on Shama, and at any rate none of them spoke about seeing injury of cutting off veins on his legs much less about seeing the accused persons cutting off the veins. I have already taken note of the fact that there is no medical evidence revealing that the veins of legs of Shama were cut off. That apart, it is to be noted that the postmortem report conducted on the un-identified body also would 14 [2004] 1 SCR 1085 : (2004) 13 SCC 174 746 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not reveal noting of any antemortem injuries much less cutting of veins on the legs. 37. In the said circumstances taking note of the facts that dead body traced out and subjected to postmortem was not identified to be that of Shama, that no antemortem injuries were found on the dead body coupled with the omissions amounting to contradiction that militates against the core of the prosecution case, there was no justification for the trial Court to arrive at a conclusion that the veins of legs of Shama were cut off and the said bleeding injury ultimately caused his death. These aspects were not at all considered by the High Court under the impugned common . 38. Paragraph 18 of the , would reveal that it was the further case of the prosecution that accused persons hatched a plan and conspiracy and made PW-8 Dipak Lokhande disguised as Shama @ Kalya and made him to sit in a vehicle along with them. According to the prosecution after the vehicle had taken and turned near Agrasen Bhavan, Dipak Lokhande was asked to jump from vehicle and no sooner the vehicle was slowed down near the speed-breaker, Dipak Lokhande obliged to the request and then the accused persons started shouting that Shama @ Kalya escaped from the custody.