The appellant also alleged discrimination. By the of 29.08.2024, the High Court simply stood over the matter to 19.09.2024 and did not pass any interim . 10. Running against time as the last date for submitting the choice for admission was 29.08.2024 and since the results of the CAP Round-I were to be declared on 30.08.2024, the appellant with great alacrity moved this Court seeking urgent reliefs. Interim by this Court: 11. When the matter came up on 02.09.2024, this Court, after hearing the counsel for the NMC, passed an directing that the seat which the appellant would have been entitled, if rendered eligible, be kept vacant. This Court also directed the Dean, Byramjee Jeejeebhoy Government Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, Pune to constitute a Medical Board consisting of one or more specialists, having domain expertise pertaining to the appellant’s disability. The Medical Board was to specifically examine whether the speech and language disability of the appellant would come in his way of pursuing the MBBS Degree Course. This course of action was previously adopted in another case with similar facts in Writ Petition (C) No. 793 of 2022 (Vibhushita Sharma vs. Union of India & Ors). Opinion of the Medical Board: 12. Ultimately, since the B.J Government Medical College did not have the facility, the task was entrusted to Maulana Azad Medical College, Government of NCT of Delhi. The report has since been received and the Medical Board has opined that the Appellant’s speech and language disability would not come in the way of the appellant pursuing the MBBS Course, which is extracted hereinbelow:- 680 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “As directed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, the medical examination of the petitioner, namely, Sh. Gond Omkar Ramchandra was conducted in the department of ENT(Room No. 609) by the above mentioned members of the Medical Board. Findings of the examinations are attached (OPD-116574108). The Board is of the opinion that the Speech & Language disability of the Petitioner namely Sh. Gond Omkar Ramchandra would not come in the way of pursuing the MBBS Course.” (Emphasis Supplied) 13. We have heard Mr. S. B. Talekar, learned counsel for the appellant and Mr. S.D. Sanjay, learned Additional Solicitor General for the Union of India and Mr. Gaurav Sharma, learned senior counsel for the NMC. 14. This Court made the following on 18.09.2024:- “1. Leave granted. 2. For the reasons to be recorded separately, the appeal is allowed. 3. The appellant is directed to be admitted against the seat, which was directed to be kept vacant as per the s passed by this Court.” Question before the Court: 15. Merely because the disability is quantified at 44%/45%, should the appellant be disqualified to obtain admission under the PwD Category for the MBBS Course? Analysis and Reasoning: 16. Article 41 in the Directive Principles of State Policy reads as under: “41. Right to work, to education and to public assistance in certain cases.- The State shall, within the limits of its economic capacity and development, make effective provision for securing the right to work, to education and to public assistance in cases of unemployment, old age, sickness and disablement, and in other cases of undeserved want.” (Emphasis Supplied) [2024] 10 S.C.R.