It may that ultimately in the insolvency proceedings the decree-holder may be able to realise his debt wholly or in part, but this is a mere consequence or result. Not only is the relief of a different nature in the two proceedings but the procedure is also widely divergent.” (Emphasis supplied) 109. This Court in Commissioner, Madhya Pradesh Housing Board & Ors. v. Mohanlal and Company reported in (2016) 14 SCC 199 considered whether benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act would be available when a party instead of challenging an arbitral award under Section 34, filed a Section 11 application for appointment of arbitrator. This Court while setting aside the appointment, observed that the proceedings for appointment of an arbitrator are entirely different from the proceedings for challenging an award. Therefore, even after adopting a liberal interpretation, it would not be appropriate to grant benefit of exclusion of time-period under Section 14. 192 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 110. Even otherwise, the respondent couldn’t be said to have had been prosecuting the IBC proceedings in good faith and in a bonafide manner. It was observed by this Court in Consolidated Engg. Enterprises (supra) and M.P. Housing Board (supra) that an element of mistake is inherent in the relief envisaged under Section 14 of the Limitation Act. However, in the present case, the respondent had initially approached the High Court with an application under Section 11(6). However, for reasons best known to it, the respondent abandoned the said proceedings for appointment of arbitrator and approached the NCLT, Kolkata with an application under Section 9 of the IBC. The respondent was fully aware of the objection of a pre-existing dispute raised by the appellant in response to its second statutory demand notice issued under Section 8 of the IBC. Despite having preferred an application under 11(6) of the Act, 1996 before the jurisdictional court, and also being fully aware of the infirmities in the Section 9 application filed under the IBC, the respondent took a conscious decision to abandon the right course of proceedings. The conduct of the respondent cannot be termed to be a mistake in any manner. Having taken a conscious decision to opt for specific remedy under the IBC which is not for the same relief as an application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996, the respondent cannot be now allowed to take the plea of ignorance or mistake and must bear the consequences of its decisions. iii. Issue No. 3 111. It was submitted on behalf of the respondent that in the event the benefit under Section 14(2) of the Limitation Act is not extended to it, then in such circumstance, this Court may consider to condone the delay in filing the second arbitration petition by exercising its discretion under Section 5 of the Limitation Act. In response to the said submission, the appellant contended that the benefit of condonation of delay under Section 5 of the Limitation Act cannot be extended to a petition for the appointment of an arbitrator under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996.