As an adjudicating authority in the proceedings, we are not supposed to do this kind of working, but to find out the genuineness of the claim of pre-existing dispute, and amount of outstanding debt, it was necessary in the facts and circumstances of the case, hence, it has been so analysed on the basis of the provisional statement prepared and filed by the Corporate Debtor itself. At the cost of repetition, we again state that this statement takes into consideration all these disputes raised by the Corporate Debtor, hence, the amount payable by the Corporate Debtor remains in positive which is more than one lakh ultimately that too when we have considered the project as a whole against the claim of Operational Creditor of undisputed dues of supply portion only. We have also gone through the emails which have been taken into consideration while preparing this provisional statement. Hence, on the basis of material on record, it cannot be said that any other dispute remains to be considered. Apart from this, the fact which is crucial to note is that the Corporate Debtor [2024] 12 S.C.R. 147 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad has awarded new work s to the Operational Creditor subsequently which means that all the disputes relating to this contract had been considered / resolved and this fact has remained undisputed. Further, Form “C”s have been issued as late as up to March 2018. We further make it clear that we have analysed the provisional statement with limited objective of admissibility of this application and this analysis cannot be considered as expression of opinion on the amount of claim in any manner which may be actually due and payable.” (Emphasis supplied) 14. The of the NCLT, Kolkata was subsequently set aside by the NCLAT, New Delhi vide dated 10.01.2022. The NCLAT, on the aspect of pre-existing disputes between the parties, observed thus: “18. It is clear from Section 8(2)(a) that ‘Existence of a Dispute’, (if any, or) record of the pendency of the Suit or Arbitration Proceeding filed before the receipt of such Notice or invoice in relation to such dispute should be brought to the notice of the ‘Operational Creditor’ within 10 days of receipt of the Demand Notice. In this case, the Demand Notice under Section 8 of the Code claiming a sum of Rs.13.69 Crores was issued on 25.07.2018. On 07.08.2018, the ‘Corporate Debtor’ responded to the Demand Notice referring to various communications, Minutes of the Meeting and submitted that there was a ‘Pre-Existing Dispute’. Though we are conscious of the fact that the ‘Corporate Debtor’ responded to the Demand Notice belatedly, the fact remains that the Appellant raised the issue of Existence of a Dispute’ in their Reply filed before the Adjudicating Authority with all the supporting documents. 19. It is pertinent to note that on 09.07.2016, ‘prior to the issuance of the Demand Notice under Section 8 of the Code’, the ‘Operational Creditor’ invoked Arbitration pursuant to the 8 project s issued by the ‘Corporate Debtor’, which itself substantiates the ‘Existence of a Dispute’.