The trial does not abate nor does it result in an of acquittal of the accused public servant. 88.7. (g) Insofar as Section 7 of the Act is concerned, on the proof of the facts in issue, Section 20 mandates the court to raise a presumption that the illegal gratification was for the purpose of a motive or reward as mentioned in the said Section. The said presumption has to be raised by the court as a legal presumption or a presumption in law. Of course, the said presumption is also subject to rebuttal. Section 20 does not apply to Sections 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of the Act. 88.8. (h) We clarify that the presumption in law under Section 20 of the Act is distinct from presumption of fact referred to above in sub-para 88.5(e), above, as the former is a mandatory presumption while the latter is discretionary in nature.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 653 Mir Mustafa Ali Hasmi v. The State of A.P. 28. Thus, in addition to answering the primary issue raised in the matter, the Constitution Bench also went on to hold that in to bring home the guilt of the accused, the prosecution has to prove the demand of illegal gratification and the subsequent acceptance, by either direct or circumstantial evidence. 29. Keeping in view the ratio of the above mentioned decision of the Constitution Bench, we now proceed to discuss the evidence available on record so as to find out whether the prosecution has been able to prove beyond all manner of doubt the fact that the appellant (AO1) demanded and accepted bribe from the complainant (PW-1). 30. First and foremost, we may note that the first allegation of demand as emanating from the prosecution case is reflected from the complaint (Exhibit P-1) submitted by the complainant (PW-1) to the DySP, ACB Department, Hyderabad Range on 22nd January, 2003, alleging inter alia that a fine of Rs.50,000/- had been imposed on his saw mill by the flying squad led by the appellant (AO1) in relation to the recovery of illegal and unlicensed teakwood in the saw-mill. After a week of this event, the appellant (AO1) and the Forest guard (AO2) again came to the saw-mill and demanded a monthly amount (mamool) of Rs.5,000/- to refrain from taking any further action on the saw-mill. Thus the allegation of demand as emanating from the complaint (Exhibit P-1) is common to both the appellant (AO1) as well as the co-accused (AO2) who stands acquitted by the High Court. The complaint (Exhibit P-1) was lodged on 22nd January, 2003. The DySP (PW-10) organized the pre-trap proceedings, on the next day i.e. on 23rd January 2003 without making any attempt to verify the allegation of demand of bribe levelled against the appellant (AO1) by the complainant (PW-1) in the complaint (Exhibit P-1). 31. It is the settled convention in such cases that the Trap Laying Officer, makes efforts to verify the factum of demand of bribe by the public servant before initiating the trap proceedings.