Bar of Suits.—No Court shall entertain any suit for the recovery of wages or of any deduction from wages in so far as the sum so claimed— 498 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) forms the subject of an application under section 15 which has been presented by the plaintiff and which is pending before the authority appointed under that section or of an appeal under section 17; or (b) has formed the subject of a direction under section 15 in favour of the plaintiff; or (c) has been adjudged, in any proceeding under section 15, not to be owed to the plaintiff; or (d) could have been recovered by an application under section 15.” 15. Equally, legality of the of termination dated 21.01.2021 is within the jurisdiction of Industrial Tribunal under Section 2(A) of the ID Act and it is important to mention that the jurisdiction of the Industrial Court is also to the exclusion of the civil courts and is not arbitrable. It is also important to note that remedies under these statutes were invoked much prior to the filing of petition under Section 11(6) by the respondent. In Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corporation,7 the principle of subject-matter arbitrability is enunciated as follows: “76. In view of the above discussion, we would like to propound a fourfold test for determining when the subject- matter of a dispute in an arbitration agreement is not arbitrable: 76.1 (1) When cause of action and subject-matter of the dispute relates to actions in rem, that do not pertain to subordinate rights in personam that arise from rights in rem. 76.2 (2) When cause of action and subject-matter of the dispute affects third-party rights; have erga omnes effect; require centralised adjudication, and mutual adjudication would not be appropriate and enforceable. 76.3 (3) When cause of action and subject-matter of the dispute relates to inalienable sovereign and public interest functions of the State and hence mutual adjudication would be unenforceable. 7 [2020] 11 SCR 1001 : (2021) 2 SCC 1 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 499 Dushyant Janbandhu v. M/s Hyundai Autoever India Pvt. Ltd. 76.4 (4) When the subject-matter of the dispute is expressly or by necessary implication non-arbitrable as per mandatory statute(s).” (emphasis supplied) 16. Having considered the factual background in which the Section 11(6) petition has been filed, we are of the opinion that it is an abuse of process. It was clearly intended to threaten the appellant for having approached the statutory authorities under the PW Act and the ID Act. There is no basis for invoking clause 19 of the agreement and demanding compensation of Rs. 14,02,822/- when that fact situation did not arise. 17. The Section 11(6) petition has two facets. The first relates to disputes that were anyway pending before the statutory authorities, and they related to non-payment of wages and legality and propriety of termination which are non-arbitrable. The second facet relates to the alleged violation of clause 19 relating to non-disclosure obligation, which was not raised in the show cause notice, inquiry report, chargesheet and termination and as such is non-existent.