By the time we reached the spot the deceased was lying on ground with injuries and on seeing us A-3 took a stone and gave threats to us saying that he would hit us if we go there.” Cross - “It is not true to say that I did not state before the police that when land other eye witnesses were going near· the place of the incident A-3 armed with a stone threatened to kill us. It is not true to say that for the first time before this court I am deposing that A-3 armed with a stone threatened me and other witnesses to kill” 8 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. P.W. 4, in his examination-in-chief, has stated as follows: “A-3 took a stone and hit on the head of the deceased.” 22. P.W. 6, in his examination-in-chief, has stated as follows: “A-3 took a stone and hit on the head of the deceased.” 23. A reading of the and passed by the Trial as well as the High Court would indicate that neither the prosecution or defence, nor the court, have focussed on the role of A-3 as evidenced by the oral and documentary evidence. There is nothing to attribute A-3 with the intent to murder the deceased. In fact, both the Courts have mechanically drawn an inference against A-3 under Section 34 of the Act merely based on his presence near the scene of offence and his familial relations with the other accused. 24. As per the post-mortem report, the cause of death is “cardio pulmonary arrest due to transaction spinal cord at atlanto occipital joint”. The atlanto occipital joint is at the back of the neck, which is the exact place where A-1 assaulted the deceased with the help of an axe. This axe was then taken by A-2 and thereafter, by A-4, who also assaulted the deceased. All the eye-witnesses are clear in this account. In other words, it was only A-3 who never took the axe in his hand. He only used a stone to assault the deceased. 25. Considering the statements of the eye-witnesses, coupled with the post-mortem report, it is not possible to contend that A-3 would have had the intention to commit the murder of the deceased and as such, he cannot be convicted under Section 302 IPC. 26. In fact, Victor Dinesh (PW-11), who gave the post-mortem report had indicated the injuries as under: “1. Incised wound extending from right ear to left cheek 19 cm long 6 cm deep 2 mm wide grievous sharp weapon, Ante mortem. 2. Incised wound on the right eye brow (4cms) simple sharp weapon Ante mortem. 3. Incised wound on the left side of fore head about 9 cms above left eye brow measuring 8 cms sharp weapon Ante mortem. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 9 Velthepu Srinivas and Others v. State of Andhra Pradesh (Now State of Telangana) and Anr. 4. Incised wound on left shoulder measuring 4 cm long 3mm wide.