Reliance is placed on the Mutation Entry No. 8258 dated 21.01.1973, which is disputed by the plaintiffs. 928 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 7. The Trial Court framed thirteen issues and held that an oral gift was not made to the sons as the essential requisites were not conclusively proven. It rejected the plea of partition on the ground that under Mohammedan Law, property partitioned during the owner’s lifetime requires a written registered document. After examining witnesses and evidence placed on its record, it held the plaintiffs jointly entitled to 1/6th share, defendant nos.1 and 9 each entitled to 1/3rd share and defendant no.11 to 1/6th share in the suit schedule properties. 8. While dismissing the appeals, the High Court concurred with the Trial Court’s findings on both issues of gift and partition. It reiterated the position under Mohammedan Law that as long as the owner is alive, the partition is unknown to the members governed by Muslim Law. Regarding the gift, it was held that the witnesses’ testimonies failed to substantiate the plea for an oral gift. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES 9. Mr. V.N. Raghupathy, learned counsel for the Appellants, submitted that writing is not essential to effectuate the transfer of immovable property by way of gift. Sultan Saheb made a declaration of gift, which was accepted by the donees, and possession was delivered to them, as evidenced by the Mutation Entry No.8258 (Ex. P1). He placed reliance on Section 129 of Transfer of Property Act,1882 and submits that writing is not essential to effectuate transfer of immovable property by way of gift. Further reliance is placed on Hafeeza Bibi v S.K. Farid 2 to describe the three essentials of a gift under Mohammadan Law. It is submitted that Sultan Saheb made a declaration of gift, the same was accepted by the donees and possession was delivered to the donees which is evident from Mutation Entry (Ex.P1). 10. It is submitted that the erroneous description of the transaction as watni/partition instead of an oral gift made the plaintiffs contend that Sultan Saheb and his sons had no right to divide/partition the property, but if the nomenclature ‘partition’ in Mutation Entry (Ex. P1) is replaced by ‘oral gift’, the remaining contents clearly shows that the transaction was an oral gift. Further reliance is placed on 2 [2011] 5 SCR 1155 : (2011) 5 SCC 654 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 929 Mansoor Saheb (Dead) & Ors. v. Salima (D) By Lrs. & Ors. N.Mani v. Sangeetha Theatre & Ors.3 and Mathai Samuel v. Eapen Eapen.4 It is further submitted that the High Court failed to exercise its jurisdiction as a First Appellate Court depriving appellant his valuable right. In furtherance of the said submission, the learned counsel refers to B.V. Nagesh v. H.V. Srinivasamurthy.5 11. Mr. SN Bhat, learned senior counsel for the Respondents, submitted that the Mutation Entry No.8258 dated 21.01.1973 refers only to an alleged partition, and there is no reference to any gift as alleged by the appellants.