’ [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1021 Somnath v. The State of Maharashtra & Ors. no.2 paraded him half-naked with a garland of shoes. 20. Learned counsel submitted that in terms of Section 161 of the Police Act, prosecution against a police officer acting under colour of official duty after six months of the alleged act cannot be entertained and rightly the High Court has declined to direct any action on such prosecution. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 21. Having considered the facts and circumstances of the case, this Court finds that there is enough material to indicate that respondent no.2 did commit excesses against the appellant, as the same has also been found in an enquiry by the Commission as also relied upon by the High Court and such finding has not been varied or interfered with. Thus, the Court has no hesitation in strongly denouncing such high-handed action by the respondent no.2, who being in a position of power, totally abused his official position. However, in view of the fact that the respondent no.2 has superannuated and during the course of the present proceedings Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh only), apart from what was ed by the High Court, has also been paid by the respondent no.2 from his own pocket to the appellant, which the appellant accepted, the Court finds that the matter now requires to be finally given a quietus. Be it noted, the appellant has additionally received Rs.25,000/- (Rupees Twenty Five Thousand only) as ed by the Commission. We only add that the power of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India to award compensation is undoubtable, reference whereof can be made to Nilabati Behera v State of Orissa, (1993) 2 SCC 746. 22. Accordingly, the appeal stands disposed of by upholding the Impugned , with the modification that the respondent no.2 is held liable to pay a further sum of Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh only) to the appellant. However, as the same stands already complied with, no further steps are required to be taken by the respondent no.2. 23. Before parting, the Court would indicate that in such matters the Courts need to take a very strict view. A zero-tolerance approach towards such high-handed acts needs to be adopted as such acts, committed by persons in power against an ordinary citizen, who is in a non-bargaining position, bring shame to the entire justice delivery system. As such, we were considering resorting to Article 142 of the 1022 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Constitution of India to direct initiation of criminal proceedings, but only because of the fact that respondent no.2 has retired and has already paid a sum of Rs.1,75,000/- (Rupees One Lakh Seventy Five Thousand)[Rs.75,000/- (Rupees Seventy Five Thousand) as per the Impugned and Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees one lakh) as per this Court’s dated 07.07.2023] in total to the appellant, who has also been paid Rs. 25,000/- (Rupees Twenty Five Thousand) as per the Commission’s , we refrain from so directing, in these peculiar facts and circumstances.