The emergence of global supply chains, rise in international trade and the rapid development of e-commerce have led to new delivery systems for goods and services and have provided new options and opportunities for consumers. Equally, this has rendered the consumer vulnerable to new forms of unfair trade and unethical business practices. Misleading advertisements, tele- marketing, multi-level marketing, direct selling and e-commerce pose new challenges to consumer protection and will require [2024] 6 S.C.R. 505 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr. appropriate and swift executive interventions to prevent consumer detriment. Therefore, it has become inevitable to amend the Act to address the myriad and constantly emerging vulnerabilities of the consumers. In view of this, it is proposed to repeal and re-enact the Act.” 14. It is trite to say that a reference to statement of objects and reasons is permissible for understanding the background, the antecedent state of affairs, the surrounding circumstances in relation to the statute, and the evil which the statute had sought to remedy. * As discernible from the statement of objects and reasons for re-enacting the CP Act, 2019, there were certain shortcomings found in the CP Act 1986 while administering the said Act, and at the same time, due to the emergence of global supply chains, rise in international trade and rapid development of e-commerce leading to new systems for goods and services, new options and opportunities had become available to the consumers. However, new forms of unfair trade and unethical business practices also came to be developed, which made the consumers more vulnerable. Misleading advertisements, telemarketing, multi-level marketing, e-commerce posed new challenges, which necessitated the Legislature to re-enact the Act. 15. There was not a whisper in the statement of objects and reasons either of the CP Act, 1986 or 2019 to include the Professions or the Services provided by the Professionals like Advocates, Doctors etc. within the purview of the Act. It is very well accepted proposition of the fact that Professionals could not be called Businessmen or Traders, nor Clients or Patients be called Consumers. It is also required to be borne in mind that the terms ‘business’ or ‘trade’ having a commercial aspect involved, could not be used interchangeably with the term ‘Profession’ which normally would involve some branch of learning or science. Profession as such would require knowledge of an advanced type in a given field of learning or science, or learning gained by a prolonged course of specialized study. As per Black’s Law Dictionary, 11th Edition, “Profession” means “a vocation requiring advanced education and training; especially one of the three traditional Professions- Law, Medicine and the Ministry.” “Professional” means “someone who * State of West Bengal vs. Subodh Gopal Bose & Others, AIR 1954 SC 92 506 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports belongs to a learned profession or whose occupation requires a high level of training and proficiency.” 16. According to Rupert M. Jackson and John L. Powell,* the Occupations which are regarded as Professions have four characteristics, viz., (i) the nature of the work which is skilled and specialized and a substantial part is mental rather than manual; (ii) commitment to moral principles which go beyond the general duty of honesty and a wider duty to community which may transcend the duty to a particular client or patient; (iii) professional association which regulates admission and seeks to uphold the standards of the profession through professional codes on matters of conduct and ethics; and (iv) high status in the community.