Also, rules made by the State Government prior to the enforcement of the MMDR Act, 1957 continued to be operative till fresh rules were enforced, being the Bihar Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1984. It was reasoned that, Entry 54 - List I uses the expression “mines and minerals” which includes (i) regulation of mines and (ii) mineral development. Therefore, widest possible meaning should be given to the said expression considering the question in the context of the Bihar Minor Minerals Concession Rules, 1954 and the impugned notices demanding royalty. Consequently, the notices issued by the Assistant Mining Officer calling upon the petitioners to pay royalty on account of brick-earth were quashed. Laxminarayana Mining Co.: 17. Reference was made to the of the Mysore High Court in Laxminarayana Mining Co. authored by Venkataramiah, J. (as His Lordship then was), in India Cement. In the said case it was observed that on a combined reading of Entries 23 and 50 - List II and Entry 54 - List I it established that as long as the Parliament did not make any law in exercise of its power under Entry 54 - List I the powers of the State Legislature in Entries 23 and 50 - List II would be exercisable by the State Legislature. But once the Parliament makes a declaration by law that it is expedient in the public interest to make regulation of mines and development of minerals under the control of the Union, to the extent to which such declaration is made, such regulation and development is undertaken by law made by Parliament and the powers of the State Legislature under Entries 23 and 50 - List II are denuded. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1793 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. 17.1 In this case, the Mysore Village Panchayats and Local Boards Act, 1959, (‘State Act’, for short) by enacting Sections 143 and 144 intended to confer power on the Taluk Board to levy a licence fee on the mining of manganese ore, iron ore etc carried on by persons holding mineral concessions i.e. on the activity of mining. 17.2 By Notification issued under the aforesaid provisions, persons engaged in mining of manganese iron ore, etc. with the help of machinery or without the help of machinery, as the case may have been, under Entries 62 and 63 of the Schedule to the aforesaid State Act had to pay a licence fee. Aggrieved by the notices of demand and the Notification issued under Sections 143 and 144 of the aforesaid State Act, the petitioners therein had filed the writ petition seeking quashing of the notices of demand and the Notification in so far as they levied licence fee under the aforesaid provisions. Further, Sections 143 and 144 of the State Act provided for regulation of certain trades and the relevant part of Schedule II of the State Act, on the basis of which the impugned Notification was issued which provided for the levy of a licence fee on any purpose or the doing in the course of any industrial process, which, in the opinion of the Taluk Board, was likely to be dangerous to human life, or health or property or was likely to create or cause a nuisance.