[2024] 5 S.C.R. 1103 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. 48. This Court took notice of the aforesaid recommendations that were made by the First Law Commission of India in its Fourteenth Report in 1958, particularly with respect to improving the standard of the District Judiciary and widening the field of selection and promotion to the Higher Judiciary in a balanced manner so as to induct capable and efficient persons as Judicial Officers in the District Judiciary. 49. While this Court acknowledged that the creation of an All-India Judicial Service as proposed by the Law Commission may undermine the control of the High Courts over the District Judiciary, yet at the same time this Court suggested to the Union of India to undertake appropriate steps towards the implementation of the recommendations made by the Law Commission, as far as feasible, at the earliest, and directed the Central Government to consider setting up an All-India Judicial Service. The relevant observations read as under: - “11. [...] We are of the view that the Law Commission’s recommendation should not have been dropped lightly. There is considerable force and merit in the view expressed by the Law Commission. An All India Judicial Service essentially for manning the higher services in the subordinate judiciary is very much necessary. The reasons advanced by the Law Commission for recommending the setting up of an All India Judicial Service appeal to us. 12. Since the setting up of such a service might require amendment of the relevant articles of the Constitution and might even require alteration of the Service Rules operating in the different States and Union territories, we do not intend to give any particular direction on this score particularly when the point was not seriously pressed but we would commend to the Union of India to undertake appropriate exercise quickly so that the feasibility of implementation of the recommendations of the Law Commission may be examined expeditiously and implemented as early as possible. It is in the interest of the health of the judiciary throughout the country that this should be done. xxx xxx xxx 63. We would now briefly indicate the directions we have given in the : 1104 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) An All India Judicial Service should be set up and the Union of India should take appropriate steps in this regard. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 50. Thereafter, review petitions came to be filed against the decision in All India Judges’ Association (1) (supra) seeking certain modifications and clarifications in respect of the directions that were issued by this Court. The review petitions came to be disposed in All India Judges’ Association (2) v. Union of India reported in (1993) 4 SCC 288, wherein inter-alia it was clarified that although the direction for setting up an All-India Judicial Service was only recommendatory, yet in view of the necessary and expedient nature of the recommendations made by the Law Commission, the Central Government should take an earnest initiative in realizing the same.