In case of dismissal of appeal, the Appellate Authority shall give at least ten days to the residents, occupants to vacate the premises. The of disposal shall be served on the appellant through electronic modes and immediately uploaded on the website. 6. ACT OF Mr. C.U. Singh, No demolitions should be carried out in the DEMOLITION Sr. Adv. and early morning and late night. Video recording Ms. Fauzia of the same shall be carried out under the Shakil, Adv. s of the said authority. No persons or their movable property, shall be subject to any direct or indirect harm. 7. MALFEASANCE Mr. C.U. Singh, I. If the proposed action of demolition was OF ERRING Sr. Adv. and in bad faith and actuated by malice, OFFICERS AND Ms. Fauzia disciplinary proceeding may be initiated ACCOUNTABILITY Shakil, Adv. against the erring officers under their applicable service rules. II. In case any demolition is carried out in violation of the guidelines, the erring officers and the head of the department that has carried out the demolition shall be personally liable. In addition, proceedings for contempt against the erring officers may be initiated. The compensation to be paid to the owner shall also be recoverable from the salary of the erring officers including the head of the department. III. The erring officers shall also be liable for prosecution u/s 198,324,326(f), 326(g),56,59 BNS Ms. Nitya Government officers, Ministers, Member of Ramakrishnan, Legislative assembly, Member of Parliament Sr. Adv. of the Union or the State government shall MALFEASANCE not make any statement endorsing illegal and OF ERRING unconstitutional penal measures and that if OFFICERS AND the such statements are made the same shall ACCOUNTABILITY be a cause for criminal prosecution as well as tortious liability on part of the persons or class of persons who have suffered from such unconstitutional penal measures. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 743 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures S.No. TOPIC/ ISSUE COUNSEL’S/ SUMMARY OF SUGGESTIONS PARTY NAME Mr. Mohd. Strict Action Against Officials Involved in Nizammudin Demolitions: Pasha & Ms. • Ministers: Ministers who publicly justify or Rashmi Singh, support demolitions immediately following Advs. accusations against the victim, whether before or after the demolition, must face strict action. • Municipal Officers: Municipal officers responsible for carrying out such demolitions should be held accountable. • Police Officers: Police officers who , aid, or assist in the execution of illegal demolitions, especially when linked to accusations of an offence, must also face consequences. Court-Monitored Inquiry: The Court should a monitored inquiry into demolitions linked to accusations of offences, as highlighted in the Applicant’s IA No.19164/2024, Paragraph 5. Immediate Suspension and Departmental Action: Immediate suspension and departmental action should be taken against all officers involved in executing extrajudicial demolition s. Criminal Proceedings Under IPC: • Criminal proceedings under Section 326(g) of the Indian Penal Code (2023) should be initiated against officers involved in extrajudicial demolitions. • This action should not be considered as performed in an official capacity, and the officers should be tried as private individuals for causing the destruction of human dwellings or unlawful arrest of the aggrieved persons.