Section 53 is only referred to in that a certain minimum figure be paid to different classes of operational and financial creditors. It is only for this purpose that Section 53(1) is to be looked at as it is clear that it is the commercial wisdom of the Committee of Creditors that is free to determine what amounts be paid to different classes and sub-classes of creditors in accordance with the provisions of the Code and the Regulations made thereunder.” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 131 DBS BANK LIMITED SINGAPORE v. RUCHI SOYA INDUSTRIES LIMITED AND ANOTHER 35. The reasoning and the ratio in Jaypee Kensington (supra) is also the same: “164.2. We would hasten to observe that in case a dissenting financial creditor is a secured creditor and a valid security interest is created in his favour and is existing, the entitlement of such a dissenting financial creditor to receive the “amount payable” could also be satisfied by allowing him to enforce the security interest, to the extent of the value receivable by him and in the of priority available to him. Obviously, by enforcing such a security interest, a dissenting financial creditor would receive “payment” to the extent of his entitlement and that would satisfy the requirement of Section 30(2)(b) of the Code.” 36. We have reservation on portions of the view expressed in paragraphs 17, 21 and 22 in the of India Resurgence ARC Private Limited (supra). Paragraph 17 is respectfully correct in its observations when it refers to the provisions of Section 30(4) and that the voting is essentially a matter which relates to commercial wisdom of the CoC. The observation that a dissenting secured creditor cannot suggest that a higher amount be paid to it is also correct. However, this does not affect the right of a dissenting secured creditor to get payment equal to the value of the security interest in terms of Section 30(2) (b)(ii) of the Code. Paragraph 21 in India Resurgence ARC Private Limited (supra) again in our respectful view is partially correct. It is correct to the extent that the legislature has not stipulated that the dissenting financial creditor shall be entitled to enforce the security interest. However, it is incorrect to state that the dissenting financial creditor would not be entitled to receive the liquidation value, the amount payable to him in terms of Section 53(1) of the Code. Paragraph 22 refers to the Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel (supra), which we have already quoted and is apposite to the view expressed by us. The reasoning given in the earlier portion of paragraph 22 in our respectful opinion is in conflict with the ratio in Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Limited (supra) as it does not take into account the legal effect of Section 30(2)(b) (ii) of the Code. While it is important to maximise the value of the assets of the corporate debtor and prevent liquidation, the rights of operational creditors or dissenting financial creditors also have to be protected as stipulated in law.