held that the matter requires to be revisited by a larger Bench. 7. In somewhat similar fashion, a matter came to be referred from the State of Haryana and another from the State of Tamil Nadu wherein by notification in the State of Haryana scheduled castes were classified into two categories i.e. A and B for the purposes of applying reservation and in the State of Tamil Nadu by an Act of 2009, reservation of seats was provided to Arunthathiyar’s in educational institution and for appointment in services. 8. All the three categories of matters i.e. from the State of Punjab, State of Haryana and the State of Tamil Nadu are before the Bench in the form of Civil Appeals, Writ Petitions, TP (C) & TC (C) and Special Leave Petition (Civil) and have been taken up as clubbed matters as the issue is common as described in the beginning. 2 (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1647 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 9. The issue of sub-classification of scheduled castes has been appropriately answered by the Chief Justice and my esteemed brother Justice Gavai by their separate opinions with which I respectfully agree but at the same time since the matter in issue is basically concerning “reservation”, I consider it to be of utmost importance and, therefore, deem it appropriate to pen down my own views separately. 10. Man/human as rightly understood is a social animal and has to live in a society. An ideal form of society is one which progresses on merit or where merit alone prevails. This is evident from Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution which provides for equality before law and that State shall not discriminate on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth. Articles 14 and 15 (as it originally stood) are quoted below: “Article14- Equality before law The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India. Article 15- Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth (1) The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them. (2) No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them, be subject to any disability, liability, restriction or condition with regard to— (a) access to shops, public restaurants, hotels and places of public entertainment; or (b) the use of wells, tanks, bathing ghats, roads and places of public resort maintained wholly or partly out of State funds or dedicated to the use of the general public. (3) Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any special provision for women and children.” 1648 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. However, no society can exist in its ideal form as all citizens are not alike. The basic needs of everyone are different and have to be taken into account to carry the society forward.