The condition converting the mortgage into an absolute sale upon default is valid and enforceable. The plaintiff failed to repay the mortgage amount within the stipulated period and did not provide credible evidence of any attempt to do so. Moreover, the plaintiff’s failure to testify personally undermines her case. It is also observed that the applicability of Section 165 of the Code is not established 27. The Trial Court and the High Court erred in disregarding the express terms of the registered mortgage deed and in holding that the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1141 Leela Agrawal v. Sarkar & Anr. condition was a clog on the equity of redemption without sufficient basis. The permissive possession of the suit land by the plaintiff does not negate the nature of the transaction. The conditions stipulated in the mortgage deed fulfil all statutory requirements of mortgage by conditional sale, and the intention of the parties regarding the same was clear and unambiguous. The Trial Court and the High Court erred in their interpretation by placing undue emphasis on possession without considering its permissive nature and the explicit terms of the mortgage deed. 28. Only as a caution, we may record here that the plaintiff’s possession being admitted to the defendant right from the time of the mortgage and having continued throughout even till the time of filing the suit and even thereafter it would be open for the defendant to pursue appropriate remedy seeking possession in accordance to law. 29. The appeals are allowed and the suit filed by the plaintiff is dismissed. The s and decree passed by the High Court of Chhattisgarh at Bilaspur in First Appeal No. 28 of 2004 and Review Petition No. 222 of 2018, as well as the and decree passed by the Additional District Judge, Manendragarh, District Korea, in Civil Suit No. 26-A/2001, are set aside and the suit is dismissed. 30. The Trial Court is directed to refund the entire amount deposited by the plaintiff, along with accrued interest on the amount in the fixed deposit since the date of deposit. 31. There shall be no as to costs. Result of the case: Appeals allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan