Contending that the official respondents have failed to comply with the dated 21.11.2014 the petitioner have sought for appropriate action being taken against the respondents. DISCUSSION AND REASONING: Heard the arguments of the Learned Senior Advocates assisted by the Learned Advocates for appearing parties, perused the entire case papers and having bestowed our careful consideration to the rival contentions raised at the bar, we are of the view that following point would arise for our consideration “Whether s dated 21.11.2014, 17.05.2022 and 19.03.2024 passed by this Court has been wilfully disobeyed by the respondents/contemnors?” PREFACE: 1.10 In to punish a contemnor, it has to be established that disobedience of the is ‘wilful’. It means knowingly- intentional, conscious, calculated and deliberate with full knowledge of consequences flowing therefrom. It would exclude casual, accidental, bonafide or unintentional acts or genuine inability and would also not include involuntary or negligent actions. The deliberate conduct of a person means that he knows what he is doing and intends to do the same. It is too well settled that if two interpretations are possible, and if the action is not contumacious, a contempt proceeding would not be maintainable. 1298 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 1.11 The weapon of contempt will not be used for execution of the decree or implementation of an for which alternative remedy in law is provided for. The paramount consideration is given to maintain court’s dignity and majesty of law. In Sudhir Vasudeva Vs. George Ravishekeran1 this Court has observed that a Court exercising jurisdiction under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 must not travel beyond the four corners of the s in relation to which contempt has been alleged. That the Court hearing a contempt petition ought to restrict the scope of its enquiry to such directions which are explicit in the or s of which contempt has been alleged. 1.12 The civil contempt would mean a wilful disobedience of a decision of this Court. What would be relevant is the “wilful disobedience”. Hence, knowledge of having acted in disregard to an is sine qua non for being proceeded with if there is a deliberate, conscience and intentional act then the jurisdiction can be clutched. 1.13 Having adumbrated position of law enumerated by this Court we proceed to deal with the alleged acts of contempt said to have been committed by the contemnors in the instant petitions. FACTUAL BACKGROUND: 2. The background in which the s dated 21.11.2014 and 17.05.2022 came to be passed can be succinctly narrated as under: Undisputedly the land measuring 15 acres and 39 guntas (hereinafter referred to as ‘subject land’) and the adjoining properties collectively measuring 456 acres belonged to the erstwhile Maharaja of Mysore. The legal heirs of deceased Maharaja of Mysore amongst others and/or claiming through them are before this Court alleging wilful disobedience of the aforestated s. 3. The State enacted the Bangalore Palace (Acquisition and Transfer) Act 1996 (herein after referred to as “BPAT” Act) to acquire the Bangalore Palace and adjacent land including all the buildings around on the grounds enumerated therein.