26. The respondent further submitted that the State had already defined the forest identification criteria based on the scientific basis 716 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports considering various aspects as a policy decision and also, these two Expert Committees are functioning effectively and the work of identification of private forest area, is being carried out expeditiously and considering the above, the respondent had opposed both the applications. 27. The MoEF, Respondent No.2 stated that pursuant to the judgement in Lafarge Umiam Mining Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Union of India and ors.18, it was directed to prepare a comprehensive policy for inspection, verification and monitoring and overall procedure related to grant of Forest Clearance (FC) and Identification of Forest in consolidation with States and the process will likely take some more time and only after finalization of such comprehensive policy, the Ministry will be in position to put forth its stand as regards criteria, which is to be applied for identification of forests and further pleaded for sufficient time to place the stand of Ministry before the Tribunal. 28. The Forest Survey of India, Respondent No.3 submitted before the NGT that FSI has mandated to conduct survey and assessment of the Forest resources in the country. It was submitted that India’s States of Forest Report is published by the Respondent No.3 and in the said report forest cover is defined being of lands more than 1 Ha in area, with tree canopy density of more than 10% irrespective of ownership and legal status. Such lands may not necessarily be recorded as forest areas. It also includes the orchards, bamboo and palm. 29. Issues framed by NGT: • Whether the Tribunal has jurisdiction to consider and alter or newly fix the forest identification criteria? • Whether the forest identification criteria set out by the Govt of Goa, needs modification, as prayed in the applications? • Whether the Tribunal can issue directions for expediting forest identification and demarcation process, as prayed in the application? • Whether the applications are barred by limitation? 18 (2011) 7 SCALE 242 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 717 T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others FINDINGS OF NGT IN THE IMPUGNED JUDGEMENT: 30. Having referred to the earlier pronouncements of this Court the Tribunal observed in paragraph 38 of the impugned that all the States have formed Expert Committees for identification of forest and have submitted progress reports to this Court by evolving their own methodology for forest identification criteria. As such it was of the view that it would not be in the domain of the tribunal to render opinion with regard to the method of identification to be adopted for fixing the criteria for determining private forest to be adopted by State of Goa and answered point No.1 formulated by it in the negative. 31. In so far as the timeline to be fixed for expediting forest identification and its demarcation process is concerned, the tribunal took note of the fact that out of 256 square kilometres forest area, the work has been completed in respect of 67 square kilometres by the two Committees and as such called upon the Chief Secretary of Goa to call for a meeting of all the concerned and work out time bound action plan for early completion of forest identification and its demarcation within next six (6) weeks and submit a time bound program to the tribunal within 8 weeks thereof.