The Concession Agreement is a lease as defined under Section 105 of the TP Act as also under Section 2(16) of the IS Act and, therefore, would be chargeable to stamp duty, for which rate is provided under Schedule 1-A. It was further submitted that the submission relating to Promissory Estoppel and Legitimate Expectation are unwarranted and without any merit, inasmuch as, prior to the execution of the concession agreement, the amendment had been brought in. The communication by the Chief Secretary cannot have any overriding effect over the statutory amendments brought in by the State legislature. It is also submitted that there can be no Legitimate Expectation or application of Promissory Estoppel against statute. It is also submitted that the State was fully competent to carry out the amendments. It was next submitted that as the 2002 amendment had been reversed in 2008, cannot by itself draw any kind of presumption that 2002 amendment was illegal. It was submitted that the appeals lack merit and are liable to be dismissed. 18. Having considered the submissions advanced and having perused the material on record, we have no hesitation in holding that the 12 [1960] 1 SCR 368 : AIR 1959 SC 1262 13 (2011) 4 SCC 575 14 [2017] 12 SCR 1073 : (2018) 1 SCC 754 1140 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the High Court impugned in these appeals does not require any interference. We do not find any infirmity, much less any perversity warranting any interference by this Court. The High Court has dealt with all aspects of the matter considering not only the stipulations in the Concession Agreement but has also dealt with in detail with the respective arguments advanced by the petitioners before the High Court (the appellants herein) at the same time referring to the statutory provisions, the constitutional provisions as also the case- laws relied upon by the counsel for the parties. However, there is one aspect of the matter which requires clarification which we shall deal with at the end of this . 19. The arguments made on behalf of the appellants relating to the vires of inserting the proviso (c) to Clause (C) to Entry 33 of Schedule 1-A of the IS Act, 1899 by the M.P. Amendment of 2002 have no merits as it neither defines the word ‘lease’ nor does it in any way interfere with the definition of ‘lease’ in any manner, either by expanding or restricting its interpretation. It is only a statutory provision as to what would be the rate of stamp duty payable on lease deeds of a particular type. But for the insertion of the proviso which is sought to be challenged, the stamp duty payable on the lease would be 8% of the market value as provided to be charged on the conveyance under Entry-22 of Schedule 1-A. By inserting the proviso, the stamp duty chargeable on a lease under BOT Project for tolls/bridges, construction of roads etc. would be 2% of the amount spent by the lessee.