23. An for initiation of process under Section 319 Cr.P.C against a witness, who has deposed in the trial and has tendered evidence incriminating himself, would be tested on the anvil that whether only such incriminating statement has formed the basis of the under Section 319 Cr.P.C. At the same time, mere reference to such statement would not vitiate the . The test would be as to whether, even if the statement of witness is removed from consideration, whether on the basis of other incriminating material, the Court could have proceeded under Section 319 Cr.P.C. 24. In the case at hand, the appellant has been summoned as an additional accused under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. not only on the basis of his pre-summoning statement but on the basis of the statement of PW-1/Narendra Singh Parmar who was examined as a witness on 31.03.2022. Had the appellant been proposed as an additional accused on the basis of his statement, he would have been summoned immediately after his pre-summoning statement was recorded on 19.03.2016. Thus, the present is a case where the appellant has been summoned as an additional accused on the basis of the statement of PW-1/Narendra Singh Parmar. 25. The proviso to Section 132 offers statutory immunity against self- incrimination providing that no such answer, which a witness shall be compelled to give, shall subject him to any arrest or prosecution or be proved against him in any criminal proceedings except a prosecution for giving false evidence by such answer. Thus, the only protection available is, a witness cannot be subjected to prosecution on the basis of his own statement. It nowhere provides that there is complete and unfettered immunity to a person even if there is other substantial evidence or material against him proving his prima facie involvement. If this complete immunity is read under the proviso to Section 132 of the Act, an influential person with the help of a dishonest Investigating Officer will provide a legal shield to him by examining him as a witness even though his complicity in the offence is writ large on the basis of the material available in the case. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 373 Raghuveer Sharan v. District Sahakari Krishi Gramin Vikas Bank & Anr. 26. As earlier stated, R. Dinesh Kumar alias Deena has not examined the issue discussed in the preceding paragraph, therefore, R. Dinesh Kumar alias Deena (supra) is of no assistance to the appellant. 27. Reverting to the issue as to whether there is prima facie material against the appellant for summoning him as an accused in exercise of power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. It is to be seen that in his statement during trial recorded on 31.03.2022, PW-1/Narendra Singh Parmar has categorically stated in para 5 of the examination-in-chief that the interpolations by applying fluid have been made under the initials and signatures of the appellant. Thus, there is prima facie material for exercise of power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. 28. For the foregoing, the criminal appeal deserves to be and is hereby dismissed.