They sought a declaration that the land belonged to Dam Dama Sahib of Una and an injunction to prevent the respondents from transferring or declaring it surplus. 2.6 The Trial Court framed several issues for determination, including whether the Civil Court had jurisdiction to try the suit under Section 21 of the Land Reforms Act. The Trial Court noted that the issue of jurisdiction was not pressed by the defendants during the proceedings and, regardless, decided it in favour of the plaintiffs. After considering the evidence, the Trial Court dismissed the suit on 15.12.1980, holding that the appellants failed to prove that the land was dedicated to a religious and charitable institution. 2.7 Aggrieved by the dismissal, the appellants filed an appeal before the Additional District Judge, Hoshiarpur. The First Appellate Court, by and decree dated 25.09.1982, partly allowed the appeal. The Appellate Court concluded that 133/290 share of the land in the suit was charitable and belonged to Dam Dama Baba Sahib Singh of Una. The court held that this share could not be declared surplus by the Collector and restrained the respondents from making further transfers of this share of the land. 3. The respondents, dissatisfied with the First Appellate Court’s , filed a Regular Second Appeal before the High Court of Punjab & Haryana. The High Court, vide its dated 09.03.2010, set aside the and decree of the Additional District Judge, holding that the Civil Court’s jurisdiction was barred under Section 21 of the Land Reforms Act. The High Court emphasized that the appellants had not challenged the declaring the land surplus before the appropriate authorities under the Act, and thus, the suit was not maintainable. The same has been challenged giving rise to the present appeal. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 615 Ujagar Singh (Dead) Thr. Lrs. & Anr. v. Punjab State & Ors. 4. Having heard the arguments of both sides, this Court is of the opinion that the High Court fell in error in dismissing the suit primarily on the ground that the Civil Court’s jurisdiction was barred by Section 21 of the Land Reforms Act. 5. It is pertinent to note that the issue of jurisdiction was not pressed by the respondents during the Trial Court proceedings. The Trial Court specifically recorded that the issue of jurisdiction was not pressed and decided it in favour of the plaintiffs. The respondents did not challenge this finding in the First Appellate Court, and hence, they were precluded from raising it in the second appeal before the High Court. 6. Section 21 of the Land Reforms Act reads as follows: “21. Bar of jurisdiction. (1) Save as provided by or under this Act, the validity of any proceedings or taken or made under this Act shall not be called in question in any court or before any other authority. (2) No civil court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit, or proceed with any suit instituted after the appointed day, for specific performance of a contract for transfer of land which affects the right of the State Government to the surplus area under this Act.” 7.