6. While issuing notice in the Special Leave Petition on 30.11.2018 this Court in the case of Neeraj Sharma in fact issued a limited notice to his conviction under section 364-A while confirming his conviction under sections 307 read with 120B along with sections 392 read with 397 of IPC. The said is produced below: “We do not find any good ground warranting interference with the conviction of the petitioner under Section 307 IPC read with 120 (B) and Section 392 IPC read with 397. 46 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS Issue notice limited to the conviction under Section 364A returnable within eight weeks.” All the same nothing of this nature has been observed by this Court while issuing notice in the case of Ashwani Kumar Yadav which was issued on 02.08.2021. As far as an attempt to murder and robbery are concerned, we have no doubt in our mind that the prosecution has been able to establish its case beyond a reasonable doubt. At the same time, we have our doubts about the conviction of the accused under 364-A of the IPC. In fact, this doubt was also in the mind of this Court, at least in the case of Neeraj Sharma, as this Court has issued a limited notice as only to the applicability of 364-A in the case. 7. The most important witness in this case is the complainant himself. He is also an injured witness. The injuries sustained by him in the incident match the case of the prosecution. An attempt was made by the two accused to dispose of the body of the victim by burning the body. There were burn injuries on both his legs. The strong ligature mark on his neck was again significant as it is the case of the prosecution that the two accused had tried to strangulate him with the clutch wire. The condition of the victim was precarious to say the least, and he gave a statement before the Executive Magistrate, B.K. Verma who was the Nayab Tehsildar and Executive Magistrate, Durg, he said: “At 6.30-7.00 hrs in the evening Neeraj Sharma and Ashwini Yadav came to me and said that lets go to Youganthar College Rajnandgaon. I had not seen Youganthar College so I went along with them in motor cycle to see the college.” He also said, “In the night of 3rd at 1.30 hrs there is a plant towards Balod I do not know its name, near to that, Neeraj Sharma and Ashwini Yadav first strangulated me with clutch wire I had stopped my breath they thought that me dead, then set me fire by pouring petrol.” 8. Apart from this, the veracity of the incident is further established by the deposition of Santosh Shukla (PW-1), who was the first person in the Bhilai Plant who saw the complainant in a burnt condition and who inquired from him as to what led to his injuries and was informed [2024] 1 S.C.R. 47 NEERAJ SHARMA v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH that these injuries were caused by his friends, and his money was also looted by them.