Rectified spirit was denatured by adding denaturants which made the spirit unpalatable and nauseating. As such rectified spirit could be converted to potable liquor but once denatured it could be used only as “industrial alcohol”. 9.10.2 It was observed that in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) the question of legislative competence of the State to impose tax or levy on “industrial alcohol” was ruled in the negative, so far as ethyl alcohol/ rectified spirit is concerned. Further, even if the State had the regulatory power to prevent misuse of “industrial alcohol” for potable purposes, such power did not include power to levy any impost. It was further observed that denaturation is a statutory duty imposed by a notification under the U.P. Excise Act and as no service by the State was being provided for the same, no fee could be charged and even if the State had to incur any expenses for enforcement of the requirement of denaturation, there is no quid pro quo between the expenses incurred and the fees charged. This Court noted that the term “industrial alcohol” is not used in any of the Lists and whether alcoholic liquors other than “alcoholic liquors for human consumption” or “intoxicating liquors” was a State subject or a Union subject should be the real controversy. It was with a view to describing that particular kind of liquor the term “industrial alcohol” is used. It was observed that after an analysis of all the provisions of law giving the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2103 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Union Parliament and the State Legislature jurisdiction to legislate on alcohol, this Court in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) held that the impugned notifications therein, imposing certain fees as vend fee or transport fee, etc. were within the legislative competence of the State. That this Court was fully aware of the fact that rectified spirit was the ingredient for “intoxicating liquors” or alcoholic liquors for human consumption although rectified spirit/ethyl alcohol as well as denatured spirit are referred to as “industrial alcohol” in that . This Court did not hold that the State will have no power whatsoever in relation to “industrial alcohol”. In fact, in the in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), the Court has enumerated the various areas relating to “industrial alcohol” in which the State could still legislate or make rules. In that regard paragraph 86 of the in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) was quoted. Of course, the same has been explained in Synthetics and Chemicals (2J), discussed above. This Court observed in this case that denaturation of spirit meant for industrial use is meant to prevent misuse of non-potable alcohol for human consumption and as such was specifically mentioned by the Court to be within the legislative competence of the State. This Court observed in para 14 as under: “14. It is to be noticed that the States under Entries 8 and 51 of List II read with Entry 84 of List I have exclusive privilege to legislate on intoxicating liquor or alcoholic liquor for human consumption.