(x) That the learned trial Court as well as the High Court failed to give due credence to the evidence of the defence witnesses. Stress was laid by the learned senior counsel to the deposition of Manav Malhotra(DW-4) who stated that he often saw Gaurav Bhalla(A2) and Shivani @ Kaku, sister of the kidnapped boy-Sachin Garg(PW-2) together. It was contended that, as a matter of fact, the family members were aware about the ongoing affair between Gaurav Bhalla(A2) and Shivani @ Kaku and were opposed to it and hence, the case of kidnapping for demand of ransom was cooked up so as to put Gaurav Bhalla(A2) and his companions behind bars and sever the relationship. (xi) It was further contended that the defence witnesses, gave affirmative evidence for proving the plea of alibi raised by the accused. However, neither the trial Court nor the High Court gave due consideration to the evidence of the defence witnesses and brushed their testimonies aside in a totally perfunctory manner. 18. The learned counsel representing the remaining accused appellants adopted the submissions of learned senior counsel Ms. Kiran Suri. 19. The court was apprised that accused Gaurav Maini(A1), Gaurav Bhalla(A2), Munish Bhalla(A3) and Sanjay @ Sanju(A4) were in custody for 10 years 11 months(approx. ); 9 years(approx. ); 7 years 2 months; 10 years 10 months(approx. ), respectively. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 347 Gaurav Maini v. The State of Haryana 20. On these grounds, learned counsel for the appellants implored the Court to accept the appeals, set aside the impugned s, and acquit the accused appellants of the charges. Submissions on behalf of the respondent-State: - 21. Per contra, learned counsel for the State, vehemently and fervently opposed the submissions advanced by learned senior counsel for the accused appellants. It was contended that the prosecution case is founded on unimpeachable testimony of the minor boy Sachin Garg(PW-2) who was kidnapped by the accused appellants for demand of ransom. The witness gave clinching evidence identifying and implicating the accused appellants for his kidnapping and release after payment of ransom. The trivial contradictions appearing in the evidence of the witness rather establish that he is a truthful witness and has given a true picture of the incident. The evidence of Sachin Garg(PW-2) finds due corroboration from the testimony of Mahesh Garg(PW-1), 161 CrPC statement of Shamlal Garg recorded by Investigating Officer(PW-37) and the incriminating recoveries effected at the instance of the accused appellants. 22. He contended that the recoveries having been effected proximate to the incident of kidnapping for ransom, the burden of explaining, as to how the incriminating articles including the huge sums of money came into their possession shifted on to the accused appellant by virtue of the presumption provided under Section 106 read with Section 114(a) of the Evidence Act. Since, the accused failed to offer any plausible explanation in this regard the prosecution is entitled to raise the statutory presumption against them. 23. Learned counsel further urged that since the accused appellants had given a grave threat of evil consequences to Mahesh Garg(PW-1), he was justified in not approaching the police for reporting the matter and his silence cannot be treated as an unnatural conduct.