This brings into full play Section 341 of the Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, which reads as under:- 341. Legal aid to accused at State expense in certain cases.– (1) Where, in a trial or appeal before a Court, the accused is not represented by an advocate, and where it appears to the Court that the accused has not sufficient means to engage an advocate, the Court shall assign an advocate for his defence at the expense of the State. (2) The High Court may, with the previous approval of the State Government, make rules providing for— (a) the mode of selecting advocates for defence under sub-section (1); (b) the facilities to be allowed to such advocates by the Courts; (c) the fees payable to such advocates by the Government, and generally, for carrying out the purposes of sub-section (1). (3) The State Government may, by notification, direct that, as from such date as may be specified in the notification, the provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) shall apply in relation to any class of trials before other Courts in the State as they apply in relation to trials before Courts of Session.” Compilation and Translation of Documents. 20. NALSA report states that steps are being taken to ensure that necessary documents are collected along with the custody certificate and vakalatnama. Translation, interrogation through video conferencing and drafting of applications are also arranged by NALSA. 21. We are satisfied that insofar as provision of legal services are concerned, NALSA with the effective coordination of the SLSAs 1788 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and DLSAs and assisting agencies are rendering yeomen service to realize the constitutional goal of Article 39-A. They are also striving hard for the effective implementation of the provisions of the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987. SOP- For (Under Trial Review Committees (UTRCs). 22. While NALSA SOP-2022 dealt with the provisions of legal aid services to the prisoners, NALSA has a separate Standard Operating Procedure for the smooth functioning of the Under Trial Review Committees (UTRCs). This is to ensure that prisoners covered under the following 14 categories, as directed by this Court, are released from jail without delay. The 14 categories of Undertrial Prisoners and the directions are as under:- “3.3.1 In case UTPs covered under Section 436A Cr.P.C. : UTRC may recommend to concerned trial court to take up the matter and consider him/her for release on bail if there are no special reasons to deny bail, with or without sureties. 3.3.2 UTPs released on bail by the court, but have not been able to furnish sureties: The UTRC may recommend the trial court to examine the reason why the accused is not furnishing surety/ bail bonds and if he/she is unable to do so due to poverty, then the trial court may consider reducing the bail amount on the application of the lawyer under S.440, CrPC or release on personal bond. 3.3.3 UTPs accused of compoundable offences: The UTRC may recommend to the trial court to consider if the offence can be compounded between the complainant and the accused as per law.