54. Within a week of the passed by this Court, the proposed contemnors published advertisements in the daily newspapers on 4th December, 2023, yet again claiming that they had manufactured medicines that could cure diseases like high blood pressure, sugar, asthma, thyroid, arthritis which have been listed in the Schedules appended to the DMR Act and DMR Rules and are specifically prohibited for advertisement, so as to prevent the public from being misled. The advertisement in question that has been extracted in para 8 of this , is clearly a violation of the undertaking given by the proposed contemnors. It was in the aforesaid background that this Court had issued a notice to Patanjali on 27th February, 2024 calling upon it to explain as to why Contempt of Court proceedings should not be initiated against it and its Managing Director – Acharya Balkrishna. Subsequently, on 19th March, 2024, a similar notice was issued to Baba Ramdev noting that he too had violated the provisions of law. 55. Coming to the first affidavit filed by Acharya Balkrishna, on 20th March 2024, though he purportedly tendered an unqualified apology 448 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on behalf of Patanjali for the breach of statement recorded in the dated 21st November, 2023, we had rejected the said affidavit for the reason that the deponent had tried to justify his conduct by seeking to offer an explanation for the advertisements issued, which is impermissible. As already observed by this Court, there cannot be a justification and an apology. The two things are incompatible and do not go hand-in-hand. As a result, the conditional apology tendered by the proposed contemnor was rejected. 56. Thereafter, fresh affidavits were filed by Acharya Balkrishna and Baba Ramdev on 6th April, 2024 wherein, an unconditional and unqualified apology was tendered by them for the breach of the statement recorded in para 3 of the dated 21st November 2023. A further undertaking was given by them that they will ensure that the statement recorded on their behalf is complied with and that no offending advertisement will be issued in the future. Expressing regret for having issued advertisements in violation of the undertaking given to this Court, they tendered an unconditional and unqualified apology and again, gave an assurance that no such lapse shall occur in the future. Similarly, an unconditional and unqualified apology was offered by the proposed contemnors for holding a Press Conference on 22nd November, 2023 and making casual public statements regarding the efficacy of particular medicines manufactured by them and against any system of medicine. They also undertook not to make any such public statements in breach of the undertaking given to this Court. 57. On 16th April 2024, Acharya Balkrishna and Baba Ramdev, who were directed to remain present in Court in terms of earlier s, stepped forward and orally tendered their unqualified apology to this Court for having called a Press Conference on 22nd November, 2023 and for having continued to issue misleading advertisements and making derogatory statements in respect of other systems of treatment.