The quantity of the poison in the viscera of the blood of the deceased was [2024] 3 S.C.R. 353 Kumar @ Shiva Kumar v. State of Karnataka not mentioned in the FSL report. That apart, he further stated that the smell of Organophosphate compound could be detected during the treatment. The patient would be conscious till the poison affected the brain. The deceased was treated in the hospital before she died. 45. A Textbook of Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology by Jaising P Modi is considered as authority on various facets of medical jurisprudence and toxicology. In its 27th edition, Organophosphate compounds and allied poisons are dealt with under the heading Inorganic Irritant Poisons (I) in Chapter 3. It says Organophosphate compounds are extensively used as pesticides for soft body insects in agriculture. Their easy availability and quick action are the reason for their popularity for suicidal and homicidal purposes. Worth Health Organisation has classified Organophosphate compounds on the basis of their lethality into low toxicity, moderate and highly toxic compounds. Organophosphate compounds include Hexaethyl Tetraphosphate (HETP), Tetraethyl Pyrophosphate (TEPP) – Tetron and Fosvex etc. The Organophosphate compounds are absorbed from the skin, respiratory and GI system. According to the route of entry, the respiratory or GI symptoms are more marked. Organophosphate toxicity can lead to symptoms such as miosis, urination, diarrhoea etc. Early headache, nausea, giddiness, dimness of vision, twitching of the eye muscles, tremulous tongue, profuse frothing etc. may be present. Later, vomiting, sweating, delirium, weakness and paralysis of respiratory muscles, arflexia, incontinence, bronchospasm, cyanosis, pulmonary edema, convulsions etc. whereafter, coma and death may follow. Tetraethyl pyrophosphate is the most toxic and HETP the least. A single dose that will produce symptoms is 5 mg intramuscular or 25 mg orally. 44-50 mg of TEPP intramuscular or 25-100 mg orally will be a fatal dose. In fatal cases, the symptoms begin in 30 minutes and death results in 30 minutes to 3 hours. 46. In this case, the doctors who had treated the deceased in the first nursing home and later on in the Mission Hospital, were not examined by the police. They were also not summoned as court witnesses. Their testimony could have been crucial. They could have thrown light into the nature of intake of the Organophosphate compound: whether by way of injection or consumed orally? Whether they could detect the smell of Organophosphate compound emanating from the patient? This serious lacuna is further compounded by the fact that the prosecution had failed to recover any syringe or needle from the 354 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports crime scene. No container or bottle containing the pesticide were also recovered from the room where the deceased was found lying on the floor or in any part of the house. There is no evidence to suggest that police had made an endeavour to search for such container or bottle. If the deceased had injected the poison herself, considering the multiple injection marks over the front of both the elbows, then the syringe and the needle would have been there, in and around her.