You have continued to remain absent at work premises without authorisation and also you did not present yourself for our enquiry meetings called for as per our disciplinary Policy. Considering all the above, as per your agreed employment terms Clause 11, 12(V), 17, 24 & 25, your employment has been terminated with effective from the closing hours of 06 Jan 2021. […]” 5. It is evident from the above that there is no allegation whatsoever that the appellant has violated clause 19 of the appointment leading to the of termination. 6. During the pendency of disciplinary action, as the appellant was not paid his salary, he issued a legal notice for payment of wages on 29.05.2021 and filed a petition under Section 15(2) of the PW Act before the authority under the PW Act. As a counterblast, the respondent issued a notice alleging that the disputes must be settled through arbitration and proceeded to unilaterally appoint an arbitrator. We may mention here itself that even in the said reply notice dated 22.06.2021 issued by the respondent, there is no specific allegation of violation of the non-disclosure obligations by the appellant herein. The claim for arbitration naturally related to stoppage of payment of wages, which according to the appellant was within the jurisdiction of the Authority under the PW Act as per its statutory provisions. 5 “You will not give out to any one, by word of mouth or otherwise, particulars of HAEI’s business or an administrative or organizational matter of a confidential nature which may be your privilege to know by virtue of you being HAEI’’s employee.” 496 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7. Before we deal with the facts relating to the proceedings before the Authority under the PW Act, it is necessary to mention that as the unilaterally appointed arbitrator commenced the arbitral proceedings, the appellant filed an application under Section 16 of the Act calling upon the arbitrator to rule on his competence. It is interesting to note that the arbitrator himself passed an on 01.05.2022 taking into account the decision of this Court in Perkins Eastman Architects DPC & Anr. v. HSCC (India) Ltd.6 and closing the arbitral proceedings. The relevant portion is reproduced here as follows: “[…] In the present case, as detailed herein above, the appointment of the undersigned as the Arbitrator and the Constitution of the Arbitral Tribunal thereof are without the consent or the participation of the Respondent. Once the jurisdiction of this Arbitral Tribunal has been put into question on that ground, this Tribunal ceases to have the power or authority to proceed with the matter in any manner. I therefore have no hesitation in holding that the constitution of this Arbitral Tribunal is not in accordance with or in consonance with the provisions of Section 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act as amended, particularly in the light of the ratio set out by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Perkins Eastman Architects DPC & another V/s HSCC (India) Ltd.