Section 38W of the WLP Act deals with “Alteration and de-notification of tiger reserves”, which reads thus : “38W. Alteration and de-notification of tiger reserves.— (1) No alteration in the boundaries of a tiger reserve 224 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports shall be made except on a recommendation of the Tiger Conservation Authority and the approval of the National Board for Wild Life. (2) No State Government shall de-notify a tiger reserve, except in public interest with the approval of the Tiger Conservation Authority and the National Board for Wild Life.” 30. It will also be relevant to refer to Section 38XA of the WLP Act, which reads thus : “38-XA. Provisions of Chapter to be in addition to provisions relating to sanctuaries and National Parks.—The provisions contained in this Chapter shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions relating to sanctuaries and National Parks (whether included and declared, or are in the process of being so declared) included in a tiger reserve under this Act.” 31. A perusal of the entire scheme of the WLP Act read with the Statement of objects and reasons would clearly reveal that the entire emphasis is on “conservation, protection and management of the wildlife”. The WLP Act also provides for the matters connected therewith or ancillary or incidental thereto for the conservation, protection and management of wildlife. It also emphasizes on ensuring the ecological and environmental security of the country. 32. A perusal of the aforementioned provisions of the WLP Act would reveal that various measures have been provided under the said Act for the protection of protected areas. No doubt that the definition of “protected area” as defined under sub-section (24A) of Section 2 of the WLP Act only includes a National Park, a sanctuary, a conservation reserve, or a community reserve, which are notified under Sections 18, 35, 36A and 36C of the WLP Act. However, the harmonious construction of the various provisions of the WLP Act would reveal that the legislature intended the “Tiger Reserves” to be kept at a higher pedestal than a sanctuary, a National Park, a conservation reserve, or a community reserve. 33. As discussed hereinabove, the declaration of sanctuary is as provided under Section 18 of the WLP Act. We have already reproduced Section 18 hereinabove. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 225 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal 34. The Chief Wild Life Warden has been entrusted with the functions and duties to control, manage, and protect all sanctuaries in accordance with such management plans for the sanctuary as approved by him as per the guidelines issued by the Central Government. Under clause (a) of Section 33 of the WLP Act; though construction of roads, bridges, buildings, fences or barrier gates, and such other works as he may consider necessary for sanctuary is permissible, the proviso thereto specifically prohibits the construction of tourist lodges including Government lodges for commercial purposes. It further prohibits the construction of hotels, zoos and safari parks inside a sanctuary except with the prior approval of the National Board.