1 Ballu Chaurasiya. Thereafter, the deceased Mahesh Sahu and Anita returned to Damoh (in the fourth month of the year 1992 i.e., April 1992), and Anita started living in her house and thereafter Anita was married to another person in Ujjain by her brother [2024] 4 S.C.R. 57 Ballu @ Balram @ Balmukund and Another v. The State of Madhya Pradesh Ballu Chaurasiya (appellant No. 1). Thereafter, Anita left for her in-laws house and thereafter correspondence of letters started between Mahesh Sahu and Anita. He stated that this correspondence of letters was not liked by Ballu Chaurasiya (appellant No. 1) and he started to give death threats to Mahesh Sahu. 12.3 The learned trial Judge found that the statement given by Beni Prasad (PW-1), before the trial Judge was totally contrary to his statement recorded under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Exh. D/1). It was found that Beni Prasad (PW-1) had totally improved his story in his deposition before the Court. Learned trial Judge also found the behaviour of Beni Prasad (PW-1) to be abnormal. In his cross-examination, Beni Prasad (PW-1) admitted that when he saw four persons dragging the dead body, he said nothing because he was alone. However, he admitted that the dead body of Mahesh Sahu was lying in a dense basti and people have houses around the said place and there was also a dispensary of the (Nagar Palika) Municipality situated at Gauri Shankar Temple, about 9 feet away from his house. Learned trial Judge also found that within the same dispensary itself, the Police Chowki was situated, manned by hawaldar and constables. The learned trial Judge found that the conduct of the Beni Prasad (PW-1) in not informing about the dead body of the deceased being dragged away to anyone and particularly at the Police Chowki which was hardly any distance from the place of occurrence to be absolutely unnatural. The learned trial judge found that when a panchnama of the dead body (Exh. P-2) was being conducted, he did not give the name of the killers. The explanation given by Beni Prasad (PW-1) was that the police did not ask him. The learned trial Judge also found that Beni Prasad (PW-1) admitted in his evidence that at the time of panchnama of dead body (Exh. P-2), there was a crowd of around 150 people. 12.4 Ms. Sumitra Bai (PW-6), mother of the deceased, also stated about the relationship between the deceased Mahesh Sahu and Anita. She stated that the accused/appellant No. 1 Ballu Chaurasiya was threatening the deceased Mahesh Sahu on a day prior to the date of the incident. She also informed about 58 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports one boy coming at about 11:45 P.M./12 A.M. and informing her that a fight was going on between Mahesh Sahu and Ballu Chaurasiya. When she went to the house of the accused, she saw accused Ballu Chaurasiya, his elder brother, his manjhla brother and accused Jamuna Bai dragging her son and leaving her son in front of bade father’s house.