It was observed that jurisdiction under Section 34 cannot be equated with the normal appellate jurisdiction. Rather, the approach ought to be to respect the finality of the arbitral award as well as party’s autonomy to get their dispute adjudicated by an alternative forum as provided under the law. 70. Now, we shall examine the scope of interference with an arbitral award on ground of insufficient, or improper/erroneous, or lack of, reasons. Reasons for the Award – When reasons, or lack of it, could vitiate an arbitral award. 71. Section 31 (3)57 of the 1996 Act provides that an arbitral award shall state reasons upon which it is based, unless (a) the parties have agreed that no reasons are to be given, or (b) the award is an arbitral award on agreed terms under Section 30. 71.1 As to the form of a reasoned award, in Russell on Arbitration (24th Edition, page 304) it is stated thus: “6.032. No particular form is required for a reasoned award although ‘the giving of clearly expressed reasons responsive to the issues as they were debated before the arbitrators reduces the scope for the making of unmeritorious challenges’. When giving a reasoned award the tribunal need only set out what, on its view of the evidence, did or did not happen and explain succinctly why, in the light of what happened, the tribunal has reached its decision, and state what that decision is. In to avoid being vulnerable to challenge, the tribunal’s reasons must deal with all the issues that were put to it. It should set out its findings of fact and its reasoning so as to 57 Section 31. Form and contents of arbitral award. – (1) ….. (2)…. (3) The arbitral award shall state the reasons upon which it is based, unless – (a) the parties have agreed that no reasons are to be given, or (b) the award is an arbitral award on agreed terms under section 30. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 547 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. enable the parties to understand them and state why particular points were decisive. It should also indicate the tribunal’s findings and reasoning on issues argued before it but not considered decisive, so as to enable the parties and the court to consider the position with respect to appeal on all the issues before the tribunal. When dealing with controversial matters, it is helpful for the tribunal to set out not only its view of what occurred, but also to make it clear that it has considered any alternative version and has rejected it. Even if several reasons lead to the same result, the tribunal should still set them out. That said, so long as the relevant issues are addressed there is no need to deal with every possible argument or to explain why the tribunal attached more weight to some evidence than to other evidence. The tribunal is not expected to recite at great length communications exchanged or submissions made by the parties.