1935 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. School in which the dated 26.11.1981 was passed by Fazal Ali J. questioning the correctness of the in Azeez Basha [supra]. In addition to what has already been argued, he submitted that minorities in the country have group rights in the form of rights under Articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution, which must be protected as is done in the case of other group rights available to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, OBCs, etc. C.2. Respondents defending the correctness of Azeez Basha [supra] 50. Controverting the same, on behalf of the parties defending the of the High Court and the correctness of the in Azeez Basha [supra], Mr. R. Venkataramani, the learned Attorney General, submitted that the power to establish a university is traceable to Article 30 of the Constitution and because the Aligarh Muslim University was a pre-constitutional university, the Muslim community did not legally have the power to establish it. Only the British Government could have established the University through an act of the Legislature. He has also sought to distinguish the existence of the University from its predecessor, the Mohammedan Anglo Oriental College, as the enabling power to create such a college came from the Societies Registration Act. Ld. Attorney General argues that the words “educational institutions of their choice” used in Article 30 do not by themselves confer a power of establishment independent of legal competence to do so. The Ld. Attorney General argued that Azeez Basha [supra] was correct insofar as it stated that the AMU was not “established” by the Muslim community but by an Act of Legislature. 51. Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India, raised a preliminary objection challenging the very reference itself, holding that a bench of two judges could not have directly referred the matter to seven judges in Anjuman [supra]. The Solicitor General disputed the interpretation of Azeez Basha [supra] put forward by the Appellants whereby it is argued that Azeez Basha [supra] holds that universities established by legislation can never be minority institutions. He accepted that institutions incorporated by statute can also be minority institutions but submitted that in such a case, the Legislature would include provisions in the Act clarifying the minority character of the institution and AMU Act makes no such provision. He gave the example of 1936 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the pre-constitution Annamalai University Act, to indicate how the British parliament recognised “founders” of universities, which were eventually taken over by the then Government. 52. The Solicitor General made extensive reference to the provisions of the 1920 Act to argue that the intent was in fact the opposite, that is to have government control over the institution by controlling, inter alia, the appointment of important office holders, the composition of administrative bodies, the rule making power of the university etc. 53. The Solicitor General argued that the AMU, despite its name is not really a Muslim University but rather a secular educational institution.