329 Sukhpal Singh v. NCT of Delhi 33. Further, in the case of Jayendra Vishnu Thakur v. State of Maharashtra & Another 2 it was held as follows: - “25. It is also beyond any cavil that the provisions of Section 299 of the Code must receive strict interpretation, and, thus, scrupulous compliance therewith is imperative in character. It is a well-known principle of interpretation of statute that any word defined in the statutory provision should ordinarily be given the same meaning while construing the other provisions thereof where the same term has been used. Under Section 3 of the Evidence Act like any other fact, the prosecution must prove by leading evidence and a definite categorical finding must be arrived at by the court in regard to the fact required to be proved by a statute. Existence of an evidence is not enough but application of mind by the court thereupon as also the analysis of the materials and/ or appreciation thereof for the purpose of placing reliance upon that part of the evidence is imperative in character. 29. Indisputably both the conditions contained in the first part of Section 299 of the Code must be read conjunctively and not disjunctively. Satisfaction of one of the requirements should not be sufficient….” (emphasis supplied) 34. The statement of Ashok Kumar Pathak dated 17th July, 1991 recorded in proceedings under Section 299 CrPC is as follows: - “I am working as Salesman/supply man in the M/s R.P. Associates a shop of medicines in Bhagirath Place for the last about seven years. In my neighbourhood accused Sukhpal along with his wife Usha and children used to reside in H.No.387 Gali No.14 Kartar Nagar for the last 3/4 years prior to this case. He was having two daughters and one son. Later on he also joined service in M/s R.P. Associates, Bhagirath Place with my assistance. Accused suspected infidelity of his wife Smt. Usha and for this reason they were not having good relations and 2 [2009] 8 SCR 591 : (2009) 7 SCC 104 330 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports they always used to quarrel with each other. Prior to the occurrence of this case accused left his house leaving his wife Smt. Usha and three children at the above said house for his village Khatta in UP and used to come to his shop therefrom. Sometimes they used to visit with his wife Usha at his house. About four days back prior to this occurrence accused Sukhpal had come to his house where sister of Usha was also found present with Usha at his house and on that day Sukhpal had quarrelled with his wife Usha and he then returned. Next day sister of Usha also left with three children of Usha to her house, leaving her sister alone at her house. On 19.5.1990 at about 10.30 P.M. I saw accused Usha & Sukhpal who came on a cycle to his house having conversation with his wife, sitting on a cot in the court-yard of his house, and I went on the roof of my house, and slept.