Digital Supreme Court Reports 67. The above would show that there is a reasonable and direct nexus with the object sought to be achieved i.e. the appointment of well- rounded judicial officers. The prescription of minimum cut off is also not perceived to be of such a nature that it reeks of irrationality, or was capricious and/or without any adequate determining principle. It does not appear to be disproportionate so as to adversely affect “meritorious” candidates, as has been argued. It is certainly not manifestly arbitrary, or irrational or violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. For recruitment of judicial officers, ideally the effort should be to not only test the candidate’s intellect but also their personality. An interview unveils the essence of a candidate— their personality, passion, and potential. While the written exam measures knowledge, the interview reveals character and capability. Therefore, a person seeking a responsible position particularly as a judicial officer should not be shortlisted only by their performance on paper, but also by their ability to articulate and engage which will demonstrate their suitability for the role of a presiding officer in a court. In other words, the capability and potential of the candidate, to preside in Court to adjudicate adversarial litigation must also be carefully assessed during the interview. 68. On the above parameters, it can’t be said that the concerned recruitment Rules are unconstitutional. It may also be observed here that there is no violation of the legitimate expectation of the writ petitioners so as to fail the test under Article 14. In Sivananda CT v High Court of Kerala34 which is cited, the factual backdrop was different. The Kerala State Higher Judicial Services Rules 1961 stipulated that the direct recruitment from the Bar shall be “on the basis of aggregate marks/grade obtained in a competitive examination and viva voce conducted by the High Court.” It was only after the conduct of viva voce that the High Court decided to have a minimum cut off, as a qualifying criterion. The distinguishing feature is that neither the provisions of the Kerala State Higher Judicial Services Special Rules,1961 nor the exam scheme or recruitment notification therein stipulated any cut-off for the viva voce. Therefore, it was in that context that the Court held that the minimum cut-off marks was manifestly arbitrary for frustrating the substantive legitimate expectation of the candidates under Article 14 of the Constitution. 34 [2023] 11 SCR 674 : (2024) 3 SCC 799 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 577 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. Therefore, the cited case can have no application in the present matters where the cut off marks in the viva voce was notified before commencement of the selection process. Issue No.iii) Whether the selection process in Bihar is vitiated given the moderation of marks and corrective steps, highlighted by the petitioners in the Bihar Selection process? 69. For this, it needs to be seen whether there are proven allegations of violations of statutory Rules, bias, malafide or fraud35.