This is the subject matter of the “first rule” in Hadley v. Baxendale 9 Exch. 341. But to this knowledge, which a contract-breaker is assumed to possess whether he actually possesses it or not, there may have to be added in a particular case knowledge which he actually possesses, of special circumstances outside the “ordinary course of things,” of such a kind that a breach in those special circumstances would be liable to cause more loss. Such a case attracts the operation of the “second rule” so as to make additional loss also recoverable. (5.) In to make the contract-breaker liable under either rule it is not necessary that he should actually have asked himself what loss is liable to result from a breach. As has often been pointed out, parties at the time of contracting contemplate not the breach of the contract, but its performance. It suffices that, if he had considered the question, he would as a reasonable man have concluded that the loss in question was liable to result …. (6.) Nor, finally, to make a particular loss recoverable, need it be proved that upon a given state of knowledge the defendant could, as a reasonable man, foresee that [2024] 2 S.C.R. 49 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu a breach must necessarily result in that loss. It is enough if he could foresee it was likely so to result. It is indeed enough, to borrow from the language of Lord du Parcq in the same case, at page 158, if the loss (or some factor without which it would not have occurred) is a “serious possibility” or a “real danger.” …” 51. The above principles apply to grant of compensation under Section 73 of the 1872 Act. This is clear from the decision of this Court in Karsandas H. Thacker v. M/s. The Saran Engineering Co. Ltd. reported in AIR 1965 SC 1981. The Court held that when a party commits breach of contract, the other party is entitled to receive compensation for any loss by the damage caused to him which naturally arose in the usual course of business from such breach or which the parties knew when they made the contract to be likely to result from the breach of it. Remote and indirect loss or damage sustained by reason of the breach will not entitle the party complaining breach, to any compensation. Referring to the facts of the case and Illustration (k) to Section 73 of the 1872 Act, the Court held: “13. …On account of the non-delivery of scrap iron, he could have purchased the scrap iron from the market at the same controlled price and similar incidental charges. This means that he did not stand to pay a higher price than what he was to pay to the respondent and therefore he could not have suffered any loss on account of the breach of contract by the respondent. The actual loss, which, according to the appellant, he suffered on account of the breach of contract by the respondent was the result of his contracting to sell 200 tons of scrap iron for export to the Export Corporation.