While holding that the word “any” in the context would mean “all”, this Court in Raj Kumar Shivhare [Raj Kumar Shivhare v. Directorate of Enforcement, (2010) 4 SCC 772 : (2010) 3 SCC (Civ) 712] observed that a right of appeal is always conferred by a statute. It has been held that, while conferring such right, a statute may impose restrictions, like limitation or pre-deposit of penalty or it may limit the area of appeal to questions of law [2024] 1 S.C.R. 961 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited & Ors. or sometime to substantial questions of law. It has been held that whenever such limitations are imposed, they are to be strictly followed. It has been held that in a case where there is no limitation, the right of appeal cannot be curtailed by this Court on the basis of an interpretative exercise. 130. Shri P. Chidambaram, learned Senior Counsel relied on the of this Court in Union of India v. A.B. Shah [Union of India v. A.B. Shah, (1996) 8 SCC 540 : 1996 SCC (Cri) 688]. In the said case, the High Court was considering an appeal preferred by the Union of India wherein it had challenged the acquittal of the accused by the learned trial court, which was confirmed in appeal by the High Court. The learned trial court and the High Court had held that the complaint filed was beyond limitation. This Court reversed the s of the learned trial court and the High Court. 131. This Court while interpreting the expression “at any time” observed thus : (A.B. Shah case [Union of India v. A.B. Shah, (1996) 8 SCC 540 : 1996 SCC (Cri) 688], SCC p. 546, para 12) “12. If we look into Conditions 3 and 6 with the object and purpose of the Act in mind, it has to be held that these conditions are not only relatable to what was required at the commencement of depillaring process, but the unstowing for the required length must exist always. The expression “at any time” finding place in Condition 6 has to mean, in the context in which it has been used, “at any point of time”, the effect of which is that the required length must be maintained all the time. The accomplishment of object of the Act, one of which is safety in the mines, requires taking of such a view, especially in the backdrop of repeated mine disasters which have been taking, off and on, heavy toll of lives of the miners. It may be pointed out that the word “any” has a diversity of meaning and in Black›s Law Dictionary it has been stated that this word may be employed to indicate “all” or “every”, and its meaning will depend “upon the context and subject-matter of the statute”. A reference to what has been stated in Stroud’s Judicial 962 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Dictionary, Vol. I, is revealing inasmuch as the import of the word “any” has been explained from pp.