- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 62, the Appropriate Commission shall adopt the tariff if such [2024] 1 S.C.R. 935 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited & Ors. tariff has been determined through transparent process of bidding in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Government.” xxx xxx xxx 79. Functions of Central Commission.-(1) The Central Commission shall discharge the following functions, namely:- (a) ……………………………………… (b) to regulate the tariff of generating companies other than those owned or controlled by the Central Government specified in clause (a), if such generating companies enter into or otherwise have a composite scheme for generation and sale of electricity in more than one State; xxx xxx xxx “86. Functions of State Commission.- (1) The State Commission shall discharge the following functions, namely: - (a) ……………. (b) regulate electricity purchase and procurement process of distribution licensees including the price at which electricity shall be procured from the generating companies or licensees or from other sources through agreements for purchase of power for distribution and supply within the State;” 40. It will also be relevant to refer to part of the preamble of the Bidding Guidelines notified by the Union of India vide Resolution dated 19th January 2005, which is as under: “These guidelines have been framed under the above provisions of section 63 of the Act. The specific objectives of these guidelines are as follows: 1. Promote competitive procurement of electricity by distribution licensees; 936 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2. Facilitate transparency and fairness in procurement processes; 3. Facilitate reduction of information asymmetries for various bidders; 4. Protect consumer interests by facilitating competitive conditions in procurement of electricity; 5. Enhance standardization and reduce ambiguity and hence time for materialization of projects; 6. Provide flexibility to suppliers on internal operations while ensuring certainty on availability of power and tariffs for buyers.” 41. It will also be relevant to refer to certain clauses of the RFP, which are as under: 2.15 Right to withdraw the RFP and to reject any Bid. 2.15.1 This RFP may be withdrawn or cancelled by the Procurer/ Authorized Representative at any time without assigning any reasons thereof. The Procurer/ Authorized Representative further reserves the right, at its complete discretion, to reject any or all of the Bids without assigning any reasons whatsoever and without incurring any liability on any account.” xxx xxx xxx “3.5 STEP IV- Successful Bidder(s) Selection 3.5.1 Bids qualifying in Step III shall only be evaluated in this stage. 3.5.2 The Levelized Tariff calculated as per Clause 3.4.8 for all Financial Bids of Qualified Bidders shall be ranked from the lowest to the highest. 3.5.3 The Bidder with the lowest Levelized Tariff shall be declared as the Successful Bidder for the quantum of power (in MW) offered by such Bidder in its Financial Bid. 3.5.4 The selection process of the Successful Bidder as mentioned above in Clause 3.5.3 shall be repeated for [2024] 1 S.C.R. 937 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors.