G. Monitoring and Accountability 1. Development of Standard Operating Procedures 1.1. The National Legal Services Authority277 is directed to formulate a Standard Operating Procedure278 that provides comprehensive guidelines for legal-support services, and long-term rehabilitation plans related to the prevention, protection, and rehabilitation of victims of child marriage for lawyers and law-enforcement officers. NALSA is further directed to dispatch this SOP to all States and District Legal Services Authority where it may be used in assisting aggrieved victims; 1.2. The Ministry of Women and Child Development, in consultation with State Child Protection Societies279 and local government bodies, shall draft SOPs focused on maintaining detailed registers. These registers will document: 1.2.1. The number of awareness programs and capacity-building initiatives conducted; 1.2.2. The number of child marriages prevented and reported; and 1.2.3. Follow-up actions taken in each case. 1.3. The SOPs must clearly define the duties and responsibilities of CPMOs, and other stakeholders involved in community protection efforts, such as police authorities, Sarpanchs, 277 “NALSA” 278 “SOP” 279 “SCPS” 1628 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports village Pradhans, school teachers, AWWs, and ASHA. Special emphasis shall be placed on these responsibilities during critical periods and other wedding seasons and 1.4. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights is directed to expedite the process of drafting an SOP to establish accountability for the non-reporting of child marriages, provide rehabilitation for minor survivors, and initiate prosecution procedures. 2. Role of Panchayats and Local Leaders 2.1. All Panchayats, Sarpanchs, and local leaders must: 2.1.1. Complete a training program on child marriage prevention and reporting within three months; 2.1.2. Report any suspected child marriages within 48 hours of awareness to relevant authorities; and 2.1.3. Actively participate in community awareness programs to educate families on the legal consequences of child marriage and promote alternative practices to early marriage. 3. Individual Care Plans for At-Risk Girls 3.1. State authorities must develop and implement Individual Care Plans (ICP) for at-risk girl children, ensuring compliance with Section 10 of the JJ Act, which mandates individualized care and rehabilitation for children in need of care and protection. It shall include: 3.1.1. Immediate access to educational resources tailored to the child’s needs; 3.1.2. Regular psychological support sessions, including counselling and therapy, as necessary; 3.1.3. Establishment of peer support groups to help at-risk girls connect with one another and share experiences; 3.1.4. Monitoring by Child Welfare Officers/District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) should occur every month for the first year post-intervention to ensure successful reintegration into education and community life; and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1629 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 3.1.5. Follow-up assessments should be conducted every three months to evaluate the effectiveness of the ICP, adjusting support services as needed to address any emerging challenges faced by the child. H. Technology-Driven Initiatives for Reporting Child Marriage 1. Creation of a Centralized Reporting Portal 1.1. The Ministry of Home Affairs, in collaboration with the Ministry of Women and Child Development and the NALSA, shall establish a designated portal for online reporting of child marriages.