ii. Diploma-in-Civil Engineering through non-distance mode conferred by the concerned Deemed University established under the UGC Act provided the Deemed University is duly approved by the University Grants Commission for the said Course.” It is pertinent to note that this requirement is drawn from and is identical to Rule 9(1)(iii) of the Bihar Water Resources Department Subordinate Engineering (Civil) Cadre Recruitment Rules, 2015 (the ‘Rules’) as amended in 2017. 4. The private Respondents in the present appeal were the Writ Petitioners before the High Court. They were all applicants who possessed a Diploma from Private Universities/Institutions established by statute and approved by the University Grants Commission. Their applications were found ineligible by the BTSC on the ground that their institutions were not approved by the All-India Council of 1348 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Technical Education (‘AICTE’). Aggrieved, they approached the High Court seeking the quashing of Rule 9(1)(iii) of the Rules as being inconsistent with other statutory provisions and judgement of the Apex Court in Bharathidasan University & Anr. vs. AICTE & Ors. 2001 (8) SCC 676 wherein, on an interpretation of the provisions of the All-India Council of Technical Education Act 1987, it was held that Universities are excluded from the purview of technical institutions and are thus not required to obtain approvals from the AICTE before introducing technical courses/programs. 5. The Writ Petitioners relied on public notice dated 09.02.2022 issued by the AICTE, to the VCs of all Central/State and Private Universities about AICTE approval for 2022-23, stating as follows: “Dear Sir/Madam, lt is intimated that Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in case of Bharathidasan University & Another Vs AICTE & Others has interpreted the provisions of the AICTE Act and has held that university do not require prior approval of AICTE to commence a new department of course and programmes in technical education. Universities have obligation or duty to conform to the standards and norms laid down by the AICTE. For the purpose of ensuring coordinated and integrated development of technical education and maintenance of standards, AICTE may cause an inspection of the university, which has to be as per the provisions under relevant rules/regulations of the AICTE. Further, all affiliated institutions running technical education programmes requires prior approval of AICTE. However, it has been observed that some of the Central / State / Private Universities are taking partial approval of AICTE for some selected Technical Courses / Programmes, which is creating confusion among the stakeholders. Therefore, AICTE decided that no partial approval of technical courses will be given to Universities in to avoid confusion among stakeholders. Accordingly, all universities are hereby informed that either they take full approval of all technical courses, or they can continue without approval of AICTE.” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1349 Shashi Bhushan Prasad Singh v. The State of Bihar and Others 6. It is relevant to note that the stand of the Writ Petitioners was reinforced by the AICTE before the High Court, as made explicit by their Counter Affidavit dated 12.05.2022, which read as under: “8.