In other words, in view of the passing of the IDRA, under Entry 52 – List I and the inclusion of, inter alia, products of “Fermentation Industries” such as “industrial alcohol” in Item 26 of the First Schedule of the IDRA, the State Legislatures would be subject to the powers of the Parliament to pass [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2139 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons a law in the matter of production, supply, distribution, trade and commerce of such industrial product. 13.11 Therefore, if the control of any industry has been declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest, then in such a case, in the matter of production, supply and distribution of products of such industry, Entry 27 – List II would be subject to Entry 33(a) – List III. Thus, the subject production, supply and distribution of goods found in Entry 27 – List II as well as in Entry 33(a) – List III regarding any product of an industry has a nexus with Entry 52 – List I. 13.12 Further, Entry 24 – List II which deals with industries, is itself subject to Entry 52 – List I. Therefore, if any industry is mentioned in the First Schedule of the IDRA which is a legislation passed by the Parliament by virtue of Entry 52 – List I, a reading of the same conjointly with Entry 33(a) – List III would mean that particular industry which has been mentioned in the First Schedule of IDRA would be under the control of the Union. However, as far as the products of such industry are concerned, Entry 33(a) – List III deals with the aspect of production and supply and distribution as well as trade and commerce. Thus, if any particular industry is not mentioned or is deleted from the First Schedule of IDRA, then automatically Entry 33(a) – List III would not apply to such industrial products and the subject would squarely fall within the scope and ambit of Entry 24 – List II and Entry 27 – List II. 14. There is another way of looking at the Entries under consideration. As already noted, Entry 24 - List II which deals with the subject “industries”, enables legislative competence to the State Legislature to enact laws on the said subject. Therefore, at a first glance the subject “industries” is a State subject. However, Entry 24 - List II is subject to Entries 7 and 52 - List I which have been discussed above. In particular, Entry 52 - List I deals with “industries”, the control of which is taken over by the Union by a declaration made by the Parliament by law as it is expedient in public interest. In respect of “such industries”, as covered within the scope and ambit of Entry 52 - List I, it would imply that under Entry 33(a) - List III, insofar as the products of any such industry are concerned where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by the Parliament by law to 2140 [2024] 10 S.C.R.