608 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. Section 45 of the Act of 1976 pertains to the reconstitution of plots and Section 45(1) states that, in the draft scheme referred to in Section 44, the size and shape of every plot shall be determined, so far as may be, to render it suitable for building purposes and where the plot has already been built upon, to ensure that the building, as far as possible, complies with the provisions of the scheme as regards open spaces. Section 45(2) states that, for the purposes of sub-section (1), the draft scheme may contain proposals as to the details mentioned under clauses (a) to (e). This provision reads as under: - ‘(2) For the purposes of sub-section (1), the draft scheme may contain proposals- (a) to form a final plot by the reconstitution of an original plot by the alteration of its boundaries, if necessary; (b) to form a final plot from an original plot by the transfer of any adjoining lands; (c) to provide with the consent of the owners that two or more original plots which are owned by several persons or owned by persons jointly be held in ownership in common as a final plot, with or without alteration of boundaries; (d) to allot a final plot to any owner dispossessed of land in furtherance of the scheme; and (e) to transfer the ownership of a plot from one person to another.’ 20. Section 47 of the Act of 1976 provides for objections being raised against the draft scheme and states that such objections are to be made in writing within one month from the date of publication of the draft scheme and the same should be considered by the appropriate authority. Further, before submitting the draft scheme to the State Government, the appropriate authority may modify the scheme as it thinks fit. Section 48 empowers the State Government to sanction the draft scheme. Section 50 requires the State Government to appoint a Town Planning Officer within one month from the date on which the draft scheme has been sanctioned and notified in the Official Gazette and the duties of such Town Planning Officer are set out in Section 51. Thereunder, the Town Planning Officer is required, within twelve [2024] 6 S.C.R. 609 Mrugendra Indravadan Mehta and Others v. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation months from the date of his appointment, to sub-divide the Town Planning Scheme into a preliminary scheme and a final scheme, following the prescribed procedure. Section 52 details the contents of the preliminary and final schemes. Insofar as a preliminary scheme is concerned, the Town Planning Officer is required, under Section 52(1), to give notice in the prescribed manner to the persons affected by the scheme and define and demarcate the areas allotted to or reserved for a public purpose or for the purpose of the appropriate authority and the final plots. Under Section 52(1)(iii), the Town Planning Officer is empowered to provide for the total or partial transfer of any right in an original plot to a final plot or provide for the transfer of any right in an original plot in accordance with the provisions of Section 81.