690 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 22. In the aforesaid circumstances, the next question to be considered is whether a summons issued by a Magistrate can be interfered with in exercise of the power under Section 482, CrPC. In the decisions in Bhushan Kumar v. State (NCT of Delhi) reported in (2012) 5 SCC 424 and Pepsi Foods Ltd. (supra), this Court held that a petition filed under Section 482, CrPC, for quashing an summoning the accused is maintainable. There cannot be any doubt that once it is held that sine qua non for exercise of the power to issue summons is the subjective satisfaction “on the ground for proceeding further” while exercising the power to consider the legality of a summons issued by a Magistrate, certainly it is the duty of the Court to look into the question as to whether the learned Magistrate had applied his mind to form an opinion as to the existence of sufficient ground for proceeding further and in that regard to issue summons to face the trial for the offence concerned. In this context, we think it appropriate to state that one should understand that ‘taking cognizance’, empowered under Section 190, CrPC, and ‘issuing process’, empowered under Section 204, CrPC, are different and distinct. [See the decision in Sunil Bharti Mittal v. C.B.I. : (2015) 4 SCC 609]. 23. In Sunil Bharti Mittal (supra), this Court interpreted the expression “sufficient grounds for proceeding” and held that there should be sufficiency of materials against the accused concerned before proceeding under Section 204 of the CrPC. It was held thus: — “53. However, the words “sufficient ground for proceeding” appearing in Section 204 are of immense importance. It is these words which amply suggest that an opinion is to be formed only after due application of mind that there is sufficient basis for proceeding against the said accused and formation of such an opinion is to be stated in the itself. The is liable to be set aside if no reason is given therein while coming to the conclusion that there is prima facie case against the accused, though the need not contain detailed reasons. A fortiori, the would be bad in law if the reason given turns out to be ex facie incorrect.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 8 S.C.R. 691 Delhi Race Club (1940) Ltd. & Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. DIFFERENCE BETWEEN CRIMINAL BREACH OF TRUST AND CHEATING 24. This Court in its decision in S.W. Palanitkar & Ors. v. State of Bihar & Anr. reported in (2002) 1 SCC 241 expounded the difference in the ingredients required for constituting an of offence of criminal breach of trust (Section 406 IPC) viz-a-viz the offence of cheating (Section 420). The relevant observations read as under: - “9. The ingredients in to constitute a criminal breach of trust are: (i) entrusting a person with property or with any dominion over property, (ii) that person entrusted (a) dishonestly misappropriating or converting that property to his own use; or (b) dishonestly using or disposing of that property or wilfully suffering any other person so to do in violation (i) of any direction of law prescribing the mode in which such trust is to be discharged, (ii) of any legal contract made, touching the discharge of such trust.