In such circumstances, referred to above, the petitioner, i.e., the victim is here before us with the present petition. 13. We have heard the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner and the learned counsel appearing for the State. The Respondent No.2 – accused although served with the notice issued by this Court, yet has chosen not to remain present before this Court either in-person or through an Advocate and oppose this petition. 14. Ordinarily in serious offences like rape, murder, dacoity, etc., once the trial commences and the prosecution starts examining its witnesses, the Court be it the Trial Court or the High Court should be loath in entertaining the bail application of the accused. 15. Over a period of time, we have noticed two things, i.e., (i) either bail is granted after the charge is framed and just before the victim is to be examined by the prosecution before the trial court, or (ii) bail is granted once the recording of the oral evidence of the victim is complete by looking into some discrepancies here or there in the deposition and thereby testing the credibility of the victim. 16. We are of the view that the aforesaid is not a correct practice that the Courts below should adopt. Once the trial commences, it should be allowed to reach to its final conclusion which may either result in the conviction of the accused or acquittal of the accused. The moment the High Court exercises its discretion in favour of the accused and s release of the accused on bail by looking into the deposition of the victim, it will have its own impact on the pending trial when it comes to appreciating the oral evidence of the victim. It is only in the event if the trial gets unduly delayed and that too for no fault on [2024] 11 S.C.R. 945 X v. State of Rajasthan & Anr. the part of the accused, the Court may be justified in ing his release on bail on the ground that right of the accused to have a speedy trial has been infringed. 17. In the case on hand, the victim is yet to be examined. Her mother who, according to the case of the prosecution, is an eye-witness has also not been examined so far. The High Court seems to have looked into few discrepancies in the FIR compared to the statement of victim recorded under Section 164 of the Code. This could not have been a good ground to exercise discretion in favour of an accused in a serious offence like rape. 18. However, we are of the view that now at this point of time, we should not disturb the impugned passed by the High Court. At the same time, we should impose appropriate conditions so as to ensure that the Respondent No.2 – herein and the co-accused do not influence the prosecution witnesses or try to tamper with the evidence in any manner. Even while enlarging the accused on bail, the High Court should have been conscious of this fact.