This Court in State of Himachal Pradesh vs. Ganesh Wood Products (1995) 6 SCC 363 (“Ganesh Wood Products”) had invoked intergenerational [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2123 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. equity while taking cognizance of the ‘totally faulty and a myopic approach’ of the State towards forest management and regulation. This Court held that mechanically granting approvals for manufacturing ‘katha’ by felling khair trees was ‘contrary to public interest involved in preserving forest wealth, maintenance of environment and ecology and considerations of sustainable growth and inter-generational equity.’ This Court reasoned that ‘the present generation has no right to deplete all the existing forests and leave nothing for the next and future generations’ and therefore, the approvals were vitiated. This Court also emphasized that the obligation of sustainable development mandates proper assessment and monitoring so that forest industries function in a balanced manner. 44.4 The State’s obligation to ensure intergenerational equity was also invoked while directing the preparation of appropriate management plans for regulating the use of fragile coastlines vide Indian Council for Enviro-legal Action vs. Union of India (1996) 5 SCC 281. 44.5 In view of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the view that the decision to grant approval for environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 violates the right to safe and healthy environment under Article 21 of the Constitution of India because the safeguards which were necessary to be taken prior to the grant of the approval have not been taken in the instant case. Consequently, directions have been issued in the succeeding paragraphs. Re: Point No.3: Whether GEAC’s grant of approval dated 18.10.2022 and the decision dated 25.10.2022 for the environmental release of DMH-11 violate the precautionary principle? Precautionary Principle: 45. As discussed earlier, the precautionary principle is one of the doctrinal foundations of Indian environmental law. The principle is an instance of distillation of ecological wisdom. Given the fact that genetic engineering has made what was inconceivable a reality, precaution is the need of the hour. For billions of years, each living organism would exchange DNA with others of its kind. Genetic engineering 2124 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports transcends this natural principle by combining genes sourced from widely different species and transferring genes between organisms that had no natural possibility of interbreeding. Scientific research of such a novel nature must therefore happen under supervision and in a manner that inspires public confidence. 45.1 It is said that the regulatory regime should recognize sufficiently the limits of scientific knowledge, and adopt a wider system- based interdisciplinary analysis. A diversity of expert opinions ranging from the disciplines of biotechnology, environmental law, ethics, sociology, agriculture, and sustainable economics should engage in open and public dialogue. Such an open dialogue is necessary in to mitigate the possibility of regulatory agencies and applicants exaggerating the benefits of a proposed technology or diluting the rigours of environmental safety or health standards. 46. Having regard to the conclusions of the TEC, I find that the apprehensions of the petitioners that HT crops would exert a highly adverse impact over time on sustainable agriculture, rural livelihoods, and the environment are not unfounded.