List of Keywords Mines and Minerals; Royalty; Royalties in respect of mining leases; Royalty, in nature of tax; Royalty is not a tax; Contractual consideration; Mining lessee; Mineral rights; Contractual conditions; Tax; Recovery as arrears; Imposition of tax or impost; Contractual payment; Statutory levy; Entry 50 List II Seventh Schedule; Taxes on mineral rights; Mineral development; Limitations imposable by Parliament; Legislative powers under Entry 54 List I; Legislative competence to tax mineral rights; Residuary powers; Any limitations; Denude or limit; Non-taxing general Entry; Distribution of legislative powers; MPV Sundararamier’s case; Subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development; Regulatory Entry; Description of “lands” under Entry 49 List II; Yield of mineral bearing land; Quantity of mineral produced; Measure to tax; Minor minerals; Subtract mining land; Mineral value or mineral produce; India Cement’s case; Kesoram’s case; Cess on royalty; Typographical error or inadvertent error; Characteristic requirements of tax; Doctrine of generalia specialibus non derogant; Federalism; Indian federalism; Balance of power; Distribution of powers; Postcolonial Constitution; National welfare state; Unregulated inter-provincial economic competition; Centre-State jurisdiction; Economic growth; Uniformity in mineral prices; Compulsory exaction by public authority for public purposes; Exclusive privileges; Doctrine of pith and substance; Transgresses its legislative competence; Colourable legislation; Vice of unconstitutionality; Potential overlaps or conflicts between and among entries in three Lists; Terminologies [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1585 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. “other than”, “not including”, “subject to”; “Declared by or under law”; “Declared by Parliament by law”; “Imposed by Parliament by law”; Fiscal federalism; Imbalance between resources; Inter- governmental distribution and grants; Fiscal powers; Fiscal expenditures; Fiscal deficit; Heterogenous distribution of legislative powers; Resource curse; Public trust doctrine; Sustainable development of mineral resources; Public trustee of minerals; Prospecting and mining operations; Disparity of royalty; Industrial Policy Resolution; ‘Lease’ and ‘licence’; Immoveable property; “Mining lease”; “Mining operations”; “Winning”; Getting or extracting minerals from the mines; “Prospecting licence”; Exploring, locating, or proving a mineral deposit; Proprietary rights in the minerals; Rates of royalty; Essential characteristics of royalty; Royalty a statutory consideration; Royalty calculated on per tonnage basis or ad valorem basis; Quantity of mineral removed or dispatched; Indian Bureau of Mines; Non-tax revenues; Dead rent; Proprietary right; Sovereign right; Monetary burdens or charges; “Regulation of mines”; Plenary legislative power; Taxing entry; Regulatory power; Non-fiscal enactment by Parliament; Overlap between the taxing entry and general entry; Principle of federal supremacy; Regulation of mines; Decoupling of minerals from land; Sarkaria Commission Report; Principles of Union Supremacy; Destruction of the federal balance; Recognition of parliamentary superiority; Typographical error; Precedent; Per incuriam. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE/ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal Nos. 4056-4064 of 1999 From the and dated 22.03.1999 of the High Court of Judicature at Patna, Ranchi Bench, Ranchi in C.W.J.C. No. 1885/94 (R), 178/94 (R), 2251/94 (R), 2252/94 (R), 1783/9 (R), 2591 (R), 3113/93 (R), 269/9 (R) and 268/94 (R) With Civil Appeal No. 7937 of 2019, Writ Petition (Civil) No. 512 of 2018, Civil Appeal Nos.