It has also been contended that till date, the appellant has never apologised for his actions. In fact, even before this Court, he has been writing letters making reckless allegations against Judges and the Judiciary. Analysis: 17. At the outset, we note that the impugned herein is a detailed one, which considers and answers each and every aspect of the matter. While imposing the punishment, the High Court relied on a decision of this Court to highlight that judicial independence ought to be protected from acts maligning the reputation of judicial officers1. Further, the High Court also reiterated the finding of this Court, wherein it was highlighted that a contemnor ought to be punished with imprisonment for making libellous and motivated allegations against the Court and its Judges which interfere with the administration of justice2. Furthermore, the High Court highlighted the importance of protecting and upholding the dignity of the Court and the majesty of the law as also observed previously by this Court3. We are in complete agreement with the decision of the High Court on the need to maintain the dignity and reputation of judicial officers and to protect them from motivated, libellous and unfounded allegations. We are also of the opinion that the High Court was correct in not accepting the apology tendered by the appellant since it was not bonafide and lacked in sincerity, apart from being belated and a mere ‘lip service’. 1 M.B. Sanghi, Advocate v. High Court of Punjab & Haryana, 1991 ( 3 ) SCR 312 : (1991) 3 SCC 600. 2 Pritam Pal v. High Court of M.P., Jabalpur, 1993 Supp (1) SCC 529. 3 Ajay Kumar Pandey, Advocate, In Re, 1998 ( 2 ) Suppl. SCR 87 : (1998) 7 SCC 248. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1163 Gulshan Bajwa v. Registrar, High Court of Delhi & Anr. 18. The submissions made before us are also not appealing. Even here, the appellant is trying to resort to forum shopping by asking us to refer the matter to a judge who had issued notice in a connected matter. The appellant has failed to see that notice in the lead matter was issued more than a decade and half ago. While the appellant seeks to de-tag the court martial proceedings as if they are unconnected to the egregious act of contempt, we note that those proceedings were not of a client of the appellant, in fact, the appellant himself was subjected to court martial proceedings, and he was in fact appearing as a party-in-person. We do not see two different lives here. The appellant contemnor is the petitioner in the court-martial proceedings. 19. It is also incorrect to say that there was no service of notice on the appellant. The appellant had in fact appeared before the Court after issuance of notice under the Act. Making an assertion that there was no service of the notice is factually wrong. The appellant, while making an allegation of bias should have supplemented it with cogent material, which he has failed to do.