All its attempt must be to obtain the best available price while disposing of its property because the greater the revenue, the welfare activities will get a fillip and shot in the arm…” 85. We are also of the opinion that, accredited journalists cannot be treated as a separate class for such preferential treatment. In fact, a careful study of the policy indicates that higher echelons of all the three wings of the government, —legislators, bureaucrats, and Judges of the Supreme Court and High Courts—have been afforded such preferential treatment. Journalists, who are considered the fourth pillar of democracy, have also been included. These four pillars of democracy are expected to act as checks and balances on the arbitrary exercise of the State’s power. However, the distribution of such extraordinary State benefits renders nugatory the very optics of healthy checks and balances within our democratic system. 86. Thus, the core framework of these policies suffers from the malaise of unreasonableness and arbitrariness. It reeks of colourable exercise of power whereby the policymakers are bestowing valuable resources to their peers and ilk, triggering a cycle of illegal distribution of State [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1421 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others resources. The State holds all its resources in trust for its citizens, to be utilised in larger public and social interest. The State, including the three organs – Legislature, Executive and the Judiciary, are de facto trustees and agents/repositories which function and govern for the benefit of the citizens who are the beneficiaries.72 87. Thus, the allotment policy fails to satisfy the requirements of the two-pronged classification test coupled with arbitrariness. As noted earlier, the jurisprudence surrounding equality law has evolved beyond a purely technical analysis, embracing an approach that considers not only the intent behind legislation or policy but also its real-world impact. We are of the opinion that the policies in question are a relevant example to show that merely likes being treated alike can lead to injustice. The pursuit of consistency through classification, while appealing in theory, does not ensure that the classification is either appropriate or equitable in practice. The substantive equality in contemporary equality jurisprudence calls not for a conceptually tidy “test”, but a multi-pronged approach to equality, which acknowledges the diverse ways in which inequality and discrimination may be perpetuated.73 To test the facts against the standards of substantive equality, we are of the opinion that Judges of the Supreme Court and the High Court, MPs, MLAs, officers of the AIS, journalists etc. cannot be treated as a separate category for allotment of land at a discounted basic value in preference to others. The object of the policy perpetuates inequality. The policy differentiates and bestows largesse to an advantwaged section/group by resorting to discrimination and denial. It bars the more deserving, as well as those similarly situated, from access to the land at the same price. It promotes social-economic exclusion, to favour a small and privileged section/group. The policy does not meet the equality and fairness standards prescribed by the Constitution.