We wish to clarify that Section 53(1) is referred to in Section 30(2) (b)(ii) with the purpose and objective that the dissenting financial creditor is not denied the amount which is payable to it being equal to the amount of value of the security interest. The entire Section 53 is not made applicable. 44. We would, for the above reasons, reject the submission on behalf of the respondents that Section 30(2)(b)(ii) is unworkable because it involves deeming fiction relating to liquidation, which is inapplicable during the CIRP period. This would be contrary to the legislative intent and is unacceptable. 45. Respondent no. 2 – CoC has submitted that the appellant has dissented because it did not approve the manner of distribution of the proceeds under the resolution plan. The appellant did not dispute the resolution plan itself. Accordingly, Section 30(2)(b)(ii) is not applicable. The argument is fallacious and must be rejected. Section 30(2)(b)(ii) relates to the proportion of the proceeds mentioned in the resolution plan or the amount which the dissenting financial creditor would be entitled to in terms of the waterfall mechanism provided in Section 138 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 53(1), if the corporate debtor goes into liquidation. The dissenting financial creditor does not have any say when the resolution plan is approved by a two-third majority of the CoC. The resolution plan will be accepted when approved by the specified majority in the CoC. The dissenting financial creditor cannot object to the resolution plan, but can object to the distribution of the proceeds under the resolution plan, when the proceeds are less than what the dissenting financial creditor would be entitled to in terms of Section 53(1) if the corporate debtor had gone into liquidation. This is the statutory option or choice given by law to the dissenting financial creditor. The option/choice should be respected. 46. Respondent no. 2 – CoC had referred to the objections referred to in the CoC meetings dated 15.04.2019 and 23.04.2019. We are of the view that the objections raised by the appellant relate to the distribution of the proceeds in terms of the liquidation plan. According to them, they were entitled to money of value not less than the amount that they would have received under Section 53(1) of the Code. 47. It is also argued that the NCLAT had rejected the first appeal on the ground that the appellant had only challenged the distribution of the pay-out under the plan inter se the financial creditors of the corporate debtor and not the resolution plan. Accordingly, the amendment to Section 30(2)(b) vide the Amendment Act of 2019 was not applicable. We have already rejected this argument, for the reasons set out above. In our opinion, the contention that the appellant is not the dissenting financial creditor is to be rejected. 48. The contention on behalf of the respondent that there is conflict between sub-section (4), as amended in 2019, and the amended clause (b) to sub-section (2) to Section 30 of the Code does not merit a different ratio and conclusion.