Entire cost of registry would be borne equally by the plaintiff Rehan Ahmad and Def. No.1 Gulam Mohiuddin. In this respect when the Def. No.1 will ask for half cost for this from the plaintiff Rehan Ahmed then the plaintiff Rehan Ahmad shall pay the same taking receipt from him and because of this the Def. No.1 shall not be entitled to get the period agreed for registry extended. The def. No.1 has received today the half cost of registry i.e. Rs.1,000/- from the plaintiff Rehan Ahmad. Complete responsibility to receive N.O.C. shall be of the Def. No.1. 4. That, Def. No.2 is residing in the third floor of disputed property which would be got vacated by defendant No.1 and the physical possession will be given to the plaintiff Rehan Ahmed prior to registration, and shall get the rent notes executed by the tenants who are presently occupying the disputed property in favour of Rehan Ahmed. 5. That, pro forma defendant No.3 has relinquished his entire right in respect to the disputed property in favor of plaintiff Rehan Ahmad on 28.6.1977 through a deed of Relinquishment, which was. ed by the court on 28.09.1977. Therefore, pro forma defendant no.3 shall have no connection now with this sale. 6. That, the. def. No.2 Saiduddin Khan, himself has admitted that he did not have right to sell or to execute agreement for sale of the disputed property, but now, the defendant No.1, who is the real owner of this disputed property, admits this agreement, therefore, now there is no hindrance in passing decree. 700 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7. That, cost of this suit shall be borne by the parties respectively. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY Pucca House comprising of three storeys and One chauk including entire internal houses of three storevs and five shops outside, out of which two shops are situated towards south of Sadar Darwaja and three shops are situated towards north of Sadar Darwaja along with staircase adjoining the shops towards the north on which Municipal No, written on the pole of House is 54/1 and Municipal Number of shops situated towards south are 52 and 53 and Municipal Number of shops situated towards north are 55, 56 and 57, Circle 1 and no number is assigned to the staircase i.e. entire property including house and shops having municipal number 52 to 57, Circle No.1 and boundaries of these houses and shops are as under: In East: Rasta Maniharan Government. In west: House of Sindhi in between which littered Government street is situated. In north: Temple of Digambar Jain In south: House and shops of Tirthdas Shyamiani. Therefore, it is prayed that compromise be verified and decree be passed in accordance with the compromise. Applicants Rehan Ahmad, Plaintiff Rehan (in English) Gulam Mohiuddin Khan, Def. No.1 sd.Ghulam mohiuddin khan (in English) Both Parties Jaipur: Date: 11.5.78” [2024] 4 S.C.R. 701 Rehan Ahmed (D) Thr. Lrs. v. Akhtar Un Nisa (D) Thr. Lrs. 4. In paragraph No.1 of the Compromise Deed, it is mentioned that Defendant No.1, although had earlier not accepted the Agreement to Sell, now admits that the Agreement to Sell dated 04.10.1967 was executed by Saeeduddin–Defendant No.2, not only in his own capacity but also on behalf of Defendant No.1 as Power of Attorney holder.