[…] It is, therefore, incumbent on the State Government to reach a conclusion that the Backward Class/Classes for which the reservation is made is not adequately represented in the State Services. While doing so the State Government may take the total population of a particular Backward Class and its representation in the State Services.” As observed above, the inadequacy of representation in the services of the State is an indicator to determine the backwardness of the class in the services of the State. When the cadre-strength is used, the inadequacy of representation of the class is not determined. Rather, it determines the inadequacy of representation in a cadre, thereby, merging the distinction between quantitative and qualitative representation. Further, the observations in Nagaraj (supra) that adequate reservation of the class or group must be measured [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1441 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. against the cadre is contrary to the plain language of Articles 16(4) and 16(4-A). Both the provisions use the phrase “not adequately represented in the services under the State”. 204. Thus, in view of the above discussion, the State for a valid exercise of power to sub-classify under Article 16(4) is required to collect quantifiable data with respect to the inadequacy of representation of the sub-categories in the services of the State. As held in the preceding section, the inadequacy of representation is an indicator of backwardness and thus, to use the cadre as a unit to determine representation alters the purpose of the indicator itself. The State while deciding if the class is adequately represented must calculate adequacy based on effective and not quantitative representation. E. Conclusion 205. In view of the discussion above, the following are our conclusions: a. Article 14 of the Constitution permits sub-classification of a class which is not similarly situated for the purpose of the law. The Court while testing the validity of sub-classification must determine if the class is a homogenous integrated class for fulfilling the objective of the sub-classification. If the class is not integrated for the purpose, the class can be further classified upon the fulfillment of the two-prong intelligible differentia standard; b. In Indra Sawhney (supra), this Court did not limit the application of sub-classification only to the Other Backward Class. This Court upheld the application of the principle to beneficiary classes under Articles 15(4) and 16(4); c. Article 341(1) does not create a deeming fiction. The phrase “deemed” is used in the provision to mean that the castes or groups notified by the President shall be “regarded as” the Scheduled Castes. Even if it is accepted that the deeming fiction is used for the creation of a constitutional identity, the only logical consequence that flows from it is that castes included in the list will receive the benefits that the Constitution provides to the Scheduled Castes. The operation of the provision does not create an integrated homogenous class; 1442 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports d. Sub-classification within the Scheduled Castes does not violate Article 341(2) because the castes are not per se included in or excluded from the List.