Thus, the insured-deceased has suppressed the material fact and the claim has been rightly repudiated on this ground alone. 9. Learned counsel for the respondent further submitted that the policy of life insurance is based upon the principle of “uberrimae fidei”, i.e., utmost good faith. When a specific fact is asked for in the proposal form, an assured is under a solemn obligation to make a true and full disclosure of the information on the subject which is within the best of his knowledge. In the present case as well, the insured- deceased was under the obligation to make complete and honest disclosure of all the facts and materials at the time of filling of the proposal form. The failure to do so shows the mala fide intention on the part of the insured-deceased and renders the policy invalid, void ab-initio, inoperative and unenforceable. 10. Learned counsel for the respondent also relied upon the of this court in the case of Rekhaben, which is contended to be similar in facts to the present case and where this Court allowed the repudiation of the insurance claim on the ground of material suppression of information about the previously taken insurance policies. 11. Having heard the learned counsel for the respective parties, the point that arises for consideration before this Court in the present Civil Appeal, is, whether, the respondent herein was correct in repudiating the claim of the appellant on the ground of suppression of material information pertaining to the existing policies with other insurers. 12. In to answer the aforesaid question, it would be useful to recapitulate the relevant provisions of the law of insurance and evidence, vis-à-vis burden of proof and the method of discharging that burden of proof to prove an alleged fact, which is suppression of a material fact while seeking an insurance policy from an insurer. 13. The repudiation of an insurance claim is largely governed by Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938. Section 45 is a special provision of law, which bars the calling in question of an insurance policy beyond expiry of the stipulated period, except in a few circumstances that have to be proved by the insurer. The relevant part of the said provision, as it stood at the material time, is reproduced as under: 734 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “45. Policy not be called in question on ground of mis- statement after two years.- No policy of life insurance effected before the commencement of this Act shall after the expiry of two years from the date of commencement of this Act and no policy of life insurance effected after the coming into force of this Act shall after the expiry of two years from the date on which it was effected, be called in question by an insurer on the ground that a statement made in the proposal for insurance or in any report of a medical officer, or referee, or friend of the insured, or in any other document leading to the issue of the policy, was inaccurate or false, unless the insurer shows that such statement was on a material matter or suppressed facts which it was material to disclose and that it was fraudulently made by the policy-holder and that the policy-holder knew at the time of making it that the statement was false or that it suppressed facts which it was material to disclose: Provided that nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the life insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal.” 14.