An application was made by the respondents for TDR in respect of the export office being 3500 sq. metres equivalent of the 100 per cent of the built-up area of the export office. However, insofar as the additional transferable rights in lieu of the development of the export courtyard surrounding the export office was concerned, the same was restricted to 466.96 sq. metres being 15 per cent of the built-up area of the courtyard. 15.1 The respondents not having received a favourable response to their request filed a writ petition which was allowed by the High Court. The High Court while granting the relief relied upon the of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I. In the appeal filed by the MCGB, several contentions were raised including the contention regarding the Circular dated 09.04.1996 having no bearing on Godrej & Boyce I, since it was issued after the landowners had surrendered their plot of land after construction of the roads as required by the Municipal Council while in the said case the said Circular was issued prior to the respondents No.1 and 3 therein completing the construction of an export office and asphalting of the courtyard and handing over the 870 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports possession. Several arguments were advanced to distinguish the of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I. This Court observed that the works done by the respondent therein was an amenity and the Circular dated 09.04.1996 did not have any bearing on the case as it was issued after the compromise in the Writ Petition on 10.03.1992 and the issuance of the letter of intent dated 22.02.1995. Accordingly, the appeal filed by the respondent MCGB was dismissed. 15.2 The reasoning of this Court in the said is squarely applicable to these cases. This Court held that the High Court was right in allowing the writ petition filed by the respondent therein and granting 100% TDR as against the development of the courtyard by asphalting the same. Delay and Laches: 16. However, most of the writ petitions which were filed by the appellants herein were dismissed on the ground of delay and laches by the Bombay High Court. We have already adverted to the of this Court in Godrej & Boyce II on the aspect of abandonment of the claim. The contentions of learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the appellants would not call for a reiteration. 17. At this stage, we shall consider some of the s relied upon by the learned senior counsel for the respective parties. On the question of discretion of courts in considering the issue of delay and laches, this Court in Vidya Devi vs. State of Himachal Pradesh (2020) 2 SCC 569 (“Vidya Devi”) noted as under, “12.12. The contention advanced by the State of delay and laches of the appellant in moving the Court is also liable to be rejected. Delay and laches cannot be raised in a case of a continuing cause of action, or if the circumstances shock the judicial conscience of the Court.