58. Essentially, the challenge to constitutional validity is that, in the present case, the provisions do not meet the test of reasonable classification, which is a part of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. To satisfy the test, there must be an intelligible differentia forming the basis of the classification, and the differentia should have a rational nexus with the object of legislation. The Union of India rightly contends that immovable property and immovable goods for the purpose of GST constitute a class by themselves. Clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5) apply only to this class of cases. The right of ITC is conferred only by the Statute; therefore, unless there is a statutory provision, ITC cannot be enforced. It is a creation of a statute, and thus, no one can claim ITC as a matter of right unless it is expressly provided in the statute. It cannot be disputed that the legislature can always carve out exceptions to the entitlement of ITC under Section 16 of the CGST Act. 59. Therefore, the cases covered by clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5) are entirely distinct from the other cases. This appears to be done to ensure the object of not encroaching upon the State’s legislative powers under Entry 49 of List II. Therefore, it is not possible to [2024] 10 S.C.R. 857 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. accept the submission that the difference is not intelligible and has no nexus to the object sought to be achieved. Moreover, to decide why transactions covered by clauses (c) and (d) are separately classified, the Court will have to go into complex questions involving fiscal adjustments of diverse elements. The Court has no experience or expertise to embark upon the said exercise. 60. We fail to understand the argument that the classification is underinclusive and creates discrimination. In this case, equals are not being treated as unequals. The test of vice of discrimination in taxing law is less rigorous. Ultimately, the legislature was dealing with a complex economic problem. By no stretch of the imagination, clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5) can be said to be discriminatory. No amount of verbose and lengthy arguments will help the assessees prove the discrimination. In the circumstances, it is not possible for us to accept the plea of clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5) being unconstitutional. 61. Though, violation of Articles 19(1)(g) and 300A has been alleged, it is not elaborated by the assessees how such a violation is made out. 62. While dealing with a taxing statute, it can always be said that, ideally, a particular provision ought not to have been incorporated or ought to have been incorporated with a modification. Even if this can be said, per se, the particular provision does not become unconstitutional. The Court cannot impose its views on the legislature. 63. Now, we come to the challenge to sub-section (4) of Section 16 of the CGST Act, which reads thus: “16.