The High Court further recorded the submissions of the counsel for the High Court that the Finance Department was attempting to stall all the recommendations of the High Court in the recent past and that the objections being raised by the Finance Department should have been raised with the Law Department. The High Court observed: “6. […] The audacity of the officers to raise the issue of competence of the Hon’ble Chief Justice, is not only unbecoming of a civil servant, but at the same time contemptuous. These objections are not available on record, nor have it been brought to the notice of the Law Department for legal advice. The Government granting benefits to the retired Judges is already in place, [2024] 1 S.C.R. 223 THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. v. ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED SUPREME COURT AND HIGH COURT JUDGES AT ALLAHABAD & ORS the proposal of the High Court merely seeks to incorporate the same by amending, and/or, in supercession of the earlier Government . Article 229 is unnecessarily being ·pressed with the sole purpose of creating hindrance when there is none. 17. The High Court observed that the Rules were pursuant to the assurances given by the State of Uttar Pradesh in P Ramakrishnan Raju (supra) and Justice V.S. Dave (supra). Further, the High Court recorded that the Secretary, Finance conceded that the Rules could be notified by way of a Government amending or superseding the Government dated 3 July 2018. The High Court relied on this purported ‘no objection’ and directed as follows: “22. Secretary, Finance, fairly states that the Finance Department would have no objection in the event the Government to that effect is issued incorporating the proposals submitted by the High Court in the form of Rules. He further submits that the Finance Department does not have objections with regard to the financial implications in according approval to the proposed Rules/Guidelines. … 25. Having regard to the categorical stand of the Principal Secretary Law and Secretary Finance Department, the following directions are issued: 1. The Rules/Guidelines as proposed by the High Court shall be notified by amending/incorporating/ superceeding the Government dated 3 July 2018, forthwith; 2. The Finance Department would accord approval within a week thereafter; 3. The notification of the Government and the approval, thereof, shall be placed on record on the date fixed; 4. In the event the is not complied, Additional Chief Secretary, Finance and the officers present today shall appear on the date fixed.” (emphasis supplied) 224 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 18. The State of Uttar Pradesh filed a recall application before the High Court on 19 April 2023 seeking a recall of the First Impugned on the grounds that: a. The High Court did not have the power to pass the above directions; b. The rules do not fall within the ambit of Article 229 of the Constitution; c. The direction for the Rules to be notified and the Finance Department to accord approval thereafter cannot be complied with as the concurrence/advice of the Finance Department must be taken before notifying the rules; and d. Only the Parliament and the Union government are competent to frame legislation/rules pertaining to post-retiral benefits for former judges of the High Courts.