7. We have heard the learned counsels for parties and have perused the material on record. We find that the following issues arise for our consideration: 1. Whether a prima facie case under Section 498A, IPC is made out against the appellant – accused? 2. Whether a prima facie case under Section 306, IPC is made out against the appellant – accused? 3. Whether the appellant – accused can be discharged for the offences under sections 306 and 498A, IPC? 8. Section 498A, IPC provides for punishment to the husband or to relatives of the husband of a woman subjecting the woman to cruelty. ‘Cruelty’ under this provision has been explained to mean – [2024] 12 S.C.R. 445 Jayedeepsinh Pravinsinh Chavda & Ors. v. State of Gujarat a. any willful conduct which is of such a nature as is likely to drive the woman to commit suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health (whether mental or physical) of the woman; or b. harassment of the woman where such harassment is with a view to coercing her or any person related to her to meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable security or is on account of failure by her or any person related to her to meet such demand. 9. This Court in the case of U. Suvetha v. State,3 laid down the following ingredients to constitute the offence under section 498-A, IPC: i. The woman must be married; ii. She must be subjected to cruelty or harassment; and iii. Such cruelty or harassment must have been done either by husband of the woman or by the relative of her husband. 10. This Court has also held in the in the case of State of A.P. v. M. Madhusudhan Rao,4 that not every kind of harassment would amount to ‘cruelty’ within the meaning of the provision, to constitute the offence punishable therein. Every case has to be analysed on its individual facts to assess whether the act of the accused persons constitutes cruelty. Further, cruelty can either be mental or physical, and it is to be seen on the facts of each case. 11. From the above understanding of the provision, it is evident that, ‘cruelty’ simpliciter is not enough to constitute the offence, rather it must be done either with the intention to cause grave injury or to drive her to commit suicide or with intention to coercing her or her relatives to meet unlawful demands. 12. In the present case, the deceased has committed suicide after twelve years of marriage. In these twelve years, the informant and other witnesses on record have stated that the deceased had informed them on multiple occasions that she was subjected to physical and mental harassment by the appellants herein. It has also been stated 3 [2009] 7 SCR 902 : (2009) 6 SCC 757 4 [2008] 14 SCR 1170 : (2008) 15 SCC 582 446 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that once before she had returned to her parental home owing to the alleged cruelty and was later sent back to her matrimonial house.