The aforesaid decision of this Court in Ramakrishna Mission (supra) came to be considered exhaustively by a Full Bench of the High Court of Allahabad in Uttam Chand Rawat v. State of U.P. reported in (2021) 6 ALL LJ 393 (FB), wherein the Full Bench was called upon to answer the following question:- (Uttam Chand Rawat case, SCC OnLine All para 1) 2236 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “1. …(i) Whether the element of public function and public duty inherent in the enterprise that an educational institution undertakes, conditions of service of teachers, whose functions are a sine qua non to the discharge of that public function or duty, can be regarded as governed by the private law of contract and with no remedy available under Article 226 of the Constitution?” 70. The Full Bench proceeded to answer the aforesaid question as under:- ((Uttam Chand Rawat case, SCC OnLine All paras 16-20) “16. The substance of the discussion made above is that a writ petition would be maintainable against the authority or the person which may be a private body, if it discharges public function/ public duty, which is otherwise primary function of the State referred in the of the Supreme Court in Ramakrishna Mission (supra) and the issue under public law is involved. The aforesaid twin test has to be satisfied for entertaining writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 17. From the discussion aforesaid and in the light of the s referred above, a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution would be maintainable against (i) the Government; (ii) an authority; (iii) a statutory body; (iv) an instrumentality or agency of the State; (v) a company which is financed and owned by the State; (vi) a private body run substantially on State funding; (vii) a private body discharging public duty or positive obligation of public nature; and (viii) a person or a body under liability to discharge any function under any statute, to compel it to perform such a statutory function. 18. There is thin line between “public functions” and “private functions” discharged by a person [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2237 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. or a private body/authority. The writ petition would be maintainable only after determining the nature of the duty to be enforced by the body or authority rather than identifying the authority against whom it is sought. 19. It is also that even if a person or authority is discharging public function or public duty, the writ petition would be maintainable under Article 226 of the Constitution, if Court is satisfied that action under challenge falls in the domain of public law, as distinguished from private law. The twin tests for maintainability of writ are as follows: 1. The person or authority is discharging public duty/public functions. 2. Their action under challenge falls in domain of public law and not under common law. 20. The writ petition would not be maintainable against an authority or a person merely for the reason that it has been created under the statute or is to be governed by regulatory provisions.