should be free from things which have not been gifted. (f) The thing gifted should come in the possession of the donee himself, or of his representative, guardian or executor.” Mulla on Mohammedan Law22 provides for the manner in which a gift is to be made which are: “by a clear and unequivocal declaration of intention of making a gift made orally or in writing by the donor or his agent, and i. accepted expressly or impliedly by the donee or his agent except in the case of a gift, a. by a guardian to his ward; or b. of a debt to the debtor; and ii. Such declaration and acceptance must be followed by the delivery of possession (actually or, constructively) of the subject-matter of the gift by the donor or his agent to; a. the donee or his agent; or b. To the guardian, if the donee is a minor or lunatic; or 22 5th Edition [2024] 12 S.C.R. 939 Mansoor Saheb (Dead) & Ors. v. Salima (D) By Lrs. & Ors. c. To the husband if the donee is a minor wife provided that the marriage has been consummated; or d. To the trustees, if the gift is made through a trust. iii. On the delivery of possession, a gift becomes complete, immediately.” (Emphasis supplied) 25. The upshot of the above discussion is that there are three essential elements which are necessary for a valid gift deed. They are: a) The gift has to be necessarily declared by the person giving the gift, i.e., the donor; b) Such a gift has to be accepted either impliedly or explicitly by or on behalf of the donee; and c) Apart from declaration and acceptance, there is also a requirement of delivery of possession for a gift to be valid. 26. It is a fact that the requirements for the validity of a gift deed are sequential. One must follow the other. The latter can only hold water if the first one is complied with. In other words, if (a) is not complied with, (b) and (c) would not be of consequence; similarly, if (a) and (c) are met without (b), it would still be of no consequence. In the end, all three conditions must be met. 27. Thus, registration of gift is not required under Mohammedan Law and, the unwritten and unregistered gift executed by the donor in favour of donees is valid. This position has been reiterated by this Court on various occasions. We may refer to a few of them. In Rasheeda Khatoon v. Ashiq Ali,23 it was observed: “17. …a gift under the Muhammadan law can be an oral gift and need not be registered; that a written instrument does not, under all circumstances require registration; that to be a valid gift under the Muhammadan law three essential features, namely, (i) declaration of the gift by the donor, (ii) acceptance of the gift by the donee expressly or 23 [2014] 11 SCR 31 : (2014) 10 SCC 459 940 [2024] 12 S.C.R.