7.0 The redressal of dispute between NBCC and you shall only be through civil courts having jurisdiction of Delhi alone. The laws applicable to this contract shall be the laws enforceable in India. 10.0 This letter of intent shall also form a part of the agreement. 20. In view of Clause 1.0, the documents stated therein shall also form part of the agreement. In view of Clause 2.0, all terms and conditions as contained in the tender issued by the DVC to the NBCC shall apply mutatis mutandis except where these have been expressly modified [2024] 3 S.C.R. 823 NBCC (India) Limited v. Zillion Infraprojects Pvt. Ltd. by the NBCC. Clause 7.0 specifically provides that the redressal of dispute between the NBCC and the respondent shall only be through civil courts having jurisdiction of Delhi alone. Clause 10.0 further provides that the L.O.I. shall also form a part of the agreement. 21. It is thus clear that the intention between the parties is very clear. Clause 7.0 of the L.O.I. which also forms part of the agreement specifically provides that the redressal of the dispute between the NBCC and the respondent shall only be through civil courts having jurisdiction of Delhi alone. It is pertinent to note that Clause 7.0 of the L.O.I. specifically uses the word “only” before the words “be through civil courts having jurisdiction of Delhi alone”. 22. As already discussed herein above, when there is a reference in the second contract to the terms and conditions of the first contract, the arbitration clause would not ipso facto be applicable to the second contract unless there is a specific mention/reference thereto. 23. We are of the considered view that the present case is not a case of ‘incorporation’ but a case of ‘reference’. As such, a general reference would not have the effect of incorporating the arbitration clause. In any case, Clause 7.0 of the L.O.I., which is also a part of the agreement, makes it amply clear that the redressal of the dispute between the NBCC and the respondent has to be only through civil courts having jurisdiction of Delhi alone. 24. In that view of the matter, we find that the learned single judge of the Delhi High Court has erred in allowing the application of the respondent. The appeals are accordingly allowed. The impugned s are quashed and set aside. There shall be no as to costs. 25. Pending applications, if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Result of the case: Himanshu Rai, Hony. Associate Editor Appeals allowed. (Verified by: Kanu Agrawal, Adv.)