Secondly, each accused, particularly the Appellant, was familiar to the eyewitnesses. Thirdly, considering that the incident occurred on a summer night, there would have been minimal obstruction to visibility for the witnesses. Fourthly and most importantly, the Appellant, in his 313 CrPC Statement, has nowhere taken the plea of alibi. He did not pursue this defence during the cross-examination of witnesses either. 50. There is no gainsaying that whosoever pleads alibi in contrast and derogation of the eyewitness version, is under cumbrous onus to prove absence from the scene and time of crime. The Appellant not only failed to raise this defence but also did not adduce any evidence in support thereof. Taking into consideration the cumulative effect of all these factors, we have no reason to doubt that the Appellant was not only present at the scene of crime, but he actively participated also in the occurrence and gave one of the fatal blows to Tillu (deceased). 3 State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu (2005) 11 SCC 600 4 Heera v. State of Rajasthan (2007) 10 SCC 175 5 [1996] Supp. 10 SCR 905 : (1998) 9 SCC 238 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 239 Dharmendra Kumar @ Dhamma v. State of Madhya Pradesh 51. We cannot overlook the fact that in a situation where two people are killed in a heated altercation, it is highly unlikely that the eyewitnesses would want the real perpetrators to escape justice. In the absence of any prior motive, it is not plausible that they would falsely accuse the Appellant in this case. This is not a scenario where the Complainant or P.W.11 held grudges against the Appellant and fabricated a story to implicate him after the incident. Rather, the name of the Appellant surfaced in the very first version, duly recorded vide Ex.P.7, within less than two hours of the occurrence. Pertinently, no motive to falsely implicate the Appellant has been suggested during the cross- examination of the eyewitnesses. A.4 Attribution of knife injury on the Appellant 52. It was maintained by Learned Senior Counsel for the Appellant that since the incident took place inside the Jhuggi and at night, it is highly improbable that the witnesses could see the manner in which the incident took place. Further, reliance was placed on the statement of Lallu Vishwakarma, P.W.11, who stated that he could not see who assaulted whom, and he could not tell which weapon was seized from whom. It was, thus, asserted that there is not even an iota of evidence to conclude that the knife injury was caused by the Appellant. 53. We have deeply analysed the submission. It is essential for this Court to examine the Disclosure Statement (Ex.P.14) of the Appellant, which resulted in the discovery of the weapon (knife) in question. The statement reads as under: “On 20.04.2004, I along with my companions Ahmad, Asgar, Ravi, Vijay, Katchu @Ramswaroop, Ballu, and Kanija Bi committed Maarpeet with Tillu @ Devi Singh with knife and stick voluntarily, the knife, by which Tillu @ Devising was assaulted by me, has been hidden by me in the Barrack No.