In paragraph 5 of the note, the State has stated thus: [2024] 8 S.C.R. 611 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents “5. Such support is enumerated below only by way of illustration- a. That the State Govt is committed to finding a home for the victim (Mother) and the minor child in a safe environment and also provide for all the daily requirements. b. That the State shall further also coordinate with NGOs working in this space to prepare a work-cum-life plan for the victim and the minor child in to make her independent and ensure that she can make an informed choice about her and her child’s future and her stand in the present proceedings. c. Till such time that the victim is financially independent, state will provide for the educational need of the minor child. d. Any other logistical support that this Hon’ble Court may deem fit and appropriate.” 40.1 We may note here that Mr. Huzefa Ahmadi, the learned senior counsel representing the appellant-State in Criminal Appeal No.1451 of 2024, without taking instructions from the State, had earlier assured the Court to extend support to the victim in the manner mentioned above. The State Government must support the victim’s child. In this case, there is a failure of the machinery under the JJ Act in the State to discharge its obligations to the victim. Therefore, the State Government must go out of its way to help the victim. 41. Now, the question is whether we can force the child to take benefit of the support extended by the State Government. It may be argued that it is too late for the State to come out with this offer. Still, the Court must allow the victim to make an informed choice after being informed the details of the support that the State is willing to extend. We must do so as, at no stage, she was given such an option and an opportunity to make an informed choice about her future. Now, the question is how to enable the victim to exercise her option. This must be left to very qualified professionals/experts to ascertain her views. This can be done by directing the State to constitute a team of two or three experts, including a clinical psychologist and a social scientist, 612 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports who should meet the victim at a proper place and inform the victim about the offer of the State Government with all its material particulars. The state government can get assistance from expert bodies like the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) or the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) to constitute the team. The experts will have to meet the child on multiple occasions. While doing so, the experts will have to carefully ascertain the kind of support, if any, the victim and her child are getting from the accused and his family members. For that purpose, the committee can seek the help of the local child welfare officer.