To put it differently, sub-section (7) (a) contemplates that an award, inclusive of interest for the pre-award period on the entire amount directed to be paid or part thereof, may be passed. The “sum” awarded may be the principal amount and such interest as the Arbitral Tribunal deems fit. If no interest is awarded, the “sum” comprises only the principal. The significant words occurring in clause (a) of sub-section (7) of Section 31 of the Act are “the sum for which the award is made”. On a plain reading, this expression refers to the total amount or sum for the payment for which the award is made. Parliament has not added a qualification like “principal” to the word “sum”, and therefore, the word “sum” here simply means “a particular amount of money”. In Section 31(7), this particular amount of money may include interest from the date of cause of action to the date of the award. 41.1. Insofar clause (b) is concerned, the majority opined as under: 7. ……..In other words, what clause (b) of sub-section (7) of Section 31 of the Act directs is that the “sum”, which is directed to be paid by the award, whether inclusive 1606 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports or exclusive of interest, shall carry interest at the rate of eighteen per cent per annum for the post-award period, unless otherwise ed. 41.2. Thus, clause (a) of sub-Section (7) of Section 31 provides that the arbitral tribunal may include interest while making an award for payment of money in the sum for which the award is made and as per clause (b), the sum so directed to be made by the award shall carry interest at a certain rate for the post-award period. The purpose for enacting such a provision is to encourage early payment of the awarded sum and to discourage delay. Therefore, the ‘sum’ directed to be paid by the arbitral award under clause (b) of sub-Section (7) of Section 31 of the 1996 Act is inclusive of interest pendente lite. In M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd (supra), the majority referred to Section 34 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 and after making a comparison of the said provision with Section 31(7) of the 1996 Act observed that while enacting Section 34 of the Civil Procedure Code, Parliament conferred power on a court to award interest on the principal sum adjudged and not merely on the ‘sum’ as provided in the 1996 Act. Observing that the departure from the language of Section 34 of the Civil Procedure Code in Section 31(7) of the 1996 Act is significant and shows the intention of the Parliament, it has been held as follows: 12. It is settled law that where different language is used by Parliament, it is intended to have a different effect. In the Arbitration Act, the word “sum” has deliberately not been qualified by using the word “principal” before it. If it had been so used, there would have been no scope for the contention that the word “sum” may include “interest.” In Section 31(7) of the Act, Parliament has deliberately used the word “sum” to refer to the aggregate of the amounts that may be directed to be paid by the Arbitral Tribunal and not merely the “principal” sum without interest.