35. In fact, in Renusagar (supra), this Court was dealing with the enforceability of a foreign award. For that end, it had to interpret the expression “contrary to public policy” in the context of Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of Foreign Awards (Recognition and Enforcement) Act, 1961.24 While doing so, this Court held that -- (a) contravention of law alone will not attract the bar of public policy, and something more than contravention of law is required;25and (b) the expression ‘public policy’ must be construed in the sense the doctrine of public policy is applied in the field of private international law. Applying the said criteria, it was held that enforcement of a foreign award could be refused on the ground of being contrary to public policy if such enforcement would be contrary to (a) fundamental policy of Indian law or (b) the interests of India or (c) justice or morality.26 The Court thereafter proceeded to hold that a contravention of the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act would be contrary to the public policy of India as that statute is enacted for the national economic interest to ensure that the nation does not lose foreign exchange which is essential for the economic survival of the nation.27 36. What is clear from above is that for an award to be against public policy of India a mere infraction of the municipal laws of India is not enough. There must be, inter alia, infraction of fundamental policy of Indian law including a law meant to serve public interest or public good. 24 Section 7. Conditions for enforcement of foreign awards. – (1) A foreign award may be enforced under this Act— ******* (b) if the court dealing with the case is satisfied that – ******* (ii) the enforcement of the award will be contrary to the public policy. 25 paragraph 65 of Renusagar (supra) 26 paragraph 66 of Renusagar (supra) 27 paragraph 75 of Renusagar (supra) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 529 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. 37. In Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) v. Saw Pipes Ltd.28 a two-Judge Bench of this Court, in the context of a challenge to a domestic arbitral award under Section 34(2)(b)(ii) of the 1996 Act as it stood prior to 2015 amendment, ascribed wider meaning to the expression ‘public policy of India’ in the following terms: “31. ……. the phrase public policy of India used in section 34 in context is required to be given a wider meaning. It can be stated that the concept of public policy connotes some matter which concerns public good and the public interest. What is for public good or in public interest or what would be injurious or harmful to the public good or public interest has varied from time to time. However, the award which is, on the face of it, patently in violation of statutory provisions cannot be said to be in public interest. Such award/ / decision is likely to adversely affect the administration of justice.