It spiralled only in the last week of March, 2020. If the Auction Purchaser was serious, it could have easily deposited at least some amount out of the balance sale consideration of ₹26,60,36,677/- (Rupees Twenty six crore sixty lakh thirty six thousand six hundred and seventy seven only) much earlier, but it elected not to deposit a penny till the end of August, 2020. When the first proviso to Rule 12, Schedule I of the IBBI Regulations, 2016 permits payment of sale consideration after expiry of 30 days from the date of demand subject to payment of interest @ 12% p.a., there was no question of the Auction Purchaser going scot free, when its conduct has not been blemishless. 36.12 On an overall conspectus of the facts of the present case which brings out the glaring default on the part of the Auction Purchaser in making deposit of the balance sale consideration even after permission was granted by the Adjudicating Authority on 10th February, 2020 to lift the attachment , the only question that needs to be answered is as to whether this Court should proceed to set aside the auction and as a sequence thereto, declare as null and void, the sale certificate issued by the Liquidator in favour of the Auction Purchaser, as has been pleaded by the appellant. 36.13 In our opinion, such an would be too harsh. Much water has flown under the bridge by now. The subject land has been utilized by the Auction Purchaser to build a 200-bed Mother and Child hospital which is operational. Huge amounts have been pumped into the project by the Auction Purchaser. The hospital is fully functional providing medical facilities to seven surrounding districts. In contrast, the appellant has not been a vigilant litigant. His conduct shows that he has dragged his [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1319 V.S. Palanivel v. P. Sriram, CS, Liquidator, Etc. feet at every stage. Records reveal that belated applications have been filed by him for seeking recall of the s passed by the Adjudicating Authority granting extension of time to the Auction Purchaser. For reasons best known to him, it took 19 months for the appellant to prefer an appeal before the Tribunal against the passed by the Adjudicating Authority, as provided for in the IBC. Furthermore, the appellant resisted handing over possession of the subject property to the respondents thereby causing more delay. 36.14 This Court must underscore the well settled legal position that once an auction is confirmed, it ought to be interfered with on fairly limited grounds. (Refer: Valji Khimji and Co. v. Hindustan Nitro Product (Gujarat) Ltd. (Official Liquidator)56 and Celir LLP v. Bafna Motors (Mumbai) Private Limited and others57). Repeated interferences in public auction also results in causing uncertainty and frustrates the very purpose of holding auctions. (Refer : K. Kumara Gupta v. Sri Markendaya and Sri Omkareswara Swamy Temple and others58). Unless there are some serious flaws in the conduct of the auction as for example perpetration of a fraud/collusion, grave irregularities that go to the root of such an auction, courts must ordinarily refrain from setting them aside keeping in mind the domino effect such an would have.