Without undertaking this exercise, the KPSC cannot straightaway assume that, merely because the higher qualification is a Degree/Diploma in a computer-related subject, a candidate possessing the same would have more experience and expertise in data entry and office automation than a candidate with the prescribed Certificate in Data Entry and Office Automation. 22. Useful reference in this regard may be made to the of this Court in Ajith K and others vs. Aneesh K.S. and others.1 That was also a case from the State of Kerala and involved the post of Junior Health Inspector Grade-II in Municipal Common Service. Minimum qualifications were prescribed for the post in the alternative. While so, candidates possessing a Diploma in Health Inspector Course, a two-year course which was not included in the prescribed qualifications, also aspired for selection. In this context, this Court considered whether the said Diploma could be treated as a higher qualification which presupposed acquisition of the prescribed lower qualification. Relevantly, the KPSC did not undertake any exercise to come to a sustainable finding that acquisition of the Diploma would presuppose acquisition of the prescribed lesser qualification, ultimately leading to this Court rejecting such a claim. Similar is the position presently as the KPSC, except for furnishing data of the institutions offering DCA that were treated as eligible due to Government recognition, did not undertake an independent assessment of the higher qualifications to determine whether candidates who possessed those qualifications would have put in equivalent or more number of hours in data entry and office automation than a candidate who underwent a three months course to obtain the prescribed Certificate in Data Entry and Office Automation. 23. The decision of this Court in Jyoti K.K. and others vs. Kerala Public Service Commission2 is distinguishable on facts, as that was a case where the higher qualification clearly presupposed acquisition of the lesser qualification. The prescribed qualification for the post in question in that case was a Diploma/Certificate in Electrical Engineering, whereas the higher qualifications which 1 [2019] 11 SCR 495 : (2019) 17 SCC 147 2 (2010) 15 SCC 596 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 337 Anoop M. and Others v. Gireeshkumar T.M. and Others Etc. were under consideration were B.Tech/B.E Degrees in Electrical Engineering. The same cannot be said to be the case presently, as every computer-related Degree/Diploma course cannot be assumed to impart similar experience or expertise in data entry and office automation as the prescribed Certificate course. 24. In Sheo Shyam vs. State of U.P.,3 this Court considered a recruitment process undertaken by the Union Public Service Commission. There was lack of consensus between the Commission and the State Government and the career of eleven candidates stood at risk owing to such inconsistent and varying stands adopted by the State Government and the Commission at different stages for different purposes. In this context, this Court observed that, though there cannot be any estoppel in law, yet a statutory body like the Commission could not blow hot and cold in the same breath, as there has to be consistency in its view.