It is also not necessary that there should always be a written complaint to register the FIR. Even an oral communication to the Police disclosing the commission of a cognizable offence is sufficient to register the FIR. 39. The object of the FIR is three-fold: firstly, to inform the jurisdictional Magistrate and the Police Administration of the offence that has been reported to the Police Station; secondly, to acquaint the Judicial Officer before whom the case is ultimately tried as to what are the actual facts stated immediately after the occurrence and on what materials the investigation commenced; thirdly and most importantly, to safeguard the accused against subsequent variations, exaggerations or additions. 40. The subject FIR (Ex.P.7) fully satisfies all the ingredients of Section 154 CrPC. The occurrence is reported to have taken place on 20.06.2004 at 9.30 p.m., and the FIR was recorded on the same day at 10.45 p.m. The names of all the eight accused who allegedly participated in the occurrence are duly recorded. The FIR is written in a natural, consistent flow of handwriting, with no signs of spaces being left, words being overwritten or shrunken, or any word or sentence being [2024] 7 S.C.R. 235 Dharmendra Kumar @ Dhamma v. State of Madhya Pradesh interpolated. The last line of the FIR categorically records that the report was read out and explained to the Informant. The FIR is in the prescribed format and Usha Bai (P.W.10) has thereafter put her thumb impression. 41. It is true that during her cross-examination, Usha Bai (P.W.10), has claimed that the Police neither read out the FIR (Ex.P.7) to her nor did it mention the contents of her statements which were recorded by the Police on 5-6 occasions. She further stated that it could not be determined what version was included in Ex.P.7 since she is not a literate person. It seems that the Appellant made an overt attempt to influence the witness. However, despite Usha Bai’s innocuous intent to help the Appellant from the wrath of law, she could not deny the fact that the FIR was registered on her complaint or that Tillu and Tularam suffered fatal injuries in the occurrence reported by her. 42. Assuming that the Police failed to read out or apprise the informant about the contents of the FIR, the question that falls for consideration is whether such omission has caused any prejudice to the Appellant? In our considered opinion, the answer has to be in the negative. This is not a case where the Appellant was not provided with a copy of the FIR or the charge sheet, which could have hindered his ability to effectively cross-examine the Informant. The record reveals that Shri A.K. Shrivastava, Advocate, cross-examined Usha Bai (P.W.10) on behalf of the Appellant. Usha Bai did try to help the Appellant by not disclosing his name as one of the accused, but she could not hide the fact that besides Ahmad, Asgar, Ravi and Kanija Bi, she also knew the other accused by their names.