This may help create additional data in regard to the impact of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 on honey bees and other pollinators. (v) The approval may be revoked under Rule 13(2) of the 1989 Rules, if any evidences regarding harmful effects of the approved GE mustard, such as damage to the environment, nature or health as could not be envisaged when the approval was given, come 2014 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under notice of GEAC and on non-compliance of any condition stipulated by GEAC. 14.6 Within two months, on 18.10.2022, at the 147th GEAC meeting, it was recommended that environmental release of DMH-11 be approved subject to some conditions and safeguards. The recommendations and the conditions were communicated by the MoEF&CC to the applicant-Prof. Deepak Pental on 25.10.2022 and the same are extracted as under: “… the Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee (GEAC) in its 147th meeting held on 18.10.2022, has recommended the following: I. The environmental release of genetically engineered mustard parental lines bn 3.6 carrying barnase and bar genes, and modbs 2.99 containing barstar and bar genes, so that these events can be used for developing new parental lines and hybrids under supervision of ICAR. II. The environmental release of mustard hybrid DMH-11 for undertaking its seed production and testing as per existing ICAR guidelines and other extant rules/regulations prior to commercial release. III. Further, to generate scientific evidences in Indian agro-climatic situation and also as a precautionary mechanism, the field demonstration studies with respect to the effect of GE mustard on honey bees and other pollinators, as recommended in the 136th GEAC meeting, shall also be conducted post-environmental release, simultaneously by the applicant, within two years under supervision of ICAR, as per ICAR guidelines and other extant rules/ guidelines/regulations and the report be submitted to the GEAC. These recommendations are subject to the following conditions: I. The approval is for a limited period of four years from the date of issue of approval letter as per clause 13 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2015 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. of Rules 1989 and is renewable for two years at a time based on compliance report. II. During the period of approval, a Post Release Monitoring Committee (PRMC) would be constituted by GEAC consisting of 2 subject matter external experts and a nominee each from RCGM and GEAC and PRMC will visit the growing sites of the approved biological material(s) at least once during each season and submit their report to GEAC on the matters of compliance. Chairperson, GEAC is authorized to constitute the Committee. III. Applicant shall deposit 100 grams each of approved hybrids as well as their parental lines with the ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (ICAR-NBPGR) and communicate the same to GEAC within 30 days of issue of this clearance letter for purposes of future reference in case of trade, traceability and dispute on account of ownership. IV. The applicant shall provide detailed step-by-step testing procedures for identifying approved event in the transgenic hybrids (bar, barnase and barstar) and parental lines, to the GEAC within 30 days from the receipt of approval letter.