Secondly, the site plan (Exb. Ka-20) does not disclose the distance from where PW-2 spotted the two accused in the company of each other. Thirdly, PW-2 admits that in between his shop and Mohan Singh’s shop there are shrubs, and it is not possible to see from his own shop as to what is happening at Mohan Singh’s shop. Fourthly, PW-2’s presence is fortuitous because, admittedly, he had shut his shop and retired to the comfort of his home. It is highly unlikely that a person would take the pains of returning in late hours of winter night, particularly when it is drizzling, only to fetch his purse inadvertently left at his own shop. Fifthly, he is a witness inimical to [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1251 Suresh Chandra Tiwari & Anr. v. State of Uttarakhand the accused because he had a fight with appellant no.2 prior to the incident, which, however, resulted in a compromise on his shelling out Rs.3000/-. Besides that, walking on a public pathway in front of a shop where dead body is found lying next day morning is by itself not an incriminating circumstance on which alone, conviction could be sustained. More so, when there is no evidence that the accused appellants were seen dragging or lifting the body of the deceased to the shop of Mohan Singh. Unfortunately, neither the trial court nor the High Court thoroughly tested the testimony of PW-2 against other proven circumstances on record, as discussed above. RECOVERY OF POLYTHENE BAG 31. Prosecution proved recovery of a black polythene bag containing 1 kg of meat from the place where other belongings of the deceased were littered. This recovery was made on 3.2.1997 and is considered incriminating by the prosecution because, according to PW-6, on 2.2.1997 at about 3.30 PM the appellant no.1 had purchased a kilogram of meat from him. In our view, this circumstance cannot be considered incriminating as there is no evidence that the meat bag found was identified by PW-6 as the one sold by him to the accused. Otherwise also, black colored polythene is quite commonly used for carrying goods including meat products. Admittedly, there were two or three other meat vendors in the vicinity. In such circumstances which vendor’s meat was found can be anybody’s guess. This was, therefore, hardly an incriminating circumstance to link the appellant no.1 to the crime. More particularly, when fingerprints on the polythene were neither lifted nor compared with those of any of the accused. DISCLOSURE/DISCOVERY 32. Exb. Ka-18 is the disclosure statement recorded vide GD Entry no.27 at 19:20 hrs. on 6.2.1997. Exb. Ka-6, which is also dated 6.2.1997, is the memorandum of seizure of blood-stained stones, plain stones, and plain earth from the spot where, according to the disclosure made by the two accused, the deceased was assaulted and killed. PW-8 is witness of that seizure, whereas PW-10 is the investigating officer who got the disclosure statement recorded. The articles seized vide Exb. Ka-6 were initially produced as material exhibits 1 to 5 by 1252 [2024] 11 S.C.R.