24. According to the learned counsel, the transaction in question was between the accused and the complainant. The company was not at [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1969 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. all in picture. He submitted that there is nothing on record to indicate that the accused had borrowed the amount for the company or on behalf of the company. 25. He submitted that although the cheque in question might have been issued by the accused containing a stamp of the hospital on it and signed by him in his capacity as a Director of the company, yet the said cheque was issued in discharge of his personal debt. 26. He further submitted that even before the Trial Court, it was not the defence of the accused that he had issued the cheque to discharge the debt of the company. He led no evidence worth the name in this regard. On the contrary, his defence was that the cheque was issued by way of a security towards a loan transaction and the same had been misused by the complainant. 27. In such circumstances, referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being merit in his appeal, the same be allowed and the impugned and passed by the High Court be set aside. C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT / ACCUSED 28. On the other hand, Mr. Gaurav Kejriwal the learned counsel appearing for the accused, while opposing this appeal, submitted that no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned . 29. According to him, it is well-settled that if the accused is to be held vicariously liable for the offence alleged to have been committed by the company, then in the absence of company being prosecuted, no vicarious liability can be fastened on the Director of the company who is said to have drawn the cheque in question. He submitted that there is no possibility of any doubt arising as regards whether the cheque in question was drawn upon the account maintained by the company as the cheque was duly stamped with the stamp of the company. It was the responsibility of the complainant to exercise due diligence and issue a statutory notice to the drawer of the cheque, that is Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd. 30. He would submit that all throughout the defence of his client was that the cheque was issued by way of security towards a loan transaction and not in discharge of any legally enforceable debt. 1970 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 31. In such circumstances, referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being no merit in the appeal the same may be dismissed. D. ANALYSIS 32. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned .