As seen from the evidence of PW-11, even this statement is an omission. PW-8 is a medical officer who performed postmortem on the body of the deceased. PW-9 stated that at 8.00 p.m. on the day of the incident, he had seen appellant no. 2 and Abdul Kadir Jilani (acquitted accused) leaving the place where the deceased was lying. Even this statement has been proven to be an omission in the evidence of PW-11. PW-10 is not an eyewitness or a witness who deposed about the last seen together. 17. Therefore, as far as evidence of assault on the deceased is concerned, there is no reliable evidence to show the involvement of the appellants. The only evidence regarding the last seen together is that at 4.00 p.m., on the date of the incident, appellant no. 2 took the deceased on his motorcycle. However, PW-3 has stated that appellant no. 2 took the deceased at 4.00 p.m. to attend a meeting of the Congress Party. He also said that his deceased father was an influential leader of the Congress. Therefore, after 4.00 p.m., there were also persons [2024] 6 S.C.R. 35 Alauddin & Ors. v. The State of Assam & Anr. other than the accused around the deceased. Even assuming that the accused were seen with the deceased on the day he was found dead, after he was allegedly seen with the accused, the deceased attended a meeting of the Congress Party. The theory of last seen together is helpful to the prosecution if the deceased was seen in the company of the accused in the proximity of the time at which the dead body is found. If the evidence shows that after the deceased was seen in the company of the accused, he was in the company of others as well, the theory of last seen together is not of any assistance to the prosecution. The reason is that the involvement of other persons in the offence is not ruled out. Hence, the fact that appellant no. 2 was found in the company of the deceased at 4.00 p.m. is not sufficient to link him with the commission of the offence of murder. For the reasons we have recorded, the testimony of so- called eyewitnesses cannot be relied upon. The theory of last seen together deserves to be rejected. Therefore, the prosecution has failed to bring home the charge against the appellants. CONCLUSION 18. For the reasons recorded above, the impugned s of the Trial Court and High Court to the extent to which the appellants were convicted for the offence punishable under Section 302, read with Section 149 of IPC, are hereby set aside. The appellants are acquitted of charges against them. The appeal is accordingly allowed. 19. The appellants shall be set at liberty unless their custody is required concerning some other offence. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeal allowed.