It noted that the arbitral tribunal had, however, rendered an award in which it directed the respondent to pay the appellant this amount, which had already been paid by the respondent to the appellant. It held thatwhile the substance of the claims of the parties could only be determined in the proceedings under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, it was prima facie satisfied that the arbitral tribunal had erred in not considering the claim of the respondent. Apart from discussing this claim, which was in the amount of approximately Rs 3 crores, the High Court did not address the other claims of the appellant which were allowed by the arbitral tribunal. The amount awarded in relation to the remaining claims is approximately Rs 18 crore. 12. The High Court granted a stay on the operation of the award subject to the respondent furnishing a bank guarantee for the principal amount awarded to the appellant, i.e. Rs 21,07,66,621. It held that it was not inclined to issue s in relation to the interest and the costs awarded to the appellant because “the petitioner is not a fly-by operator and is a statutory undertaking.” The law qua arbitration proceedings, in our view, cannot be any different merely because of the status of the respondent as a statutory undertaking. 13. In this regard, it is necessary to advert to a decision of a two-Judge Bench of this Court in Pam Developments Private Limited v State of West Bengal4 where it was observed: “20. In our view, in the present context, the phrase used is “having regard to” the provisions of CPC and not “in accordance with” the provisions of CPC. In the latter 3 “Cess Act” 4 [2019] 9 SCR 252 : (2019) 8 SCC 112 1510 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports case, it would have been mandatory, but in the form as mentioned in Rule 36(3) of the Arbitration Act, it would only be directory or as a guiding factor. Mere reference to CPC in the said Section 36 cannot be construed in such a manner that it takes away the power conferred in the main statute (i.e. the Arbitration Act) itself. It is to be taken as a general guideline, which will not make the main provision of the Arbitration Act inapplicable. The provisions of CPC are to be followed as a guidance, whereas the provisions of the Arbitration Act are essentially to be first applied. Since, the Arbitration Act is a self-contained Act, the provisions of CPC will apply only insofar as the same are not inconsistent with the spirit and provisions of the Arbitration Act.” 14. The Court also observed: “26. Arbitration proceedings are essentially alternate dispute redressal system meant for early/quick resolution of disputes and in case a money decree — award as passed by the arbitrator against the Government is allowed to be automatically stayed, the very purpose of quick resolution of dispute through arbitration would be defeated as the decree-holder would be fully deprived of the fruits of the award on mere filing of objection under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act.