Since there has to be transparency in matters of allotment of land by the government, adherence to the above rules and regulations becomes important in the cases of allotment, but unfortunately, all this is completely missing in the present case where allotment was made in favour of MRCHS in total violation of the prescribed procedure. The State of Maharashtra issued another G.R. dated 25.05.2007 which revises the comprehensive s for grant of land. Clause 6, 11 and 12 of GR 1999 becomes Clause 7, 12 and 13 respectively with minimal to no amendments. Major changes were made on the maximum income requirement, allowing people with higher incomes to become members of such societies who were seeking grants of land from the State. 8. As discussed above, Clause 6 of the G.R. dated 09.07.1999 provides that the Chief Promoter of the Society will submit details of the land. However, it must be noted that MRCHS had applied for a different plot than what they were ultimately allotted. Nothing has been brought to our notice which would even remotely indicate that the plot actually 740 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports allotted to MRCHS was ever sought by them. This by itself vitiates the entire allotment. Similarly, a perusal of the Letter of Intent as well as the Letter of Allotment does not disclose any reasons why MRCHS was allotted land under the discretionary quota, as provided for under Clause 12(8) GR 1999, where it specifically provides that reasons have to be disclosed as to why discretion is being exercised. Non-disclosure of reasons shows that such an allotment is arbitrary. 9. Further, the Letter of Intent provides that “complete information and Affidavits of all members of the society as stated above should be submitted by the society within 2 months from the receipt of this letter with the Collector, Mumbai Suburban District, failing which this Letter of Intent will stand automatically cancelled”. MRCHS’ proposed members in their initial application were subsequently changed thrice, in to somehow meet the eligibility criteria. When MRCHS replied to the Letter of Intent on 28.02.2003, the proposed society had removed 5 of its members out of the list of eleven earlier submitted alongwith their application. These names were deleted on the grounds that they were ineligible. Had this been the case, why were they included in the first place? The only purpose therefore why these names were shown were because they were all doctors of Tata Memorial Centre on whose names ostensibly MRCHS was trying to get the allotment made. It was even noted by the Revenue & Forest Department, Govt. of Maharashtra that the main object behind sanctioning of the plot of land to MRHCS i.e., to provide housing to the doctors working at Tata Memorial Hospital in close proximity to their workplace can no longer be achieved, due to changes in the composition of the society. 10. In Angarki Coop. Housing Society Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra (1997) 9 SCC 713 the application of Clause 11 of the G.R.