Same was the position even after the issuance of the proclamation under [2024] 3 S.C.R. 431 Srikant Upadhyay & Ors. v. State of Bihar & Anr. Section 82, Cr.PC. As noted earlier, in the case of similarly situated co-accused of the appellants, they appeared and obtained regular bail pursuant to the issuance of bailable warrants. Thus, a scanning of the acts and omissions of the appellants, it can only be seen that virtually, the appellants were defying the authority of law and moving applications for bail when they apprehended arrest owing to their non-attendance and dis-obedience. It is in the context of the aforesaid facts revealed from the materials on record that the contention of the appellants that they were only pursuing their right to file application for anticipatory bail and, therefore, they were not either evading the arrest or absconding, has to be appreciated. 17. Section 70 (2), Cr. PC mandates that every warrant issued under Section 70 (1), Cr. PC shall remain in force until it is cancelled by the Court which issued it, or until it is executed. In this case, as noticed hereinbefore, the bailable warrants and thereafter the non-bailable warrants, were issued against the appellants. They were neither cancelled by the Trial Court nor they were executed. It is not their case that they have successfully challenged them. Sections 19, 20, 21, 174 and 174 A, IPC assume relevance in this context. They, insofar as relevant read thus: 19. “Judge”. —The word “Judge” denotes not only every person who is officially designated as a Judge, but also every person who is empowered by law to give, in any legal proceeding, civil or criminal, a definitive , or a which, if not appealed against, would be definitive, or a which, if confirmed by some other authority, would be definitive, or who is one of a body or persons, which body of persons is empowered by law to give such a . 20. “Court of Justice”.—The words “Court of Justice” denote a Judge who is empowered by law to act judicially alone, or a body of Judges which is empowered by law to act judicially as a body, when such Judge or body of Judges is acting judicially. 21. “Public servant”.—The words “public servant” denote a person falling under any of the descriptions hereinafter following, namely:— … 432 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports [Third.—Every Judge including any person empowered by law to discharge, whether by himself or as a member of any body of persons, any adjudicatory functions;] 174. Non-attendance in obedience to an from public servant.—Whoever, being legally bound to attend in person or by an agent at a certain place and time in obedience to a summons, notice, , or proclamation proceeding from any public servant legally competent, as such public servant, to issue the same, intentionally omits to attend at that place or time, or departs from the place where he is bound to attend before the time at which it is lawful for him to depart, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month, or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, or with both, or, if the summons, notice, or proclamation is to attend in person or by agent in a Court of Justice, with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.