Contrasting the observations of the Law Commission, in its 80th Report in 197915 with the current system, the author observes that while the Commission recommended that a Chief Justice of a High Court should consult his two seniormost colleagues before recommending names to the government for judicial appointments, it did not mandate that these recommendations be unanimous or binding. However, the collegium system introduced through the Second Judges case (supra), institutionalized the practice of consulting senior colleagues, making it binding on the chief justice. 25. With the above s holding the field, it is difficult to accept the contention of the learned Senior Counsel, Dr. Muralidhar who argued that the Chief Justice of the High Court can individually reconsider a candidate based on how Resolutions are worded. To substantiate this argument, various Supreme Court Resolutions were placed before us to show that there is a difference in language and in the present case, it was specifically addressed to the Chief Justice of the High Court. It was contended that this wide power of the Collegium to direct reconsideration individually by the Chief Justice may not be curtailed. We are disinclined to accept this view as it is well-settled that the Supreme Court Collegium does not sit in appeal over the 14 Abhinav Chandrachud, ‘The Fictional Concurrence of the Chief Justice’ in Supreme Whispers, Conversations with Judges of the Supreme Court 1980-1989 (OUP 2018) 162-166 15 Law Commission of India, ‘The Method of Appointment of Judges’ (80th Report, August 1979) Available at https://cdnbbsr.s3waas.gov.in/s3ca0daec69b5adc880fb464895726dbdf/uploads/2022/08/ 20220805100-2.pdf, <Last accessed on 5.9.2024> 164 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports High Court Collegium.16 It is a participatory process where each of the Constitutional functionaries have a role to play. In our opinion, the language therein by itself cannot be understood as permitting the Chief Justice of the High Court to act on his own, in matters of recommendation or even reconsideration, for elevation to the High Court bench. The recommendation by the Supreme Court Collegium for reconsideration, is not expected to be addressed individually to all the members of the High Court Collegium. Such communications are naturally addressed to the Chief Justice of the concerned High Court but as noted earlier, the letter addressed to the Chief Justice will not enable the Chief Justice to act without participation by the other two Collegium members. 26. In this case, the Court is not concerned with the aspects of ‘suitability’ of the petitioners for elevation as judges of the High Court or even the ‘content of consultation’. Our scrutiny is limited to whether the reconsideration of the proposal for the elevation of the two petitioners, was jointly made by the Collegium members of the High Court, following the Supreme Court Resolution dated 4th January 2024. 27. This Court is mindful of the limited scope of interference in such matters. But this appears to be a case where there was no collective consultation amongst the three Constitutional functionaries of the High Court i.e. the Chief Justice and the two senior-most companion judges.