23. Before proceeding further, it is necessary to note the submissions which have been urged by Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, senior counsel appearing for the petitioner in relation to the imputations against the SP, Shimla. A blast is alleged to have taken place on 18 July 2023 in Shimla resulting in the loss of two lives and injury to several others. The blast was investigated under the supervision of the SP Shimla who, according to the petitioner, sought to cover it up as an accidental blast of an LPG cylinder. The petitioner is stated to have addressed a communication to the Additional Secretary in the Union Ministry of Home Affairs requesting an investigation by the National Bomb Data Centre of the National Security Guard. In subsequent communications to the Chief Secretary on 10 August 2023 and 1 September 2023, the petitioner alleged negligence in the post-blast investigation by the SP Shimla and requisitioned the 450 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports NSG for investigation, suspecting the use of an IED including RDX which was allegedly detected at the site of the blast. 24. In this backdrop, the petitioner has alleged that the SP Shimla was on inimical terms arising out of his communications to the State Government in regard to SP Shimla’s handling of the blast. 25. The Advocate General has opposed the plea of the petitioner for recalling the and opposed the allegations levelled by the petitioner against the SP Shimla. 26. This court had noted in its previous dated 3 January 2024, that counsel for both the complainant as well as the petitioner are agreeable to the transfer of the investigation to the CBI. The High Court noted that the Advocate General has opposed the transfer of the investigation. Bearing in mind the principles laid down by this court - that the power to transfer an investigation to an outside agency is to be exercised with circumspection - the High Court rejected the plea for transfer of the investigation to the CBI. Analysis 27. The case has travelled to this Court once again arising out of the rejection of the application filed by the petitioner for recall of the earlier of the High Court. 28. The consequence of the impugned is that: (i) The earlier of the High Court directing that the petitioner should be shifted out of the post of DGP, Himachal Pradesh stands revived; (ii) The State Government has been directed to consider forming a Special Investigation Team consisting of IG level officers to coordinate the investigation of all the FIRs; and (iii) The grant of protection to the complainant has been directed to be evaluated by the Government. 29. We have heard Mr Mukul Rohatgi, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner and Mr Rahul Sharma, counsel appearing on behalf of the newly added respondent-complainant. 30. At the outset, we must express our reservations about the manner in which the High Court took up the matter ex parte and issued directions transferring the petitioner out of the post of DGP in the first [2024] 1 S.C.R.