04 was nearby, they proceeded to conduct raid thereof. Per contra, in her cross-examination, she admits that the raiding team proceeded to the house of Accused No. 04 for the purpose of search of the contraband pursuant to the discussions carried by them and not particularly on the personal knowledge of Mr Tomar. 45. She further goes on to admit that it was obligatory for her to obtain a written authorization from her superior officer – which was Mr Tomar in this case. She omitted seeking the said authorization on the premise that there was an emergent need to conduct search at the house. Such major inconsistency as to the ‘source’ of information of existence of contraband at the house of Accused No. 04 weakens the case of the prosecution. Furthermore, the testimony of Mr Tomar has some glaring irregularities apropos his personal knowledge of having contraband at the house of Accused No. 04. Mr Tomar, on one hand in his testimony admits that the officers of raiding party together decided to conduct raid at the house of Accused No. 04 post recovery from the auto rickshaw, however, on the other hand admits of having knowledge of the residential address of Accused No. 04 from the secret information. However, Mr Tomar nowhere 470 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in his depositions stated that he proceeded to conduct raid at the house on his personal knowledge. 46. From the aforementioned, we are of the view that the raid/search conducted at the house of the Accused No. 01 and Accused No. 04 was not based on the personal knowledge of Mr Tomar, rather it was an action on the part of raiding party bereft of mandatory statutory compliance of Section 41(2) of the NDPS Act 1985. 47. Furthermore, even if the learned Counsel for the Respondent No. 02 would justify the raid at the house on account of “reason to believe from …. information given by any person and taken down in writing” as per Section 41(2) of the NDPS Act 1985, still the prosecution is not able to establish its case beyond reasonable doubts. Because the secret information, as received by Mrs Chaube in the present facts was limited to the apprehension that Accused No. 04 was to carry contraband via an auto rickshaw from a particular route. There is no reference to the apprehension of existence of contraband in the house of the Accused No. 04 in the said recorded information. Thence, the raid at the house of the Accused No. 01 and Accused No. 04 is in violation of the statutory mandate of Section 41(2) of the NDPS Act 1985 and the ratio in the precedent of Balbir Singh (supra) and Karnail Singh (supra). Consequently, the conviction of Accused No. 01 premised on the recovery of 2.098 kilograms of charas from the house is not in consonance with the mandatory statutory compliance of Section 41(2) of the NDPS Act 1985. 48. While the facts and evidences are appreciated in the instant case, the testimonies of the PW-01 and the members of the raiding party do not present such a compliance of the information of rights to the Accused No.