The threat of prosecution would demoralize them and therefore, the requirement of sanction by the competent authority or the appropriate Government can serve as a shield only for such honest officers who carry out their duty with an aim to further public interest. The Court also rightly cautioned that, however, such an immunity cannot be utilized by public servants to camouflage the commission of a crime under the supposed color of public office. 57. This Court’s reasoning in State of Orissa and Others v. Ganesh Chandra Jew reported in (2004) 8 SCC 40 was further adopted in a few other landmark decisions including S.K. Zutshi and Another v. Bimal Debnath and Another reported in (2004) 8 SCC 31 and K. Kalimuthu v. State reported in (2005) 4 SCC 512. The Court in Ganesh Chandra Jew (supra) considered the scope of the expression “official duty” and stated that the protective cover of the section must not be extended to every act or omission done by a public servant in service but be restricted to only those acts or omissions which are done by a public servant in the discharge of his “official” duty. The scope can be widened further by also extending protection to those acts or omissions which are done in the “purported” exercise of “official” duty i.e., under the color of office, but not more. 810 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 58. Dr. Arijit Pasayat, J, went on to state that the protection given under Section 197 CrPC must not be viewed as limitless. This protection has certain limits and is available only when the alleged act done is reasonably connected with the discharge of his official duty and not merely a cloak for doing the objectionable act. However, if the public servant acted in excess of his official duty but there exists a reasonable connection between the act and the performance of his official duty, the excess cannot be a sufficient ground to deprive him of the protection under Section 197 CrPC. Therefore, it was re- iterated that it is the “quality” of the act which is important and such an act must fall within the scope and range of the public servant’s official duty. While there cannot be any universal rule to determine whether there exists a reasonable connection between the act done and the official duty, one “safe and sure test” in this regard would be to consider if the omission or neglect on part of the public servant to commit the act complained of could have made him answerable for a charge of dereliction of his official duty. If the answer to this question is in the affirmative, the protection under Section 197 CrPC can be granted since there was every connection with the act complained of and the official duty of the public servant. The relevant observations are as follows: “7. This protection has certain limits and is available only when the alleged act done by the public servant is reasonably connected with the discharge of his official duty and is not merely a cloak for doing the objectionable act.