Kamla Devi and Another (1975) 2 SCC 386 that the nature of power and jurisdiction vested with a Magistrate by virtue of the instate provision is not punitive in nature and neither it is remedial, but it is a preventive measure. It was also observed that while any such right may or may not exist as a consequence of any of the personal laws applicable to the concerned parties, they shall continue to exist distinctively, and independently as against the secular provision. 13. The purpose of Section 125 of CrPC 1973 has been spelt out to prevent vagrancy and destitution of the person claiming rights through invoking the procedure established under the said provision. However, in Inderjit Kaur v. Union of India and Others (1990) 1 SCC 344, it 1256 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was clarified qua the wife that such a right is not absolute in nature and is always subject to final determination of the rights of the parties by appropriate courts. Further emphasis has also been placed on the expression “unable to maintain herself” and that the burden of proof is on the wife to prove the existence of said circumstances leading to such inability. This is, in addition, to the requirement to establish that the husband has “sufficient means” to maintain her, and is, however, neglecting or refusing to do so. 14. In Fuzlunbi v. K. Khader Vali and Another (1980) 4 SCC 125 (SC), it was categorically observed by this Court that enactment of the said provision charges the court with a deliberate secular design to enforce maintenance or its equivalent against the humane obligation, which is derived from the State’s responsibility for social welfare. The same is not confined to members of one religion or region, but the whole community of womanhood. 15. At this stage, it is pertinent to consider the concerned personal laws which allegedly stand in conflict with the secular provision of Section 125 of CrPC 1973. The 1986 Act was brought about by the legislature as an attempt to clarify the position laid down. A 5-Judge Bench in Mohd. Ahmed Khan v. Shah Bano Begum and others (1985) 2 SCC 556 extensively dealt with the issue of maintenance apropos the obligation of a Muslim husband to his divorced wife who is unable to maintain herself, either after having been given divorce or having had sought one. The Bench unanimously went on to hold that the obligation of such a husband would not be affected by the existence of any personal law in the said regard and the independent remedy for seeking maintenance under Section 125 of CrPC 1973 is always available. It also went on to observe that, even assuming, there is any conflict between the secular and personal law provisions in regard to maintenance being sought by a divorced wife, the Explanation to second Proviso to Section 125(3) of CrPC 1973 unmistakably shows the overriding nature of the former. While elaborating on the said observation, it explained that the wife has been conferred with the right to refuse to live with her husband who has contracted another marriage, let alone three or four other marriages.