v. The availability of medical boards in the country DGHS should be increased and there must be minimum to take 1 medical board in each State and UTs for proper action medical examination of the students who have passed the examination. Further, larger States/ UTs should have sufficient number of such medical boards to streamline the process. vi. In case the PwD wants to challenge any decision of the medical board with regard to admission, an appellate body at the level of DGHS may be formed. vii. All India Institute of Medical Sciences at all places should be designated for issuing certificates of eligibility for attaining medical education. In view of the above, NMC and DGHS is requested to take appropriate action and a report may be sent to this Department.” 35. We have no reason to doubt that the National Medical Commission will expeditiously comply with the requirements in the communication of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment dated 25.01.2024. In any event, we direct that the needful be done by the National Medical Commission before the publication of the admission brochure for the academic year 2025-26. 36. In fact, a perusal of the amendment notification dated 13.05.2019 and the Guidelines at Appendix H-1 would indicate that with regard to some categories of Disabilities particularly, Locomotor Disability, including specified disabilities like Leprosy cured person, Cerebral Palsy, Dwarfism, Muscular Dystrophy, Acid attack victims and other such as Amputation, Poliomyelitis etc. under the column “Eligible for the Medical Course,Eligible for PwD Quota” the following finds mention:- “40%-80% disability Persons with more than 80% disability may also be allowed on case to case basis and their functional competency will be determined with the aid of assistive devices, if it is [2024] 10 S.C.R. 691 Omkar Ramchandra Gond v. The Union of India & Ors. being used, to see if it is brought below 80% and whether they posses sufficient motor ability as required to pursue and complete the course satisfactorily.” (Emphasis supplied) 37. Similarly, for specific learning disabilities, Perceptual disabilities, Dyslexia, Dyscalculia, Dyspraxia under the column “Eligible for Medical Course, Eligible for PwD Quota”, it is mentioned as follows” “Equal to or more than 40% disability and equal to or less than 80%. But selection will be based on the learning competency evaluated with the help of the remediation/assisted technology/aids/infrastructural changes by the Expert Panel.” 38. We are hopeful that in the revised regulations and guidelines which the National Medical Commission will issue, an inclusive attitude will be taken towards persons with disabilities from all categories furthering the concept of reasonable accommodation recognized in the RPwD Act. The approach of the Government, instrumentalities of States, regulatory bodies and for that matter even private sector should be, as to how best can one accommodate and grant the opportunity to the candidates with disability. The approach should not be as to how best to disqualify the candidates and make it difficult for them to pursue and realize their educational goals. 39. We have also examined the latest notified Guidelines for assessing the extent of Specified Disabilities dated 14.03.2024, which deals with the method for ascertaining the percentage of disabilities.