Further, the Learned Single Judge dealt questions no. (ii) and (iii) in detail as they relate to non-joinder of the appellants and affording them an opportunity of hearing and presence of relatives of appellants in the selection committee. The said question had been answered in paragraphs 20, 21, 22 and 23 of the . In my view para 20 of the of learned Single Judge is the foundational discussion on the issues therefore it is relevant and reproduced as under: - 162 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “20. Item No.3 of Rule 2 deals with Shiksha Karmi - Grade III, the educational qualification is Higher Secondary Certificate Examination passed, and the Selection Committee is to consist of: (i) Chairperson, Standing Committee of Education of Janpad Panchayat; (ii) Chief Executive Officer, Janpad Panchayat; (iii) Block Education Officer (Member Secretary); (iv) Two specialists in the subject to be nominated by the Standing Committee for Education of whom one shall be woman; and, (v) All members of the Standing Committee of Education of whom at least one belongs to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or OBC. In the present case, there is no dispute that the Selection Committee was constituted as per the aforesaid provision, but presence of two members in the Selection Committee is to be taken note of. The President of the selection Committee is one Smt. Pushpa Dwivedi. She is Chairman of the Education Committee and she has participated in the process of selection of various candidates. Another member of the Selection Committee was one Shri Swami Singh, who is a Member of the Janpad Panchayat and has participated in the process of selection as a Member of the Education Committee. It is found by the Collector and the finding of the Collector is affirmed by the Commissioner to the extent that petitioner No.1 Smt. Shyama Dwivedi is the sister- in-law of the President of the Selection Committee Smt. Pushpa Dwivedi. According to the finding recorded Smt. Pushpa Dwivedi’s sister-in-law (Nanand) Smt. Shyama Dwivedi; her Devrani Smt. Vibha Dwivedi; two sisters Rashmi Dwivedi and Rita Dwivedi have been appointed. Apart from these persons, her nephew Devendra Awasthi and her two nieces Ku. Rekha Awasthi and Ku. Prabhesh Kumari have been appointed. That apart, it is found that Smt. Gita Rawat, petitioner No.8, is also sister of Smt. Pushpa Dwivedi. From the aforesaid facts, it is clear that eight members of the family belonging to the President Smt. Pushpa Dwivedi have been selected for appointment on the post in question. Apart from the aforesaid eight persons petitioner Smt. Ramrani Singh is found to be [2024] 4 S.C.R. 163 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. daughter-in-law of Shri Swami Singh, who was Member of the Committee; Shri Sumer Singh, petitioner No.6, is found to be son of Shri Swami Singh and one of his nephew Shri Rajesh Singh has also been found to be appointed. Finding in this regard is recorded by the Collector and the Commissioner on the basis of the statement made by the Chief Executive Officer.