(iv) Fourthly, there is no value that can be attached to a mineral bearing land so as to impose tax on such land minus the minerals. Insofar as extraction of minerals is concerned, being an exercise of a mineral right, royalty is payable by a holder of a mining lease and when no mining activity is carried on, dead rent is payable by such a person. Thus, royalty being a tax or an exaction, there cannot be another tax imposed by the State under Entry 49 - List II on such mineral bearing land. Such land is valuable because of the mining activity that is carried thereon and the minerals are extracted. Such land is not the same as agricultural or non-agricultural land or land on which [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1831 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. buildings are constructed that is subjected to tax under Entry 49 - List II by a State Government. (v) Fifthly, to reiterate, when the value of minerals extracted is the basis of payment of royalty under the scheme of the MMDR Act, 1957, which is a Parliamentary legislation, such land cannot be construed to be falling within the scope and ambit of Entry 49 - List II also so as to be subjected to a tax imposed by the State. In other words, there cannot be a tax on mineral bearing land twice over by the State Government: one, under Entry 49 - List II as land per se and another, under Entry 50 - List II which is subject to any limitation being made by Parliament by law i.e. MMDR Act, 1957 made pursuant to Entry 50 - List I and more particularly, Section 2 read with Section 9 of the said Act. If, for instance, Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957 is repealed and the Parliament leaves it to the wisdom of State legislatures to impose royalty, then, there cannot be a duplication of taxes on mineral bearing land: one under Entry 49 - List II and another under Entry 50 - List II. A tax on mineral bearing land cannot fall under two Entries of the same List. Taxation Entries are mutually exclusive from each other in a particular List, the State List – List II in the instant case, unless they are made subject to an Entry in another List i.e., Union List - List I as in the instant case, Entry 50 - List II is subject to Entry 54 - List I. 34. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I also observe that mineral value or mineral produce cannot be used as a measure to tax mineral bearing land under Entry 49 - List II; also, the word “lands” under Entry 49 - List II cannot include mineral bearing land as well. This would amount to “double taxation” so to say imposed by two different Legislatures: one, by the State Legislature on the mineral bearing land under Entry 49 - List II and again for conducting a mining operation which is for exercise of a mineral right under Section 9 of MMDR Act, 1957, which is a Parliamentary law also paid to the State Government.