The pleadings in the aforesaid writ petition could be encapsulated as under: 7.1 Writ Petition (Civil) No.115 of 2004 has been filed for the issuance of a writ of mandamus or similar writ directing the respondent-State to bring the Rules for the Manufacture, Use, Import, Export and Storage of Hazardous Micro-Organisms, Genetically Engineered Organisms or Cells, 1989 (“the 1989 Rules”, for the sake of convenience), which have been framed under Sections 6, 8 and 25 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (“EP Act, 1986”, for short) in consonance with Articles 14, 19, 21, 38, 47, 48, 48A read with Article 51-A(g) of the Constitution and if there is a failure to do so, to declare the said Rules as unconstitutional. It is averred that this Court has on various occasions interpreted Article 21 of the Constitution to include the right to health of the individual as well as to a clean and safe environment. That tenets of the precautionary principle, sustainable development, polluter pays principle and inter-generational equity doctrine have been held by this 1964 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court to form a part of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. That there is a need for the 1989 Rules to be in accordance with the aforesaid principles so as to be held constitutional. That the public need to be provided sufficient opportunity to participate in the process of decision-making when there is an actual or likely possibility of their fundamental rights being affected and necessary information needs to be made available to facilitate the same. The said right has been recognized by the decision of this Court in Research Foundation for Science Technology National Resource Policy vs. Union of India, (2003) 9 SCALE 303 : (2005) 10 SCC 510 (“RFSTE”). 7.2 It is further averred that the 1989 Rules as they exist are not in conformity with established principles of environmental law as elucidated by this Court. The 1989 Rules are also stated to be not in conformity with international instruments such as the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety (CPB), that have been ratified by India. That, a reading of these along with the fundamental rights conferred by the Constitution would serve the purpose of furthering the said rights and such an approach should be adopted by this Court. 7.3 That Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) are an emerging area of research and study but the 1989 Rules are still inadequate to meet the challenges of the limited findings and evidence that are a product of this research. That overseas jurisdictions have established robust regimes that regulate GMOs, in recognition of the risk they may pose to the environment. But the 1989 Rules as they stand do not appear to contain any of the safeguards found in the regulatory regimes of other jurisdictions. The aforesaid absence of safeguards has contributed to India being used as a “dumping ground” and the Country being used to test experimental crop varieties that have not been sufficiently studied, with these possibly posing a serious risk to the country’s biodiversity.