Necessity involves a process of reasoning designed to ensure that only measures with a strong relationship to the objective they seek to achieve can justify an invasion of fundamental rights. The process thus requires a court to reason through the various stages of moderate interpretation of necessity in the following manner: “(MN1) All feasible alternatives need to be identified, with courts being explicit as to criteria of feasibility; (MN2) The relationship between the government measure under consideration, the alternatives identified in MN1 and the objective sought to be achieved must be determined. An attempt must be made to retain only those alternatives to the measure that realise the objective in a real and substantial manner; (MN3) The differing impact of the measure and the alternatives (identified in MN2) upon fundamental rights must be determined, with it being recognised that this requires a recognition of approximate impact; and (MN4) Given the findings in MN2 and MN38, an overall comparison (and balancing exercise) must be undertaken between the measure and the alternatives. A must be made whether the government measure is the best of all feasible alternatives, considering both the degree to which it realises the government objective and the degree of impact upon fundamental rights (“the comparative component’). 28. Dr. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, as his Lordship then was, in K.S. 80 Anuradha Bhasin (supra) at paragraph 71. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 586 Digital Supreme Court Reports Puttaswamy (5J)(Aadhar) (supra), had observed that the objective of the second prong of rational connection test is essential to the test of proportionality.2" Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J. in his concurring opinion in PK.S.u ttasw(9Ja) (mPriyvac y) (supra) had held that actions not only should be sanctioned by law, but the proposed actions must be necessary in a democratic society for a legitimate aim. The extent of interference must be proportionate to the need for such interference and there must be procedural guarantees against abuse of such interference. 29. The test of proportionality is now widely recognised and employed by courts in various jurisdictions like Germany, Canada, South Africa, Australia and the United Kingdom.®? However, there isn’t uniformity in how the test is applied or the method of using the last two prongs in these jurisdictions. 30. The first two prongs of proportionality resemble a means-ends review of the traditional reasonableness analysis, and they are applied relatively consistently across jurisdictions. Courts first determine if the ends of the restriction serve a legitimate purpose, and then assess whether the proposed restriction is a suitable means for furthering the same ends, meaning it has a rational connection with the purpose. 31. In the third prong, courts examine whether the restriction is necessary to achieve the desired end. When assessing the necessity of the measure, the courts consider whether a less intrusive alternative is available to achieve the same ends, aiming for minimal impairment. As elaborated above, this Court Anuradha Bhasin (supra), relying on suggestions given by some jurists,?? emphasised the need to employ a moderate interpretation of the necessity prong.