687 Omkar Ramchandra Gond v. The Union of India & Ors. and ensure that the statutory requirements of RPwD Act are followed in letter and spirit. It was further mentioned in the communication that, pursuant to deliberations, the National Medical Commission was required to take action of providing a drop-down menu or a mandatory category in the electronic application form. That drop down menu or the mandatory category was to mention which categories and percentage of disability are suitable for pursuing the MBBS Course, and, if necessary, the disability categories in the form should also show symptoms which would normally be excluded by the medical board. It was also stated therein that a Meeting should be held with the National Testing Agency and proper classification of disabilities should be made in the application form so as to ensure that once the candidate was allowed to take the examination, the candidate was not denied admission merely on the ground of disability. It was further mentioned that the regulations of NMC should immediately be reviewed. 33. Attention was also drawn of the National Medical Commission to the position obtaining in the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), wherein functional classification and physical requirements consistent with requirements of the identified service/posts are being worked out for Civil Services. It was directed that on the lines of the exercise by DoPT, NMC should also work out functional classifications and physical requirements consistent with the requirements of medical profession and review its regulations accordingly. It was ed that NMC should sensitize all the colleges with respect to reservation criteria for persons with benchmark disabilities as per the RPwD Act and also towards the requirements of such candidates once admitted. Suggestion was made for formation of Appellate Body against the decisions of the Medical Boards. (Emphasis supplied) 34. We commend the Union of India, for having issued the communication dated 25.01.2024 through the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. We also deem it appropriate to extract the communication:- “Subject: Compliance of Hon’ble Supreme Court dated 22.09.2023 in WP (C) 856 of 2023 in the matter of Bambhaniya Sagar Vashrambhai vs UOI and ors – reg 688 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Sir, I am directed to refer to the captioned Court case and to your letter dated 13.10.2023 and to say that the Central Government has enacted the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act. 2016 which came into effect on 19.04.2017. Section 32 of the said Act provides that (1) All Government institutions of higher education and other higher education institutions receiving aid from the Government shall reserve not less than five per cent seats for persons with benchmark disabilities (2) The persons with benchmark disabilities shall be given an upper age relaxation of five years for admission in institutions of higher education. Persons with Benchmark disability is defined under Section 2(r) as a person with not less than forty percent of a specified disability where specified disability has not been defined in measurable terms and includes a person with disability where specified disability has been defined in measurable terms, as certified by the certifying authority.