All regulations made under the proviso to clause (3) by the President or the Governor of a State shall be laid for not less than fourteen days before each House of Parliament or the House or each House of the Legislature of the State, as the case may be, as soon as possible after they are made, and shall be subject to such modifications, whether by way of repeal or amendment, as both Houses of Parliament or the House or both Houses of the Legislature of the State may make during the session in which they are so laid.” [emphasis supplied] 89. The source for the consultation with the “Public Service Commission” under Article 234 of the Constitution of India is to be traced from Article 320 of the Constitution which deals with the “Functions of Public Service Commission”. In this regard, Justice Hidayatullah in Constitutional Law of India40 had this to say on the nature of consultation: “The Consultation with the High Court is imperative. The insistence on the consultation with the High Court is obviously attributable to the recognition of that source 40 M. Hidayatullah(Ed), Constitutional law of India (The Bar Council of India Trust in association with Arnold- Heinemann Publishers, 1984) Vol. 2,147 588 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports as one from which the most useful advice is obtainable on a matter concerning a service under its own control. Requirement to consult the Public Service Commission is equally understandable for the reason that the Commission is enjoined by Article 320 to conduct examinations for appointment to the Services under the State.” 90. This Court has consistently held41 that the High Court should be assigned primacy in the process of consultation and the Rules framed without such consultation would be void. The same however is not true for absence of consultation, with the Public Service Commission. In State of U.P. v. Manbodhan Lal Srivastava42, this Court while interpreting Article 320(3) of the Constitution had noted that the word “shall” though generally taken in a mandatory sense, must be interpreted as “may”, leading to the conclusion that the consultation under Article 320(3), is not mandatory. Tracing the power of the High Court under Article 235 of the Constitution of India, in Rajendra Singh Verma v. Lt. Governor (NCT of Delhi)43, in the context of compulsory retirement, the Court pertinently noted that: “36. The Governor could not have passed any on the advice of the Public Service Commission in this case. The advice should be of no other authority than the High Court in the matter of judicial officers. This is the plain implication of Article 235. Article 320(3)(c) is entirely out of place so far as the High Court is concerned dealing with judicial officers. To give any other interpretation to Article 320(3) (c) will be to defeat the supreme object underlying Article 235 of the Constitution specially intended for the protection of the judicial officers and necessarily the independence of the subordinate judiciary. It is absolutely clear that the Governor cannot consult the Public Service Commission in the case of judicial officers and accept its advice and act according to it.