Hence, it found that the respondent could not be blamed for the delay in getting approval for land use conversion. 4.1 Further, the APTEL also took note of the State Government’s opinion to grant deemed conversion in such projects due to the number of SPDs facing similar issues. However, the APTEL observed, the guidelines to revenue authorities were unclear and hence the SPDs could not benefit from the same. The delay in the issuance of these guidelines and the confusion among authorities regarding deemed conversion had also resulted in a delay in obtaining land use conversion, which the respondents cannot be faulted for. 4.2 Second, the APTEL found that although the application for grid connectivity and evacuation approval were submitted on 25.02.2016, the final approval was only given on 22.08.2016, after a lapse of 5 months. Until this approval is given, the authorities will not prepare the bay SLD and layout drawings with estimation of bay erection. The bay intimation notice was received by the respondents only a few days before the original SCD, and it was 170 days after the grant of final evacuation approval. Hence, there was a delay in the construction of the bay that was not caused by the respondents. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1031 Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited v. Hirehalli Solar Power Project LLP & Others 4.3 Relying on other decisions by the APTEL, it held that the date of signing the PPA will not be the effective date, as provided in Article 1.1(xxviii). Rather, the PPA becomes effective only when it is approved by the KERC, which in this case was on 07.09.2015. Hence, 18 months must be calculated from this date. 4.4 The APTEL observed that the appellant had itself approved the extension of time by 6 months after a Technical Committee constituted by it had scrutinised all relevant documents. Hence, the appellant could not take the stance that the respondents were not diligent. Even before the KERC, the appellant had not objected to the grounds raised by the respondents, and hence they could not take a contrary stance at this stage. 4.5 Considering the delay in obtaining the PTCL certificate and approval for land conversion, the approval for evacuation, and construction of the bay, the APTEL found that the respondents had taken all necessary care and caution and acted with due diligence. Hence, it held that the respondents could not be blamed for the delay as the time taken by government authorities to provide approvals was not within their control and they had taken all the measures that they could. Consequently, the APTEL found that the respondents are entitled to the benefit of the force majeure clause and an extension of time, as was already approved by the appellant. The respondents were able to commission the project on 24.08.2017, which falls within the extended period of 24 months from 07.09.2015. 4.6 With regard to the reduction in tariff by the KERC, APTEL considered that the government scheme, under which these PPAs were signed, was intended to create opportunity and benefit for farmers by establishing solar power plants.