68. Having said the above, the question whether sanction is required or not is a question that may arise at any stage of the proceeding. There might arise situations where the complaint or the police report may not disclose that the act constituting the offence was done or [2024] 12 S.C.R. 825 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. purported to be done in the discharge of official duty. However, the facts subsequently coming to light may establish the necessity for sanction. That the necessity of sanction may also reveal itself in the course of the progress of the case as was laid out in Matajog (supra) as follows: “20. Is the need for sanction to be considered as soon as the complaint is lodged and on the allegations therein contained? At first sight, it seems as though there is some support for this view in Hori Ram case [(1939) FCR 159, 178] and also in Sarjoo Prasad v. King-Emperor [(1945) FCR 227]. Sulaiman, J. says that as the prohibition is against the institution itself, its applicability must be judged in the first instance at the earliest stage of institution. Varadachariar, J. also states that the question must be determined with reference to the nature of the allegations made against the public servant in the criminal proceeding. But a careful perusal of the later parts of their s shows that they did not intend to lay down any such proposition. Sulaiman, J. refers (at P-179) to the prosecution case as disclosed by the complaint or the police report and he winds up the discussion in these words: “Of course, if the case as put forward fails or the defence establishes that the act purported to be done is in execution of duty, the proceedings will have to be dropped and the complaint dismissed on that ground”. The other learned Judge also states at p. 185, “At this stage we have only to see whether the case alleged against the appellant or sought to be proved against him relates to acts done or purporting to be done by him in the execution of his duty”. It must be so. The question may arise at any stage of the proceedings. The complaint may not disclose that the act constituting the offence was done or purported to be done in the discharge of official duty; but facts subsequently coming to light on a police or judicial inquiry or even in the course of the prosecution evidence at the trial, may establish the necessity for sanction. Whether sanction is necessary or not may have to be determined from stage to stage. The necessity may reveal itself in the course of the progress of the case.” (emphasis supplied) 826 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 69. In Pukhraj v. State of Rajasthan and Another reported in (1973) 2 SCC 701, the 2nd respondent was alleged to have abused and kicked his clerk who was his subordinate and was charged under Sections 323 and 504 IPC.