examinations. The office of State Bar Councils shall charge a sum of Rs. 2500/- for verification of the said certificates from the candidates at the time of submission of the enrolment forms only.” 77. In view of the BCI resolution, many SBCs increased the verification fees charged by them. Currently, the SBCs charge various fees such as verification fees, application fees, registration fees, and identity card fees at the time of enrolment. The SBCs charge these fees as concomitant to the process of enrolment. For instance, a verification fee is charged for the verification of academic qualification certificates of the candidates. The verification fee is collected from the candidates “at the time of submission of enrolment forms.” These additional fees are in furtherance of the process of enrolment of advocates and are encompassed within the meaning of the phrase “in respect of the enrolment” appearing in Section 24(1)(f). 78. Additionally, the SBCs also collect charges such as building fund and benevolent fund from advocates at the time of enrolment. These charges are per se not related to the process of enrolment, but in most cases the candidates have no choice but to pay the levies. The SBCs admit that they charge the fees at the time of enrolment as a one-time payment for all the services offered by them. The SBCs contend that they charge these fees at the time of enrolment because the advocates do not pay periodic fees after enrolment. 79. Admission on the roll of advocates is a pre-requisite for any person intending to practice law in India. At the time of enrolment, candidates have little agency but to pay the miscellaneous fees imposed by the SBCs to get enrolled. Non-payment of the fees means that a candidate cannot get enrolled on the State roll. Thus, all the miscellaneous fees collected from a candidate at the time of enrolment essentially serve as a pre-condition to the process of enrolment. Section 24(1) specifically lays down the pre-conditions subject to which an advocate [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1535 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. can be enrolled on State rolls. Since Section 24(1)(f) specifies the amount that can be charged by the SBCs as an enrolment fee, the SBCs and the BCI cannot demand payment of fees other than the stipulated enrolment fee as a pre-condition to enrolment. 80. Rule 40 under Section IVA of Chapter II of Part VI under the BCI Rules mandates every advocate borne on the rolls to pay the SBC a sum of Rupees three hundred every third year.85 The sum under Rule 40 can only be collected from advocates already admitted on the State rolls. Therefore, this sum cannot be collected from persons at the time of enrolment. It must be collected from advocates after they are admitted on the State roll. ii. Article 14: substantive equality and manifest arbitrariness 81. Article 14 has a substantive content that mirrors the quest for ensuring fair treatment of an individual in every aspect of human endeavour and existence.86 In Joseph Shine v. Union of India,87 one of us (D Y Chandrachud, J) observed that substantive equality is directed at eliminating individual, institutional, and systemic discrimination against disadvantaged groups which effectively undermines their full and equal participation in society at the social, economic, political, and cultural levels.