18. This Court in a catena of s over the years has exercised its inherent powers to dissolve a marriage under Article 142 of the Constitution of India where it finds that the marriage is dead, unworkable, beyond repair, emotionally perished and has thus irretrievably broken down, even though no grounds for divorce as provided in the applicable law are made out in the facts of the case. 19. In Shilpa Sailesh v. Varun Sreenivasan,7 this Court noted that it has the discretionary power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution 5 [2011] 6 SCR 118 : (2011) 5 SCC 234 6 [1997] 2 SCR 875 : (1997) 4 SCC 226 7 [2023] 5 SCR 165 : (2022) 15 SCC 754 950 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of India to dissolve the marriage on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage while exercising the discretion cautiously on the basis of the factual matrix in each case, evaluated on objective criteria and factors. This Court further held that whether the marriage has irretrievably broken down is to be factually examined and firmly established. The factors to be considered in such examination are such as, period of cohabitation after marriage, when they had last cohabited, nature and gravity of allegations made by the parties, s passed in previous or pending legal proceedings, attempts at reconciliation or settlement and their outcomes, period of separation and such other similar considerations. 20. In the present case, the parties cohabited after marriage for less than a year and have been living separately since the last nine years. The nature of allegations made by the appellant are grave as, according to her, she was subjected to cruelty, hurt, and dowry demands by the respondent, and she has also initiated criminal action against her husband. Multiple attempts at reconciliation between the appellant and respondent have been made by the Courts at different stages but all efforts have been futile. Multiple legal proceedings are pending between the parties and do not appear to possibly conclude in the near future. This factual position is admitted by both the parties before this Court and they have also mutually agreed that they have no intention of continuing their union as husband and wife. Therefore, we are of the opinion that while the interest of the appellant-wife to be compensated needs to be protected through a one-time settlement, this is a fit case to exercise the discretionary powers vested in this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution of India and to dissolve the marriage between the parties. 21. Thus, considering all the facts and circumstances of the case and analysing the same in light of the considerations stated above, the marriage between the appellant-wife and respondent-husband is ed to be dissolved in exercise of this Court’s powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. 22. The next contention in this case is with respect to the amount of maintenance to be paid by the respondent-husband to the appellant- wife. While the issue of interim maintenance is now closed with the dissolution of the marriage, the interest of the wife still needs to be protected so that she does not suffer financially.