Supreme Court Reports 22. The learned senior counsel also refuted 1st respondent’s submission that Clause 5(iii) of the DoH becomes an impossibility since moratorium prohibits enforcement of security interest under the DoH. He submitted that the guarantee under clause 5(iii) of the DoH is not contingent upon the enforcement of the security interest. 23. In the alternative, the learned counsel submitted that in any event, the appellant is entitled to retain the security interest and be classified as a secured creditor. He submitted that in the Resolution Plan, other creditors include those creditors who have a claim against the Corporate Debtor but are neither Financial Creditors nor Operational Creditors. He submitted that while voting in favour of the Resolution Plan, the appellant made it clear that its approval was subject to the appellants being considered as Financial Creditors. Even while approving the Resolution Plan, the NCLT permitted the distribution of the payment to the Financial Creditors including the appellants and stated that the same shall abide by and subject to the outcome of the application filed by the 1st Respondent. 24. The learned senior counsel also relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Vistra ITCL (India) Ltd.6 to contend that IBC recognises the rights of secured creditors. He submitted that the requirement to relinquish the security interest is only during the liquidation process and not during the CIRP. Therefore, the question of whether the appellant has relinquished its security interest does not arise. Submissions in Civil Appeal no. 7328 of 2022 25. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 7328 of 2022 also made detailed submissions which are similar to the submissions made in Civil Appeal No. 7407 of 2022. Submissions of 1st to 4th Respondents 26. On behalf of 1st to 4th respondents, it was submitted by the learned senior counsel that the DoH is only a simple document hypothecating certain properties of the borrowers (RCom entities) in favour of the appellants/third party lenders represented by the Security Trustee. The learned senior counsel submitted that in the present case, the DoH has only two parties: the Chargor (including the Corporate Debtor and three other RCom entities) and the Security Trustee. He submitted that without the presence of the three parties, namely the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2055 China Development Bank v. Doha Bank Q.P.S.C. & Ors. Guarantor, Principal Debtor and Creditor, a guarantee could not come into existence. Therefore, the DoH does not meet the requirement of Section 126 of the Contract Act. Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Phoenix ARC Pvt. Ltd. v. Ketulbhai Ramubhai Patel.11 27. Our attention was invited to clause 5(iii) of the DoH. The learned senior counsel submitted that it only contains the process of enforcement of security by the Security Trustee. He submitted that the relevant part of clause 5(iii) of the DoH means that the Chargors have agreed to accept the Security Trustee’s accounts of sales, realisation and expenses.