(vii) To inform on whether the in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC. 2. Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1079 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the Union Territory shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) In terms of the above referred , we direct the Union Territory to ensure that the prosecutors are stating the correct position of law as per the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). (b) To circulate the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) (c) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 2.1 High Court of Calcutta (Refer to Serial No. 36.1) 3. State of Arunachal Pradesh -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary action that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) In terms of the above referred , we direct the State to ensure that the prosecutors are stating the correct 1080 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports position of law as per the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). (b) To circulate the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). (c) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 3.1 High Court of Gauhati (Refer to Serial No. 4.1) 4. State of Assam -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of directions contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers.