76. It is for this reason that the assessment of a complaint or the facts necessary to grant sanction against immunity that the chain of events has to be looked into to find out as to whether the act is dutiful and in good faith and not maliciously motivated. It is the intention to act which is important.” 1064 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 30. It could be seen that this Court observed that anything done with due care and attention, which is not mala fide, is presumed to have been done in good faith. It has been observed that there should not be personal ill will or malice, no intention to malign and scandalise. It has been observed that good faith and public good are though a question of fact, they are required to be proved by adducing evidence. This Court held that as to whether the performance of duty acting in good faith either done or purported to be done in the exercise of the powers conferred under the relevant provisions can be protected under the immunity clause or not, would depend upon the facts of each case and cannot be a subject matter of any hypothesis. It has been held that for availing such immunity, the act has to be official and not private. 31. This Court further observed that ‘good faith’ means, that which is founded on genuine belief and commands a loyal performance. It has been held that the provisions of immunity clauses are made to protect the officers on the presumption that the acts performed in good faith were free from malice or ill will. This Court held that the act which may appear to be wrong or a decision which may appear to be incorrect was not necessarily a malicious act or decision. It has been held that the presumption of good faith therefore could be dislodged only by cogent and clinching material and so long as such a conclusion was not drawn, a duty in good faith should be presumed to have been done or purported to have been done in exercise of the powers conferred under the statute. It has been held that there has to be material to attribute or impute an unreasonable motive behind an act to take away the immunity clause. c. Violation of Principles of Natural Justice: 32. A perusal of the and dated 22nd/24th February 2007 would reveal that the allegations against the present appellant were raised for the first time during the arguments on behalf of the three accused persons who have been acquitted by the learned Special Judge. It will be relevant to refer to paragraph 49 of the said and dated 22nd/24th February 2007, which reads thus: “49. During the course of arguments, it was argued by learned defence counsel on behalf of accused Surjit Singh, Angrej Singh and Mehardeen that since the senior police [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1065 Bharti Arora v. The State of Haryana officers had shifted the recovery of opium from the name of accused Ran Singh to the names of plantation by accused Surjit Singh, Angrej Singh and Mehardeen, action under section 58 of the N.D.P.S.