This has become necessary also because of the stand taken on behalf of the State of Rajasthan, even at this late stage, relating to permissions granted for mining in such area which is clearly contrary to the decisions of this Court. It is reasonable to assume that any State Government which has failed to appreciate the correct position in law so far, will forthwith correct its stance and take the necessary remedial measures without any further delay.” (emphasis supplied) 41. This celebrated firmly establishes that the FC Act must be applied comprehensively to all forests and forest lands, ensuring the protection of these vital ecological and cultural resources across the nation. (i) statutoRy FRamewoRk 42. Section 2 of the FC Act strengthens the protection of forests by strictly regulating activities that could lead to their degradation or misuse of the forests. It prohibits any State Government or any authority from de-reserving forest areas, using forest land for non- forest purposes, or leasing it to private entities without prior approval from the Central Government. The relevant section as amended by the Forest Conservation Amendment Act, 2023 reads as follows: “Section 2. Restriction on the dereservation of forests or use of forest land for non-forest purpose. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force in a State, no State Government or other authority shall make, except with the prior approval of the Central Government, any directing— 1860 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (i) that any reserved forest (within the meaning of the expression “reserved forest” in any law for the time being in force in that State) or any portion thereof, shall cease to be reserved; (ii) that any forest land or any portion thereof may be used for any non-forest purpose; (iii) that any forest land or any portion thereof may be assigned by way of lease or otherwise to any private person or to any authority, corporation, agency or any other organisation, subject to such terms and conditions, as the Central Government may, by , specify; (iv) that any forest land or any portion thereof may be cleared of trees which have grown naturally in that land or portion, for the purpose of using it for reafforestation. Explanation. —For the purpose of this sub-section, “non- forest purpose” means the breaking up or clearing of any forest land or portion thereof for— (a) the cultivation of tea, coffee, spices, rubber, palms, oil-bearing plants, horticultural crops or medicinal plants; (b) any purpose other than reafforestation, but does not include any work relating to or ancillary to conservation, development, and management of forests and wildlife, such as— (i) silvicultural operations including regeneration operations; (ii) establishment of check-posts and infrastructure for the front-line forest staff; (iii) establishment and maintenance of fire lines; (iv) wireless communications; (v) construction of fencing, boundary marks or pillars, bridges and culverts, check dams, waterholes, trenches, and pipelines; [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1861 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors.