The wider range of circulation of information or its greater impact cannot restrict the content of the right nor can it justify its denial. The virtues of the electronic media cannot become its enemies. It may warrant a greater regulation over licensing and control and vigilance on the content of the programme telecast. However, this control can only be exercised within the framework of Article 19(2) and the dictates of public interest.” (emphasis supplied) 114. Justice Jeevan Reddy in the concurring opinion segregated the grounds stipulated in Article 19(2) into grounds in furtherance of “national interest’ and “societal interest’. The learned Judge observed that the grounds of sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign State and public are grounds referable to national interest, and the grounds of decency, morality, contempt of court, defamation and incitement of offence are referable to state interest. The learned Judge then referred to the of the Supreme Court of the United States in FCC v. National Citizens Committee for Broadcasting’, where it was held that a station license can be denied on the ground of public 134 Ibid; [45]. 135 436 US 775 (1978) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 511 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. interest. Justice Reddy observed that public interest is synonymous to state interest which is one of the grounds underlying Article 19(2): “189. Reference may also be made in this connection to the decision of the United States Supreme Court in FCC v. National Citizens Committee for Broadcasting [56 L Ed 2d 697 : 436 US 775 (1978)] referred to hereinbefore, where it has been held that “to deny a station licence because the public interest requires it is not a denial of free speech”. It is significant that this was so said with reference to First Amendment to the United States Constitution which guarantees the freedom of speech and expression in absolute terms. The reason is obvious. The right cannot rise above the national interest and the interest of society which is but another name for the interest of general public. It is true that Article 19(2) does not use the words “national interest’, “interest of society” or “public interest” but as pointed hereinabove, the several grounds mentioned in clause (2) are ultimately referable to the interests of the nation and of the society.” (emphasis supplied) 115. The observations of Justice Sawant and the concurring opinion of Justice Jeevan Reddy in ACrisckest ociatiof oBennga l (supra) that the right under Article 19(1)(a) can be restricted on the ground of public interest even though it is not stipulated in Article 19(2) must be understood in the specific context of that case. Cricket Associaotf iBoengnal (supra), dealt with the access to and use of a public good (that is, airwaves) for dissemination of information. The Court distinguished airways from other means of dissemination of information such as newsprint and held that since broadcasting involves the use of a public good, it must be utilized to advance free speech rights and plurality of opinion (that is, public interest).