7. Section 22(3) of the Act of 1950 speaks of how the Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner is to record a finding after completing the aforestated inquiry, which may include a decision to remove the name of the Trust from the register by reason of the change. Further, it provides that the finding recorded shall be appealable to the Charity Commissioner. It then states that the Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner shall amend or delete the entries in the register in accordance with his finding, and if appeals or applications were made against such finding, in accordance with the final decision of the competent authority, and the amendment in the entries so made, subject to any further amendment on occurrence of a change or any cancellation of entries, shall be final and conclusive. Section 41D provides for the suspension, removal or dismissal of Trustees by the Charity Commissioner, if any of the grounds mentioned therein is satisfied. Such power can be exercised either on application of a Trustee or any person interested in the Trust and one of the grounds for such action being taken against the Trustee is continuous neglect of his duty or a breach of trust in respect of the Trust. 8. Section 70 provides for appeals to the Charity Commissioner against the findings or s of the Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner [2024] 5 S.C.R. 67 Shri Mallikarjun Devasthan, Shelgi v. Subhash Mallikarjun Birajdar & Ors. in the cases enumerated under Section 70(1)(a) to 70(1)(e). Section 70(1)(b) relates to findings under Section 22. Further, Section 70A(1) of the Act of 1950 empowers the Charity Commissioner to call for and examine, either suo motu or on an application, the record and proceedings of any of the cases before any Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner, mentioned in Section 70 thereof, for the purpose of satisfying himself as to the correctness of any finding or recorded or passed by the Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner. Notably, the Act of 1950 was amended in the year 2017, whereby a proviso was added in Section 22(1). This proviso states that the Deputy or Assistant Charity Commissioner may extend the period of 90 days for reporting the change, on being satisfied that there was a sufficient cause for not reporting the change within the stipulated period, subject to payment of costs by the reporting Trustee to the Public Trust Administration Fund. 9. Given the above statutory milieu, it was incumbent upon Jagdishchandra to submit a Change Report within the stipulated 90 days but he did so, long thereafter, on 21.10.2015. He also filed a delay condonation application therewith, stating that he did not file the Change Report earlier by mistake as he was not aware about it. His report was taken on file as Change Report No. 899 of 2015. dated 15.03.2016 was passed therein by the Deputy Charity Commissioner, Solapur. Thereby, the Change Report was held to be legal and valid, taking note of the fact that no one had taken an objection thereto.