30 See Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society v. State of Gujarat (1974) 1 SCC 717, (9J) [Chief Justice Ray writing for himself and Justice Palekar [5,6], Justice Khanna [73], Justice Mathew writing for himself and Justice YV Chandrachud [125, 126]; Rev. Father W Proost v. State of Bihar [5J] [1969] 2 SCR 73 [8,9] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1707 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. to 28 also do not make a distinction between majority and minority religious sections. The provisions guarantee the right to freedom of religion to both minorities and non-minorities. Article 25 recognises the right of all persons to freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess, practice and propagate religion. Article 26 recognises the right of every religious denomination or any section thereof to manage its religious affairs. The provisions of Article 28 also do not distinguish between a minority and a non-minority educational institution. The provisions apply equally to educational institutions established by religious and linguistic minorities and non-minorities.31 46. The provisions noted above, whether they refer to individual rights or denomination rights are manifestations that India is a pluralistic society with different religions, practices, cultures and languages. These provisions which are in the nature of rights and guarantees, also prescribe the ambit of State interference. 47. Article 30 consists of three clauses. Clause (1) states that all minorities whether based on religion or language, shall have a right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. Clause (1)(a) deals with the provision for compulsory acquisition of any property for an educational institution established and administered by a minority. We are not concerned per se with the said clause. Clause (2) of Article 30 provides that the State shall not, in granting aid to educational institutions, discriminate against any educational institution on the ground that it is under the management of a minority whether based on religion or language. 48. The two crucial expressions which arise for consideration and interpretation in this decision are the words ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ used in clause (1) of Article 30. These two words and expressions have to be interpreted in the context of clause (1) to Article 30 which confers a guarantee and protection to minority communities based on religion or language. 31 See TMA Pai (supra) [88-90;144]; “144 […] As in the case of a majority-run institution, the moment a minority institution obtains a grant of aid, Article 28 of the Constitution comes into play. When an educational institution is maintained out of State funds, no religious instruction can be provided therein. Article 28(1) does not state that it applies only to educational institutions that are not established or maintained by religious or linguistic minorities. Furthermore, upon the receipt of aid, the provisions of Article 28(3) would apply to all educational institutions whether run by the minorities or the non- minorities. […] Just as Articles 28(1) and (3) become applicable the moment any educational institution takes aid, likewise, Article 29(2) would also be attracted and become applicable to an educational institution maintained by the State or receiving aid out of State funds.” 1708 [2024] 11 S.C.R.