Ninan v. Kerala State Electricity Board, 2023 INSC 560. One of the questions which the Court was faced with was whether the statutory bar on recovery of electricity dues after the limitation period of two years provided under Section 56(2) of the Electricity Act, 2003 would have an implication on the civil remedies of the Electric Utilities to recover such arrears. The auction purchasers, who had purchased premises where electricity had been disconnected due to defaults of the previous owners, argued that the period of limitation would apply to such dues and that Electric Utilities could not demand such time-barred dues from them. The Court in K.C. Ninan (supra), after a comprehensive analysis of the scheme of the Electricity Act, held that the power to initiate proceedings to recover the electricity dues was independent of the power to disconnect electrical supply. Thereafter, the Court noticed the decision in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra) and concluded that statute of limitation only barred a remedy, while the right to recover the loan through ‘any other suitable manner provided’ remains untouched. Having so held, the Court rejected the argument of the auction purchasers and concluded that the bar of limitation under Section 56(2) of the Electricity Act would only restrict the remedy of disconnection under Section 56 of the Electricity Act and that the Electric Utilities were entitled to reocver electricity arrears through civil remedies or in exercise of its statutory power. 32. In view of what has been pointed out hereinabove, we are of the opinion that, for a comprehensive consideration and an authoritative pronouncement after taking into account all aspects, including those dealt with hereinabove, the matter needs to be placed before the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India to constitute an appropriate three- judge bench. 33. Let the papers along with this be placed before Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India for seeking appropriate directions from His Lordship, in this regard. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Matter referred to CJI to constitute 3 Judges Bench.