It was further held that failure of justice can be established not at the stage of framing of charge but only after the trial has commenced and the evidence is led (para 10 of the report). 8. There is a contrary view of this Court in State of Goa v. Babu Thomas [(2005) 8 SCC 130 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 1995] holding that an error in grant of sanction goes to the root of the prosecution. But the decision in Babu Thomas [(2005) 8 SCC 130 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 1995] has to be necessarily understood in the facts thereof, namely, that the authority itself had admitted the invalidity of the initial sanction by issuing a second sanction with retrospective 542 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports effect to validate the cognizance already taken on the basis of the initial sanction . Even otherwise, the position has been clarified by the larger Bench in State of M.P. v. Virender Kumar Tripathi [(2009) 15 SCC 533 : (2010) 2 SCC (Cri) 667].” 13. Really speaking, nothing remains for us to consider if absence, omission, error or irregularity of the sanction has occasioned or resulted in failure of justice as the High Court came to the conclusion that findings of fact of the Trial Court, are based on evidence. The High Court also held that, ‘the prosecution proved the demand and acceptance. The defence failed to rebut the prosecution evidence. Presumption arises under Section 20 of the Act regarding acceptance of money’. We have already extracted the relevant portion of the High Court . 14. Mr. Sangram S. Saron, learned counsel has submitted that one more opportunity may be given to the respondent to demonstrate that ‘irregularity in the sanction has led to failure of justice’. It appears that the High Court has taken up the issue of sanction, rather than the proof of sanction on its own and without the assistance of the learned counsel for the respondent-accused. In the circumstances and in the interest of justice, even if it is a formality we consider it appropriate to permit the respondent to raise and contest this issue of failure of justice due to irregularity in sanction before the High Court. 15. For the reasons stated above, we allow the appeal and set aside the and dated 10.05.2017 in CRA-S-No. 1192-SB of 2002 by the High Court to the extent that it set aside the sanction and the consequent acquittal. While we confirm the other findings, we remand the matter to the High Court for considering the question of legality of the of sanction under Section 19 of the Act to consider if the irregularity, if any, has occasioned or resulted in a failure of justice. 16. The Criminal Appeal is disposed of in above terms. 17. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey