7.2 In SEBI v. Mega Corporation Limited,11 this Court analysed the meaning of ‘question of law’ to determine the scope of its appellate jurisdiction under Section 15Z of the SEBI Act, 1992.12 It held that this phrase is open textured and must be interpreted by looking at the words in their context.13 The relevant portions are extracted: “17. The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court under Section 15Z to consider any question of law arising from the s of the Tribunal should therefore be seen in the ‘context’ of the powers and jurisdiction of the Tribunal under Sections 15K, 15L, 15M, 15T, 15U and 15Y of the Act. It is in the functioning of the Tribunal to re-examine all questions of fact at the appellate stage while exercising jurisdiction under Section 15T of the Act. In Clariant and National Securities Depository, this Court had an occasion to examine the jurisdiction of the Tribunal and explain that the Tribunal has wide powers. Being a permanent body, apart from acting as an appellate 11 [2022] 2 SCR 546 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 361 12 Section 15Z of the SEBI Act, 1992 reads: “15Z. Appeal to Supreme Court.-- Any person aggrieved by any decision or of the Securities Appellate Tribunal may file an appeal to the Supreme Court within sixty days from the date of communication of the decision or of the Securities Appellate Tribunal to him on any question of law arising out of such …” (emphasis supplied) 13 ibid, para 16. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1035 Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited v. Hirehalli Solar Power Project LLP & Others Tribunal on fact, the Tribunal routinely interprets the Act, Rules and Regulations made thereunder and evolves a legal regime, systematically developed over a period of time. The advantage and benefit of this process is consistency and structural evolution of the sectorial laws. 18. It is in the above-referred context that the Supreme Court while exercising appellate jurisdiction under Section 15Z of the Act would be measured in its approach while entertaining any appeal from the decision of the Tribunal. This freedom to evolve and interpret laws must belong to the Tribunals to subserve the regulatory regime for clarity and consistency and it is with this perspective that the Supreme Court will consider appeals against of the Tribunals on questions of law arising from its s. 19. It is in this very context that the UK Supreme Court in the case of Jones v. First Tier Tribunal, formulated certain principles for appellate courts to interfere against the s of Tribunals on the ground of existence of questions of law. The Court held as under: “16 … It is primarily for the tribunals, not the appellate courts, to develop a consistent approach to these issues [of law and fact], bearing in mind that they are peculiarly well fitted to determine them. A pragmatic approach should be taken to the dividing line between law and fact, so that the expertise of tribunals at the first tier and that of the Upper Tribunal can be used to best effect.