22. The question as to whether the phrase “under this Act” used in Section 17A of the 1988 Act, would mean to be “the Act”, as it existed at the time of alleged commission of offence or “the Act” as it stood post amendment when the enquiry commenced would also have to be answered by this Court. While dealing with the issue of necessity for obtaining prior approval, I have already held that the appellant could be implicated under Section 13 (1)(c) and (d), as at the time of alleged commission of the offences, these provisions were alive. Once certain offences are deleted from an enactment, they do not vanish totally unless the lawmakers say so. They move to the back pages and can be revived if they were committed before being enacted out of the legislation. But I cannot give a restrictive interpretation to the expression “under this Act” to give an isolated retrospective operation to the said phrase, detaching it from rest of the provisions of Section 17A of the Act and remove the protective shield in a situation where an enquiry has started after introduction of the said provision but relates to an offence committed prior to 570 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports its introduction in 2018. The said phrase ought to be relatable to the date of starting of the enquiry, inquiry or investigation and not to the time or date of commission of offence. 23. Otherwise, if I apply an interpretation of the expression “under this Act” to mean the statute as it exists at the time the enactment is invoked, the same phrase is invoked, the same might result in divesting the Special Judge of his power to proceed against the appellant, as at the time the appellant’s case was brought to the Special Judge, the aforesaid two sub-sections stood deleted from Section 13 (1) of the 1988 Act. I am making this observation because the Special Judge’s jurisdiction is derived from Sections 3 and 4 of the 1988 Act. These provisions read:- “3. Power to appoint special Judges.—(1) The Central Government or the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint as many special Judges as may be necessary for such area or areas or for such case or group of cases as may be specified in the notification to try the following offences, namely:— (a) any offence punishable under this Act; and (b) any conspiracy to commit or any attempt to commit or any abetment of any of the offences specified in clause (a). (2) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a special Judge under this Act unless he is or has been a Sessions Judge or an Additional Sessions Judge or an Assistant Sessions Judge under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974). 4. Cases triable by special Judges.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), or in any other law for the time being in force, the offences specified in sub-section (1) of section 3 shall be tried by special Judges only.