We cannot put such a construction on clause (21) of Section 2 of the Act so as to exclude a light motor vehicle from the Act altogether.” 89.1. Looking at the scheme of the MV Act, the above conclusion was the correct one declaring that an LMV would include a ‘light good vehicle’ or a ‘light transport vehicle’. While the Court supplemented its reasoning by stating that a vehicle cannot be used as a transport vehicle on a public road unless there is a permit, we must understand that a ‘license’ is different from a ‘permit’. The observations of the Court on the legal issue of a driving license, aligns with our own interpretation. 90. In Nagashetty v. United India Insurance Co,38 the vehicle involved was a tractor with a trailer attached, filled with stones. The case revolved around an accident that occurred on 4.12.1995, when a tractor driven by the driver lost control and hit two pedestrians, resulting in the death of one person. The LRs of the deceased filed a compensation claim before the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), which ruled in their favor and awarded compensation of ₹2,07,000 making the Insurance company liable for the insured 38 [2001] Supp. 1 SCR 656 : (2001) 8 SCC 56 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 615 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. tractor. The Insurance Company appealed before the High Court, contending that the driver only had a licence to operate a tractor and not a ‘goods vehicle’, as a trailer filled with stones was attached to the tractor, classifying it as a ‘transport vehicle’. Deciding in favour of the Insurance Company, the High Court held that the licence was invalid for driving a ‘transport vehicle’, and therefore, the Insurance Company was not liable to pay the compensation to the claimants. 90.1. Setting aside the decision of the High Court, the Supreme Court held that a person having a valid driving license to drive a particular category of vehicle, does not become unauthorised to drive that category of vehicle, merely because a trailer is attached to it. Interpreting the terms of the Insurance Policy, it was held that if the submission of the Insurance Co. is accepted, then every time, an owner of a private car, who has a license to drive an LMV, attaches a roof carrier to his car, and carries goods thereon, the LMV would become a Transport Vehicle, and the owner would then be deemed to have no valid license, to drive that vehicle. 90.2. It was rightly held in the above decision and as noted in Mukund Dewangan (2017), that a vehicle cannot be readily classified as a ‘transport vehicle’ requiring a separate endorsement in the driving license. Although the Court supported its reasoning by referencing the insurance policy terms, the legal position remains that the term ‘transport vehicle’ overlaps with other vehicle classes. 91. Before this Court, reliance was placed on the in New India Assurance Company v. Prabhu Lal39(for short “Prabhu Lal”).