reported in (1987) 2 SCC 424 as under: “5. …The question whether a particular stipulation in a contractual agreement is in the nature of a penalty has to be determined by the court against the background of various [2024] 2 S.C.R. 51 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu relevant factors, such as the character of the transaction and its special nature, if any, the relative situation of the parties, the rights and obligations accruing from such a transaction under the general law and the intention of the parties in incorporating in the contract the particular stipulation which is contended to be penal in nature. If on such a comprehensive consideration, the court finds that the real purpose for which the stipulation was incorporated in the contract was that by reason of its burdensome or oppressive character it may operate in terrorem over the promiser so as to drive him to fulfil the contract, then the provision will be held to be one by way of penalty.” 54. The SARFAESI Rules, more particularly Rule 9 was first examined by this Court in Rakesh Birani (Dead) through LRs v. Prem Narain Sehgal & Anr. reported in (2018) 5 SCC 543, wherein the entire auction process under Rule 9 was explained. The relevant observations read as under: - “8. In to comprehend the rival submissions, it is necessary to ponder as to intendment of Rule 9 of the 2002 Rules which deals with the time of sale, issues of sale certificate and delivery of possession, etc. Public notice of sale is to be published in the newspaper and only after thirty days thereafter, the sale of immovable property can take place. Under Rule 9(2) of the 2002 Rules, the sale is required to be confirmed in favour of the purchaser who has offered the highest sale price to the authorised officer and shall be subject to confirmation by the secured creditor. The proviso makes it clear that sale under the said Rule would be confirmed if the amount offered and the whole price is not less than the reserved price as specified in Rule 9(5). It is apparent that Rule 9(1) does not deal with the confirmation by the authorised officer. It only provides confirmation by the secured creditor. 9. Rule 9(3) makes it clear that on every sale of immovable property, the purchaser on the same day or not later than next working day, has to make a deposit of twenty-five per cent of the amount of the sale price, which is inclusive of earnest money deposited if any. Rule 9(4) makes it clear 52 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that balance amount of the purchase price payable shall be paid by the purchaser to the authorised officer on or before the fifteenth day of “confirmation of sale of the immovable property” or such extended period as may be agreed upon in writing between the purchaser and the secured creditor. Thus, Rule 9(2) makes it clear that after confirmation by the secured creditor the amount has to be deposited.