Pursuant to an dated 01st May, 2023 passed by the High Court of Delhi in a batch of petitions, lead matter being W.P. 6 In short ASUDTAB [2024] 6 S.C.R. 383 Indian Medical Association & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (C) No.321/2019, directions were issued that any decision taken by the Union of India pursuant to the recommendations made by ASUDTAB shall not be implemented for a period of four weeks from the date of its communication and the said interim arrangement shall continue to operate. 10. It is submitted that thereafter, ASUDTAB had recommended that final notification be issued for omission of Rule 170. The said recommendation was placed before the Ministry of Law and Justice for approval. The Ministry recommended that the final notification should be published within three months, if no objections/suggestions are received and within six months if a large number of objections/ suggestions are received on the draft notification. 11. The above development took place in the month of July, 2023. However, the Ministry of AYUSH proceeded to issue the Notification only on 02nd February, 2024, inviting objections to the recommendations/ suggestions to the draft notification from all stakeholders within 30 days from the date of the notification being issued in the Official Gazette. Period of 30 days has long since expired but no further steps have been taken by the Ministry of AYUSH. Learned ASG is not in a position to inform us as to how many objections/suggestions were received on the draft notification. The Ministry of AYUSH is directed to expedite steps proposed to be taken by it. 12. In our view, an administrative instruction issued by virtue of the letter dated 29th August, 2023, cannot put on hold Rule 170 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 so long as it remains enforceable in law. 13. Mr. Natraj, learned Additional Solicitor General submits on instructions that the Ministry shall forthwith withdraw the letter dated 29th August, 2023. Needful shall be done with immediate effect. 14. Coming next to the affidavit filed by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, the same refers to a series of regulatory mechanisms laid down for TV channels under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 19957. It is submitted that there are self regulatory bodies of the broadcasters, constituted by the broadcasters or its Association and it is for them to perform various functions including overseeing and assurance and an adherence by the broadcasters 7 In short, CTN Act, 1995 384 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the Programme Code and Advertising Code, provide guidance to broadcasters on various aspects of the aforesaid Codes, dispose of grievances that have not been disposed of by the broadcasters within a fixed timeline, hear appeals and issue guidance/advisories to the broadcasters from time to time. It is further submitted that where the broadcasters fail to comply with the guidance/advisory of the said regulating body within the specified timeline, the self regulatory body shall refer the matter to the Oversight Mechanism within 15 days.