The plaintiff preferred first appeal registered as Original Civil Appeal No. 19(s) of 1999. The said first appeal came to be allowed vide dated 11.04.2003. Aggrieved by the same, the present appellants preferred a second appeal before the High Court. During the pendency of the second appeal the plaintiff Smt. Hem Prova Basak withdraw the Original Civil Suit No.68 of 1995 on 08.12.2003. These facts and material were placed before the High Court, however, the High Court despite noticing such facts vide impugned dated 18.12.2013 dismissed the second appeal filed by the present appellants. 5. While issuing notice in the present appeal on 29.10.2014, both parties were directed to maintain status quo with regard to possession prevailing as on date. Later on, by dated 01.07.2016, leave was granted. The fact remains that the possession of the family members of three brothers in the house has continued. 6. Shri Pallav Sisodia, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant, apart from drawing our attention to the various affidavits, applications and s passed on the file of the Sub-Divisional Officer and the Deputy Commissioner to show that the allotment had been made for the benefit of the family and not for one brother or his wife exclusively and that freehold title deeds have been subsequently executed in favour of the family members of all the three brothers, made a legal submission that once the lease itself had been cancelled in 1995 and the suit filed by Smt. Hem Prova Basak to declare the said cancellation as illegal, null and void having been withdrawn, the suit of the plaintiff for eviction and injunction was liable to be dismissed as the very basis for filing the suit stood eliminated. 7. On the other hand, learned senior counsel for the respondent Shri Uday Gupta vehemently urged that the First Appellate Court and the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1289 Bina Basak & Ors. v. Sri Bipul Kanti Basak & Ors. High Court have examined and considered the material on record while decreeing the suit and dismissing the counterclaim, as such this Court may not interfere with the same under Article 136 of the Constitution of India and accordingly, dismiss this appeal. 8. Having given serious consideration to the material on record and the submissions advanced, we are convinced that the suit was filed maliciously in to grab the entire allotment and also the house constructed with the joint income of the three brothers. Some noticeable facts in this regard are summarized hereunder- i) Binode Behari Basak, the eldest brother was working as Upper Division Assistant in the office of Deputy Commissioner, Siliguri and therefore had all the access in the local administration to favour himself and his wife. Initially, he had applied for allotment to be made in his name but apparently for the reason that he was already a government servant in the state of West Bengal since 1945 prior to the partition and migration no allotment would be made in his favour, he therefore setup his wife to become the applicant for the allotment.