[2024] 1 S.C.R. 909 : 2024 INSC 23 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 6503 of 2022) 08 January 2024 [B. R. Gavai* and Prashant Kumar Mishra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration State Commission held that the tariffs offered by the L-4 and L-5 bidders were not aligned to the prevailing market prices. In appeal by L-5, APTEL held that the State Commission had to necessarily adopt the tariff and had no power to consider whether the tariff was aligned to market prices. Impugned of the High Court relying on the said of the APTEL and the earlier s of this Court concluded that applying the test of “filling the bucket”, the procurers were bound to take supply from the respondent No.1 at the rates quoted by it and it had a right to supply power since there was a gap of 300 MW between the power procured by the procurers and the ceiling of 906 MW determined by this Court. High Court whether justified in issuing mandamus directing the appellants to take supply of 200 MW power from the respondent No.1 at the rates quoted by it. Power of the State Commission to go into the question as to whether the prices quoted are market aligned or not and to take into consideration the aspect of consumers’ interest. Headnotes Electricity Act, 2003 – ss.63, 86 – Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (RVPN) filed Petition before the State Commission seeking approval for procurement of 1000 MW of power by a competitive bidding process – RFP was issued – Eventually, in consonance with the LoI, PPAs were signed with the L-1, L-2 and L-3 bidders – State Commission held that the quantum of only 500 MW power was liable to be approved considering the demand in the State as recommended by the EAC and it approved the tariff quoted by the L-1 to L-3 bidders – Appeals filed by L-2 and L-3 bidders before APTEL, allowed – Challenged by the appellants – Subsequently, Civil Appeals were filed by L-5 bidder also– Disposing of the appeals, State Commission was directed to go into the issue of approval for adoption of tariff with regard to L-4 and L-5 bidders– Further, * Author 910 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports vide dtd.19.11.18, State Commission was directed to go into the issue of adoption of tariff – State Commission held that the tariffs offered by the L-4 and L-5 bidders were not aligned to the prevailing market prices – Appeal filed by L-5 bidder, allowed by APTEL – Writ petition was filed by the respondent No.1 – Allowed by impugned : Held: Unlike s.62 r/w ss.61 and 64, under the provisions of s.63, the appropriate Commission does not “determine” tariff but only “adopts” tariff already determined u/s.63 – Such “adoption” is only if such tariff has been determined through a transparent process of bidding, and this transparent process of bidding must be in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Governments – s.86(1)(b) gives ample power to the State Commission to regulate electricity purchase and procurement process of distribution licensees – It also empowers the State Commission to regulate the matters including the price at which electricity shall be procured from the generating companies, etc.