This is exactly what this Court in Khaja Bilal Ahmed [Khaja Bilal Ahmed v. State of Telangana, (2020) 13 SCC 632 : (2020) 4 SCC (Cri) 629] deprecated. Also, as noted above, this Court in Shibban Lal Saksena [Shibban Lal Saksena [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1215 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. v. State of U.P., (1953) 2 SCC 617 : AIR 1954 SC 179] held that such an would be a bad , the reason being that it could not be said in what manner and to what extent the valid and invalid grounds operated on the mind of the authority concerned and contributed to his subjective satisfaction forming the basis of the .” (Emphasis supplied) 38. Ameena Begum (supra) has referred to and relied upon the decision of this Court in Khaja Bilal Ahmed v. State of Telangana and Others reported in (2020) 13 SCC 632. Khaja Bilal (supra) has been authored by one of us (Hon’ble Chief Justice Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud). The Court observed thus: “23. In the present case, the of detention states that the fourteen cases were referred to demonstrate the “antecedent criminal history and conduct of the appellant”. The of detention records that a “rowdy sheet” is being maintained at PS Rain Bazar of Hyderabad City and the appellant “could not mend his criminal way of life” and continued to indulge in similar offences after being released on bail. In the counter-affidavit filed before the High Court, the detaining authority recorded that these cases were “referred by way of his criminal background … (and) are not relied upon”. The detaining authority stated that the cases which were registered against the appellant between 2009 and 2016 “are not at all considered for passing the detention ” and were “referred by way of his criminal background only”. This averment is plainly contradictory. The of detention does, as a matter of fact, refer to the criminal cases which were instituted between 2007 and 2016. In to overcome the objection that these cases are stale and do not provide a live link with the of detention, it was contended that they were not relied on but were referred to only to indicate the antecedent background of the detenu. If the pending cases were not considered for passing the of detention, it defies logic as to why they were referred to in the first place in the of detention. The purpose of the Telangana Offenders Act, 1986 is to prevent any person from acting 1216 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public . For this purpose, Section 3 prescribes that the detaining authority must be satisfied that the person to be detained is likely to indulge in illegal activities in the future and act in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public . The satisfaction to be arrived at by the detaining authority must not be based on irrelevant or invalid grounds. It must be arrived at on the basis of relevant material; material which is not stale and has a live link with the satisfaction of the detaining authority.