This Court in Chairman, All India Railway Recruitment Board v. K. Shyam Kumar64 referred to a decision of the House of Lords in R v. Secretary of State,65 wherein the House of Lords had stressed that when human rights issues are concerned, proportionality is an appropriate standard of review. 81. The proportionality test66 is more precise and sophisticated than other traditional grounds of review. The court is required to assess the balance struck by the decision maker, not merely whether it is within the range of rational or reasonable decisions. In this manner, proportionality goes further than the traditional grounds of review as it requires attention to the relative weight according to interest and considerations. State of Uttar Pradesh v. Lal,67 which refers to several other cases, states that the proportionality test safeguards fundamental rights of citizens to ensure a fair balance between individual rights and public interest. It requires the court to judge 64 [2010] 6 SCR 291 : (2010) 6 SCC 614 65 (1991) 1 All ER 710 66 The test of proportionality comprises four steps: (i) The first step is to examine whether the act/measure restricting the fundamental right has a legitimate aim (legitimate aim/purpose). (ii) The second step is to examine whether the restriction has rational connection with the aim (rational connection). (iii) The third step is to examine whether there should have been a less restrictive alternate measure that is equally effective (minimal impairment/necessity test). (iv) The last stage is to strike an appropriate balance between the fundamental right and the pursued public purpose (balancing act). 67 [2006] 2 SCR 656 : (2006) 3 SCC 276 2424 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports whether the action taken was really needed and whether it was within the range of courses of action which could be reasonably followed. Proportionality is more concerned with the aims and intentions of the decision maker and whether the decision maker has achieved more or less the correct balance or equilibrium. 82. The principle of proportionality has been followed by this Court in several decisions such as Modern Dental College & Research Centre v. State of Madhya Pradesh,68 K.S. Puttaswamy (Retired) and Anr. (Aadhar) v. Union of India and Anr. (5J),69 and Anuradha Bhasin v. Union of India and Others70 83. Recently, the Constitution Bench applied the doctrine of proportionality to strike down the Electoral Bond Scheme in Association for Democratic Reforms v. Union of India.71 In a way, the present case also relates to funding of elections, an issue which was examined in some depth in Association for Democratic Reforms (supra). 84. In view of the aforesaid discussion, and as Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) is a decision rendered by a three Judge Bench, we deem it appropriate to refer the following questions of law for consideration by a larger Bench: (a) Whether the “need and necessity to arrest” is a separate ground to challenge the of arrest passed in terms of Section 19(1) of the PML Act? (b) Whether the “need and necessity to arrest” refers to the satisfaction of formal parameters to arrest and take a person into custody, or it relates to other personal grounds and reasons regarding necessity to arrest a person in the facts and circumstances of the said case?