1015 A.B. Govardhan v. P. Ragothaman 27. In Syndicate Bank v Estate Officer & Manager, APIIC Ltd. (2007) 8 SCC 361, this Court held: “28. The requisites of an equitable mortgage are : (i) a debt; (ii) a deposit of title deeds; and (iii) an intention that the deeds shall be security for the debt. The existence of the first and third ingredients of the said requisites is not in dispute. The territorial restrictions contained in the said provision also does not stand as a bar in creating such a mortgage. The principal question, which, therefore, requires consideration is as to whether for satisfying the requirements of Section 58(f) of the Transfer of Property Act, it was necessary to deposit documents showing complete title or good title and whether all the documents of title to the property were required to be deposited. A fortiori the question which would arise for consideration is as to whether in all such cases, the property should have been acquired by reason of a registered document. xxx 38. In K.J. Nathan v. S.V. Maruty Reddy [AIR 1965 SC 430: (1964) 6 SCR 727] this Court held: (AIR pp. 435-36, para 10) “10. The foregoing discussion may be summarised thus: Under the Transfer of Property Act a mortgage by deposit of title deeds is one of the forms of mortgages whereunder there is a transfer of interest in specific immovable property for the purpose of securing payment of money advanced or to be advanced by way of loan. Therefore, such a mortgage of property takes effect against a mortgage deed subsequently executed and registered in respect of the same property. The three requisites for such a mortgage are, (i) debt, (ii) deposit of title deeds; and (iii) an intention that the deeds shall be security for the debt. Whether there is an intention that the deeds shall be security for the debt is a question of fact in each case. The said fact will have to be decided just like any other fact on presumptions and on oral, documentary or circumstantial evidence. There is no presumption of law that the mere deposit of title deeds 1016 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports constitutes a mortgage, for no such presumption has been laid down either in the Evidence Act or in the Transfer of Property Act. But a court may presume under Section 114 of the Evidence Act that under certain circumstances a loan and a deposit of title deeds constitute a mortgage. But that is really an inference as to the existence of one fact from the existence of some other fact or facts. Nor the fact that at the time the title deeds were deposited there was an intention to execute a mortgage deed in itself negatives, or is inconsistent with, the intention to create a mortgage by deposit of title deeds to be in force till the mortgage deed was executed. The decisions of English Courts making a distinction between the debt preceding the deposit and that following it can at best be only a guide; but the said distinction itself cannot be considered to be a rule of law for application under all circumstances.