Further the state of Himachal Pradesh is not a non-compliant State. It has been taking care of environment and has also been taking care of Town Planning.” 81. Insofar as “Green Belt” areas are concerned, it has been found that “Green Belt” areas are those areas in which the land is also owned by the private land owners and is occupied by the structures. It provides that as per the provision, reconstruction would be permitted in the area and that too on old lines. No more new construction or increase in constructed area is permissible in these areas. It further provided that insofar as forest lands are concerned, no construction upon them would be permitted unless there is a clearance from the Central Government as per the provisions of the FC Act. 82. Not only that, as has already been referred to hereinabove, the learned Advocate General has placed on record a Cabinet decision which provides that construction would be permitted only in those plots in which there are no trees. It is further pointed out that the construction in “Green Belt” areas, would be permitted only to the extent of single storey with attic. 83. The development plan has elaborately considered as to how vertical construction will have to be preferred over the horizontal construction, inasmuch as the land to be utilized for actual construction would be lesser and there would be more open space. 84. The development plan also consists of the Chapters on “Land Use Zoning” and “Development Control Regulations”. In “Green Belt” areas, limited construction with one parking floor + one floor + habitable attic would be permitted for residential use only. It is further clear that the parking floor is permissible only where the plot of land has an access to the motorable road. The maximum permissible height shall be 10 metre. The maximum permissible FAR shall be 1.0. The setbacks norms as prescribed for R1 use in core area shall be applicable. Reconstruction on old lines shall be permissible with same plinth area and number of storeys. Cutting and felling of trees shall be prohibited. Change of land use and building use shall be prohibited. So also detailed provision has been made for heritage land use as well as core areas and non-core areas. 85. A special provision has been made for Sinking and Sliding Areas which reads thus: [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1021 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another “17.2.2.9. Sinking and Sliding Area i. The development permission shall be granted by the Competent Authority in whose jurisdiction the Sinking and Sliding Area falls. ii. The Regulations as applicable for Core/Green Area and Non-Core Area shall be applicable in Sinking and Sliding Area. iii. The Soil Investigation Report shall be submitted by the applicant before construction/reconstruction of building(s) for the areas falling in sinking and sliding zones as defined in Shimla Planning Area, or for any reclaimed piece of land. The Soil Investigation Report shall be given by the Geologist in the prescribed form.