We, therefore, find it difficult and unrealistic to exclude the State actions in contractual matters, after the contract has been made, from the purview of judicial review to test its validity on the anvil of Article 14.” (Emphasis supplied) 49. In Verigamto Naveen v. Govt. of A.P. & Ors. reported in (2001) 8 SCC 344 this Court held that where a breach of contract involves 568 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the decision-making authority exceeding its power or violating the principles of nature justice or its decision being borne out of perversity, then such cancellation of contract can certainly be scrutinized under the writ jurisdiction. This is because such an exercise of power by the authority is apart from the contract. The relevant observation reads as under: - “21. [...] Though there is one set of cases rendered by this Court of the type arising in Radhakrishna Agarwal case [(1977) 3 SCC 457 : AIR 1977 SC 1496] much water has flown in the stream of judicial review in contractual field. In cases where the decision-making authority exceeded its statutory power or committed breach of rules or principles of natural justice in exercise of such power or its decision is perverse or passed an irrational , this Court has interceded even after the contract was entered into between the parties and the Government and its agencies. [...] Where the breach of contract involves breach of statutory obligation when the complained of was made in exercise of statutory power by a statutory authority, though cause of action arises out of or pertains to contract, brings it within the sphere of public law because the power exercised is apart from contract. The freedom of the Government to enter into business with anybody it likes is subject to the condition of reasonableness and fair play as well as public interest. After entering into a contract, in cancelling the contract which is subject to terms of the statutory provisions, as in the present case, it cannot be said that the matter falls purely in a contractual field. Therefore, we do not think it would be appropriate to suggest that the case on hand is a matter arising purely out of a contract and, therefore, interference under Article 226 of the Constitution is not called for. This contention also stands rejected.” (Emphasis supplied) 50. Similarly in Binny Ltd. & Anr. v. Sadasivan & Ors. reported in (2005) 6 SCC 657 this Court in view of the increasing trend of the State and its instrumentalities to use contracts as a means for dispensing their regulatory functions, held that whenever a contract is used for [2024] 7 S.C.R. 569 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. a public purpose, it will be amenable to judicial review. The relevant observations read as under: - “30. A contract would not become statutory simply because it is for construction of a public utility and it has been awarded by a statutory body. But nevertheless, it may be noticed that the Government or government authorities at all levels are increasingly employing contractual techniques to achieve their regulatory aims.