The terms of reference (hereinafter referred to as ‘Tor’) given to the TEC were: a. To review and recommend the nature of sequencing of risk assessment (environment and health safety) studies that need to be done for all GM crops before they are released into the environment. [Tor A] b. To recommend the sequencing of these tests in to specify the point at which environmental release though Open Field Trials can be permitted. [Tor B] c. To advise on whether a proper evaluation of the genetically engineered crop/plants is scientifically tenable in the greenhouse conditions and whether it is possible to replicate the conditions for testing under different agro ecological regions and seasons in greenhouse. [Tor C] d. To advise on whether specific conditions imposed by the regulatory agencies for Open Field Trials are adequate. If not, recommend what additional measures/safeguards are required to prevent potential risks to the environment. [Tor D] 1906 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports e. Examine the feasibility of prescribing validated protocols and active testing for contamination at a level that would preclude any escaped material from causing an adverse effect on the environment. [Tor E] f. To advise on whether institutions/laboratories in India have the state-of-art testing facilities and professional expertise to conduct various bio safety tests and recommend mechanism to strengthen the same. If no such institutions are available in India, recommend setting up an independent testing laboratory/institution. [Tor F] 28.2. The interim report of the TEC was received on 07.10.2012. In this interim report the TEC stated: i. Three major issues were highlighted in the evaluation process which require attention: a) Apparent lack of qualified full-time personnel in the regulatory bodies: The TEC was not convinced that the regulatory bodies in their present form are in a position to rigorously evaluate all data that comes before them. Further, many of the field trials seem to have been delegated or left to the applicant (applying for approval to GEAC) and there is very limited mechanism to ensure compliance and accountability. b) Need for removing conflicts of interest c) Increasing inclusiveness of stakeholders with regard to decision making on GM products ii. All members unanimously felt that the present regulatory system and protocol(s) for conducting field trials was unsatisfactory and inadequate, requiring major changes, restructuring and strengthening. iii. Introduction of transgenics in crops for which India is a centre of origin or diversity will contaminate the biodiversity and it should not be allowed to happen. iv. Field Trials should be stopped until the above conditions are addressed. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1907 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. v. The TEC further recommends a 10 year moratorium on field trials of Bt transgenics in all food crops in accordance with the precautionary principle. 28.3. The final report of the TEC was received by this Court thereafter, wherein it was stated: (i) Bt technology involves engineering plants for insect resistance by incorporating the gene for the toxin within the plant’s genetic constitution, so that the plant becomes naturally resistant to the insect.