Accordingly, it was submitted that the SLP not being maintainable deserved outright dismissal. e) Observing that the issue requires deeper examination, a Bench of two Hon’ble Judges, vide the said dated 21st July, 2022, directed that the matter be placed before a three-Judge Bench. The relevant portion of the said is extracted hereunder: “According to the land-losers, rejection of challenge to the declaration of lapsing at the instance of Authority or State, would dis-entitle the other (i.e., Authority or State) to maintain successive petition against the same ; and especially where in the earlier round leave to appeal was granted by this Court and the appeal had been disposed of after hearing all concerned. In other words, the doctrine of merger is being invoked to buttress this preliminary objection. On the other hand, Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned Additional Solicitor General is relying on the observations/dictum of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Indore Development Authority vs. Manoharlal & Ors. reported in (2020) 8 SCC 129 to contend that the effect of the declaration or conclusion recorded therein is to efface all the s passed in the concerned special leave petition or civil appeal following the decision in Pune Municipal Corporation & Anr. Harakchand Misirmal Solanki & Ors. reported in 2014 (3) SCC 183 — which has been expressly overruled and as noted in paragraph 365 of the reported decision. (Indore Development Authority). It is urged that the effect of such overruling is to efface all the s, including passed by this Court relying on Pune Municipal Corporation (Supra). 1172 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports […] Suffice it to observe that these matters require deeper examination, for which the same need to be placed before the three Judge Bench for hearing on 17.08.2022.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 10. As observed above, it is by virtue of this that we now have the occasion to decide the issue raised by parties on both the sides. C. JUDICIAL TRAJECTORY 11. Having noticed the facts in the lead matter, we must at this stage acknowledge the predicament of being faced with a peculiar dusty situation where we are tasked not only to clear our path to adjudicate a similar issue on separate fronts but also to ensure that the law on this matter settles the dust so raised. This exercise would necessitate harmonising the different routes that we are bound to traverse to reach the same destination. Hence, notwithstanding the expense of reiterating the foregoing, it is imperative to navigate the broader judicial trajectory that has brought us to the current stage. a) Relying upon the decision of this Court in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and similar line of decisions, the High Court vide various s and s, allowed writ petitions filed by the several affected landowners (“landowners”, hereafter). b) Discontented, the aggrieved authorities [being the respondents in the writ petitions including DDA, GNCTD, Land Acquisition Collector (“LAC”, hereafter), and Land & Building Department (“L&B”, hereafter)] carried such s and s independently by way of their respective SLPs impleading the other, however, as a co-respondent.