(iii) In terms of the directions issued in Para 100.6, the High Court is directed to ensure compliance of the same and furnish information. (iv) In terms of the directions issued in Para 100.7, the High Court is directed to ensure compliance with respect to consultation 1114 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with the State Government for constitution of Special Courts and filling vacancies in the existing District Courts, and to furnish information on the steps taken to comply with the same. (v) In terms of the directions issued in Paras 100.8 and 100.9, it is noted that despite the identification of undertrial prisoners, sufficient steps have not been taken to ensure compliance by filing applications on their behalf under Section 440 of CrPC, in most districts. The High Court is directed to ensure compliance and furnish information on the same. (vi) In terms of the directions issued in Para 100.11, the High Court is directed to furnish complete information regarding the compliance of the directions in all districts and to take steps for compliance. (vii) The High Court is directed to identify judicial officers passing s in non-conformity with the directions issued by this Court in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra), in terms of the dated 02.05.2023 of this Court, and to provide details as to the actions taken against erring officers. (viii) To furnish information on whether the directions of Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC or not. 36. State of West Bengal -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1115 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. 36.1 High Court of Calcutta -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of the compliance of the directions issued in Para 100.2, the affidavit submitted highlights discrepancy in districts such as Alipore and Birbhum, wherein information highlights compliance of Sections 41 and 41-A of CrPC, however, bail is being granted due to non-compliance of the same in districts such as Alipore and Birbhum and the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar. Since the two conditions cannot co-exist, the High Court is directed to ensure uniform compliance and furnish information on the same. (ii) In terms of the directions issued in para 100.5, some districts have not complied with the same as per the information provided.