in furtherance of or in the discharge of his official duties. The official capacity only enables him to fabricate the record or misappropriate the public fund etc. It does not mean that it is integrally connected or inseparably interlinked with the crime committed in the course of the same transaction, as was believed by the learned Judge. Under these circumstances, we are of the opinion that the view expressed by the High Court as well as by the trial court on the question of sanction is clearly illegal and cannot be sustained.” 22. Even in D. Devaraja (supra) relied upon by learned counsel for respondent No. 2, this court referred to Ganesh Chandra Jew (supra) and held as follows: “35. In State of Orissa v. Ganesh Chandra Jew [State of Orissa v. Ganesh Chandra Jew, (2004) 8 SCC 40 : 2004 SCC (Cri) 2104] this Court interpreted the use of the expression “official duty” to imply that the act or omission must have been done by the public servant in course of his service and that it should have been in discharge of his duty. Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure does not extend its protective cover to every act or omission done by a public servant while in service. The scope of operation of the section is restricted to only those acts or omissions which are done by a public servant in discharge of official duty.” 440 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 23. Thus, this court has been consistent in holding that Section 197 Cr.PC does not extend its protective cover to every act or omission of a public servant while in service. It is restricted to only those acts or omissions which are done by public servants in the discharge of official duties. 24. After the hearing was over, learned counsel for respondent No.2 circulated a of this Court in A. Srinivasulu Vs. State Rep. by the Inspector of Police, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 900 in support of the contention that a public servant cannot be prosecuted without obtaining sanction under Section 197 of Cr.PC. We have carefully gone through the aforesaid decision rendered by a twoJudge Bench of this Court in A. Srinivasulu(supra). That was a case where seven persons were chargesheeted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for allegedly committing offences under Section 120B read with Sections 420, 468, 471 along with Sections 468 and 193 IPC read with Sections 13 (2) and 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (for short ‘P.C. Act, 1988’). Four of the accused persons being A-1, A-2, A-3 and A-4 were officials of Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, a public sector undertaking and thus were public servants both under the IPC as well as under the P.C. Act, 1988. Accused No.1 had retired from service before filing of the chargesheet. Insofar accused Nos. 3 and 4, the competent authority had refused to grant sanction but granted the same in respect of accused No.1. It was in that context that this court considered the requirement of sanction under Section 197 Cr.P.C qua accused No.1 and observed that accused No.1 could not be prosecuted for committing the offence of criminal conspiracy when sanction for prosecuting accused Nos.3 and 4 with whom criminal conspiracy was alleged, was declined.