The statement of objects and reasons of the Act makes this position clear. Jurisprudential aspect of vesting: 16. A discussion on the aforesaid provisions under the Act would indicate that the Custodian takes charge of the enemy property which vests in him by operation of law. Then the following questions would arise: [2024] 2 S.C.R. 905 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others (i) Does vesting of enemy property in the Custodian imply that the Custodian assumes ownership rights vis-à-vis enemy property vested in him? (ii) Secondly, whether the vesting of enemy property in the Custodian would imply that it becomes the property of the Union? These are the two crucial questions which are required to be answered in this case in to decide the matter in all its perspectives. 16.1 The expression ‘vest’ or ‘vesting’ has no precise definition and it would depend upon the context in which the expression is used under a particular enactment. This Court has held that the expression ‘vest’ is of fluid or flexible content and can, if the context so dictates, bear the limited sense of “being in possession and enjoyment”. (See: Maharaj Singh vs. State of Uttar Pradesh, (1977) 1 SCC 155) (Para 18)]. In Dr. M. Ismail Faruqui vs. Union of India, (1994) 6 SCC 360 : AIR 1995 SC 605, it was observed that the word ‘vest’ has to be understood in the different contexts in which the word occurs. In the context of acquisition of certain area under the Ayodhya Act, 1993, it was observed that the vesting of the disputed area in Central Government is limited, as a statutory receiver, with the duty of its management and administration. According to Section 7 of the said Act, till it is handed over in terms of the adjudication made in the suit, the word ‘vest’ takes varying colours from the context and the situation in which the word is used in the statute. Under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, vesting in the State, is from the date of taking possession under Sections 16 or 17(2) which is free from all encumbrances. But under the Land Reforms Act like abolition of estates and taking over thereof, the vesting takes effect from the date of publication of the notification in the official gazette until the occupant of the land is granted the occupancy rights. This is however not the position when enemy property vests in the Custodian under the provisions of the Act. The vesting of enemy property in the Custodian is not free from encumbrances. Therefore, the expression ‘vest’ has no fixed connotation. It is a word of variable input and therefore has to be understood in different contexts and under different circumstances. Therefore, the 906 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports context and situation in which the word is used in the statute is significant in to interpret the said expression. Under certain statutes, the word ‘vesting’ would mean placing into possession and not conferring ownership of the person who comes into possession of property.