It was contended by the appellant that she received some information about alleged misconduct and immoral activity going on in the CWSN (abbreviation for “Children with Special Needs”) Girls’ Hostel, Sehore (hereinafter referred to as the “hostel”) run by one Bright Star Social Society, a non-governmental organization (hereinafter referred to as “Bright Star”). The State Level Committee raided the hostel on a complaint made by the appellant. The State Level Committee found the allegations, made by the appellant to be true eventually leading to termination of the Memorandum of Understanding with Bright Star to run the hostel with effect from 08.01.2013. 6. On 09.01.2013, the appellant was made in-charge of the hostel. An was issued by the Sub-Divisional Officer and Magistrate, Sehore on 10.01.2013 to the District Coordinator, State Education Centre, Sehore to lodge a First Information Report against the warden under whose supervision the alleged crime(s) was/were being committed in the hostel. 7. By dated 14.01.2013, charge of the hostel was withdrawn from the appellant after 5/6 days of assigning the charge. The appellant received a Show-Cause Notice (hereinafter abbreviated to “SCN”) issued by the Respondent No.5 which reads as under1: “The attendance register was perused by the District Project Coordinator District Education Centre, Sihore under the above subject. Absent was marked on 4th and 5th January, 2013 by me in the attendance register. (sic) 1 For convenience, English translation is used. The original SCN was issued in Hindi. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 905 Swati Priyadarshini v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. Signatures were made by you in the said dates in the attendance register and your coming in the office at 12:00 hours on 14.02.13 is a negligence on your part towards duties and is violation of s of officer.” To the above, the appellant replied on 16.02.2013, stating that signatures have not been made by her on the attendance register. She stated that due to the arrival of her daughter from Bhopal on 14.02.2013, she was late on the said date. The appellant contended that whenever she comes late to work, she stays late in the office till evening 7-8 PM and completes all the work. 8. On 15.03.2013, another SCN was issued by the Respondent No.4 to the appellant with the following charges: "i. Marking of disabled boys/girls and verification of the specified list prepared by Social Justice was to be done by you for the execution of several activities through Arushi Institution but marking and verification was not done by you. ii. The proceedings of appointing volunteers and MRC are prevalent in the Arushi Institution. You are also nominated therein as representative of District Education Centre but due to your in-cooperative, obstruction and negligent attitude, the appointment on the said posts could not be made and due to this reason, the other activities including education is adversely being affected. iii. No report was submitted when the monitoring of CWSN hostel was done and what improvements were made. iv. Entry of unauthorized persons in the hostel is strictly prohibited and you being posted at a responsible post, it is your duty to ensure prohibition on the entrance of unwanted persons in the hostel but telling about this is very far and you yourself has tried to enter the hostel along with the crowd of outsiders.