02 as per PW14, and clothes he was wearing while returning as per PW20, were not produced in the court to be identified by these witnesses. It is not the case of the prosecution that these clothes were put to these two witnesses for identification thereof, which are alleged to have been worn by the Appellant at the time of commission of the offence. 27. As per the case of prosecution, the time of death of the deceased Gouri has got to be after 11:30 PM, as it has been held by the courts that it is the Appellant alone who had committed her murder. The body obviously would have been disposed of prior to 5 AM on 17.08.1989. It has come on record that the distance between the house of Accused No. 2 and the paddy field where the body was found is about 1 KM; in between there is a sawmill which runs 24 hours. If the case of the prosecution is to be accepted, according to which the Appellant had carried the dead body of the deceased Gouri on his shoulder from the house of Accused No. 02 to the paddy fields, [2024] 11 S.C.R. 509 Karakkattu Muhammed Basheer v. The State of Kerala someone would have most likely seen him on the way, especially when there was a running mill in between from where the Appellant is said to have crossed. This further raises a doubt with regard to the credibility of the case as has been projected by the prosecution. 28. In the light of the above, when tested upon the anvil of the principles and parameters laid down by this Court, as referenced earlier, the prosecution has miserably failed to indicate the involvement of the Appellant in the commission of the offence, what to say of establish, for which he was charged. The chain of circumstances which are being sought to be projected by the prosecution to be complete has glaring holes and significant gaps, which leads this Court to come to the conclusion that the prosecution has failed in its endeavour of bringing home the guilt against the Appellant. The case having not been proved what to say of beyond reasonable doubt against the Appellant, the impugned s cannot sustain and are set aside. 29. The Appellant is acquitted of all the charges. In case the Appellant has been released on bail, the bail bonds and the sureties, if any, are hereby discharged. The Appellant be set free forthwith. 30. The Appeal is allowed in the above terms. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain