98. The Union Government has also implemented several schemes aimed at empowering young girls and women, such as Sukanya Samridhi Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban & Rural), 129 Section 12(c), The Legal Services Authorities Act 1987, 130 ‘NALSA’ 131 ‘SLSA’ 132 ‘DLSA’ 133 See for example National Legal Services Authority (Child Friendly Legal Services to Children and their Protection) Scheme, 2024. 134 ‘ICPS’ [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1573 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, and Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY). These initiatives aim to promote social well-being and to create a supportive environment for young girls. Complementing these efforts are programs like Samagra Shiksha, the National Overseas Scholarship Scheme, Babu Jagjivan Ram Chhatrawas Yojana, and the Swachh Vidyalaya Mission, which focus on making schools girl-friendly, particularly for vulnerable sections of society. The Rajiv Gandhi Scheme for Empowerment of Adolescent Girls – SABLA, launched on November 19, 2010,135 in 200 districts, focuses on empowering adolescent girls (aged 11-18) by improving nutrition, health, and vocational skills. SABLA provides nutrition at Rs 5 per day for 300 days, iron and folic acid supplementation, health check-ups, nutrition and health education, family welfare guidance, and vocational training for girls aged sixteen and above under the National Skill Development Programme. It also raises awareness about the importance of marrying at the appropriate age. 99. To enhance the employability of female workers, the Ministry offers training through a network of Women’s Industrial Training Institutes, National Vocational Training Institutes, and Regional Vocational Training Institutes. Additionally, the Skill India Mission aims to ensure economic independence for women through skill development. 100. The Ministry implements the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme136, which specifically aims to address issues of gender inequality by promoting the education and welfare of girls. It targets high-risk districts with low child sex ratios and focuses on changing societal attitudes toward girls through awareness campaigns, community engagement, and promoting girl-friendly educational infrastructure. Additionally, the Union has established CHILDLINE, a 24/7 emergency outreach service for children in crisis, which coordinates with police and child protection services to address various issues, including child marriage prevention. 101. Despite these efforts, there remains a gap in implementing specific, targeted measures focused solely on the prevention of child marriage. Existing schemes, while impactful, do not provide sufficient tools to tackle child marriage comprehensively. For instance, while training and 135 See Rajiv Gandhi Scheme for Empowerment of Adolescent Girls: Sabla, https://www.india.gov.in/rajiv- gandhi-scheme-empowerment-adolescent-girls-sabla. 136 See https://www.myscheme.gov.in/schemes/bbbp. 1574 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports educational programs are vital, there appears to be a lack of robust mechanisms to monitor the long-term outcomes of these initiatives, particularly in rural and underserved areas where child marriage rates are often high. Additionally, while financial support is essential in empowering women, it may not always effectively reach the most vulnerable communities. Therefore, we direct that a special scheme be introduced, specifically focusing on skill development, vocational training, and economic stability for women and girls who choose to leave child marriages.