This is evinced by Section 30 sub-section (1), more particularly the expression “In any prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the part of the accused”. Furthermore, the aforesaid expression is of wide import and the words “prosecution for any offence under this Act” occurring therein would subsume and include any proceeding in respect of an offence under the POCSO would. (iii) Thirdly, even otherwise, the mere usage of words “Special Court” in the said provision can by no extent defeat or override the inherent powers that have been vested in the High Court by virtue of Section(s) 482 and 530 of the Cr.P.C. and BNSS, respectively. As such, the statutory presumption envisaged under Section 30 of the POCSO is applicable and can be invoked in any proceeding which involves an offence under the said Act that requires a culpable mental state, irrespective of the court where such proceeding is taking place. 194. It is a settled position of law that a statute is an edict of the legislature, the elementary principle of interpreting or construing a statute is to gather the mens or sententia legis i.e., the true intention of the legislature. It is trite saying that while interpreting a statute, the courts should strive to ascertain the intention of the Legislature enacting it, and it is the duty of the Courts to accept an interpretation or construction which promotes the object of the legislation and prevents its possible abuse. Thus, we are of the considered view that any other interpretation of the provisions of the POCSO and of the various issues that have been discussed by us in the foregoing paragraphs, would frustrate the very avowed and salutary object of the POCSO and its provisions. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 273 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. iv. Whether the case at hand was one fit for the High Court to quash? 195. The undisputed facts are that, during investigation two videos depicting children involved in a sexual activity were recovered from the mobile phone of the respondent no. 1. As per the FSL Report, the aforesaid two videos were last modified in the memory of the accused person’s phone on 05.09.2016 and 14.06.2019 respectively. The respondent no. 1 himself admitted before the High Court as recorded in the impugned that he was addicted to watching pornography. In what circumstances such statement come to be recorded by the High court is a mystery. Although, the FIR dated 29.01.2020 alleged offences under Section(s) 14(1) of the POCSO and 67B of the IT Act, yet in the chargesheet, the aforesaid offence under Section 14(1) of the POCSO was substituted and instead offence under Section 15(1) of the POCSO was alleged to have been committed. 196. The High Court in its Impugned whilst quashing the criminal proceedings arising out of the aforesaid chargesheet dated 19.09.2023 completely failed to advert to the actual charge that was alleged therein more particularly Section 15 sub-section (1) of the POCSO.