Also, it must be noted that there was no prior animosity or reason for discord. The events as they unfolded were the result of a spur-of-the-moment quarrel in which he also sustained grievous injuries. The right of private defence has also been pleaded as an alternate argument. Contentions on behalf of A-2 14. It was argued on behalf of A-2 that his presence at the scene of the crime was never established. Four limbs of A-1’s arguments, i.e., delay in lodging the FIR; almost all witnesses qualifying as “interested witnesses”; there being no enmity between the involved persons; and the lack of independent witnesses, were adopted by A-2. Submissions on behalf of the Respondent 15. The respondent has filed detailed submissions which attempt to discredit as a whole the submissions on behalf of the accused persons. In doing so, the State relied on various s from this Court. We have perused the written submissions filed and also examined the cases referred. 754 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Consideration and Conclusion 16. The question that we are called upon to decide is whether, in the sum total of facts, circumstances, and the law applicable, the convictions handed down to A-1 and A-2 are based on the standard of beyond reasonable doubt having been met and, therefore, are sustainable. 17. It would be apposite for this Court to consider the law on the various facets of the penal laws of the land, involved in this case. The Right of Private Defence 18. A-1 has contended that his actions were covered under the ambit of the right of private defence. The principle is best captured in the following words found in Russel on Crime, 11th Edition Vol.I “… a man is justified in resisting by force anyone who manifestly intends and endeavours by violence or surprise to commit a known felony against either his person, habitation or property. In these cases, he is not obliged to retreat, and may not merely resist the attack where he stands but may indeed pursue his adversary until the danger is ended and if in a conflict between them he happens to kill his attacker, such killing is justifiable”. 19. The right of private defence is not defined under the IPC. Whether under the circumstances of each case, such a right is available or not is determined within the said boundaries only. No test in the abstract can be laid down for determining whether a person legitimately acted in private defence. The law only provides that the person claiming such a right bears the onus10 to prove the legitimacy of the actions done in furtherance thereof and it is not for the Court to presume the presence of such circumstances or the truth in such a plea being taken. (See: Raghbir Singh & Ors. v. State of Haryana11.) The burden on the person pleading the right of private defence has been succinctly explained in James Martin v. State of Kerala12. This right has been held to be “very valuable, serving a social purpose” 10 Section 105 Indian Evidence Act 1872 11 [2008] 15 SCR 1108 : (2008) 16 SCC 33 12 [2003] Suppl.