Digital Supreme Court Reports actually payable in the manner specified under that sub-section and the period of one year shall be computed from the date of receipt of information under sub-section (5). (7) In computing the period of one year referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1) or five years referred to in sub-section (4), the period during which there was any stay by an of a court or tribunal in respect of payment of such duty or interest shall be excluded. (8) The proper officer shall, after allowing the concerned person an opportunity of being heard and after considering the representation, if any, made by such person, determine the amount of duty or interest due from such person not being in excess of the amount specified in the notice. (9) The proper officer shall determine the amount of duty or interest under sub-section (8),- (a) within six months from the date of notice in respect of cases falling under clause (a) of sub- section (1); (b) within one year from the date of notice in respect of cases falling under sub- section (4). (10) Where an determining the duty is passed by the proper officer under this section, the person liable to pay the said duty shall pay the amount so determined along with the interest due on such amount whether or not the amount of interest is specified separately. Explanation 1 – For the purposes of this section, “relevant date” means,- (a) in a case where duty is not levied, or interest is not charged, the date on which the proper officer makes an for the clearance of goods; (b) in a case where duty is provisionally assessed under section 18, the date of adjustment of duty after the final assessment thereof; (c) in a case where duty or interest has been erroneously refunded, the date of refund; [2024] 12 S.C.R. 303 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. (d) in any other case, the date of payment of duty or interest. Explanation 2. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that any non-levy, short-levy or erroneous refund before the date on which the Finance Bill, 2011 receives the assent of the President, shall continue to be governed by the provisions of Section 28 as it stood immediately before the date on which such assent is received.” 135. Parliament, therefore, made changes to the scheme of Section 28 and added the Explanation 2 which stated that any non-levy, short-levy or erroneous refund before the date of presidential assent to the Finance Bill, 2011 shall be governed by the provisions of Section 28 as it stood prior to the amendment. 136. On 06.07.2011, Customs Notification No. 44/2011 was issued under Section 2(34), which designated inter alia DRI officers as proper officers for the purposes of Sections 17 and 28 of the Act, 1962 and empowered such officers to perform functions under Section 28 including the function of issuing show cause notices. 137. Subsequently, on 16.09.2011, sub-section (11) of Section 28 came to be enacted vide the Validation Act.