Having considered the medical records, statement of the prosecutrix under Section 164 Cr.P.C. and other corroborating materials, a report under Section 173 Cr.P.C. was filed to prosecute the accused (appellant) under the aforesaid provisions of IPC. 9.1. Learned counsel further submitted that there were sufficient materials for the learned Sessions Judge to frame charges against the appellant. It is trite law that at the stage of framing charge, a full-fledged trial is not required. The court is required to take a prima-facie view based on the materials available on record as to whether the case is fit to stand trial. Trial court found sufficient material to frame charge against the appellant. The High Court while exercising revisional jurisdiction, examined the case in detail and found no merit in the application of the appellant. Appellant had committed rape on the prosecutrix on the false promise of marriage and threatening to make public her photographs. Thus, it is a fit case which comes within the ambit of the definition of rape under Section 375 IPC. Inducing a woman to have a sexual relationship on the basis of false promise of marriage would be rape within the meaning of Section 375 IPC. At this stage, the prosecution case is supported by the statement of the prosecutrix recorded under Section 164 Cr.PC. and other corroborating material. It is not a case where the trial should be nipped in the bud. At least a triable case is made out where the appellant would have all the opportunity to defend [2024] 7 S.C.R. 13 Shiv Pratap Singh Rana v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Anr. himself to prove his innocence. He, therefore, submits that no case is made out for interference by this Court in the impugned of the High Court and the appeal is liable to be dismissed. 10. After narrating the factual matrix, learned counsel for respondent No. 2 (prosecutrix) submits that appellant took advantage of the friendly nature of the prosecutrix in the context of appellant being the friend of her younger brother. Taking advantage of her vulnerability, appellant took private photographs of hers when she was changing her clothes after taking bath near a temple compound which they had visited together. Appellant later on showed such pictures to the prosecutrix and blackmailed her to indulge in a physical relationship with him. He threatened her that if she refused his demand, he would upload her private pictures on social media and also show them to her father. It is under such circumstances that the prosecutrix travelled with the appellant to Gwalior where he forced himself upon her in his tenanted premises. He asserts that compelling the prosecutrix to have intercourse with the appellant under the fear that he would leak her photographs would be in essence a consent vitiated by coercion. Such a consent is no consent at all. It is a clear case which would come within the ambit of the definition of rape. 10.1. To pacify the prosecutrix and to keep on exploiting her physically and mentally, appellant swore an affidavit on 28.09.2016 stating therein that he loved the prosecutrix and would take care of her under all circumstances.