It also provides that the evaluation committee shall have the right to reject all price bids if the rates quoted are not aligned to the prevailing market prices. 74. It is thus amply clear that the evaluation committee is empowered to consider, as to whether the rates quoted are aligned to the market price or not, and that the evaluation committee shall have the right to reject all the price bids if it finds that the rates quoted are not aligned to the prevailing market price. The s which are relied upon by the learned APTEL, specifically the dated 19th November 2018 of this Court, had specifically clarified that the State Commission was to decide the tariff under Section 63 of the Electricity Act having regard to the law laid down both statutorily and by this Court. 75. In this background, the State Commission was justified in considering clause 5.15 of the Bidding Guidelines, which specifically permits to reject all price bids if the rates quoted are not aligned to the prevailing market prices. 76. The contention that this Court has ed that the bids quoted by the bidders are to be accepted without going into the question of it being market aligned or not, in our view, is without substance. 77. If the contention of the respondent No.1-MB Power that the procurer is bound to accept all the bids emerged in a competitive bidding [2024] 1 S.C.R. 949 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited & Ors. process once the bidding process was found to be transparent and in compliance with the Bidding Guidelines is to be accepted, in our view, it will do complete violence to clause 5.15 of the Bidding Guidelines itself. If that view is accepted, the DISCOMS will be compelled to purchase electricity at a much higher rate as compared with other suppliers. The said higher rate will be passed on to the consumers. As such, accepting the contention of the respondent No.1 would result in adversely affecting the interests of the consumers and, in turn, would be against the larger public interest. For example, if in a bidding process for 1000 MW power, 10 persons emerged as “qualified bidders”. L-1 bidder quotes Rs.2 per unit for 100 MW power and L-2 bidder quotes Rs.2.25 per unit for another 100 MW power and from L-3 bidder onwards, they start quoting Rs.10 per unit and above for balance 800 MW power, could the public interest be subserved by compelling the procurer to buy balance 800 MW power at Rs.10 per unit and above when the prices quoted are totally not aligned to market prices. 78. We are, therefore, of the considered view that the learned APTEL has grossly erred in holding that the State Commission has no power to go into the question, as to whether the prices quoted are market aligned or not and also not to take into consideration the aspect of consumers’ interest. 79. When the Bidding Guidelines itself permit the BEC to reject all price bids if the rates quoted are not aligned to the prevailing market prices, there is no question of the State Commission being not in a position to go into the question, as to whether the rates quoted are market aligned or not, specifically, in the light of ample powers vested with the State Commission under Section 86(1)(b) of the Electricity Act, which also includes the power to regulate the prices at which electricity shall be procured from the generating companies, etc.