It is further put forth that difference in the value of the property in the year 1985 and 2009 also cannot be allowed to be raised, as it is alien to jurisprudence under Section 144 CPC. According to the learned counsel, the provisions contained in Section 144 CPC need to be read in correct perspective and restitution can be ed in appropriate case, when decree is set aside, but restitution is not the only way of compensating the party under Section 144 CPC. Laying emphasis on the words “restitution or otherwise” in Section 144 CPC, it is vehemently argued that the wordings clearly show such legislative intention that restitution is not the only way of compensating the party and the debtor can be granted relief by way of compensation or interest, in appropriate case. 8. Mr. K. Parameshwar learned counsel appearing for respondent no. 3 would submit that the said respondent had purchased the subject property vide sale deed dated 17.07.2009 as a bona fide purchaser for value. He would refer to the conduct of the appellant throughout [2024] 6 S.C.R. 633 Bhikchand S/o Dhondiram Mutha (Deceased) Through Lrs. v. Shamabai Dhanraj Gugale (Deceased) Through Lrs. the litigation including the execution proceedings wherein he did not prefer any appeal against the trial court’s decree nor against the confirmation of sale by the Executing Court. It is argued that the cases relied upon by the appellant/ debtor are in respect of reversal of decree whereas the present is one of variation of the decree and not of reversal. 9. Mr. Parameshwar would submit that the appellant/ debtor is not entitled for restitution, and he had no means to pay the reduced decretal amount, therefore, the sale was inevitable. Reference is made to Kuppa Sankara Sastri & Ors. Vs. Kakumanu Varaprasad & Anr.7 so also Lal Bhagwant Singh vs. Sri Kishen Das8 & South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. (supra). 10. It is next argued by Mr. Parameshwar that the appellant/ debtor is not entitled to restitution against respondent no. 3 who purchased the property from the decree holder. Reference is made to Chinnamal (supra) & Padanathil (supra). Alternatively, it is argued by Mr. Parameshwar that extent of variation in the decree/ is an important factor to be considered by the Court in view of the language employed in Section 144 CPC providing restitution will be made “so far as may be” in the context of “insofar as a decree is varied or reversed”. It is argued that the restitution to the debtor shall be in proportion to the variation/modification made in the decree so that equitable justice is done to subsequent purchaser as well. The conduct of the party and lapse of time from the date of variation of decree and when the restitution is going to be ed as well as the third-party interest are other factors which need to be considered while ing restitution. ANALYSIS 11. The statutory mandate for restitution is contained in Section 144 CPC which is reproduced hereunder: “144.