The information provided by NTA is detailed in this segment. 27. The process begins with the preparation of the question bank. From August to December 2023, experts were invited to the NTA office to create questions in workshop mode. These sessions took place in a restricted area, with the experts sealing their work daily to maintain the security and confidentiality of the content. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 67 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India & Ors. 28. The next phase involves the preparation, vetting, solving, and typing of the question papers. From 16 February to 28 February 2024, subject experts developed two independent sets of question papers under continuous CCTV surveillance. These papers underwent a rigorous vetting and solving process from 1 March to 7 March 2024, where feedback was collected, and necessary changes were implemented. The final versions of the question papers were then typed confidentially, with the question papers and answer keys lodged separately to prevent any breaches of security. 29. Following the preparation, the manuscripts were dispatched to two separate printing presses on 31 March 2024, adhering to stringent security protocols. Each press was tasked with producing twenty-four sets of question papers with randomized sequencing, overseen by two officers to ensure compliance with security measures. 30. Simultaneously, OMR sheets were printed at a different location and paired with the corresponding question papers which were then sealed in polythene covers to be accessible only to the candidates. These materials, totalling 72 booklets per batch, were then secured in cloth-lined envelopes, strapped, and placed in GPS-enabled trunks with electronic locks, which were monitored via real-time CCTV throughout the process. 31. The final stage involves the transportation and distribution of the question papers to the examination centres. The question papers for Hazaribagh, Jharkhand, were dispatched on 28 April 2024, via a private logistics company and transported in dedicated closed-body vehicles with electronic locks and GPS tracking. 32. The two different sets of question papers were stored in two separate custodian banks, in all cities: one set was stored in Canara Bank and the other in State Bank of India.7 Upon arrival at the custodian banks on 3 May 2024, the materials were stored in safety vaults. The papers were then transported from the banks to the examination centres using e-rickshaws. 33. On the day of the examination, city coordinators, appointed and authorized by the Director General of NTA are responsible for collecting the correct set of question papers from the custodian 7 “SBI” 68 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports bank. According to the procedure, the city coordinator is required to accompany both the centre superintendent and a neutral observer appointed by NTA. The NTA uses a mobile application to communicate to the city coordinators as to which set of papers should be taken, from either Canara Bank or SBI. The city coordinators collected the materials on 5 May 2024 from SBI, upon being intimated that the question papers from SBI were to be distributed to the students. 34. We were informed that the question paper trunks were stored in CCTV-monitored rooms and opened 45 minutes before the exam (at 1:15 pm), with the process witnessed and certified by two invigilators and two candidates.