Similarly, the term ‘community’ has been defined in the following terms: “anything constitutes a community; a common interest, a common language, a common government, is the basis of that community which is formed by any number of individuals; the coming together of many and keeping together under given law and for given purposes constitutes a society.”143 209. None of these definitions indicate that the terms exclude ‘private property’ from the provision. However, there is a distinction between holding that private property may form part of the phrase ‘material resources of the community’ and holding that all private property falls within the net of the phrase. It is here that the by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy, and the consequent observations in Sanjeev Coke fall into error. Justice Krishna Iyer cast the net wide, holding that all resources which meet “material needs” are covered by the phrase and any attempts by the government to nationalise these resources would be within the scope of Article 39(b). He clarified that not only the “means of production” but also the goods so produced fall within the net of the provision. The illustration which he provides in Ranganatha Reddy indicates the unworkable nature of such an interpretation. Justice Krishna Iyer observed, by way of an illustration, that not only do factories which produce cars fall within the net of Article 39(b), but even privately owned cars are covered by the provision.144 Similarly, even in Sanjeev Coke, the net is cast wide and this Court observed that “all things capable of producing wealth of the community” fall within the ambit of the phrase. In both decisions, it was observed that all resources of the individual are consequentially the resources of the community. 210. It is a settled rule of interpretation that no word in a statute may be construed as surplusage and be rendered ineffective. While construing a provision, full effect is to be given to the language used in the provision.145 This principle is equally applicable to constitutional interpretation. The provisions of the draft Constitution 143 Ramanathaier, Advanced Law Lexicon, 3rd Edition., Vol. III. 144 Ranganatha Reddy [81] 145 Hardeep Singh v. State of Punjab (2014) 3 SCC 92 [43-44] : 2014 INSC 21; Rohitash Kumar v Om Prakash Sharma (2013) 11 SCC 451 [27-29] : 2012 INSC 509 172 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports placed before the Constituent Assembly by Dr B R Ambedkar were debated at length. Often, members of the assembly would propose amendments which involved alternate phrasing of various provisions. These were debated thread-bare in the assembly before the members voted on the final text. As noted earlier in this judgement, the text of the present Article 39(b) was also the subject of debate and discussion. An amendment was proposed by Professor KT Shah, which sought an alternative phrasing of the provision. After detailed discussions, the assembly ultimately voted in favour of the current phrasing of the provision. Therefore, while interpreting the article, we cannot ignore the specific words used in the provision or render them ineffective.