iii. Whether the timely implementation of the Resolution Plan is also one of the objectives of the IBC, 2016? 150. The Preamble to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 reads as thus: “An Act to consolidate and amend the laws relating to reorganisation and insolvency resolution of corporate persons, partnership firms and individuals in a time bound manner for maximisation of value of assets of such persons, to promote entrepreneurship, availability of credit and balance the interests of all the stakeholders including alteration in the of priority of payment of Government dues and to establish an Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” (emphasis supplied) 151. The Report of the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee, 2015 (hereinafter, the “2015 Report”) also serves to provide valuable insight into the several purposes for which the Code was enacted. Upon highlighting the various benefits of a consolidated insolvency regime, the Report also emphasizes on the time-bound working of the Code. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “Speed is of essence Speed is of essence for the working of the bankruptcy code, for two reasons. First, while the “calm period” can help keep an organisation afloat, without the full clarity of ownership and control, significant decisions cannot [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2153 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. be made. Without effective leadership, the firm will tend to atrophy and fail. The longer the delay, the more likely it is that liquidation will be the only answer. Second, the liquidation value tends to go down with time as many assets suffer from a high economic rate of depreciation. From the viewpoint of creditors, a good realisation can generally be obtained if the firm is sold as a going concern. Hence, when delays induce liquidation, there is value destruction. Further, even in liquidation, the realisation is lower when there are delays. Hence, delays cause value destruction. Thus, achieving a high recovery rate is primarily about identifying and combating the sources of delay.” (emphasis supplied) The Report acknowledged that time and speed are of the essence for the working of the Code. It conceded that significant decisions cannot be made for the company without full clarity as to ownership and control. Therefore, the longer it takes for installing effective leadership, the quicker will be the rate of atrophy of the company. Over a period of time, this delay in taking control of the company will lead to liquidation being the only viable answer. In this context, if there is additional delay during the process of liquidation, the liquidation value might also reduce significantly since the company’s assets might suffer a high economic rate of depreciation. 152. We hasten to add that any delay in arriving at the conclusion that the company is to be liquidated is also detrimental to a Company, especially when the Company has long awaited timely and positive action from the successful resolution applicant as regards the implementation of the approved resolution plan.