[Para 74] Elections – Electoral Process – Use of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) – Case laws affirming the efficacy and use of EVMs in the elections, referred to. Elections – Electoral Process – EVM-VVPAT (Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail) mechanism – Suggestions as regards 420 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports counting of the VVPAT slips that instead of physically counting the VVPAT slips, they can be counted by a counting machine; and barcoding of the symbols loaded in the VVPATs may be helpful in machine counting: Held: Suggestions made may be examined by the ECI – These are technical aspects, which will require evaluation and study, and hence no comment made either way. [Para 71] Elections – Electoral Process – Conduct of Election Rules, 1961 – Voting by Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) – EVM- VVPAT (Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail) mechanism – Free and fair elections – Procedure and safeguards adopted by ECI to ensure free and fair elections and the integrity of the electoral process; features of EVMs; checks and protocols to ensure and ascertain the legitimacy and integrity of the EVMs and the election process; data on the performance of the EVMs; mechanics and safeguards embedded in the EVMs, discussed. Elections – Electoral Process – Use of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) – EVM-VVPAT (Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail) mechanism – Advantages – Enumerated. Conduct of Election Rules, 1961 – Part IV, Chapter II – Voting by EVMs – rr.49L, 49M (3), (6), 49(O), 49 (S), 56-D; Form 17A, 17C – Preparation of the voting machine by returning officer, arrangements at the polling station, admission to the polling stations, and preparation of voting machine for poll. Constitution of India – Article 32/226 – Writ petitions – Maintainability – Suspicion of infringement of a right, if adequate ground to invoke the writ jurisdiction: Held: Per Dipankar Datta, J. No – A writ petition ought not to be entertained if the plea is based on the mere suspicion that a right could be infringed – Suspicion that a right could be infringed and a real threat of infringement of a right are distinct and different – To succeed in a claim under Article 32 or 226, one must demonstrate either mala fide, or arbitrariness, or breach of a law in the impugned State action – Though a writ of right, it is not a writ of course – Writ jurisdiction u/Article 32/226 being special and extraordinary, should not be exercised casually or lightly on the mere asking of a litigant based on suspicions and conjectures, unless there is credible/trustworthy material on record to suggest that adverse action affecting a right [2024] 5 S.C.R. 421 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another is reasonably imminent or there is a real threat to the rule of law being abrogated – It must be shown, at least prima facie, that there is a real potential threat to a right guaranteed by law to the person concerned – Mere suspicion that there may be a mismatch in votes cast through EVMs, thereby giving rise to a demand for a 100% VVPAT slips verification, is not a sufficient ground for the present set of writ petitions to be considered maintainable.