Sub-section (2) thereof provides that where the State Government approves the development plan with modifications, it is again required to be published in the Official Gazette to invite objections and suggestions in respect of such modifications. The State Government is empowered to confirm the modification in the development plan after considering objections and suggestions and after giving a hearing to the persons desirous of being heard. 1002 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 47. It could thus be seen that Chapter-IV of the TCP Act provides for inviting objections and suggestions at two stages. Firstly, at the stage of Section 19 where the Director is required to invite objections and suggestions to the draft development plan and after giving an opportunity of being heard and considering the objections and suggestions, submit the development plan to the State Government. Under Section 20 of the TCP Act, a second opportunity of making objections and suggestions has been provided. Again, the State Government is required to give an opportunity of hearing to such objectors before granting final approval to the development plan. 48. A perusal of the scheme of the TCP Act and particularly Chapter-IV thereof would establish beyond doubt that the powers vested with the Director and the State Government are for enacting a piece of delegated legislation. 49. The distinction between the legislative function and administrative function is succinctly described by this Court in the case of Union of India and Another v. Cynamide India Ltd. and Another20, which reads thus: “7. The third observation we wish to make is, price fixation is more in the nature of a legislative activity than any other. It is true that, with the proliferation of delegated legislation, there is a tendency for the line between legislation and administration to vanish into an illusion. Administrative, quasi-judicial decisions tend to merge in legislative activity and, conversely, legislative activity tends to fade into and present an appearance of an administrative or quasi- judicial activity. Any attempt to draw a distinct line between legislative and administrative functions, it has been said, is “difficult in theory and impossible in practice”. Though difficult, it is necessary that the line must sometimes be drawn as different legal rights and consequences may ensue. The distinction between the two has usually been expressed as “one between the general and the particular”. “A legislative act is the creation and promulgation of a general rule of conduct without reference to particular 20 [1987] 2 SCR 841 : (1987) 2 SCC 720 : 1987 INSC 100 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1003 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another cases; an administrative act is the making and issue of a specific direction or the application of a general rule to a particular case in accordance with the requirements of policy”. “Legislation is the process of formulating a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases and usually operating in future; administration is the process of performing particular acts, of issuing particular s or of making decisions which apply general rules to particular cases.” It has also been said: “Rule-making is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class” while, “an adjudication, on the other hand, applies to specific individuals or situations”.