Further, the dwelling house was jointly purchased by the Appellant and the deceased and therefore there was no question of insisting to transfer the house in the name of Appellant. Neither the deceased, nor his 1036 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports family members have raised the grievance against alleged harassment before the authorities, until the suicide. Thus, the appellant states that all allegations are fake and frivolous. 6. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the ingredients essential for the offence under Section 306 IPC were clearly made out from the evidence collected during the investigation and as such the High Court has rightly dismissed the petition. 7. Having heard the arguments of both the counsels and after perusing the record, we find that the only question that needs to be determined in the instant case is whether the alleged conduct of the appellant- accused prima facie attracts Section 306 of IPC, to continue the proceedings of Trial Court against the appellant. Section 306 and Section 107 of IPC read as: “306. Abetment of suicide- If any person commits suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine. It must be read with Section 107 of IPC which explains the meaning of Abetment, which reads as: 107. Abetment of a thing- A person abets the doing of a thing, who— First.—Instigates any person to do that thing; or Secondly.—Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in to the doing of that thing; or Thirdly.—Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing. Explanation 1.—A person who, by wilful misrepresentation, or by wilful concealment of a material fact which he is bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to cause or procure, a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that thing. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1037 Rohini Sudarshan Gangurde v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. Explanation 2.—Whoever, either prior to or at the time of the commission of an act, does anything in to facilitate the commission of that act, and thereby facilitates the commission thereof, is said to aid the doing of that act.” 8. Reading these sections together would indicate that there must be either an instigation, or an engagement or intentional aid to ‘doing of a thing’. When we apply these three criteria to Section 306, it means that the accused must have encouraged the person to commit suicide or engaged in conspiracy with others to encourage the person to commit suicide or acted (or failed to act) intentionally to aid the person to commit suicide. 9. In S.S. Chheena v. Vijay Kumar Mahajan,2 this court explained the concept of abetment along with necessary ingredient for offence under Section 306 of IPC as under: “25.