The Court notes that the 1920 Act was then passed by the Central Legislature and the university of that type was established. 184. Thus, the Court held that the University was brought into existence by the 1920 Act for it could not have been brought into existence 2000 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports otherwise. Thus, the Court held that since AMU was not established by the minority, and therefore, the amendments of 1951 and 1965 cannot be struck down as being unconstitutional under Art. 30(1). 185. Finally, the Court in Azeez Basha [supra], analyses various provisions of the Act as it then existed and held that administration was also not vested in the Muslim minority rather it was vested in the statutory bodies created by the 1920 Act. It noted that only the ‘Court’ was minority only body in 1920 [amended in 1951], but the electors for some of the members included non-minorities. On the totality of the factors, the Court held that AMU was neither established nor administered by the minority. The remaining part of the considers the attack on other fundamental rights like Article 26 and Article 19, which may not be germane to the present enquiry. H.2 The rationale behind the findings 186. This Court has consistently held that the text, context and the totality of the factors, give actual meaning to a . In P.S. Sathappan v. Andhra Bank Ltd. & Ors., (2004) 11 SCC 672, this Court has held as follows: “144. While analyzing different decisions rendered by this Court, an attempt has been made to read the s as should be read under the rule of precedents. A decision, it is trite, should not be read as a statute. 145. A decision is an authority for the questions of law determined by it. While applying the ratio, the court may not pick out a word or a sentence from the divorced from the context in which the said question arose for consideration. A as is well-known, must be read in its entirety and the observations made therein should receive consideration in the light of the questions raised before it.” In Goan Real Estate & Construction Ltd. & Anr. v. Union of India, (2010) 5 SCC 388, it has been held as under : “What is more important is to see the issues involved in a given case, and the context wherein the observations were made by the Court while deciding the case. Observation made in a , it is trite, should not be read in isolation and out of context. It is the ratio of the , and not [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2001 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. every observation made in the context of the facts of a particular case under consideration of the court, which constitutes a binding precedent.” 187. The Court needs to conduct a careful exercise in ascertaining the true purport and meaning of a judgement. Both sides in the present case have to an extent tried to read the in Azeez Basha [supra] as per their own respective conveniences.