(3) Omitted (by Act 46 of 1999, w.e.f. 1.7.2002) (4) Where, in any case in which any respondent has under this rule filed a memorandum of objection, the original appeal is withdrawn or is dismissed for default, the objection so filed may nevertheless be heard and determined after such notice to the other parties as the Court thinks fit. (5) The provisions relating to appeals by indigent persons shall, so far as they can be made applicable, apply to an objection under this rule. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 33 Vaibhav Jain v. Hindustan Motors Pvt. Ltd. to any finding adverse to him as the decree is entirely in his favor and he may support the decree without his cross objection; the amendment made in the text of sub-rule (1), read with the explanation newly inserted, gives him a right to take cross-objection to a finding recorded against him either while answering an issue or while dealing with an issue. The advantage of preferring such cross-objection is spelled out by sub-rule (4). In spite of the original appeal having been withdrawn or dismissed for default the cross objection taken to any finding by the respondent shall still be available to be adjudicated upon on merits which remedy was not available to the respondent under the unamended CPC. In the pre- amendment era, the withdrawal or dismissal for default of the original appeal disabled the respondent to question the correctness or otherwise of any finding recorded against the respondent. 12. The fact remains that to the extent to which the decree is against the respondent and he wishes to get rid of it he should have either filed an appeal of his own or taken cross objection failing which the decree to that extent cannot be insisted on by the respondent for being interfered, set aside or modified to his advantage……” In respect of the power of an appellate court under 41 Rule 33 CPC, the Court, after observing that the true scope of the power could be best understood when read along with Rule 419. of 41, held: “15. Rule 4 seeks to achieve one of the several objects sought to be achieved by Rule 33, that is, avoiding a situation of conflicting decrees coming into existence in the same suit. The above said provisions confer power of the widest amplitude on the appellate court so as to do complete justice between the parties and such power is 19 41 Rule 4 CPC. – One of several plaintiffs or defendants may obtain reversal of whole decree where it proceeds on ground common to all. -- Where there are more plaintiffs or more defendants than one in a suit, and the decree appealed from proceeds on any ground common to all the plaintiffs or to all the defendants, any one of the plaintiffs or of the defendants may appeal from the whole degree, and thereupon the appellate court may reverse or vary the decree in favor of all the plaintiffs or defendants, as the case may be.