28. In the instant case, admittedly, the decree attained finality upon dismissal of second appeal on 7.11.2013, and, finally, SLP on 7.11.2016. In between, pursuant to the of the Execution Court dated 3.11.2016, as claimed by the respondents in their written submission, the balance sale consideration was deposited on 13.11.2016. Before that, the decree-holder(s) had promptly filed for execution of the decree immediately after expiry of 60 days from the date of the appellate court decree. Not only that, as no specific mode for payment/ deposit of the balance consideration was provided for in the decree, the decree holder(s) sought a direction from the Court to permit them to deposit the amount in Court so as to get the decree executed through its intervention. This application, however, remained pending as challenge to the decree was being considered by higher courts. In the meantime, as soon as the Second Appeal was dismissed, the decree-holder(s) applied for fresh permission to deposit the balance consideration. Ultimately, when permission was granted by the Execution Court, the deposit was made, as noted above. In these circumstances, the decree holder(s) had all throughout displayed their intention to pay the balance consideration and there appears no intentional or deliberate fault on their part so as to deprive them of the fruits of the decree. 29. The contention of the learned counsel for the appellant(s) that there was no proper prayer for condonation of delay in making the deposit [2024] 9 S.C.R. 15 Ishwar (Since Deceased) Thr. Lrs & Ors. v. Bhim Singh & Anr. of the balance consideration, or that there was no proper application for extension of time to make deposit, is unworthy of acceptance. Because, in the execution application itself, which was promptly filed after expiry of 60 days from the date of the appellate court decree, the decree holder had sought permission to make deposit. Not only that, the application filed after dismissal of second appeal also sought permission to make deposit. The prayer to extend the time to make deposit was therefore implicit in the prayer to permit the decree holder to make deposit of the balance consideration. In this view of the matter, we reject the submission of the appellants that as there was no proper application for extension of time to make deposit, the Court held no jurisdiction to extend the same. 30. In light of the discussion above and on an overall assessment of the facts, we are of the considered view that the respondents had all throughout shown their intention to pay the balance consideration for execution of the sale deed whereas the appellants appeared interested only in challenging the decree before higher Courts. In these circumstances, taking note of all the events, the Execution Court justifiably exercised its discretion in favour of the decree-holder(s) by allowing them to deposit the balance consideration. In our view, therefore, substantial justice has been done to the parties and if we interfere with the impugned only on the technical ground that the application was not dealt with as one on the original side, grave injustice would be caused to the decree holder(s).