66. It is a settled law that the Constitution of India does not permit the courts to direct or advise the Executive in the matters of policy or to sermonize qua any matter which under the Constitution lies within the sphere of Legislature or Executive. It is also settled that the courts cannot issue directions to the Legislature for enacting the laws in a particular manner or for amending the Acts or the Rules. It is for the Legislature to do so. 67. A Constitution Bench, in the case of Manoj Narula v. Union of India27, was considering various questions. One of the questions that has been considered was whether by taking recourse to the doctrine of advancing constitutional culture, could a court read a disqualification to the already expressed disqualifications either provided under the Constitution or under the Representation of People Act, 1951. Answering the question in the negative, the Court observed thus: “67. The question that is to be posed here is whether taking recourse to this doctrine for the purpose of advancing constitutional culture, can a court read a disqualification to the already expressed disqualifications provided under the Constitution and the 1951 Act. The answer has to be in the inevitable negative, for there are express provisions stating the disqualifications and second, it would tantamount to crossing the boundaries of judicial review.” 27 [2014] 9 SCR 965 : (2014) 9 SCC 1 : 2014 INSC 568 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1013 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another 68. This Court, in the case of Satpal Saini (supra), considered whether it was permissible for the High Court to call upon the State Government to amend the provisions of Section 118 of the Himachal Pradesh Tenancy and Land Reforms Act, 1972. The directions were issued by the High Court to the State Government to make amendment within 90 days. Allowing the appeal filed by the State Government, this Court held that the High Court, while issuing the above directions, acted in a manner contrary to the settled limitations on the power of judicial review under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. It held that the directions cannot be issued to the legislature to enact a law. The power to enact legislation is a plenary constitutional power which is vested in the Parliament and the State Legislatures. 69. It can thus be seen that it is a settled position of law that neither the High Courts while exercising powers under Article 226 of the Constitution nor this Court while exercising powers under Article 32 of the Constitution can direct the legislature or its delegatee to enact a law or subordinate legislation in a particular manner. If the High Courts and this Court, in their extra-ordinary powers under Articles 226 and 32 of the Constitution cannot do so, the answer to the question as to whether a Tribunal constituted under a statute, having a limited jurisdiction, can do so or not, would be obviously ‘No’.