10. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant strenuously argued that as per the prosecution story, four persons were involved in the crime and they were charge sheeted for the same offence; in the FIR, there was no specific role assigned to the appellant and all the accused played identical role; and after joint trial, two co- accused were acquitted of the offence under section 302 r/w 34 IPC. While so, the Sessions Court ought to have extended the benefit 6 Having heard learned counsel and perusing the records, we that the appellant be released on bail in Sessions Trial No. 208 of 1998 on the usual conditions to the satisfaction of the concerned trial court. The interlocutory application for bail stands disposed of. Hearing of the appeal expedited. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 775 Sandeep v. State of Uttarakhand of doubt and acquitted the appellant as well. The learned counsel further submitted that the appellant was acquitted of the charge under section 25/27 of the Arms Act arising out of the same crime, and hence, the offence under section 302 r/w 34 IPC is improbable. 10.1. Taking us through the evidence led by the prosecution, the learned counsel argued that the prosecution projected P.W.1 and P.W.2 as eye-witnesses to the occurrence; it is their deposition that they saw that the deceased was shot and got injuries, by which he was bleeding; and they took the deceased to hospital; but they did not get bloodstains on their clothes. That apart, the occurrence happened on 30.10.1997 at 9.45 p.m., however, source of light at the scene of crime was not mentioned in the FIR. Though P.W.1 and P.W.2 stated in their evidence that all the accused were armed with weapons in their hands, the FIR did not disclose as to which accused was in possession of which weapon and as to who shot the bullet. The fact of provoking and the fact of possession of the weapons by the accused persons were not mentioned in the statement recorded under section 161 Cr.P.C., which were also accepted by the Investigating officer in his deposition. Thus, it was submitted that these discrepancies / inconsistencies / contradictions in the case of the prosecution falsify the testimonies of P.W.1 and P.W.2 qua involvement of the appellant in the crime. 10.2. It was further argued by the learned counsel that the only eye- witness to the occurrence viz., Mangti - wife of the deceased and the Sub Inspector of Police, who conducted investigation, were not examined, which are fatal to the prosecution case. She further submitted that the motive for murder i.e., the accused demanding jaggery, the deceased denying the same and the accused committing the crime, appears to be very vague. Therefore, the learned counsel submitted that the prosecution has not established the charge framed against the appellant beyond reasonable doubt. Without analysing the evidence in proper perspective, the Sessions Court erroneously convicted the appellant alone and sentenced him for the offence under section 302 r/w 34 IPC, and the same was also affirmed by the High Court.