(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Court shall exercise the following powers and perform the following duties, namely:— (a) of making Statutes and of amending or repealing the same; (b) of considering Ordinances; (c) of considering and passing resolutions on the annual report, the annual accounts and the financial estimates; (d) of electing such persons to serve on the authorities of the University and of appointing such officers as may be prescribed by this Act or the Statutes; and (e) of exercising such other powers and perform such other duties as may be conferred or imposed upon it by this Act or the Statutes.” 55. It would be relevant to also note the amendment made to Statute making power under Section 27: “27. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Statutes may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: (a) the constitution, powers and duties of the authorities of the University; (b) the election and continuance in office of the members of the said authorities, including the continuance in office the filling of vacancies of members, and all other matters relative to those authorities for which it may be necessary or desirable to provide; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1785 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. (c) the appointment, powers, and duties of the officers of the University; (d) the constitution of a pension or provident fund and the establishment of an insurance scheme for the benefit of the officers, teachers and other employees of the University; (e) the conferment of honorary degrees; (f) the institution of fellowships, scholarships, studentships exhibitions, medals and prizes; (g) the withdrawal of degrees, diplomas, certificates and other academic distinctions; (h) the establishment and abolition of Faculties, Departments, Halls, Colleges and other institutions; (i) the conditions under which Colleges and institutions. may be admitted to privileges of the University and for the withdrawal of such privileges; (j) the establishment of High Schools and other institutions in accordance with the provisions of section 12; and all other matters which by this Act are to be or may be provided by the Statutes.” 56. Similar amendment was carried out to the Ordinance making power under Section 29, which was to the following effect: “29. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Statutes, the Ordinances may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: (a) the admission of students to the University and their enrolment as such; (b) the courses of study to be laid down for all degrees, diplomas and certificates of the University: (c) the award of degrees, diplomas, certificates and other academic distinctions, the qualifications for the same and the means to be taken relating to the granting and obtaining of the same; (d) the fees to be charged for courses of study in the University and for admission to the examinations, degrees, diplomas of the University; and 1786 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (e) the conditions of the award of fellowships, scholarships, studentships, exhibitions, medals and prizes; (f) the conduct of examinations, including the terms of office and manner of appointment and the duties of examining bodies.