10. Before proceeding further, we may observe that even though the Criminal Miscellaneous petition now stands withdrawn, this Court is aghast as to how the High Court, in its wisdom, saw it fit to grant a stay against proceedings qua the accused persons. It cannot be doubted that each and every person subjected to the criminal law of the country is taken to be innocent till proven otherwise, and this presumption extends till the very last moment. Nonetheless, the machinery cannot be ground to a halt in such a callous and unreasoned manner. A Court granting a stay of proceedings is not to grant a stay in a mechanical manner. The sum total of circumstances both for and against need to be examined to check as to whether a prima facie case for stay is made out or not, or in other words, whether the non-grant of stay is to somehow prejudice the party, etc. 11. When it comes to offences that infringe upon the dignity of a person, the responsibility cast on both the investigating and the adjudicatory authorities, in our considered view, is greater than usual or what is generally cast upon them in other circumstances. Both these authorities must show sensitivity to the issues involved, awareness of the social situations, a sensitivity to emotions evoked by the circumstances at play and a consciousness for time being the essence of action and lastly, but arguably the most importantly [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1131 Rajeev Kumar Upadhyay v. Srikant Upadhyay & Ors. the letter of the law and the balance of the scales of justice for the accused and the victim. 12. We are constrained to observe that this case demonstrates the exact opposite of what appears to us to be only natural and expected. The FIR, as extracted supra, records that the authorities did not heed the complainant’s request for the registration of an FIR and that recourse had to be taken to Section 156(3) of CrPC. A further peculiar situation came to be when out of the 13 accused persons, only one person, whose name incidentally did not feature directly as having acted against the victims physically or verbally, was sent up for trial i.e. Lakhpati Devi and those against whom direct allegations have been made in the complaint/FIR were let go scot-free. The chargesheet did not disclose any reason as to why the investigating authorities adopted such a course of action. It is a matter of record that on the basis of the very same material collected during the investigation, the learned ACJM found it fit to send all accused persons to trial, taking the opposite view as put forth in the chargesheet. This leads us to question how can one set of materials elicit such diametrically opposite courses of action. 13. It is a well-acknowledged fact that the States and the Union Government are the biggest litigators before the High Courts and this Court. Numerous cases are filed by State parties everyday. There may be various reasons as to why the States choose to litigate various issues and topics before the Court, but the overarching purpose of any action of the State should be the welfare of the people.