7. Secondly, the amended provision now mandates that Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 shall be meticulously followed, whereunder there is a prohibition on disclosing the identity of a child in conflict with law or a child in need of care and protection or a child victim or a witness of a crime through a report etc. 8. The amended Standing further clarifies that ‘History Sheet’ is an internal police document and not a publicly accessible report. It has cautioned the police officers that care must be taken to ensure that identities of only those minor relatives are entered in the History Sheet against whom evidence exists that such minor had earlier afforded shelter to the offender, while he was on the run from the 932 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports police. The safeguard with regard to the details of phone numbers, Aadhar Card, EPIC number, e-mail I.D., social media accounts etc., have also been suggested in the amended Standing . 9. It seems that so far as the case in hand is concerned, the decision taken by the respondents to the effect that the History Sheet is only an internal police document and it shall not be brought in public domain, largely addresses the concern expressed by us in the beginning. Secondly, the extra care and precaution, to be now observed by a police officer while ensuring that the identity of a minor child is not disclosed as per the law too, is a necessary step to redress the appellant’s grievances. It will surely prevent the undesirable exposure that has been given to the minor children in this case. 10. All that we propose to direct the police authorities is that the amended Standing dated 21.03.2024 be given effect forthwith in the appellant’s case also. 11. In addition, we also direct the Commissioner of Police, Delhi to designate a senior police officer, in the rank of Joint Commissioner of Police or above, who shall periodically audit/review the contents of the History Sheets and will ensure confidentiality and a leeway to delete the names of such persons/juvenile/children who are, in the course of investigation, found innocent and are entitled to be expunged from the category of “relations and connections” in a History Sheet. 12. It goes without saying that if a Police Officer of Delhi Police is found to have acted contrary to the amended Standing and or the directions given herein above, prompt action against such delinquent officer shall be taken. 13. The impugned of the High Court dated 19.01.2023 stands modified and the instant criminal appeal is disposed of in the above terms. 14. Having partially addressed the grievance of the appellant, we now, in exercise of our suo motu powers, propose to expand the scope of these proceedings so that the police authorities in other States and Union Territories may also consider the desirability of ensuring that no mechanical entries in History Sheet are made of innocent individuals, simply because they happen to hail from the socially, economically and educationally disadvantaged backgrounds, along [2024] 5 S.C.R.