5. The narrative put forward by the prosecution is that on the date of incident both the accused and deceased Gouri were at the house of Accused No. 02. An altercation occurred between the Appellant and the deceased with reference to Appellant’s relationship with Accused No. 02. It is alleged that during this confrontation, Appellant grabbed a coconut scrapper from the kitchen and hit Gouri on the head multiple times, leading to her death. The prosecution has further projected that the Appellant dragged the body out of the room and thereafter carried it outside the house to the paddy field, which is about 1KM away, where it was left. He then came back to the house of Accused No. 2 and left for his destination the following morning. 6. The Learned Senior Counsel for the Appellant contends that the case is solely based upon circumstantial evidence, with no eyewitness to the occurrence of the incident. He asserts that the courts below have misread the evidence and misguided themselves in coming to the conclusion that the prosecution established a convincing chain of circumstances based on material evidence and witnesses, leading to the Appellant’s conviction and sentence. He argues that there exist glaring gaps in the evidence produced by the prosecution, creating a doubt regarding the incident much less the Appellant’s involvement in the alleged offense. 7. He further submitted that for the prosecution to establish a case based on circumstantial evidence, must complete the chain of events that leads to an inescapable conclusion of accused’s guilt, with no room for alternative explanation(s). He points out several shortcomings in the evidence presented by the prosecution with regard to the sequential occurrence of the incident and circumstances surrounding the death of Gouri. He has highlighted the said aspects with reference to the evidence including deposition and cross examination of the witnesses. Consequently, he asserts that the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the Appellant beyond reasonable doubt. Prayer has thus been made for allowing the present Appeal and acquittal of the Appellant. 502 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 8. On the other hand, the Learned Counsel for the State has made an effort to explain out the circumstances supporting the prosecution’s case based on evidence led by the prosecution. He thus supported the findings of the courts below as also the conviction and sentence awarded to the Appellant. He prays for dismissal of the present Appeal. 9. Having heard the Learned Counsel for the parties and with their assistance having gone through the evidence carefully as presented by the prosecution, it is apparent and has not been disputed that there is no eyewitness of the incident in question, and therefore, the case of the prosecution is solely based upon circumstantial evidence. This casts an enhanced burden on the prosecution to demonstrate an unbroken chain of events that establishes the accused’s guilt for the alleged offense. The prosecution is required to prove that there is continuity in the sequence of events leading to an ultimate conclusion of offense being committed by the accused and no one else.