It further observed that, since the notice of cancellation dated 07.02.2023 specifically provided the reasons for cancelling the tender i.e., the technical faults found in the tender that [2024] 7 S.C.R. 547 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. was floated, there was no element of arbitrariness in the said action. The relevant observations read as under: - “11. [...] The effect of the administrative decision was reiterated in the stop-work request of 24.01.2023 where the reason given for the stop-work was also the “changed scenario” of handover of the maintenance work of E.M. Bypass to KMC from KMDA. Hence, the reason for the stop-work and the impugned cancellation is a change of policy for administrative convenience simpliciter. xxx xxx xxx 18. In the present case, the impugned cancellation of 07.02.2023 cannot be described as a bolt from the blue since the petitioner was put on notice of the impending change in circumstance on 24.01.2023 where the reason for the change was also conveyed to the petitioner. The dated 01.12.2022 of the Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Department stating that the maintenance of the E.M. Bypass would be handed over from the KMDA to KMC provides the rationale for the impugned cancellation. Seen in this backdrop, it cannot be said that the impugned letter of cancellation of the tender /work was issued with an ulterior motive or for extraneous considerations. In fact, the letter of cancellation provides further reasons, namely, that the tender has been found to be non-specific and having technical faults. This would also be borne out from clauses 10 and 14 of the Special Terms and Conditions of the tender document which give rise to conflicting interpretations on the placement of the signboards. Hence, besides the administrative decision to hand over the maintenance of E.M. Bypass from KMDA to KMC, the respondent KMDA as the tendering 548 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports authority, has a right to rectify the ambiguities in the bid document by cancelling the same.” (Emphasis supplied) (ii) Secondly, the appellant could not have redressed his grievances by invoking the writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution, as there was no failure of any statutory duty or public law element involved. Moreover, since the relief sought was essentially in the nature of specific performance, it could have been prayed for only under ordinary civil law and not by way of a writ petition. The relevant observations read as under: - “20. It is well settled that a contractual dispute with a public law element would be amenable to writ jurisdiction. The present dispute however arises out of a private contract for maintenance of underpasses in the E.M. Bypass and advertisement rights over certain spaces within the contracted area. The rights following out of the contract are purely private in nature and there is nothing to show that the performance of the contract or the consequence therefrom would affect the public at large or even a sizeable section of the public.