He submitted that the appellant is the only surviving biological parent of the minor daughter Sugandha Das. He submitted that the appellant is a natural guardian of the minor child Sugandha Das, whereas respondent Nos. 5 and 6 are neither the legal guardian nor have any legal right or authority over the minor girl Sugandha Das. He further submitted that the appellant, who is a natural guardian, cannot be made to run from pillar to post to seek custody of his own child. He submitted that the view taken by the High Court is contrary to the law laid down by this Court in the case of Tejaswini Gaud and Others v. Shekhar Jagdish Prasad Tewari and Others.1 6. Shri Agrawal further submitted that it is also in the interest of the minor child Sugandha Das to stay with her father who is stationed in Delhi whereas respondent Nos. 5 and 6 are residing in a small village Belda in West Bengal. He submitted that the minor child Sugandha Das would also be deprived of the company of her biological brother. 7. Shri Agrawal, relying on various photographs, submitted that the minor child Sugandha Das has gelled well with the appellant, his son and his wife. The learned counsel therefore pressed for quashing and setting aside of the impugned passed by the High Court with 1 [2019] 7 SCR 335 : (2019) 7 SCC 42 : 2019 INSC 630 456 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a direction to the respondents to immediately hand over the custody of the minor child Sugandha Das to the appellant. 8. Shri Sharma, learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent Nos. 5 and 6 submitted that the appellant, having withdrawn the petition filed under the Guardian and Wards Act, 1890, could not have filed a habeas corpus petition before the High Court. It is submitted that the appellant and his family members were ill-treating Late Ms. Subrata Das, first wife of the appellant. It is submitted that it is the appellant who had handed over the custody of the minor child Sugandha Das voluntarily to respondent Nos. 5 and 6. In the written submissions, various other allegations have also been made by respondent Nos. 5 and 6 against the appellant. The learned counsel has relied on the s of this Court in the cases of Dr. (Mrs.) Veena Kapoor v. Shri Varinder Kumar Kapoor,2 Nirmala v. Kulwant Singh and Others3 and Athar Hussain v. Syed Siraj Ahmed and Others.4 9. Before we come to the facts of the present case, it would be apposite to refer to the observations of this Court in the case of Tejaswini Gaud (supra), wherein this Court was considering almost similar facts as have arisen in the present case. In the said case also, after the marriage, the wife was detected with breast cancer and the husband had fallen ill with Tuberculosis Meningitis and Pulmonary Tuberculosis. While the husband was undergoing treatment, one of the sisters of the wife and her husband took the minor child Shikha and her ailing mother to their residence at Mumbai.