19. We have noticed that the Bengal Engineering Group Benevolent Trust is the aggrieved party, but appeal has not been preferred by it. We are of the opinion that the appellants cannot be said to be aggrieved persons and appeal at their behest is not maintainable. 20) The affairs of Bengal Engineering Group and Center come within the control of the Ministry of Defence, Union of India. Deputy Commandant has no authority to engage a private lawyer without the permission of Union of India. The purpose of granting permission to engage a private lawyer is also a serious issue, but for the reasons best reason to the officer concerned a private lawyer has been appointed by the appellant herein, which is discharging a public duty, to contest the aforementioned matters. Deputy Commandant of Bengal Engineering Group and Center holding a post in the Indian Army, which comes within the control of Ministry of Defence, Union of India ought not to have engaged a private lawyer without permission of the Union of India. 21) We find no illegality, perversity or jurisdiction error in the impugned passed by learned Single Judge dated 05.08.2012, allowing the writ petition, filed by the teaching and non- teaching staff of the Institution. Since the record of the writ petitions which were pending before the learned Single Judge were called by this Court considering the common question involved in the special appeals as well as in the writ petitions which were pending before the learned single judge, we are of the view that aforementioned special appeals are liable to be dismissed. The same are hereby dismissed. The writ petitions mentioned aforesaid are also disposed of accordingly as the relief sought in the writ petitions has already been adjudicated in the appeals.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2199 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. G. ANALYSIS 21. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court was justified in entertaining the writ petition filed by the respondents herein under Article 226 of the Constitution against the appellant society? 22. From the materials on record, the following is discernible:- 1) In 1962, the Commandant of Bengal Engineering Group and Centre (“BEGC”), by virtue of his position as ex officio Chairman of the Bengal Engineering Group Benevolent Trust (“BEGBT”) granted land to the Institute of Brothers of St Gabriel’s (“IBSG”), an unaided private minority society, for running a school. 2) On 13.07.1967, the BEGBT executed a formal lease agreement with IBSG with respect to the land situated at Cantonment B-31, including the School Building, playground and Bungalow No.1, for the establishment of a Higher Secondary School under the Board of All India Higher Secondary School in Delhi, or any other similar Government Board. The school so formed was named as the Bengal Sappers St Gabriel’s Academy, Roorkee (“BSSGA”). 3) On 29.04.1983, the Army Welfare Education Society was registered under the Societies Registration Act.