18. We say so because Article 300-A of the Constitution states that no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law. The word “law” is with reference to an Act of Parliament or of a State Legislature, a rule or a statutory having the force of law. Although, to hold property is not a fundamental right, yet it is a constitutional right. The expression person in Article 300-A covers not only a legal or juristic person but also a person who is not a citizen of India. The expression property is also of a wide scope and includes not only tangible or intangible property but also all rights, title and interest in a property. Deprivation of property may take place in various ways, but where there is only control of property short of deprivation would not entail payment of compensation vide Indian Handicrafts Emporium vs. Union of India, (2003) 7 SCC 589, (Paras 109 and 111) and Chandigarh Housing Board vs. Major-General Devinder Singh (Retd. ), (2007) 9 SCC 67, (Para 11). However, deprivation of property is to be distinguished from restriction of the rights following from ownership, which falls short of dispossession of the owner from those rights. Deprivation also takes within its nomenclature acquisition in accordance with law and not without any sanction of law. Before a person can be deprived of his right to property, the law must expressly and explicitly state so. Thus, the expression by authority of law means by or under a law made by the competent Legislature. 18.1 In KT Plantation Pvt. Ltd. vs. State of Karnataka, (2011) 9 SCC 1, it was observed that though the right to claim compensation or the obligation of the State to pay [2024] 2 S.C.R. 917 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others compensation to a person who is deprived of his property is not expressly included in Article 300-A of the Constitution, it is in-built in the Article. Within the scope of Article 300-A the doctrine of eminent domain could also be read inasmuch as the said doctrine states that the acquisition of property must be in the public interest and there must be payment of just and fair compensation therefor. When acquisition of property takes place either under the Land Acquisition Act, 1984 or the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, it is always for a public purpose and on payment of compensation to the owner of the said property. The State then possesses the power to take control of the property of the owner thereof for the benefit of the public and when the State so acts it is obliged to compensate the owner upon making just compensation as the owner of the property would lose all his rights vis-à-vis the acquired land. 18.2 However, this position has to be distinguished vis-à-vis the Custodian for Enemy Property under the Act, as he takes possession of the enemy property only for the purpose of managing the same as per the provisions of the Act and does not become the owner of the property inasmuch as the ownership of the property from the enemy or enemy subject or enemy firm does not get transferred to the Custodian.