Articles 124 (2), 217(1)). Impliedly, this Court held that the duty of consultation is intertwined with the exercise of power itself, and such power can be exercised only in consultation with the person or persons designated under the relevant provisions of the Constitution. Hence, it was held that if the Rules empowered the Governor to appoint a person as District Judge in consultation with a person or authority other than the High Court, the appointment would not be in accordance with the provisions of Article 233. The Court observed as follows: “We are assuming for the purpose of these appeals that the “Governor” under Art. 233 shall act on the advice of the Ministers. So, the expression “Governor” used in the means Governor acting on the advice of the Ministers. The constitutional mandate is clear. The exercise of the power of appointment by the Governor is conditioned by his consultation with the High Court, that is to say, he can only appoint a person to the post of district judge in consultation with the High Court. The object of consultation is apparent the High Court is expected to know better than the Governor in regard to the suitability or otherwise of a person, belonging either to the “judicial service” or to the Bar, to be appointed as a district judge. Therefore, a duty is enjoined on the Governor to make the appointment in consultation with a body which is the appropriate authority to give advice to him. This mandate can be disobeyed by the Governor in two ways, namely, (i) by not consulting the High Court at all, and (ii) by consulting the High Court and also other persons. In one case he directly infringes the mandate of the Constitution and in the other he indirectly does so, for his mind may be influenced by other persons not entitled to advise him. That this constitutional mandate has both a negative and [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1173 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors positive significance is made clear by the other provisions of the Constitution. Wherever the Constitution intended to provide more than one consultant, it has said so: see Arts. 124(2) and 217(1). Wherever the Constitution provided for consultation of a single body or individual it said so: see Art. 222. Art. 124(2) goes further and makes a distinction between persons who shall be consulted and persons who may be consulted. These provisions indicate that the duty to consult is so integrated with the exercise of the power that the power can be exercised only in consultation with the person or persons designated therein. To state it differently, if A is empowered to appoint B in consultation with C, he will not be exercising the power in the manner prescribed if he appoints B in consultation with C and D.” (emphasis added) 62. In matters of appointment of judicial officers, the opinion of the High Court is not a mere formality because the High Court is in the best position to know about the suitability of candidates to the post of District Judge.26 The Constitution therefore expects the Governor to engage in constructive constitutional dialogue with the High Court before appointing persons to the post of District Judges under Article 233.