However ordinarily “commercial purpose” is understood to include manufacturing/industrial activity or business-to-business transactions between commercial entities. The purchase of the goods should have a close and direct nexus with a profit generating activity. It has to be seen whether the dominant intention or dominant purpose for the transaction was to facilitate some kind of profit generation for the purchaser and/or their beneficiary. If it is found that the dominant purpose behind purchasing the goods was for the personal use and consumption of the purchaser and/or their beneficiary, or was otherwise not linked to any commercial activity, the question of whether such a purchase was for the purpose of “generating livelihood by means of self-employment” need not be looked into. Again, the said determination cannot be restricted in a straitjacket formula and it has to be decided on case-to-case basis. I. CIVIL APPEAL NO. 353 OF 2008 17. So far as the CA No. 353/2008 is concerned, it appears that as per the case of the respondent no. 1 (original complainant), it had purchased two cars for the use by its Whole-time Executive Directors as part of their perquisites and the said high priced luxury cars were in fact being used by them for their personal use and for the use of their immediate family members. It was strenuously urged by the learned senior counsel Ms. Arora for the appellant that if the car in question was purchased by the respondent no. 1 for the personal use of its Director, it must carry a requisite form attested by the Chartered Accountant along with the Income Tax returns of the concerned Director, and since such document or form having never been submitted and produced before the Commission, it was required to be presumed that the car was purchased by the respondent no. 1-company for its commercial purpose. Such a submission could not be accepted. It is trite to say that when a consumer files a complaint alleging defects in the goods purchased by him from the opponent seller, and if the opponent-seller raises an objection with regard to the maintainability of the consumer complaint on the ground that the goods in question were purchased by the complainant-buyer for its 430 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports commercial purpose, the onus to prove that they were purchased for “commercial purpose” and therefore, such goods would fall outside the definition of “consumer” contained in Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, would be on the opponent-seller and not on the complainant- buyer. In the instant case, it has been specifically asserted by the respondent-complainant that the car in question was purchased by it for the personal use of its Whole-time Director and for his immediate family members, and the dominant purpose of purchasing the car was to treat it as a part of the perquisite to the Director. There is nothing on record worth the name to show that the said car was used for any commercial purpose by the respondent-complainant. Even if it is presumed that the respondent-complainant company had taken benefit of deduction available to it under the Income Tax Act, nonetheless in absence of any material placed on record to suggest that such purchase of car had a nexus or was linked to any profit generating activity of the company, it could not be said that such a high-priced luxurious car was purchased by the respondent no.