1034 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (6) Every transfer of land under this section shall be either on free hold basis or on lease hold basis. (7)Any land sold, allotted, regularized or otherwise transferred on lease hold basis may be converted in free hold basis subject to such terms and conditions, and on payment of such conversion charges, as may be prescribed. Explanation. - For the purposes of tins section, “free hold” means tenure in perpetuity with right of inheritance and alienation. Validation. - Notwithstanding anything contained in any , decree or or finding of any court, tribunal or Authority to the contrary, any action, thing or taken, done or made under and in accordance with the provisions relating to acquisition of land contained in the Rajasthan Urban Improvement Act, 1959, shall be deemed to be valid and effective as if such action, thing or has been made, taken or done under the said Act as amended by this Act.” [Emphasis supplied] 68. The present case is squarely covered by Section 60A(4) as the Nangli Kota lands were already deemed to be vested in the State after the notification under Section 52(1) was published. While sub-section (4) puts an embargo on the challenge to an acquisition on the ground of non-payment of compensation, it is accompanied with a proviso that the compensation must be paid within six months from 01.08.1987. It is worth noting that neither the State Government nor the appellant Trust deposited the amount towards compensation to be paid to the respondents within a period of 6 months. In fact, there was an inordinate delay of almost 10 years in depositing the compensation amount in the reference court. Further, no reason worth the name has been provided by the State Government and the appellant Trust for such delay. We are of the view that the contention of the appellant Trust regarding the delay in the payment of compensation due to parallel proceedings before the revenue authorities, cannot be accepted. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1035 Urban Improvement Trust v. Smt. Vidhya Devi and Ors. 69. This Court in the case of Ultra-Tech Cement Ltd. v. Mast Ram, reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 2598 has held that the right to property is to be considered not only a constitutional or statutory right but also a human right and therefore, time is of the essence in determination and payment of compensation by the State, otherwise there would be a breach of Article 300A of the Constitution. The relevant para of the is reproduced below: “46. This Court has held in Dharnidhar Mishra (D) and Another v. State of Bihar and Others, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 932 and State of Haryana v. Mukesh Kumar, (2011) 10 SCC 404 that the right to property is now considered to be not only a constitutional or statutory right, but also a human right. This Court held in Tukaram Kana Joshi and Ors. thr. Power of Attorney Holder v. M.I.D.C. and Ors., (2013) 1 SCC 353 that in a welfare State, the statutory authorities are legally bound to pay adequate compensation and rehabilitate the persons whose lands are being acquired.