2. No court other than that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class shall try any offence punishable under this Act. 3. Where a complaint has been made under clause (b) of subsection (1), the court may, on demand by such person, direct the appropriate authority to make available copies of the relevant records in its possession to such person. 9. Section 30(1) deals with the power to search and seize records, which reads thus: “30. Power to search and seize records, etc. – (1) If the Appropriate Authority has reason to believe that an offence under this Act has been or is being committed at any Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic or any other place, such Authority or any officer authorised thereof in this behalf may, subject to such rules as may be prescribed, enter and search at all reasonable times with such assistance, if any, as such authority or officer considers necessary, such Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic or any other place and examine any record, register, document, book, pamphlet, advertisement or any other material object found therein and seize and seal the same if such Authority or officer has reason to believe that it may furnish evidence of the commission of an office punishable under this Act. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..” (emphasis added) 404 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. The condition precedent for the search of a clinic is that the Appropriate Authority must have reason to believe that an offence under the 1994 Act has been or is being committed. The Appropriate Authority, as defined under Section 2(a), is the Appropriate Authority appointed under Section 17. Sub-sections (1) to (3) of Section 17 read thus: - “17. Appropriate Authority and Advisory Committee. - 1. The Central Government shall appoint, by notification in the Official Gazette, one or more Appropriate Authorities for each of the Union territories for the purposes of this Act. 2. The State Government shall appoint, by notification in the Official Gazette, one or more Appropriate Authorities for the whole or part of the State for the purposes of this Act having regard to the intensity of the problem of pre- natal sex determination leading to female foeticide. 3. The officers appointed as Appropriate Authorities under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be,— (a) when appointed for the whole of the State or the Union territory, consisting of the following three members:- i) an officer of or above the rank of the Joint Director of Health and Family Welfare - Chairperson; ii) an eminent woman representing women’s organization; and iii) an officer of Law Department of the State or the Union territory concerned: Provided that it shall be the duty of the State or the Union territory concerned to constitute multimember State or Union territory level appropriate authority within three months of the coming into force of the Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation and Prevention of Misuse) Amendment Act, 2002: Provided further that any vacancy occurring therein shall be filled within three months of that occurrence.