Although, appellant – Mohd. Jamil (A2) and Akhtar Hussain (A4) were tried separately and the statement of witnesses were recorded twice, firstly, in the trial against three accused persons (Mohd. Yunus (A1), Mohd. Jamil (A2) & Ghasita (A3)) and secondly, in the trial against Akhtar Hussain (A4), the fact remains that both the star witnesses of the prosecution namely Deenu (PW-7) and Ahmad (PW-8) are disbelieved in the second trial by clearly stating that their statements are contradictory, the facts are twisted and improvements are made. For trial under Section 302 IPC, if a witness is branded as untrustworthy having allegedly twisted the facts and made contrary statement, it is not safe to impose conviction on the basis of statement made by such witness. When there is an effort to falsely implicate one accused person, statement made by such an eyewitness cannot be relied without strong corroboration. Moreover, there is material on record proving previous enmity between the parties as mentioned in paragraph 25 of the trial court . 19. It is important to notice that the Trial Court had recorded a finding that recovery of Lathi from Mohd. Yunus (A1) and Kulhari from Mohd. Jamil (A2) is not safe to rely upon, meaning thereby, the recovery has not been proved. The Trial Court found that the recovery of Pharsa from Ghasita (A3) is fully proved. However, the appeal preferred by Ghasita (A3) has already abated. 20. Summing up the quality of evidence available on record, we have found that recovery of Kulhari from Mohd. Jamil (A2) and Lathi from Mohd. Yunus (A1) has not been proved. The deceased had sustained four injuries over his head. There are allegations against Ghasita (A3) that he inflicted injuries over the head of the deceased on more than one occasion. The statement of eye-witness Deenu (PW-7) and Ahmad (PW-8) have not inspired confidence in the second trial against Akhtar Hussain (A4). The credibility of their evidence is 412 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under serious doubt because of twisting of facts and improvements made. Therefore, for all these reasons it is not safe to convict the appellant- Mohd. Jamil (A2) for offence under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC on the basis of statement of such eyewitness. 21. Accordingly, we set aside the impugned of the High Court and the Trial Court convicting the appellant-Mohd. Jamil (A2) for offence under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC. However, in view of the evidence on record conviction of appellant-Mohd. Jamil for the offence under Section 323 read with Section 34 IPC is not required to be interfered. Resultantly, Criminal Appeal No. 1308 of 2012 preferred by the appellant-Moh. Jamil (A2) is allowed in part setting aside his conviction under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC and, at the same time, maintaining his conviction and sentence under Section 323 read with Section 34 IPC. The appellant-Mohd. Jamil (A2) has been sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months for offence under Section 323 read with Section 34 IPC.