It would further appear from the subsequent noting of the Chief Municipal Law Officer put on 08.01.1991 wherein it is noted that the act is silent as to when the possession is to be taken either before or after the payment of compensation under Section 363 and according to him, the possession can only be [2024] 5 S.C.R. 857 Kolkata Municipal Corporation & Anr. v. Bimal Kumar Shah & Ors. taken after the payment of compensation under Section 363(3) of the said Act. Despite the aforesaid noting, the Municipal Commissioner passed an of acquisition on 18.01.1991 directing to acquire the subject land under Section 352(a) of the Act with immediate effect and the possession should also be taken immediately. There is a serious dispute whether the possession was in fact taken in terms of the said of the Municipal Commissioner or not. However, it is seen from the notes put on 16.03.1991 that the possession was taken. The fact remains that no compensation has been paid as yet. The Corporation has further disclosed a letter allegedly written by the recorded owner on 14.11.1991 wherein it is categorically stated that the possession has not been taken. Though it appears from the noting that the possession was taken way back in 1991 but the record maintained by the Corporation was not altered and/or corrected and in fact the Corporation continued to accept the property tax paid by the recorded owner in respect of the said property. Even in the year 2000, the Corporation mutated the name of the Birinchi Behari Shaw and also issued the No Due Certificate to him. It is only in the year 2010 the Corporation deleted the name of the said owner and incorporated its name as owner thereof. Yet, showing the huge outstanding on account of property tax with interest and penalty in the letter of intimation issued on 17.07.2010. The explanation is sought to be offered that there is no synchronization between the two departments of the Corporation and a mistake has been committed, which cannot confer any equity or right in favour of the Petitioner. I am unable to persuade myself to agree with such explanation. For the sake of argument, if it is accepted that possession was taken way back in 1991, there was no occasion to accept the property tax for more than a decade without altering the entries made in the assessment register. This Court, therefore, finds that the Corporation acted blatantly in violation of the statutory provision in acquiring the property as such acquisition should have been 858 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports facilitated by approaching the State under Section 537(1) of the said Act. The entire action concerning the acquisition of property by invoking Section 352(a) of the Act is per se illegal, invalid and in clear contravention to the provisions of the Act and are hereby quashed and set aside.” 34. In the above analysis, we are of the considered opinion that the High Court was fully justified in allowing the writ petition and rejecting the case of the appellant-Corporation acquiring land under Section 352 of the Act.