Further, it would not preclude the prosecution from proceeding against such a person including for consequences under Section 63 of the 2002 Act on the basis of other tangible material to indicate the falsity of his claim. That would be a matter of rule of evidence. 806 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 24. In the instant case, it has been found during the course of investigation from the statements of witnesses recorded under Section 50 that the appellant Satyendar Jain and his family directly or indirectly were owning/controlling the companies - M/s. Akinchan Developers Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Paryas Infosolution Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Indo Metalimpex Pvt. Ltd. and M/s. Mangalayatan Projects Pvt. Ltd. He was the conceptualizer, initiator and supervisor of the accommodation entries totalling to Rs.4.81 Crores approximately, which were received from the Kolkata based entry operators in the Bank accounts of the said four companies. Shri J.P. Mohta in his statement had stated inter alia that Mr. Satyendar Jain had informed him in June/July, 2010 that he wanted to get investment/ accommodation entries in his companies against cash payment and therefore he introduced Mr. Jain with his friend Mr. Rajendra Bansal who was in the business of providing accommodation entries against cash. Mr. Rajendra Bansal in his statement under Section 50 had stated in detail as to how his companies provided accommodation entries to the four companies owned/controlled by Satyendar Jain from 2010-11 to 2015-16 against cash. Mr. Rajender Bansal had also stated that the cash was being received from Satyendar Kumar Jain/Jagdish Prasad Mohta at Kolkata through Hawala operators, and he used to pass on the address of Hawala operators to the other entry operators namely Jivendra Mishra and Abhishek Chokhani for collecting cash after taking token from them. He used to arrange entries for the companies of Satyendar Kumar Jain as per the details provided by Jagdish Prasad Mohta through his companies and other entry operators. He (Mr. Bansal) used to issue cheque/RTGS to subscribe the shares of the four companies of Satyendar Kumar Jain receiving the amounts in cash. He had further stated that the accommodation entries were reflected in the books of accounts of his companies as investments in shares. He used to give signed share applications along with signed blank transfer deeds to Jagdish Prasad Mohta. He had further stated that he had received cash through Hawala operators of Kolkata 40-50 times during 2010-2016 totaling to approximately 17 crores on the instructions of Satyendar Jain/Jagdish Prasad Mohta and he had provided accommodation entries for Satyendar Jain’s Companies of about 17 crores, for which he had earned commission of Rs 12,40,000/- for providing/arranging such accommodation entries to the companies of Satyendar Jain. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 807 Satyendar Kumar Jain v. Directorate of Enforcement 25. Mr. Pankul Agarwal had stated in his statement that though he was appointed as a Director in M/s. J.J. Ideal Estate Pvt. Ltd., he did nothing except signing of the documents and that the said company was controlled by Satyendar Kumar Jain and Poonam Jain, and that he was never informed about any business activity of the said company by them.