[2024] 8 S.C.R. 1687 : 2024 INSC 1055 Basamsetti Rama Devi v. The State of A.P. & Ors. (Criminal Appeal No. 1358 of 2024) 07 August 2024 [Vikram Nath and Prasanna B. Varale, JJ.] Issue for Consideration In cases relating to quashing of criminal complaint against the accused police officers-respondents in matters of custodial death, whether the High Court was justified in setting aside the committal and discharging the accused-respondents in the respective cases. Headnotes† Custodial Death – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.482 – Penal Code, 1860 – ss.302, 201, 149, 120B r/w s.34 – Matters of custodial death – High Court solely relying on the reports of the investigating agencies (CID and CBI) held that the occurrence took place in the exercise of right of self-defence by the accused police officials-respondents and set aside the committal and discharged the respondents in the respective cases – Challenge to: Held: High Court erred in quashing and setting aside the criminal proceedings against the accused police officials-respondents – Present matters did not warrant discharge or setting aside of committal by the High Court – Approach taken by the High Court in allowing the revision petitions, deprecated – While conclusively asserting that the occurrence took place in the exercise of right of self-defence, the High Court glaringly lost sight of the fact that it was deciding petitions u/s.482, CrPC to set aside the committal and grant discharge in respective matters, and not carrying a full-fledged trial so as to conclusively establish the cause of the incident itself – When dealing with such matters, u/s.482, CrPC, the High Court is to assess whether at a prima facie view of the allegations, a cognizable offence 1688 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is made out or not – Going by the farthest stretch or even the most flexible interpretation of the principles involved in deciding a quashing petition, one fails to see how it can be implied that an offence warranting trial is not made out in the given set of facts and circumstances – The plea of self-defence could not have been accepted at face-value by the High Court without having to meticulously prove it during the trial – A plea of self-defence cannot be taken lightly, especially in a grave incident of custodial death, that too in such compelling circumstances – Grounds of defence adopted by the accused persons are a matter of trial which ought to be explained and proven in due course of proceedings following the strict rules of evidence and criminal procedure – Impugned set aside – Matters remanded back to the respective Trial Courts – Right to life – Right to fair trial. [Paras 8-10, 12, 13] List of Acts Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973; Penal Code, 1860. List of Keywords Custodial Death; Quashing; Exercise of right of self-defence by the police officials/officers; Tyranny of police; Right to life and Fair Trial; Rights of detained persons; Committal ; Discharge ; Offence warranting a trial; Investigation reports; Clean chit to accused before trial; Prima facie case; Judicial custody; Police firing; Telugu Desam Party; Bezawada Bar Association; Grounds of defense adopted are matter of trial; Human rights; Civil liberties.