Thereupon, the paper slip gets cut and drops into the drop box attached to the VVPAT. No elector is permitted to enter the voting compartment when another voter is inside. 46. Rule 49O deals with the scenario where an elector, even after entering her/his details in Form 17A and having put signature or thumb impression thereon, does not vote. The presiding officer is [2024] 5 S.C.R. 439 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another then required to make a remark in Form 17A and take the signature or thumb impression of the elector against such remark. 47. Rule 49M(6) deals with the scenario where the elector who has been permitted to vote under Rule 49L or Rule 49P refuses, even after the warning by the presiding officer, to observe the procedure of voting laid down in Rule 49(M)(3). In such a case, the presiding officer, or the polling officer under the direction of the presiding officer, shall not allow such elector to vote. Rule 49M(7) lays down that in such a scenario, a remark to that effect shall be made against the elector’s name in Form 17A by the presiding officer under his signature. 48. As per instructions issued by the ECI, the presiding officer is periodically required to check the total number of votes cast as recorded in the control unit with the data as recorded in Form 17A. 49. As per Rule 49S, at the close of the poll, the presiding officer is required to prepare an account of votes recorded in Form 17C. This is a detailed form, which in Part I, requires the presiding officer to mention the total number of electors assigned to the polling station, the total number of voters as entered in the register for voters, that is, Form 17A, the total number of voters who had decided not to vote even after recording their details in Form 17A (Rule 49O scenario), and the total number of voters not allowed to vote (Rule 49M scenario). The form also requires to give details of the total number of votes recorded per voting machine. This total number recorded in the voting machine should tally with the total number of voters entered in Form 17A minus the number of voters deciding not to vote and the number of voters not allowed to vote. The details of the paper seals supplied for use, paper seals used, unused paper seals returned to the returning officer etc. are also recorded and entered after the close of the poll. 50. Under Rule 49S of the 1961 Rules, at the time of close of the poll, the presiding officer furnishes attested true copy of the account of votes recorded in Part I of Form 17C to the polling agents of the candidates. He also retains a receipt of the same from the polling agent. 51. Before start of counting of votes, the serial number of the EVMs and the paper seals affixed on the EVMs are verified with details mentioned in Form 17C and are shown to the counting agents.