If such granting remand is passed, it would no longer be open to the accused to seek anticipatory bail but he can seek regular bail. 18. In the cases at hand, the prosecution has not sought for nor obtained any from the Court for remand of the petitioners in the subsequent cases registered against them. Thus, this Court holds that the Anticipatory Bail applications are maintainable...” (Emphasis supplied) 19. Thus, it appears from the aforesaid discussion that there are divergent opinions expressed by different High Courts of the country. The Rajasthan, Delhi and Allahabad High Courts have taken the view that an anticipatory bail application would not be maintainable if the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 279 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. accused is already arrested and is in custody in connection with some offence. On the other hand, the Bombay and Orissa High Courts have taken the view that even if the accused is in custody in connection with one case, anticipatory bail application at his instance in connection with a different case is maintainable. D. ANALYSIS i. Evolution of the concept of anticipatory bail 20. The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (for short, “the 1898 Code”) did not contain any specific provision analogous to Section 438 of the CrPC. In Amir Chand v. The Crown reported in 1949 SCC OnLine Punj 20, the question before the Full Bench was whether Section 498 of the 1898 Code empowered the High Court or the Court of Session to grant bail to a person who had not been placed under restraint by arrest or otherwise. The Full Bench answered the reference as under: “…The very notion of bail presupposes some form of previous restraint. Therefore, bail cannot be granted to a person who has not been arrested and for whose arrest no warrants have been issued. Section 498, Criminal Procedure Code, does not permit the High Court or the Court of Session to grant bail to anyone whose case is not covered by sections 496 and 497, Criminal Procedure Code. It follows, therefore, that bail can only be allowed to a person who has been arrested or detained without warrant or appears or is brought before a Court. Such person must be liable to arrest and must surrender himself before the question of bail can be considered. In the case of a person who is not under arrest, but for whose arrest warrants have been issued, bail can be allowed if he appears in Court and surrenders himself. No bail can be allowed to a person at liberty for whose arrest no warrants have been issued. The petitioners in the present case are, therefore, not entitled to bail. The question referred to the Full Bench is, therefore, answered in the negative.” (Emphasis supplied) 21. Under the 1898 Code, the concept of anticipatory or pre-arrest bail was absent and the need for introduction of a new provision in the 280 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports CrPC empowering the High Court and Court of Session to grant anticipatory bail was pointed out by the 41st Law Commission of India in its report dated September 24, 1969.