This Court, in Hitendra Vishnu Thakur and Others v. State of Maharashtra and Others reported in (1994) 4 SCC 602, while discussing a similarly worded provision in the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1985, held as follows: “13. We would, therefore, at this stage like to administer a word of caution to the Designated Courts regarding invoking the provisions of TADA merely because the investigating officer at some stage of the investigation chooses to add an offence under same (sic some) provisions of TADA against an accused person, more often than not while opposing grant of bail, anticipatory or otherwise. The Designated Courts should always consider carefully the material available on the record and apply their mind to see whether the provisions of TADA are even prima facie attracted.” (Emphasis supplied) 1126 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a. Significance of the expression “arrest of any person” appearing in Section 18 of the Act, 1989 41. It is clear from the aforesaid discussion that Section 18 of the Act, 1989 does not impose an absolute fetter on the power of the courts to examine whether a prima facie case attracting the provisions of the Act, 1989 is made out or not. As discussed, Section 18 stipulates that in any case which involves the arrest of any person on the accusation of having committed an offence under the Act, 1989, the benefit of anticipatory bail under Section 438 of CrPC would not be available to the accused. We have deliberated on the significance of the expression “arrest of any person” appearing in the text of Section 18 of the Act, 1989 and are of the view that Section 18 bars the remedy of anticipatory bail only in those cases where a valid arrest of the accused person can be made as per Section 41 read with Section 60A of CrPC. 42. Section 60A of CrPC provides that no arrest shall be made except in accordance with the provisions of CrPC or any other law for the time being in force and providing for arrest. Section 41 of CrPC confers upon the police the power to arrest without warrant in certain situations as specified therein. Sections 41(1)(b) and 41(1)(ba) respectively of CrPC read as follows: “41. When police may arrest without warrant.—(1) Any police officer may without an from a Magistrate and without a warrant, arrest any person— xxx xxx xxx (b) against whom a reasonable complaint has been made, or credible information has been received, or a reasonable suspicion exists that he has committed a cognizable offence punishable with imprisonment for a term which may be less than seven years or which may extend to seven years whether with or without fine, if the following conditions are satisfied, namely:— (i) the police officer has reason to believe on the basis of such complaint, information, or suspicion that such person has committed the said offence; (ii) the police officer is satisfied that such arrest is necessary— [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1127 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr.