7. If such affidavit is filed within a period of four weeks, petitioner, above named, is directed to be released on Provisional Bail, in the event of his arrest or surrender before the Court below within a period of four weeks from today, on furnishing bail bond of Rs. 10,000/- (Ten Thousand) each with two sureties of the like amount each to the satisfaction of learned C.J.M, Katihar in connection with Complaint Case No.1100 of 2021, subject to the condition as laid down under Section 438(2) of the Cr.P.C. 8. It is made clear that Provisional bail shall continue till four weeks from the date of passing of this to enable him to file joint affidavit along with withdrawal of the divorce case.” 5. Before scanning the conditions as mentioned above, we think it appropriate to refer to some of the relevant decisions of this Court, in the contextual situation. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Shri Gurbakash Singh Sibbia & Ors. v. State of Punjab 1 held thus: - “26. We find a great deal of substance in Mr.Tarkunde’s submission that since denial of bail amounts to deprivation of personal liberty, the court should lean against the 1 [1980] 3 SCR 383 : (1980) 2 SCC 565 666 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports imposition of unnecessary restrictions on the scope of Section 438, especially when no such restrictions have been imposed by the legislature in the terms of that section. Section 438 is a procedural provision which is concerned with the personal liberty of the individual, who is entitled to the benefit of the presumption of innocence since he is not, on the date of his application for anticipatory bail, convicted of the offence in respect of which he seeks bail. An over-generous infusion of constraints and conditions which are not to be found in Section 438 can make its provisions constitutionally vulnerable since the right to personal freedom cannot be made to depend on compliance with unreasonable restrictions. The beneficent provision contained in Section 438 must be saved, not jettisoned. No doubt can linger after the decision in Maneka Gandhi [Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India, (1978) 1 SCC 248], that in to meet the challenge of Article 21 of the Constitution, the procedure established by law for depriving a person of his liberty must be fair, just and reasonable. Section 438, in the form in which it is conceived by the legislature, is open to no exception on the ground that it prescribes a procedure which is unjust or unfair. We ought, at all costs, to avoid throwing it open to a Constitutional challenge by reading words in it which are not to be found therein.” (emphasis supplied) 6. In Parvez Noordin Lokhandwalla v. State of Maharashtra & Anr.2 this Court held: - “…The human right to dignity and the protection of constitutional safeguards should not become illusory by the imposition of conditions which are disproportionate to the need to secure the presence of the accused, the proper course of investigation and eventually to ensure a fair trial.