38. In our considered opinion there is nothing in the dated 08.12.2010 of this Court on the basis of which the Learned Single Judge of the High Court could draw such sweeping inferences. All that this Court unequivocally said was that in light of the Proposed Policy decision taken by the State Government to rectify the pay discrepancies and to grant certain reliefs to the Respondents or their cadre mates, no issue survived for adjudication. To elucidate more simply, this Court was satisfied that the Proposed Policy was fair enough to close the pending lis. As a follow up, the State was [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1337 State of Uttar Pradesh and Anr. v. Virendra Bahadur Katheria and Ors. obligated to formalize and give effect to the said proposal, which the Appellants eventually did through the 2011 . 39. However, the Learned Single Judge, while relying on this Court’s decision in Supreme Court Employees’ Welfare Association v. Union of India and another,2 made two pertinent observations, which we propose to analyse in the present context, i.e. — (i) since the Supreme Court in its dated 08.12.2010 dismissed Civil Appeal No. 8869/2003 and did not discern any error of fact or law in the decision of the High Court dated 06.05.2022, the latter would consequently operate as res judicata inter se the parties; and (ii) it is impermissible for the State Government to overreach and render nugatory a judgement of the High Court, once it has attained finality. 40. In this regard, it seems to us that the High Court has construed narrowly the ratio of the decision of this Court in Supreme Court Employees’ (supra) which encapsulated that when a Special Leave Petition is dismissed in limine, there is no law laid down under the aegis of Article 141 of the Constitution. Hence, the judgement against which such petition was preferred becomes final and conclusive so as to operate as res judicata between the parties thereto. In stark contrast, the dismissal of Civil Appeal No. 8869/2003 by this Court vide dated 08.12.2010 was not a dismissal simpliciter or in limine. Instead, the appeal was dismissed after taking into consideration the root-cause and consequential steps taken by the State towards rectifying the anomaly in the grant of revised pay scales. To say it differently, the Civil Appeal was not dismissed on the premise that the judgement of the High Court dated 06.05.2002 was a correct statement of law. This Court in fact found that no issue survived for adjudication, for the obvious reason that the State Government had volunteered to redress the grievance of the Respondents and other similarly placed employees through the proposed Policy. It is true that the Proposed Policy did not enure a decision binding on both sides for want of mutual consent. However, leaving aside a microscopic evaluation, this Court expressly approved the said Proposed Policy. The observation that nothing survived in the appeal for adjudication leaves no room to doubt that not only was this Court satisfied with the proposal mooted before it, it also bound down the State and commanded it to implement the same.