She [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1257 Noble M. Paikada v. Union of India also invited our attention to the EP Rules and, in particular, Rule 5 thereof. It lays down that the Central Government may consider the factors set out in sub-rule (1) while prohibiting or restricting the location of industries and carrying out operations and processes in different areas. She pointed out that before issuing the first EC notification, the process laid down in sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 was followed. 10. The learned senior counsel invited our attention to a decision of this Court in the case of Hanuman Laxman Aroskar v. Union of India2. She also relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Deepak Kumar1. She pointed out that as a result of item 6, there will not be any regulation of the extraction of ordinary earth for utilisation in linear projects, such as, roads, pipelines, etc. She submitted that such a blanket exemption will defeat the very object of enacting the EP Act and, in particular, Section 3 thereof. She submitted that the decision of this Court in the case of Deepak Kumar1 and subsequent decisions mandated that there must be a requirement to obtain EC for the minor minerals pertaining to materials used for linear projects. The learned senior counsel submitted that allowing the extraction of the earth in such an indiscriminate manner is wholly arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 11. Inviting our attention to the amended impugned notification, the learned senior counsel pointed out that the substituted item 6 provides that extraction of ordinary earth for linear projects shall be subject to compliance with the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and safeguards issued in this regard from time to time. Thus, the exemption remains. However, an SOP will be laid down to avail the exemption. She urged that the substituted item 6 is more arbitrary. 12. The learned senior counsel also pointed out that the whole issue was directed to be reconsidered under the impugned . But nothing has been placed on record to show that the Central Government made reconsideration in true letter and spirit. 13. The learned senior counsel pointed out that the decision of this Court in the case of Deepak Kumar1 still holds the field, which directs that the leases of minor minerals, including their renewal for an area less than 5 hectares, shall be granted by the States/ 2 [2019] 5 SCR 916 : (2019) 15 SCC 401 1258 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Union territories only after getting EC. She submitted that the impugned notification and the amended impugned notification, insofar as item 6 is concerned, are completely contrary to the directions issued by this Court in Deepak Kumar1. She also urged that before publishing the draft of the impugned notification, objections to the draft notification were not invited. She submits that this action contravenes the provisions of sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the EP Rules. 14.