This may result in social volatility. [ With reference to Olson’s 7th implication, “7. Distributional 502 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports coalitions … reduce the rate of economic growth…”. ‘The Rise and Decline of Nations’ by Mancur Olson and subsequent studies. ]” (emphasis supplied) The freedom of elected legislators to discuss and debate matters of the moment on the floor of the House is a key component of a deliberative democracy in a Parliamentary form of government. The ability of legislators to conduct their functions in an environment which protects their freedom to do so without being overawed by coercion or fear is constitutionally secured. As citizens, legislators have a fundamental right to the freedom of speech and expression. Going beyond that, the Constitution secures the freedom to speak and debate in the legislatures both of the Union and States. This is the protection afforded to individual legislators. The recognition of that right is premised on the need to secure the institutional foundation of Parliament and the State legislatures as key components of the dialogue, debate and critique which sustains democracy. 49. In the Indian context, deliberative democracy as well as the essential privilege of freedom of speech in legislatures cannot be understood without reference to its history and development in the aftermath of the struggle for independence from colonial rule. India provides an example in history where representative institutions have evolved in stages. The privileges of legislatures in India have been closely connected with the history of these institutions. This history can be traced to the history of parliamentary privileges in the House of Commons in the UK as well as the struggle of the Indian Legislatures to claim these privileges under colonial rule. The steps which were initiated under colonial rule to bring political and parliamentary governance to India always fell short of the aspirations of Indians. This can primarily be attributed to the fact that British rule was resistant to the desire of Indians to be independent. Hence, the Indian legislatures were not acknowledged to have comparable privileges to those of the House of Commons in the UK. In Kielly v. Carson29, the Privy Council had propounded that the House of Commons in the UK had acquired privileges by ancient usage and colonial legislatures had no lex et consuetudo parliament or the law and custom of Parliament as 29 (1841-42) 4 Moo. PC 63 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 503 Sita Soren v. Union of India their rights emanated from a statute. This implied that there were no inherent rights granted to legislatures under colonial rule. 50. Under the rule of the East India Company, law making lay in the exclusive domain of the executive till 1833. The Government of India Act 1833 redesignated the Governor-General of Bengal as the Governor-General of India with exclusive legislative powers. The Governor-General was to have four members one of whom would be a law member who was not entitled to act as a member of the Council except for legislative purposes.