Then there was Section 14 which gave certain over-riding powers to the Visiting Board. The Lord Rector was then the Viceroy and the Visiting Board consisted of the Governor of the United Provinces, the members of his Executive Council, the Ministers, one member nominated by the Governor and one member nominated by the Minister in charge of Education. These people were not necessarily Muslims and they had overriding powers over the administration of the University. Then reference may be made to Section 28(2)(c) which laid down that no new statute or amendment or repeal of an 1796 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports existing statute, made by the University, would have any validity until it had been approved by the Governor-General- in-Council who had power to sanction, disallow or remit it for further consideration. Same powers existed in the Governor-General-in-Council with respect to ordinances. Lastly reference may be made to Section 40, which gave power to the Governor-General-in-Council to remove any difficulty which might arise in the establishment of the University. These provisions in our opinion clearly show that the administration was also not vested in the Muslim minority; on the other hand it was vested in the statutory bodies created by the 1920 Act, and only in one of them, namely, the Court, there was a bar to the appointment of any one else except a Muslim, though even there some of the electors for some of the members included non-Muslims. We are therefore of opinion that the Aligarh University was neither established nor administered by the Muslim minority and therefore there is no question of any amendment to the 1920 Act being unconstitutional under Article 30(1) for that Article does not apply at all to the Aligarh University.” [Emphasis supplied] D.3.4 Whether any other Articles of Part III were violated? 71. This Court analysed the 1951 and 1965 Amendment Acts in consonance with other Articles enshrined in Part III of the Constitution, and arrived at the following conclusions: a. Article 26(a) also bestows the right to ‘establish and maintain’. However, since AMU was not established by the minority, the right to maintain does not arise. b. Article 26(c) and (d) provides the right to acquire and keep assets. However, the assets of AMU vest in the University and not in the Muslim minority, following the passing of the AMU Act, 1920. c. Articles 25 and 29 are not affected in any manner by either of the Amendment Acts. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1797 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. d. Article 14 of the Constitution is not violated as there exists a difference in the administrative structure of one university when compared with another. This cannot be construed to be discriminative and is a matter of legislative policy. e. The right to form associations as espoused under Article 19 is not affected by the Amendment Acts. f. Article 31(1) is also not violated, since the property vested in AMU is not the property of the Muslim minority.