The Cantonment Board, Ramgarh did not object to it or challenge the compromise. 13. In the said suit, as many as nine issues were framed including the maintainability of the suit and about the right, title and possession of Maharani. The suit of the Maharani was dismissed vide and dated 31.03.1984, primarily on the ground that it was not 34 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports maintainable as the State of Bihar being a necessary party, was not made a party and that Maharani had not entered into the witness box to prove her case. She as such, was not found to be the owner in possession of the land claimed by her. The court in dismissing the suit clearly mentioned that the parties who have entered into the compromise with Maharani will not have any right on the basis of the compromise deed as she herself has failed to prove her independent rights over the land claimed by her. 14. The second appeal filed by the plaintiff-appellant was dismissed by the High Court as it failed to raise any substantial question of law, which is mandatory for entertaining an appeal under Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Therefore, the first point which arises for consideration herein is - whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, any substantial question of law was involved in the second appeal. 15. The submission is that the plaintiff-appellant was non-suited by the First Appellate Court, on the ground that his suit was barred by res judicata. One of the essential conditions for the applicability of principle of res judicata as enshrined under Section 11 of the CPC is that the issue in the earlier suit and the subsequent suit ought to be directly and substantially the same. In the earlier Suit No. 8/64 instituted by Maharani, her claim was that she is the lawful owner of the entire 5.38 acre of land of Village Ramgarh, on the basis of the maintenance grant made in her favour by the Raja. In the said suit, the plaintiff-appellant was defendant no. 32 and the Cantonment Board, Ramgarh was defendant No. 1. The claim set up by Maharani was not accepted and ex-facie there was no adjudication regarding the rights of the co-defendants over the suit land viz 0.30 acres of land of plot Nos. 432 and 438 as claimed by the plaintiff-appellant in the present suit. The limited issue therein was whether the Maharani had acquired any right in the above entire property on the basis of maintenance in grant alleged to be executed by the Raja in her favour. There was no issue as to whether the suit land as claimed by the plaintiff-appellant belonged to him or was settled or not settled in his favour as claimed. Thus, in the facts and circumstances of the case, a clear substantial question of law as to whether the present suit as filed by the plaintiff-appellant was barred under Section 11 CPC on principle of res judicata inasmuch as there was no adjudication of the rights of the co-defendants in the previous suit with regard to [2024] 7 S.C.R.