The delay in delivery of s has been observed to be a violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India in Anil Rai case [(2001) 7 SCC 318] and as stated aforesaid, the problem gets aggravated when the operative portion is made available early and the reasons follow much later. 11. It cannot be countenanced that between the date of the operative portion of the and the reasons disclosed, there is a hiatus period of nine months! This is much more than what has been observed to be the maximum time period for even pronouncement of reserved as per Anil Rai case. 12. The appellant undoubtedly being the aggrieved party and prejudiced by the impugned is unable to avail of 1 (2021) 12 SCC 603 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2231 Ratilal Jhaverbhai Parmar and Ors. v. State of Gujarat and Ors. the legal remedy of approaching this Court where reasons can be scrutinised. It really amounts to defeating the rights of the appellant to challenge the impugned on merits and even the succeeding party is unable to obtain the fruits of success of the litigation. 13. We are constrained to pen down a more detailed and refer to the earlier view on account of the fact that recently a number of such s have come to our notice and we thought it is time to send a reminder to the High Courts.” 6. We are surprised, not a little, that the strong reminders issued by this Court from time to time have had little effect on the high courts in the country and that decisions, binding under Article 141 of the Constitution, are being persistently ignored. It has been stressed time and again over the years and we feel pained to observe, once more, that neglect/omission/refusal to abide by binding precedents augurs ill for the health of the system. Not only does it tantamount to disservice to the institution of the judiciary but also affects the administration of justice. For a learned Judge to deviate from the laid down standards would be to betray the trust reposed in him by the nation. We sincerely hope that learned Judges of the high courts while being careful and cautious will remain committed to the service of the litigants, for whom only they exist, as well as the oath of office that they have taken so that, in future, we are not presented with another case of similar nature to deal with. 7. In this case, which is a civil appeal arising from a and bearing the date 1st March, 2023, we find the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad2 to have egregiously breached the law. 8. The bare facts necessary for decision, without any reference to the facts and law involved in the case before the High Court, culled out from the pleadings before us are these. 9. R/Special Civil Application No. 10912 of 20153, being a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India, was filed by the appellant before the High Court challenging an dated 16th June, 2015 2 High Court, hereafter 3 petition, hereafter 2232 [2024] 10 S.C.R.