The concurrent finding is that it is culpable homicide amounting to murder. The necroscopical evidence consists of the oral testimony of PW-1, Dr. S.S. Thakur, and the postmortem report prepared and proved by him as Ext.P1. Going by the said necroscopical evidence the following antemortem injuries were present on the body of the Naseem Khan: - "1. A punctured wound measuring ½ inch x ½ inch on the left side of face, clotted blood was present. 2. An incised wound measuring 1 inch x ½ inch on the ½, 1/3 portion back side of left wrist, which was having the clotted blood. 3. An incised wound measuring 3 inch x ½ inch x deep to bone, margin on the occipital region of head having clotted blood. 4. An incised wound measuring 3 inch x. ½ inch x deep bone, on the frontal region of head, having clotted blood. 5. An incised wound measuring 3 x ½ inch x dee on the temporal region of left side of head, in which the clotted blood was present.” 25. PW-1 opined that all the aforesaid injuries except injury Nos.1 and 2 were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death and that the cause of death was comma as a result of head injuries. In 1886 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports short, in view of the necroscopical evidence as above the Courts were perfectly right in holding that the death of Naseem Khan is culpable homicide amounting to murder. 26. Now, the surviving question is only whether the prosecution had succeeded in establishing conclusively beyond any reasonable doubt that the culprits for the murder of Naseem Khan, are the respondents herein as held by the trial Court or whether they are entitled to the benefit of doubt and consequential acquittal as held by the High Court. In the decision in Anil Phukan v. State of Assam,9 this Court held that conviction could be based on testimony of a single witness provided his testimony is found reliable and inspires confidence. In the decision in Chandu Bhai Shana Bhai Parmar v. State of Gujarat,10 this Court held that when the ocular evidence in a murder case is unreliable benefit of doubt to be given to all accused. 27. We have already held, for the reasons given earlier, that the High Court had rightly held the oral testimony of PW-8 as unreliable. As a matter of fact, the case of the prosecution is that Isab Khan (PW-2), Haseen Khan (PW-5), Fareed Khan (PW-9), and Anees Khan (PW-17) had witnessed the incident that led to the death of Naseem Khan. In the light of the decisions in Anil Phukan’s case and Chandu Bhai’s case (supra) the oral testimonies of PWs 2, 5, 9 & 17 are to be appreciated to answer the aforementioned surviving question. PW-2 was declared hostile by the prosecution and concurrently his evidence was held unreliable. Though PW-17 also turned hostile, the trial Court held that on that account the accused / the respondents herein are not entitled to any benefit as PW-5 and PW-9 proved the fact that accused/the respondents herein had caused murder of Naseem Khan using sickle, danda affixed with farsa, and axe.