v. Sach Marketing Pvt. Ltd. & Anr as the first respondent is seeking a right to payment of the deposit amount with interest. Therefore, there is no manner of doubt that there is a debt in the form of a security deposit mentioned in the said two agreements. 15. Sub-section (21) of Section 5 defines “operational debt”, which reads thus: “5. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires,- .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (21) “operational debt” means a claim in respect of the provision of goods or services including employment or a debt in respect of the payment of dues arising under any law for the time being in force and payable to the Central Government, any State Government or any local authority; .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .” The second part of the definition which deals with the payment of dues arising under any law, will not apply. However, for the applicability of the first part, the claim must be concerning the provisions of goods or services. Therefore, in the case of a contract of service, there must be a correlation between the service as agreed to be provided under the agreement and the claim. The reason is that the definition uses the phraseology “a claim in respect of the provision of goods or services”. Assuming that both the agreements are genuine in the sense that they reflect the true nature of the transaction, the only claim under the agreements which will have any connection with the services rendered by the first respondent will be the claim of Rs.4,000/- per month as provided in clause (1) of both the agreements. Only this claim can be said to be concerning the provision of services. Therefore, by no stretch of imagination, the debt claimed by the first respondent can be an operational debt. We are conscious of the fact that the provision for payment of interest by the corporate debtor by itself is not the only material factor in deciding the nature of the debt. But, in the facts of the case, the payment of the amount mentioned in clause (10) of the letter has no relation with the service supposed to be rendered by the first respondent. 238 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. Now, coming back to the definition of a financial debt under sub- section (8) of Section 5 of the IBC, in the facts of the case, there is no doubt that there is a debt with interest @21% per annum. The provision made for interest payment shows that it represents consideration for the time value of money. Now, we come to clause (f) of sub-section (8) of Section 5 of the IBC. The first condition of applicability of clause (f) is that the amount must be raised under any other transaction.