[2024] 7 S.C.R. 333 : 2024 INSC 488 Gaurav Maini v. The State of Haryana (Criminal Appeal No(S). 696 of 2010) 09 July 2024 [B.R. Gavai and Sandeep Mehta,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Courts below, if justified in convicting and sentencing the appellants for the offences punishable u/ss. 364A, 392 and 120B IPC. Headnotes† Penal Code, 1860 – ss. 364A, 392 and 120B – Kidnapping for ransom – Robbery – Prosecution case that the appellants kidnapped a minor boy for ransom and robbed him, and on payment of ransom of Rs. One crore, the boy was released – FIR was registered by police on the basis of the secret information received by them while patrolling about such offences – Pursuant thereto, first disclosure of the incident made by the grandfather to the Investigating Officer, however, FIR was not registered regarding the alleged kidnapping of the boy – Conviction and sentence of the appellants for the offences punishable u/ss. 364A, 392 and 120B by the trial court – Upheld by the High Court – Correctness: Held: Entire prosecution story totally concocted and does not inspire confidence – Inherent improbabilities in the versions of the two star prosecution witnesses-father of the kidnapped boy and the kidnapped boy – Prosecution failed to examine the most relevant witness-grandfather which compels the Court to draw an adverse inference against the prosecution – No convincing evidence led by the prosecution to connect the accused persons with the suspected mobile numbers – FIR could not have been registered on the basis of the secret information received by SI because the said information did not disclose the commission of any cognizable offence – If at all, the FIR had to be registered, on the basis of the statement of grandfather recorded by the police officials – However, no such steps taken by the police officials, thus, creates doubt on the bona fides of the actions of the Investigating Agency – Complainant party * Author 334 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports failed to offer logical explanation for failing to file an FIR even after the kidnapped boy had returned home – Delay in taking legal action creates a grave doubt on the truthfulness of the entire prosecution case – Kidnapped boy though knew accused A2 from before and claims to have identified him at the time of the incident however did not disclose his name to the police officials till the statement was recorded by the investigating officer – Also omission of the names of the accused persons in the special report – Furthermore, identification of the accused by the boy not free from doubt – Prosecution case failed to led trustworthy evidence to establish the recovery of the currency notes at the instance of the accused because the disclosure statements were not proved as per law – Currency notes were handed back to father without any of the Court which is an act of gross misconduct on the part of the Investigating Officer – High Court as well as the trial court failed to advert to these important loopholes and shortcomings in the evidence available on record which are fatal to the prosecution case – Prosecution case is fabricated and the accused were framed in the case for ulterior motive – No iota of truth in the prosecution story – Thus, conviction of the accused appellants by the trial court and as affirmed by the High Court cannot be sustained – passed by the courts below quashed and set aside – Evidence.