It will be open only for a Bench of coequal strength to express an opinion doubting the correctness of the view taken by the earlier Bench of coequal strength, whereupon the matter may be placed for hearing before a Bench consisting of a quorum larger than the one which pronounced the decision laying down the law the correctness of which is doubted. (3) The above rules are subject to two exceptions : (i) The abovesaid rules do not bind the discretion of the Chief Justice in whom vests the power of framing the roster and who can direct any particular matter to be placed for hearing before any particular Bench of any strength; and (ii) In spite of the rules laid down hereinabove, if the matter has already come up for hearing before a Bench of larger quorum and that Bench [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1955 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. itself feels that the view of the law taken by a Bench of lesser quorum, which view is in doubt, needs correction or reconsideration then by way of exception (and not as a rule) and for reasons given by it, it may proceed to hear the case and examine the correctness of the previous decision in question dispensing with the need of a specific reference or the of Chief Justice constituting the Bench and such listing. Such was the situation in Raghubir Singh and Ors. and Hansoli Devi and Ors. (supra)” In understanding the correctness of the reference in Anjuman [supra], the said finding in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community and Anr. [supra] is crucial. 114. Further, it has been held by this Court that reference to a larger bench cannot be merely made for the asking or even because another view appears to be a possible view. It in Govt. of A.P. v. B. Satyanarayana Rao, (2000) 4 SCC 262, it was held as under : “8. Learned counsel for the respondent attempted to convince us that the decision in the case of State of A.P. v. V. Sadanandam [1989 Supp (1) SCC 574 : 1989 SCC (L&S) 511 : (1989) 11 ATC 391] has to be ignored on the principle of per incuriam as certain relevant provisions of the Rules were not considered in the said case, and in any case this case requires to be referred to a larger Bench of three Judges. The rule of per incuriam can be applied where a court omits to consider a binding precedent of the same court or the superior court rendered on the same issue or where a court omits to consider any statute while deciding that issue. This is not the case here. In State of A.P. v. V. Sadanandam [1989 Supp (1) SCC 574 : 1989 SCC (L&S) 511 : (1989) 11 ATC 391] the controversy was exactly the same as it is here and this Court after considering para 5 of the Presidential of 1975 held that the Government has power to fill a vacancy in a zone by transfer.