2415 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement from a person as a reward or dishonest performance of a public duty or forbearance to perform such duty, either by himself or by another public servant. Explanation (2) construes the words and expression, “obtains, accepts or attempts to obtain”, as to cover cases where a public servant obtains, accepts or intends to obtain any undue advantage by abusing his position as a public servant or by using his personal interest over another public servant by any other corrupt or illegal means. It is immaterial whether such person being a public servant accepts or attempts to obtain the undue advantage directly or through a third party. 25. On this aspect of the offences under the PoC Act, the CBI has submitted that conspiracy and involvement of the appellant - Manish Sisodia is well established. For the sake of clarity, without making any additions, subtractions, or a detailed analysis, we would like to recapitulate what is stated in the chargesheet filed by the CBI against the appellant - Manish Sisodia: • The existing excise policy was changed to facilitate and get kickbacks and bribes from the wholesale distributors by enhancing their commission/fee from 5% under the old policy to 12% under the new policy. Accordingly, a conspiracy was hatched to carefully draft the new policy, deviating from the expert opinion/views to create an eco-system to assure unjust enrichment of the wholesale distributors at the expense of government exchequer or the consumer. The illegal income (proceeds of crime, as per the DoE) would partly be recycled and returned in the form of bribes. • Vijay Nair, who was the middleman, a go-between, a member of AAP, and a co-confident of the appellant - Manish Sisodia, had interacted with Butchi Babu, Arun Pillai, Abhishek Boinpally and Sarath Reddy, to frame the excise policy on conditions and terms put forth and to the satisfaction and desire of the liquor group. • Vijay Nair and the members of the liquor group had meetings on different dates, including 16.03.2021, 2416 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and had prepared the new excise policy, which was handed over to Vijay Nair. Thereupon, the commission/fee, which was earlier fixed at minimum of 5%, was enhanced to fixed fee of 12% payable to wholesale distributor. • The appellant - Manish Sisodia was aware that three liquor manufacturers have 85% share in the liquor market in Delhi. Out of them two manufacturers had 65% liquor share, while 14 small manufacturers had 20% market share. As per the term in the new excise policy - each manufacturer could appoint only one wholesale distributor, through whom alone the liquor would be sold. At the same time, the wholesale distributors could enter into distribution agreements with multiple manufacturers. This facilitated getting kickbacks or bribes from the wholesale distributors having substantial market share and turnover. • The licence fee payable by the wholesale distributor was a fixed amount of Rs. 5,00,00,000/- (rupees five crores only). It was not dependant on the turnover.