Even by holding so, this Court declined to extend any benefits to the teacher as the case involved disputed questions of fact. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2229 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. 60. We take notice of the fact that in Ramesh Ahluwalia (supra) the attention of the Hon’ble Judges was not drawn to the earlier decisions of this Court in K. Krishnamacharyulu (supra), Federal Bank (supra), Sushmita Basu v. Ballygunge Siksha Samity (2006) 7 SCC 680, and Delhi Public School v. M.K. Gandhi (supra). 61. In Marwari Balika Vidyalaya (supra), this Court followed Ramesh Ahluwalia (supra) referred to above. 62. We may say without any hesitation that respondent 1 herein cannot press into service the dictum as laid down by this Court in Marwari Balika Vidyalaya (supra) as the said case is distinguishable. The most important distinguishing feature of Marwari Balika Vidyalaya (supra) is that in the said case the removal of the teacher from service was subject to the approval of the State Government. The State Government took a specific stance before this Court that its approval was required both for the appointment as well as removal of the teacher. In the case on hand, indisputably the Government or any other agency of the Government has no role to play in the termination of Respondent 1 herein. 63. In context with Marwari Balika Vidyalaya (supra), we remind ourselves of Bye-law 49(2) which provides that no with regard to the imposition of major penalty shall be made by the disciplinary authority except after the receipt of the approval of the Disciplinary Committee. Thus unlike Marwari Balika Vidyalaya (supra) where approval was required of the State Government, in the case on hand the approval is to be obtained from the Disciplinary Committee of the institution. This distinguishing feature seems to have been overlooked by the High Court while passing the impugned . 64. In Marwari Balika Vidyalaya (supra), the school was receiving grant-in-aid to the extent of dearness allowance. The appointment and the removal, as noted above, is required to be approved by the District Inspector of School (Primary Education) and, if any action is taken dehors such mandatory provisions, the same would not come within the realm of private element. 2230 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 65. In Trigun Chand Thakur (supra)s, the appellant therein was appointed as a Sanskrit teacher and a show-cause notice was issued upon him on the ground that he was absent on the eve of Independence day and Teachers Day which resulted into a dismissal passed by the Managing Committee of the private school. The challenge was made by filing a writ petition before the High Court which was dismissed on the ground that the writ petition is not maintainable against an terminating the service by the Managing Committee of the private school. This Court held that even if the private school was receiving a financial aid from the Government, it does not make the said Managing Committee of the school a “State” within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India.