The same was referred to as “industrial alcohol” in respect of which the State has no power whatsoever under Entries 8 and 51 – List II, while the States have the exclusive competence to legislate on “intoxicating liquors” or “alcoholic liquors for human consumption” but if any alcoholic preparation is diverted for human consumption, the States would have the power to legislate under Entry 8 - List II. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2113 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons 10.11 Again, Jeevan Reddy, J. speaking for the Court in Bihar Distillery noted that in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) a distinction was drawn between rectified spirit meant exclusively for industries (“industrial alcohol”) and rectified spirit exclusively used for obtaining potable alcohol. The said did not deal with rectified spirit which could be converted to potable alcohol as such. That insofar as the first category was concerned, it was under the exclusive control of the Union and the second category was under the control of the State at all stages including the establishment of the distillery. 10.12 In Vam Organic II, the history of the legislations on “intoxicating liquors” as well the earlier s of this Court were considered and it was observed that the State Legislatures are constitutionally not competent to levy tax on “industrial alcohol” since the coming into force of the IDRA on 08.05.1952. It was opined that Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) continued to hold the field and therefore, the States’ power was limited to regulation of non-potable alcohol for the limited purpose of preventing its use as alcoholic liquors. Further Analysis: 11. The survey of the aforesaid decisions of this Court and their analysis clearly indicate the golden thread of continuity in all of them, i.e., this Court has been clear on what is meant by the expression “industrial alcohol” as simplified to refer to all alcohol which is “not fit for human consumption as a beverage or non-potable alcohol”. By contrast, the use of the expression “potable alcohol” refers to “intoxicating liquors” used for human consumption as a beverage or as a drink. However, in paragraph 85 of Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) the expression “both potable and” is an inadvertent insertion inasmuch as there was no reason to state that licences to manufacture potable alcohol was vested in the Central Government. Therefore, to that extent the in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) calls for a clarification. Apart from that the following points would emerge from paragraph 85: (i) That, on insertion of Item 26 of the First Schedule to IDRA, the control of “Fermentation Industries” has vested exclusively in the Union. 2114 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) Therefore, even the States cannot themselves manufacture “industrial alcohol” without the permission of the Central Government. (iii) “Industrial alcohol” cannot be amenable to States’ claim to possession of exclusive privilege and the States can neither rely on Entry 8 – List II nor Entry 33 – List III as a basis for such claim.