He has further criticised the of the Collector (Stamps), Bhopal whereby he held that the total project cost was Rs.110 crores whereas actually it was 54 crores, out of which, MPRSNN (respondent no.3) had granted subsidy and invested Rs.29.10 crores and the remaining Rs.24.90 crores, was invested by the appellant. As such, even if he was liable to pay 2% stamp duty, the amount would be much less, approximately Rs.48 lakhs and odd and not Rs.1.08 crores, which was 2% stamp duty on the entire project cost. 14. The last argument raised is that once the IS Act had been re-amended on 10th March, 2008, the earlier Amendment of 2002 should be held to be illegal and arbitrary. On such submissions, Shri Dave, learned senior counsel urged the Court to allow the appeal and set aside the impugned s imposing deficiency in stamp duty of Rs.1.08 crores. 15. On the other hand, Shri Saurabh Mishra, learned Additional Advocate General for the State of Madhya Pradesh representing all the three respondents including ‘MPRSNN’ submitted that the High Court had dealt with all the above arguments in great detail and had rejected them for good reasons based on statutory provisions as also the law on the point. It did not suffer from any infirmity, much less any perversity warranting interference by this Court. 16. According to Shri Mishra, all the ingredients of a document constituting a lease as defined under the TP Act were existing in the Concession Agreements under the BOT Scheme. He has also referred to various clauses of the Concession Agreement to show that possession was actually transferred to the appellants in to recover the toll, the period of such possession was defined to be fifteen years. It was for a consideration which was also mentioned in the agreement. Therefore, all the three ingredients were fulfilled and, as such, the Collector (Stamps), Bhopal and the High Court rightly held the Concession Agreements to be a lease. He also referred to definition of ‘lease’ under the IS Act, as laid down in Section 2(16), which includes any instrument by which tolls of any description are let. He also referred to the definition of ‘immovable property’ as defined under Section [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1139 M/S Rewa Tollway P. Ltd. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. 3(26) of the General Clauses Act, 1897, which would include land, benefits to arise out of land, and things attached to the earth, or permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth. He further referred to various findings recorded by the High Court. He further placed reliance upon three s of this Court:- (1) Associated Hotels of India Ltd. Vs. R.N. Kapoor;12 (2) State of Uttarakhand and Ors. Vs. Harpal Singh Rawat;13 (3) Nasiruddin and another Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh Thr. Secretary and Ors. ;14 17. Shri Mishra, further referred to the various provisions of the Indian Tolls (MP) Amendment Act, 1972. Insofar as to the challenge of the amendments as being ultra vires is concerned, Shri Mishra submitted that the insertion of proviso (c) to Clause(C) to Entry-33, is only for determining the rate of charging stamp duty and, as such, the challenge was totally irrelevant.