As a matter of fact, on going through the entire record and the evidence of the material prosecution witnesses viz. Mahesh Garg(PW-1) and the Investigating Officer(PW-37), we find that the prosecution has not given any evidence whatsoever to explain the fate of the currency notes allegedly recovered at the instance of the accused other than the bald version of Investigating Officer(PW-37) referred to above. No proceedings to prove the purported release of the currency notes on superdari were brought on record. 41. Mahesh Garg(PW-1) in his examination-in-chief did not state that he had received the recovered currency notes on superdari. Only during cross-examination, did he admit that he had received back an amount of Rs. 95,08,000/- from the Court but could not divulge the date of such receipt. 42. Since the prosecution alleged demand of ransom amount of around Rs. 1 crore and the recovery thereof from the accused without any doubt, the recovered currency notes were in the nature of case property/mudammal. The disposal of the case property could only have been done by taking recourse to the procedure contained under Sections 451, 452 and 457 CrPC as the case may be. The Investigation Officer(PW-37) had no authority to release the currency 356 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports notes without an of the Court and his action to the contrary tantamounts to grave misconduct. At Para 96 of its , the trial Court causally brushed aside the contention of the defence counsel regarding the non-production of the case property(currency notes) in the Court observing that the recovered currency notes were released on superdari by the learned Magistrate. However, in the same para, the trial Court went on to note that the currency notes were never seen after the recovery and were not produced in the Court when the prosecution witnesses were examined. The fact remains that there is no indication in the of the trial Court or for that matter of the High Court regarding the date of the whereby, the currency notes were directed to be returned to Mahesh Garg(PW-1). We further find that no for final disposal of the currency notes was passed by the trial Court under Section 452 CrPC which is a mandatory requirement. The sheer indifference exhibited by the trial Court and the High Court to this extremely important aspect of the case is shocking, to say the least. Therefore, the entire process of recovery of the currency notes is clearly flawed, marked by procedural errors and grave lacuna which goes to the root of the matter. The trial Court and High Court fell in grave error by not pulling up the prosecution for flagrant disregard of legal procedures and failure to document key details which undermines the prosecution’s case. 43. The defence has come up with a pertinent theory that Gaurav Bhalla(A2) and Shivani @ Kaku, daughter of Mahesh Garg(PW-1) and sister of Sachin Garg(PW-2) were involved in a love affair and that Shivani had eloped from her house on 1st April, 2003.