The fact that only some of the petitioners approached the Hon’ble High Court praying that the State respondents be directed to make the official declaration of the result, shows that they were not aggrieved by the viva-voce being conducted by the DPC and they wanted only the result to be declared by the State respondents. Accordingly, on the recommendation of the Review DPC, the result of the selection was declared on 04-09-2011. Thus, it can be seen that there is nothing wrong in the selection process upto the stage of viva voce test and therefore, no can be passed by this court quashing the entire selection process, as prayed for by the petitioners, only on the ground that the answer scripts had been destroyed before the completion of the selection process. [10] As regards the second issue, the contention of the learned counsel appearing for the petitioners that in the declaration of result, some candidates were shown to have been selected against the seats allegedly reserved for the OBC category which was totally contrary to the Notice dated 12-09-2006, merits consideration by this court. In the said Notice dated 12-09-2006, nothing is mentioned about any seat being reserved for the OBC category and it could not be done also, at that point of time, for the simple reason that admittedly, the Office Memorandum prescribing reservation of seats for the OBC category came to be issued only on 27-12-2006 after the Notice dated 12-09-2006 having been issued by the Employment Officer and even after the written examination having been held by the Board. Moreover, this OM dated 27-12-2006 does not indicate that it would apply retrospectively. There is no material on record to show that after the said OM dated 27-12-2006 having been issued, a decision was taken by the State respondents to make an amendment [2024] 10 S.C.R. 25 Khunjamayum Bimoti Devi v. The State of Manipur & Ors. in the breakup of seats, as detailed in the said notice, allotted amongst the categories by adding OBC category therein and a notice thereof was issued informing the candidates about such amendment. From the perusal of the proceedings of the Review DPC, it appears that it had proceeded on an erroneous assumption that seats were reserved for the candidates belonging to OBC and the DPC had not referred to any issued by the State respondents, subsequent to the issuance of the said OM, that the OM would apply to the then ongoing selection process after due notice being given to the candidates. The Review DPC, in its proceeding, has merely stated that it has followed the 200 point reservation roster which came to be introduced only after the written examination and the viva-voce test were over. ……. ……... ……… …….. …… …. As is evident from the above decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court, an advertisement shall be issued in matters of public employment. The purpose of requiring the issuance of an advertisement is to give wide publicity to the eligible candidates as regards the terms and conditions including the criteria in respect of the details of selection.