[Para 79(v)] Reservation – Whether State legislature has the power of sub- classification of Scheduled Castes under Arts. 15 and 16 – Held (per majority), Yes – Constitution of India – Arts. 15 and 16. Held (per Dr D Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and Manoj Misra, J. ): Historical and empirical evidence demonstrates that the Scheduled Castes are a socially heterogenous class – Thus, the State in exercise of the power under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) can further classify the Scheduled Castes if (a) there is a rational principle for differentiation; and (b) the rational principle has a nexus with the purpose of sub-classification. [Para 205(e)] Held (per B.R. Gavai, J.) (Concurring): 1. It is the duty of the State to give preferential treatment to the backward class of citizens who are not adequately represented – If [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1327 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. the State while discharging that duty finds that certain categories within the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are not adequately represented and only the people belonging to few of the categories are enjoying the entire benefit reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, can the State be denied its right to give more preferential treatment for such categories? The answer would be in the negative, since the same would not amount to tinkering with the Presidential List. [Para 258] 2. No doubt that if the State decides to provide 100% of the reservation for Scheduled Castes to one or more categories enlisted in the Presidential List in that State to the exclusion of some categories, it may amount to tinkering with that list because, in effect, it would amount to denial of benefit of reservation to those Scheduled Caste categories which have been excluded – That would, in effect, amount to deletion of the said categories from the Presidential List notified under Article 341 of the Constitution, which power is exclusively reserved with Parliament; such an exercise would not be permissible. [Para 259] 3. However, merely because more preferential treatment is provided to the more backward or more inadequately represented among the Scheduled Castes, it would not amount to tinkering with the Presidential List – The same would be permissible in view of the law laid down by the 9-Judge Bench in the case of Indra Sawhney. [Para 260] Held (per Bela M. Trivedi, J.) (Dissenting): 1. The States have no legislative competence to enact the law for providing reservation or giving preferential treatment to a particular caste/castes by dividing/sub-dividing/sub-classifying or regrouping the castes, races or tribes enumerated as the “Scheduled Castes” in the notification under Article 341. [Para 79(vi)] 2. Under the guise of providing reservation or under the pretext of taking affirmative action for the weaker of the weakest sections of the society, the State cannot vary the Presidential List, nor can tinker with Article 341 of the Constitution. [Para 79(vii)] Reservation – Criteria and scope for sub-classification of Scheduled Castes – Discussed. Held (per Dr D Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and Manoj Misra, J.