In the light of these new developments, the present petitions do not survive for consideration. Accordingly, State is permitted to carry out necessary amendment and proceed afresh to advertise for the post of Junior Engineer. 4. From the date of last advertisement till date, almost four years have elapsed, therefore, such of those candidates who are likely to be over-aged with reference to ensuing advertisement, for such of those candidates (who are applicants to the advertisement dated 08.03.2019), State Government must make a provision in the proposed amendment insofar as giving age relaxation as a one time measure. The above exercise shall be completed within a period of four months from the date of receipt of this . 5. Pending I.A., if any, stands disposed of. 6. At this stage, learned counsel for one of the contesting respondent submitted that liberty may be reserved to challenge the proposed amendment. Such liberty is not necessary for the reasons that as and when Rules or amended rules were issued afresh, it would be a fresh cause of action to the respective parties.” 13. Learned Senior Counsels for the Appellants, Mr. Rajeev Dhavan, Mr. Ranjit Kumar and Ms. Meenakshi Arora urged before this Court that at the outset, the Writ Petitioners, having knowingly participated in the selection process under the Advertisement were bound by the doctrine of acquiescence and therefore, could not have challenged the eligibility criteria post-facto. Reliance is placed on Punjab National [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1353 Shashi Bhushan Prasad Singh v. The State of Bihar and Others Bank vs. Anit Kumar Das (2021) 12 SCC 80 and The Chairman SBI & Anr. vs. M.J. James (2022) 2 SCC 301. 14. The learned counsels for the Appellants also contended that the cancellation of the entire selection process after its completion and preparation of the Final Select List, is unjustified and amounts to changing the rules of the game after the declaration of results, which is impermissible. Reliance is placed on K. Manjusree vs. State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. (2008) 3 SCC 512. It is argued that the Appellants, who emerged successful after the due process of selection which was carried out as per the Advertisement, have a vested right to be appointed and are instead being made to suffer though no fault of their own. 15. They further contended that the decision taken by the State Government and approved by the High Court amounts to arbitrary action as it fails to specify the concern/anomaly with Rule 9(1)(iii) which necessitated the cancellation of the entire process. 16. Learned Counsel for the Private Respondents i.e., the Writ Petitioners before the High Court also contended that the cancellation of the entire selection process, at such a tardy stage would seriously impact their interests. They argue that as per the stand of the AICTE before the High Court, their applications were eligible and should thus be reconsidered along with the applications of the Appellants. 17. Learned Senior Counsel for the State, Mr. Patwalia vehemently contends that the State was well within its domain to scrap the selection process considering the numerous legal issues that cropped up concerning the previously applicable Rules.