It is generally in relation to a particular commodity or class of commodities or transactions. It is a direction of a general character, not directed against a particular situation. It is intended to operate in the future. It is conceived in the interests of the general consumer public. Viewed from whatever angle, the angle of general application, the prospectiveness of its effect, the public interest served, and the rights and obligations flowing therefrom, there can be no question that price fixation is ordinarily a legislative activity.” “Price fixation may occasionally assume an administrative or quasi-judicial character when it relates to acquisition or requisition of goods or property from individuals and it becomes necessary to fix the price separately in relation to such individuals. Such situations may arise when the owner of property or goods is compelled to sell his property or goods to the government or its nominee and the price to be paid is directed by the legislature to be determined according to the statutory guidelines laid down by it. In such situations the determination of price may acquire a quasi-judicial character” (emphasis supplied) 85 [1990] 1 SCR 909 : (1990) 3 SCC 223 [34] 86 [1987] 2 SCR 841 : (1987) 2 SCC 729 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1437 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. 47. On the facts of the case, the Bench held that price fixation is of a legislative character but the amount determined based on the price is adjudicatory because the former applies generally to a class of commodities while the latter is decided after taking individual aspects into consideration. This Court also held that price fixation can be of a legislative character even if it is based on an objective criteria87. 88 48. Two principles are deducible from the of this Court in Sitaram Sugar (supra). The first is that one of the factors to determine if an was issued in exercise of an adjudicatory function, is whether it was specific to an individual or of general application. The second is that it is not necessary that a legislative action must always be ‘subjective’ and an adjudicatory function ‘objective’. The Constitution Bench repudiated this distinction by observing that a legislative action can also be based on an objective set of factors. v. Whether tariff determination is an adjudicatory function: PTC and GRIDCO 49. In PTC (supra), a Constitution Bench of this Court made certain observations on the fixation of tariff by the Electricity Commission under the provisions of the Electricity Act 2003.89 Section 61 of the Electricity Act provides that the Appropriate Commission (which is defined under the Act to mean Central Regulatory Commission, State Regulatory Commission or Joint Commission) must, subject to the provisions of the Electricity Act, specify the terms and conditions for the determination of tariff. The provision also stipulates factors that the Appropriate Commission must be guided by. Section 62 deals with the “determination of tariff”. The provision confers the Appropriate Commission with the power to determine tariff for supply, transmission, wheeling and retail sale of electricity.