On the other hand, this is a case wherein non-functional higher Grade Pay has been awarded to employees on completion of a certain length of service in the lower pay-scale/Grade Pay. We would, therefore, reject the contention of the respondents that, on implementation of the CCS RP Rules, upgrading the pay of Pharmacists and Superintendents, post the period of two or four years, would only amount to re-fixation of pay or revision of pay, as incorrect and, in essence, a wrong understanding of the CCS RP Rules. 15. Clause 6.2 specifically states that, where financial upgradation has been granted to the next higher pay-scale/Grade Pay in the hierarchy in the cadre as per the provisions of the ACPS, but as a result of the implementation of the Sixth CPC by grant of higher pay-scale/Grade Pay, the pay of such employees has been revised, such benefit will be given to the said employees. However, from the date of implementation of the MACPS, all financial upgradations would be done under the MACPS strictly in accordance with the hierarchy of the Grade Pay in the Pay Band, as notified vide CCS RP Rules. “Regular service” for the purpose of MACPS, commences from the date of joining the post in the direct entry grade on a regular service basis either on a direct recruitment basis or on an absorption/re-employment basis. 16. Clause 13 of the MACPS states that any time-bound promotion scheme, including in-situ promotion scheme, which is in force, may 1530 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports continue to be in operation for the concerned category of employees if it is decided by the concerned administrative authorities to retain such schemes. However, such schemes cannot run concurrently with the MACPS. The objective is clear. An incumbent eligible Government employee should not take the benefit of both - the time-bound promotion scheme or in-situ promotion scheme as well as the benefit of financial upgradation under the MACPS. We have specifically referred to clause 13 for, in our opinion, the financial upgradation which is granted, after two or four years of service, to Pharmacists or Superintendents, would indicate that they availed financial upgradation. In their cases, because of service conditions, the Government had thought it proper to grant them such financial upgradation after they completed two or four years of service in the lower pay-scale/Grade Pay. It is not the intention of the Government to ignore the said upgradation under the CCS RP Rules. If we do so, we would be granting them additional benefits beyond what was envisaged and stated in the MACPS. The Revised Pay Rules, including a grant of financial benefits, and the MACPS are not two watertight or separate compartments, each conferring independent benefits without reference to the other. Grant of financial upgradations as well as promotions are to be duly accounted for and taken into consideration in the MACPS. 17. Clauses 19 and 20 specify that the financial upgradation is purely personal and has no relevance to the seniority position.