…“Related” is not equivalent to “interested”. A witness may be called “interested” only when he or she derives some benefit from the result of a litigation; in the decree in a civil case, or in seeing an accused person punished. A witness who is a natural one and is the only possible eyewitness in the circumstances of a case cannot be said to be “interested.” We may refer to the observation in Sarwan Singh v. State of Punjab17 as under to appreciate the evidentiary value of such testimonies: – “...Moreover, it is not the law that the evidence of an interested witness should be equated with that of a tainted evidence or that of an approver so as to require corroboration as a matter of necessity. The evidence of 16 [1981] 3 SCR 504 : (1981) 2 SCC 752 17 (1976) 4 SCC 369 (3J) [2024] 3 S.C.R. 757 Periyasamy v. The State Represented by the Inspector of Police an interested witness does not suffer from any infirmity as such, but the courts require as a rule of prudence, not as a rule of law, that the evidence of such witnesses should be scrutinised with a little care. Once that approach is made and the court is satisfied that the evidence of interested witnesses have a ring of truth such evidence could be relied upon even without corroboration. Indeed there may be circumstances where only interested evidence may be available and no other, e.g. when an occurrence takes place at midnight in the house when the only witnesses who could see the occurrence may be the family members. In such cases it would not be proper to insist that the evidence of the family members should be disbelieved merely because of their interestedness…” In other words, if witnesses examined are found to be ‘interested’ then, the examination of independent witnesses would assume importance. Faulty Police Investigation 22. Recently, this Court in Rajesh and Anr. v. State of Madhya Pradesh (3-Judge Bench)18, while setting aside the conviction of the three Appellants therein, remarked: “39. Before parting with the case with our verdict, we may note with deep and profound concern the disappointing standards of police investigation that seem to be the invariable norm. As long back as in the year 2003, the Report of Dr. Justice V.S. Malimath’s ‘Committee on Reforms of Criminal Justice System’ had recorded thus: ‘The manner in which police investigations are conducted is of critical importance to the functioning of the Criminal Justice System. Not only serious miscarriage of justice will result if the collection of evidence is vitiated by error or malpractice, but successful prosecution of the guilty depends on a thorough and careful search for truth and collection of evidence which 18 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1202 758 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is both admissible and probative. In undertaking this search, it is the duty of the police to investigate fairly and thoroughly and collect all evidence, whether for or against the suspect.