Reliance is placed upon the 2007 Rules and the 1987 amendment of Rule 2(e) of the 1970 Rules, to contend that it is not necessary that a ‘Reporting Authority’ should be the immediate superior of the member of the service whose ACR/APAR is being prepared and it is sufficient if the authority supervises his/her performance. It is contended that, as Section 14(1) of the Act of 2007 vests the Deputy Commissioner/District Magistrate (hereinafter referred to as, ‘the Deputy Commissioner) with control over the functioning of the SP of that district, the Deputy Commissioner would be the most suitable person to report upon the performance of that SP. The appellants would point out that the SP works under the control and direction of the Deputy Commissioner, who has the overall responsibility of keeping peace and maintaining law and in the district and who is empowered to employ the police force within the district as he/ she thinks best for that purpose. 10. On the other hand, the respondents would point out that Section 14(2) of the Act of 2007 makes it clear that the Deputy Commissioner cannot interfere with the internal organization or discipline within the police force in the district and can only inform the SP if the conduct and/or qualification of a police officer affects the general administration of the district. They contend that the archaic Rule 63(iii) of the Manual is not compatible with the scheme obtaining under the Act of 2007 480 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and the 2007 Rules and that the Gauhati High Court was well justified in holding to that effect and invalidating it. 11. At the outset, we may note that the system of governance obtaining under the Police Act, 1861, was altogether different from what it is now. At that time, the Deputy Commissioner exercised far wider powers, being the head of the criminal and police administration in the district. In such circumstances, it was proper that he/she should be vested with the power of assessing the performance of the SP of that district. Rule 63 of the Manual also makes this clear as it speaks of the recording officers being fully conversant with the quality of the work of the ‘officers working under them’ and goes on to say that the intention is that the work of an officer should be known to all his ‘superiors’ along the line. The hierarchical superiority of the Deputy Commissioner over the SP in that setup is, therefore, clear. 12. However, after the separation of powers in terms of the regime now prevailing, the Deputy Commissioner is no longer the head of criminal and police administration in the district. Presently, Section 14(1) of the Act of 2007 provides that the administration of the police within the district vests in the SP of that district and Section 14(2) of the Act of 2007 makes it clear that the Deputy Commissioner would not have the power to interfere with the internal organization of the police in the district or with discipline within the police force.