24. In this regard, we may also note that, in State Bank of India and others vs. Kashinath Kher and others5, this Court held that officers reporting upon performance must show objectivity, impartiality and fair assessment, without any prejudices whatsoever, and the highest sense of responsibility so as to inculcate devotion to duty, honesty and integrity. It was further observed that as officers may get demoralized by negative ACRs,which would be deleterious to the efficacy and efficiency of public service, such ACRs should be written by a superior officer of high rank. Earlier, in State of Haryana 5 (1996) 8 SCC 762 486 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports vs. P.C.Wadhwa, IPS, Inspector General of Police and another6, this Court considered whether the State Government could empower any authority to be the ‘Reporting Authority’ of the Inspector General of Police under Rule 2(e) of the 1970 Rules. It was observed that, from the point of view of propriety and reasonableness and having regard to the intention behind the Rule, which is manifest, such an authority must be one superior in rank to the member of the service concerned. No doubt, these observations were made in the context of the unamended Rule 2(e) of the 1970 Rules, but the principle culled out is sound and still holds good. 25. The appellants would argue that the Deputy Commissioner is the most suitable person to assess the performance of the SP, as he works under his control and direction, but we are not impressed. Form I in Appendix II to the 2007 Rules pertains to performance appraisal of all IPS Officers upto the level of Inspector General of Police, which would include SPs. Clause 6 in Rule 3 thereof, relating to appraisal by the ‘Reporting Authority’, provides various domain assignments wherefrom the ‘Reporting Authority’ is required to select any four. ‘Law and ’ is only one of the twenty named domains, which would come within the purview of the Deputy Commissioner and the remaining nineteen would not be within his/her purview and supervision. Seized of only one of the twenty domains, the Deputy Commissioner would not even be competent to assess the overall performance of the SP. 26. On the above analysis and given the fact that the 1970 Rules/2007 Rules define reporting, reviewing and accepting authorities to mean that they must all be from the same service or department, intervention by the Deputy Commissioner during the exercise of performance assessment of SPs of the districts in the State of Assam, by virtue of Rule 63(iii) of the Manual, cannot be countenanced, being in direct conflict therewith, and would tantamount to permitting the Deputy Commissioner to interfere with the internal organization of the police force, which would be contrary to the mandate of Section 14(2) of the Act of 2007. 6 (1987) 2 SCC 602 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 487 The State of Assam and Others v. Binod Kumar and Others 27. We, therefore, find no grounds to disagree with the conclusion arrived at by the Gauhati High Court, holding to that effect.