859 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning voucher in respect of the first claim, their second claim also would have been affected. 29. The counsel submitted that the letter dated 25.10.2019 addressed by the respondent cannot be said to be a protest letter as the letter only asked for a copy of the surveyor’s report to be provided and no allegation of any coercion or any demand for any amount was even raised in the said letter. The counsel finally submitted that a discharge voucher for effecting the full and final settlement in relation to the second claim was also signed by the respondent on 30.09.2019, which was accepted and no dispute has been raised in the last five years, which indicates that the appellant acted in a bona fide manner as per the prescribed norms. C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT 30. Ms Savita Singh, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, at the outset submitted that her client had to succumb before the surveyor on account of acute economic distress and also on account of pendency of huge amount of claim with the appellant, i.e., around Rs 8 crore cumulatively arising out of the two claims. The respondent was also under pressure from other financial institutions from whom loan had been availed. 31. The counsel further submitted that the circumstances were such that her client had to issue the discharge voucher, otherwise payment towards the admitted amount would not have been released and her client would have been put in immense difficulties. She submitted that mere signing of the discharge voucher by her client would not imply that there was consensus in arriving at the full and final settlement. The counsel submitted that the coercion, though subtle, was very much real and thus in such a situation where the settlement is not voluntary, but under duress, the arbitration clause can be invoked to refer the disputes to arbitration. 32. The counsel also submitted that it cannot be said that there was an inordinate delay in raising the plea of coercion as the letter dated 25.09.2019 was sent by her client to the appellant within 11 days of the receipt of final payment in relation to the second insurance claim. However, the appellant provided a copy of the surveyor’s report only on 07.11.2019 based on which the notice of arbitration was issued on 02.03.2020. 860 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 33. The counsel, in the last, submitted that the issues raised by the appellant are subject matter of arbitration by the tribunal and not of the referral court, which has to limit its scrutiny to the issue of arbitrability in view of the settled position of law. D. ISSUES FOR DETERMINATION 34. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the following three questions fall for our consideration: - i. Whether the execution of a discharge voucher towards the full and final settlement between the parties would operate as a bar to invoke arbitration?