It is also the case of the prosecution that the appellant-convicts made Dipak Lokhande to run away from the jeep to make it appear that Shama @ Kalya had escaped from custody. Thereupon, PW-38 Harne was informed about it and entry to that effect was made in the station-diary and consequently, false inquiry was made and documents were also prepared. 8. The facts narrated above would reveal that going by the case of the prosecution, it is a case of custodial torture leading to custodial death. 9. The Trial Court, after appreciating the evidence found that the prosecution had failed to establish the charge punishable under Section 302, IPC, and concluded that the prosecution had succeeded only in establishing charge under Section 304 -II read with Section 34 against accused numbers 1 to 3. True that they and the others, barring accused Nos. 8 and 9, were found guilty under certain other charged offences as well, and accordingly sentenced therefor, as mentioned hereinbefore. However, in the appeals by the appellant-convicts the High Court confirmed the conviction and sentences except under Section 201 read with Section 34 IPC. The acquittal of accused numbers 8 & 9 by the trial Court was not challenged by the State before the High Court. So also, the acquittal of the appellants under Section 201 read with Section 34, IPC by the High Court is not now under challenge. In short, the captioned appeals carry only the challenge of the convicts against their conviction under the different sections of the IPC and consequently imposed sentences therefor, as mentioned hereinbefore. 10. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants would submit that there is no serious challenge against the conviction of the appellants for custodial torture. Nonetheless, a feeble attempt was, indeed, made by the learned senior counsel to convince me that the appellants are entitled to a plain acquittal in respect of all the charges for which they were found guilty and were confirmed [2024] 9 S.C.R. 731 Manik & Ors. v. The State of Maharashtra by the High Court under the impugned . Then, serious contentions were advanced with respect to the conviction for the custodial death under Section 304-II read with Section 34 IPC and the consequential sentence imposed on the appellants. Having heard the rival contentions and bestowing anxious consideration I am of the considered view that even otherwise, contentions in respect of the finding on the charge of custodial torture warrant no serious consideration and the conviction and consequently imposed sentences, therefore, under different sections hereinafter to be mentioned specifically invite no interference. 11. The facts that deceased Shama @ Kalya was taken into police custody on the complaint of PW-6 Vijay Kumar Rameshwarlal Agrawal in crime No. 315 of 95 registered at Gondia City Police Station and that the appellants took him to Detective Branch Room of Gondia Police Station for interrogation and in that regard detained him for days together without adhering to the legal mandate for production of the arrestee within 24 hours, since his detention, before a Magistrate having jurisdiction in the case, remain irrefragable, rather, proved and unrebutted.