As the notice of sale for the 9th auction was published on 12.06.2023 and the ultimate auction held on 30.06.2023, the statutory 15-day time period was duly maintained. Thus the 9th auction was in due compliance of the statutory requirements and constituted a valid sale. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1649 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. 56. Reliance was also placed on the decision of this Court in Valji Khimji and Company v. Official Liquidator of Hindustan Nitro Product (Gujarat) Ltd. & Ors, reported in (2008) 9 SCC 299 to canvass that a sale by way of public auction cannot be set aside until there is any material irregularity and/or illegality committed in holding the auction or if such sale was vitiated by any fraud or collusion. 57. It was further submitted on behalf of the petitioner that at no point before the DRT or DRAT did the Borrower contend that there was any material irregularity or fraud in connection with the 9th auction that was conducted by the Bank or the sale of the Secured Asset arising therefrom. Even in the Main Appeals before this Court, it was never the case of the Borrower that the 9th Auction was invalid or illegal and that no pleadings to this effect were made by the Borrower before this Court. 58. In such circumstances, it was submitted that the stance taken by the Borrower in the S.A No. 46 of 2022 and S.A. No. 53 of 2024 respectively after the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals is unscrupulous and self-serving. It was further pointed out that the Borrower in the Assignment Agreement with the Subsequent Transferee had provided an undertaking to withdraw the aforesaid S.A No. 46 of 2022. Thus, in view of the aforesaid coupled with the fact that the Borrower never questioned the validity of the 9th auction in the Main Appeals, it was submitted that the Borrower had waived of its right under the SARFAESI Act and is now estopped from challenging the legality of the recovery measure taken by the Bank and the consequent 9th Auction conducted by it. In this regard, the petitioner relied upon the decision of this Court in Arce Polymers Private Limited v. Alphine Pharmaceuticals Private Limited & Ors., reported in (2022) 2 SCC 221 to contend that if the party relinquishes its right under the SARFAESI Act, then the Borrower is not entitled to subsequently challenge the actions or measures taken under it. 59. In the last, it was submitted that the Sale Certificate of the Secured Asset that was issued by the Bank in favour of the petitioner was never contingent upon or subject to the outcome of the proceedings before the DRT, more particularly S.A. No. 46 of 2022, as this Court in the Main Appeals had upheld the auction and crystalized the rights of the petitioner over the Secured Asset. Placing reliance on paragraph 98 of the Main Appeals, it was contended that once the Sale Certificate is issued, the bank is bound to hand over the physical 1650 [2024] 12 S.C.R.