721 Tinku v. State of Haryana & Ors. gratia compensation in old cases pertaining to the claims before 01.08.2006. This was done having regard to the fact that in old cases where the family of the deceased employee could not exercise the option within time, due to lack of requisite knowledge or other reasons because of which their dependents could not avail the benefit under the ex-gratia scheme being time-barred. Such dependents were, accordingly, given one more chance to give an option. 22. Admittedly, this decision of the government was never brought to the notice of the mother of the Appellant. It could not be disputed that no intimation whatsoever had been sent to the widow of the deceased government employee regarding the exercise of such an option. Had she been informed, she could have applied for the grant of ex-gratia compensation. The inaction on the part of the State in intimating her of her entitlement to put forth the claim is the reason for she having not opted for it. 23. It would thus be just and reasonable that one opportunity is granted to the widow of the deceased government employee, Jai Prakash and the mother of the Appellant, to make a representation for exercising her option for the grant of lump sum ex-gratia compensation. We permit her to do so. On submission of the representation, the same shall be considered by the competent authority and a decision taken thereon within a period of six weeks from the date of receipt thereof. The lumpsum compensation, if granted and released within the time stipulated above, shall not carry any interest. However, if a decision is not made and if found entitled, the amount not disbursed within the stipulated time, interest at the rate of 6 per cent per annum shall be payable from the date of representation till the date of actual payment. 24. The present Appeal is disposed of in the above terms. 25. There shall be no as to costs. 26. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal disposed of. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey