[…] There is no ambiguity about the effect of this Section. It is clear that the voluntary acquisition by an Indian citizen of the citizenship of another country terminates his citizenship of India, provided the said voluntary acquisition has taken place between 26th January, 1950 and the commencement of the Act or takes place thereafter. It would thus be seen that whereas Article 9 of the Constitution dealt with the acquisition of citizenship of a foreign State which had taken place prior to the commencement of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1265 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 (supra), the observations that statutory provisions on citizenship cannot be challenged on the ground of violation of provisions in Part II cannot be interpreted as a reading in of a non-obstante clause in Article 11. Provisions of the Parliamentary law on citizenship cannot be challenged on the ground of violation of the provisions of Part II because the constitutional provisions on citizenship are redundant for all purposes after the commencement of the Constitution. Though in the context of Article 11 the use of the non-obstante clause and the phrase ‘shall not derogate from’ will produce the same result, it is important to clarify the distinct usage of the phrases. 41. Similarly, the reason that Article 11 does not include a clause (similar to Article 4(2)) that the law shall not be deemed to be an amendment of the Constitution for the purpose of Article 368 is because there is no possibility of the law amending the constitutional provisions in Part II in view of the temporal limit of all the provisions. 42. In view of the discussion above, I have reached the following conclusions: (a) Section 6A of the Citizenship Act does not have the effect of amending Articles 6 and 7; and (b) Article 11 is not a non-obstante clause. However, since the Constitution confers citizenship only at the commencement of the Constitution, the law enacted in exercise of the power under Article 246 read with Entry 17 of List I and the constitutional provisions on citizenship operate in different fields. ii. Section 6A is not violative of Article 14 of the Constitution 43. The petitioners submitted that Section 6A is violative of Article 14 on three grounds: (a) Section 6A is under-inclusive because it confers citizenship only to migrants to Assam; (b) there was no justification to single out Assam to the exclusion of other b States that b Bangladesh since they all form a homogenous class; and (c) the provision prescribes a different cut-off date for granting citizenship to migrants who enter Assam as opposed to other States. the Constitution, Section 9 of the Act deals with acquisition of foreign citizenship subsequent to the commencement of the Constitution. There is, therefore, no doubt that the Constitution does not favour plural or dual citizenship and just as in regard to the period prior to the Constitution, Article 9 prevents a person who had voluntarily acquired the citizenship of foreign country from claiming the status of an Indian citizen, so does Section 9(1) make a similar provision in regard to the period subsequent to the commencement of the Constitution.