77. All that has been stated aforesaid gives an impression, though prima facie, that the SRG Group may be connected to the FAA and forms part of the settlement contemplated therein. However, this aspect should be looked into more closely by the Arbitral Tribunal. 78. Moreover, on the question whether the non-signatory party i.e., the SRG Group intended or consented to be bound by the arbitration agreement or the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement through their acts or conduct, elaborate submissions have been made on behalf of all three groups, by placing reliance on the terms of the agreement, several email exchanges etc. On bare perusal of the email exchanges produced by the petitioner, it appears prima facie that several contested questions of fact, including but not limited to those hereinbelow, need to be first resolved: • Whether Mr. Kalpesh Parmar or the JRS Group can be said to have represented the interests of the SRG Group during the negotiations leading up to the FAA, its implementation and during the mediation process; • Whether the marking of several emails to the Respondent No.9 of the SRG Group and the absence of any protest on his part can imply consent of the SRG Group to be bound by the underlying contract and/or the arbitration agreement; • Whether the documents required for the valuation and due diligence of Millenium and Deegee could have been shared by an employee of Deegee without the knowledge or consent of the SRG Group; and [2024] 9 S.C.R. 945 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. • Whether the demand of an additional Rs. 25 crore made by the SRG Group through the JRS Group as a condition for exit from Deegee indicates their intention to be bound by the underlying contract and/or the arbitration agreement? 79. A detailed examination of numerous disputed questions of fact are imperative in deciding whether the SRG Group participated in the negotiation and performance of the underlying contract and can be bound by the arbitration agreement. At the cost of repetition, we may state that under our limited jurisdiction afforded under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 we should not conduct a mini trial and delve into contested or disputed questions of fact. This has been categorically laid down in several decisions of this Court including Vidya Drolia (supra) and Krish Spinning (supra). Further, it is also the case of the SRG Group that a dual test needs to be satisfied before it is compelled to be a party to the present arbitration proceedings i.e., (a) SRG Group should be shown to have agreed to the underlying contract and (b) SRG Group should also be shown to have agreed to be bound by the arbitration agreement. We are of the considered view that the same requires a much more detailed examination of the evidence that may be adduced by the parties which can only be gone into by the Arbitral Tribunal. 80. Therefore, considering the complexity involved in the determination of the question whether the SRG Group is a veritable party to the arbitration agreement or not, we are of the view that it would be appropriate for the arbitral tribunal to take a call on the question after taking into consideration the evidence that may be adduced by the parties before it and the application of the legal doctrine as elaborated in the decision in Cox and Kings (supra).