The general superintendence, direction and control of NTA and its income and property is also entrusted to the Managing Committee. Significantly, the bye-laws stipulate that all duties, powers and functions related to carrying on the objectives of NTA shall only be exercised or performed by the Managing Committee. The deliberations of the Managing Committee are required to be reported to the General Body from time to time and the former is required to work in terms of the policy laid down by the latter. 60. From a comparison of the functions of the Managing Committee with those of the General Body, it is evident that the General Body is responsible for supervising the administration of NTA and exercising general oversight of its functioning while the Managing Committee is in charge of its day-to-day administration. Members of the General Body would not, it appears, have a hand in formulating the detailed protocol for the conduct of every examination or in responding to concerns that arise in real-time. Further, the current Director of IIT Madras, Prof. V Kamakoti nominated Prof. A Gopalakrishna to attend the most recently held meeting of the General Body, on 29 September 2023. The last meeting Prof. Kamakoti attended was on 29 December 2022. A combination of all these factors (including the fact that he is merely an ex officio member of the General Body) lead us to the conclusion that the report of the Director of IIT Madras cannot be faulted on the ground of bias. In any event, in the interests of justice and fairness, the Court has independently considered the data placed on record before reaching a decision on whether the petitions in this case ought to be allowed. 76 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports iv. There is no evidence to indicate a systemic leak as on date a. Position of law 61. The facts of this case and the resultant issue before this Court do not call for the development of new legal principles. It is settled law that the cancellation of an examination, either for the purposes of gaining admission into professional and other courses or for the purpose of recruitment to a government post, is justified only in cases where the sanctity of the exam is found to be compromised at a systemic level. Courts may direct the cancellation of an examination or approve such cancellation by the competent authority only if it is not possible to separate the tainted candidates from the untainted ones. 62. In Anamica Mishra v. U.P. Public Service Commission,10 the recruitment process concerning appointment to various educational services posts in Uttar Pradesh was cancelled. The process consisted of two stages – a preliminary written examination and an interview. Only those candidates who scored high marks in the former were invited to participate in the latter. In that case, mistakes in data entry resulted in some candidates who scored high marks being left out of the interview process even as other candidates who scored low marks were interviewed and even selected.