33. This Court in the following cases has discussed at length the precautionary principle, which are adverted to at this stage. (i) In Vellore Citizens’ Welfare Forum vs. Union of India, (1996) 5 SCC 647 (“Vellore Citizens”), this Court was seized of a Writ Petition filed by a citizens’ group to seek enforcement of the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 against tanneries that were discharging untreated effluent into nearby lands. While directing strict enforcement of environmental law and holding the authorities accountable for their failure to exercise statutory powers, this Court expounded on the significance of the precautionary principle. It traced the origins of the precautionary principle in international law and located the same in domestic environmental law. This Court’s formulation of the precautionary principle constitutes three propositions: 2086 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports i. The environmental measures undertaken by the State Government and the statutory authorities must anticipate, prevent and attack the causes of environmental degradation. ii. Where there are threats of serious and irreversible damage, lack of scientific certainty should not be used as a reason for postponing measures to prevent environmental degradation. iii. The reversal of the “burden of proof” to the proponent of a potentially hazardous activity which could disrupt the natural environment was critical for ecologically balanced and sustainable development. This Court construed the precautionary principle in light of Articles 47, 48A and 51A(g) of the Constitution. Further, it was concluded that the extant legislative framework, specifically the EP Act, 1986, included the application of the precautionary principle in addition to the polluter pays principle. Consequently, this Court passed a direction to the authority to be appointed under Section 3(3) of the EP Act, 1986 to implement the ‘precautionary principle.’ (ii) The precautionary principle was explained in greater detail by this Court in A.P. Pollution Control Board vs. Prof. M.V. Nayudu, (1999) 2 SCC 718 (“A.P. Pollution Control Board”) from the lens of international environmental law. Here, this Court was considering whether the establishment of a hazardous industry could be countenanced within ten kilometre of reservoirs used for drinking water. This Court noted that the “assimilative capacity” rule was embedded in Principle 6 of the Stockholm Declaration of the U.N. Conference on Human Environment, 1972. This “assimilative capacity” principle was premised on the assumption of perfect scientific predictability that would allow the internalisation of ecological risks within industrial processes. It was reasoned that the preponderance of unpredictability of adverse environmental effects led to the adoption of the 11th Principle of the U.N. General Assembly Resolution on World Charter for Nature, 1982, and the Principle 15 of the Rio Conference of 1992. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2087 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Quite axiomatically, precautionary principle changes the role and significance of scientific data in environmental disputes. Once a threat to the environment has been identified, action should be taken to abate environmental interference, even though there may be scientific uncertainty as to the effects of the activities.