It was contended that owing to increasing population and oil consumption over the years, the imports have significantly increased in India. 19.2 Reiterating that globally around 80 percent of soyabean is GM soyabean variety, it was underlined that the petitioners were only voicing unfounded fears. The transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 having shown increased per-hectare yield over the traditional varieties, domestic production of edible oil is bound to rise considerably through the GM variety. 19.3 It was next submitted that competing fundamental rights of different sections of the society would have to be balanced. On the one hand, essential food including edible oil at affordable prices has to be made available, while at the same time, the dependency on import has to be reduced. That owing to the increasing demand for edible oil in India, making available the same at an economic price is a fundamental right of the citizens. Therefore, the production of indigenous edible oil is necessary to meet the increasing demand for such oil. It was argued by the learned Solicitor General that there were certain sections of the population who did not wish that India should be self-sufficient and self-reliant in essential food and instead encouraged importing edible oil, which is not in the interest of the Indian economy. 2042 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19.4 It was submitted that the petitioners have failed to satisfy as to how restricting the trials would, in any way, have an adverse impact on the environment or otherwise. The public interest and fundamental rights of the citizens of the country to have the benefit of reasonable price of mustard oil has to outweigh the so-called concerns expressed by the petitioners herein. The learned Solicitor General accused that the petitions have been filed only to arm twist the State and in to support greater imports of the essential commodities. In this context, it was submitted by him that the Union of India is committed to increasing crop productivity and the income of farmers through development of low input – high output agriculture and making the country self-sufficient in edible oil and grain legumes and that the strengthening of plant breeding programme, including the use of new genetic technologies, is critical for that purpose. 19.5 He noted that an elaborate statutory scheme exists to ensure effective regulatory review for the research, development and commercial use of GE technologies. The petitioners have not, however, pointed out a single flaw on record in the existing statutory regime or its implementation in the trial of DMH-11. Therefore, the writ petitions have to be dismissed with heavy costs. In this regard, reliance was placed on a recent of this Court in the case of Jacob Puliye vs. Union of India, (2022) SCC OnLine SC 533 (“Jacob Puliye”) with special reference to paragraph Nos.21, 22, 62 and 80-81, and three other s of this Court, namely, National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited vs. Montecarlo Limited, (2022) 6 SCC 401 (“Montecarlo Limited”), Narmada Bachao Andolan vs. Union of India, (2000) 10 SCC 664 (“Narmada Bachao”) and Uflex Limited vs. Government of Tamil Nadu, (2022) 1 SCC 165 (“Uflex Limited”) to contend that frivolous public interest litigation must be dismissed with heavy costs, particularly, when an interim injunction affects the public interest.