The levy was held to be in pith and substance a tax on land and buildings even though the basis of the tax was similar to the one adopted to measure income. 288. From the above discussion, we can derive the following principles: (i) the incidence of a tax on lands and buildings will likely be on the owner or occupier, as the case may be; (ii) the legislature may adopt a suitable measure for levying the tax on lands and buildings under Entry 49 of List II; and (iii) the measure adopted by legislature does not determine the nature of the tax. 289. In recent decades, this Court has held that there ought to be a “nexus” between the nature of tax and the measure of tax. In Union of India v. Bombay Tyre International Ltd.,367 the issue before a three-Judge Bench of this Court was whether the value of an article for the purposes of excise duty must be determined exclusively with reference to the manufacturing cost and manufacturing profit of the manufacturer or the entire wholesale price368 charged by the manufacturer. The assesses contended that only the measure of manufacturing cost and profit create a direct and immediate nexus between the levy and the manufacturing activity. It was further 367 [1984] 1 SCR 347 : (1984) 1 SCC 467 [14] 368 The wholesale price actually charged by the manufacturer consisted of not merely the manufacturing costs and manufacturing profit but included, in addition, a whole range of expenses and an element of profit (conveniently referred to as “post-manufacturing expenses” and “post-manufacturing profit”) arising between the completion of the manufacturing process and the point of sale by the manufacturer. 1724 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports urged that the post-manufacturing expenses and profits ought to be necessarily excluded to preserve the nexus between the nature of tax and the assessment of tax. This Court traced the line of precedent on the measure of tax to observe that a broad standard of reference may be adopted for the purpose of determining the measure of the levy. It was held that any standard which maintains a nexus with the essential character of the levy can be regarded as a valid basis for the measure of the levy. In CCE v. Grasim Industries Ltd.,369 a Constitution Bench reiterated that there must be a “reasonable nexus” between the nature of tax and the measure of the levy. It was further observed that the measure cannot be controlled by the rigors of the nature of tax. 290. The discussion above indicates that the nexus between the measure and levy of tax need not be “direct and immediate”. The nexus has to be “reasonable” and must have some relationship with the nature of levy. The reasonability of the nexus will largely depend upon the nature of the tax and the means available with the legislature to design the measure of the tax. Since the measure of the levy is a matter of legislative policy and convenience,370 the reasonability of the nexus between the measure and tax has to be determined by the courts on a case-to-case basis.