158. The discretion in extending the time limits fixed under the Resolution Plan must be exercised in a much more circumspect manner, especially in cases such as the present, which pertains to the aviation sector, wherein timely resolution and revival of the Corporate Debtor is all the more crucial since the sector operates in such a way that a continuous flow of cash is required to maintain the company in a position of status quo. 159. We are now left to finally consider whether in view of the gross facts on record, we should, in exercise of our plenary jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution, direct that the Corporate Debtor be taken in liquidation. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2157 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. 160. This Court in Ebix (supra) had opined that the exercise of powers, even under Article 142, must be broadly compliant with the insolvency framework and its underlying objective. It was highlighted therein that the Court must remain cautious in granting reliefs that may run counter to the timeliness and predictability that is central to the IBC, 2016. The relevant observations made are reproduced hereinbelow: “101. Any claim seeking an exercise of the adjudicating authority’s residuary powers under Section 60(5)(c) IBC, NCLT’s inherent powers under Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules, 2016 or even the powers of this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution must be closely scrutinised for broader compliance with the insolvency framework and its underlying objective. The adjudicating mechanisms which have been specifically created by the statute, have a narrowly defined role in the process and must be circumspect in granting reliefs that may run counter to the timeliness and predictability that is central to IBC. Any judicial creation of a procedural or substantive remedy that is not envisaged by the statute would not only violate the principle of separation of powers, but also run the risk of altering the delicate coordination that is designed by IBC framework and have grave implications on the outcome of the CIRP, the economy of the country and the lives of the workers and other allied parties who are statutorily bound by the impact of a resolution or liquidation of a corporate debtor.” (emphasis supplied) 161. We are conscious of our recent decision Glas Trust Company LLC v. Byju Raveendran and Others reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3032, taking the view that the Court must be circumspect in deviating from the prescribed procedure, especially in the context of the IBC, 2016. However, if such a deviation is made, then the Court must justify as to why the deviation was necessary to prevent the abuse of the process of the Court. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “70. When a procedure has been prescribed for a particular purpose exhaustively, no power shall be 2158 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports exercised otherwise than in the manner prescribed by the said provisions.