Rather, it was only at the appellate stage before the State Commission that the respondent produced such case papers for the first time. Even then, a bare perusal of prescription dated 23.01.1999 makes no specific mention of any trauma that has been observed by the respondent-doctor on the said date. The said fact has not been taken note of by NCDRC in the impugned . In these circumstances, no credible reliance can be put on the respondent’s written version which was not supported by enough evidence to discharge him of his liability to exercise due care or to shift the said liability on the appellant. Therefore, in the absence of corroborating documentary proof, the said argument is of no avail to the respondent-doctor. 22. Before moving further, we would like to take a note of the medical opinion rendered before the State Commission by Dr. Bivash Kumar Das, an ophthalmologist, which was produced as Annexure P-28 before us. In the said medical opinion, it has been clearly stated that oozing of pus after operation is not a usual occurrence and, in cases where there is small amount of white discharge from the eye post-operation, it usually disappears within 48 hours. It was further opined that oozing of pus after a cataract operation indicates presence of infection in the operated eye which needs to be treated aggressively, both locally and systematically, to prevent further spread of infection. With regard to the diagnosis of endophthalmitis after a [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1883 Bherulal Bhimaji Oswal(D) by Lrs. v. Madhusudan N. Kumbhare cataract surgery, pain in the operated eye and no regaining of vision following operation were considered to be the two most important symptoms – a complaint that was consistently made by the appellant herein in his multiple visits to the respondent post-operation. 23. Given the medical opinion reproduced above and the fact that the appellant made five visits to the respondent-doctor in a week’s period while consistently complaining of immense pain in the operated eye, headache and lack of vision while the respondent kept reassuring him that the operation was successful and he would recover his vision eventually, whereas all the three other doctors who the appellant visited on 27.01.1999 opined that the appellant was suffering from endophthalmitis which has led to complete damage of the eye, it becomes evident that the respondent-doctor was negligent in his diagnosing the respondent’s eye. It becomes clear that the respondent failed to detect the infection and clear the same in time despite several complaints by the appellant. The said infection was diagnosed by the three doctors, namely Dr. Chitra Khare, Dr. Nitin Prabhudesai and doctors at the Military Hospital, but it was too late by then and the appellant had to undergo evisceration of his right eye leading to loss of vision. It was a blatant result of medical negligence by the respondent in post-operative care wherein corrective steps could have been taken, if the most reasonable and basic skills which were expected from the respondent-doctor, were applied.