29. Furthermore, on a perusal of the of this Court in Sivamani (supra) and the statutory provision, there is no distinction between a judicial or administrative by a “Court to which that Court is subordinate.” 30. The second question is, accordingly, answered in the negative. 31. Lastly, independent of the above, this Court must address the ground of challenge to the impugned raised by the appellant - Antony Raju, in the appeal arising out of SLP(Crl. )No.7896 of 2023. He has submitted that the High Court could not have ed a de novo trial against him, being impermissible in law, as has been so directed to be done in paragraph 28 of the impugned . In our view, it cannot be said that the High Court, in the attending circumstances, erred in doing so. 32. On this aspect, we must make reference to the of this Court in Nasib Singh v. State of Punjab (3-Judge Bench),12 wherein it was stated: “33. The principles that emerge from the decisions of this Court on retrial can be formulated as under: 33.1. The appellate Court may direct a retrial only in “exceptional” circumstances to avert a miscarriage of justice.… 33.6. The following are some instances, not intended to be exhaustive, of when the Court could a retrial on the ground of miscarriage of justice: 12 [2021] 13 SCR 566 : (2022) 2 SCC 89 1464 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) The trial court has proceeded with the trial in the absence of jurisdiction; (b) The trial has been vitiated by an illegality or irregularity based on a misconception of the nature of the proceedings; and (c) The prosecutor has been disabled or prevented from adducing evidence as regards the nature of the charge, resulting in the trial being rendered a farce, sham or charade.” 33. More recently, in Sunita Devi v. State of Bihar & Anr. (2-Judge Bench),13 this Court summarized the power of an Appellate Court to retrial: “8. Every trial is a march towards the truth. It is the primary duty of the Court to search for the truth using the procedural law as its tool. Such a procedural law may have a substantive part extending certain inalienable rights to both, the accused and the victim. By non-compliance of the procedural law, justice cannot be allowed to derail. Anyone, who complains of an unfair trial, is duty bound to satisfy the Court that he stands prejudiced by it. This does not mean that a Court can be lackadaisical in following the rules and procedures meant to ensure justice. 9. A fair trial is the heart and soul of criminal jurisprudence. The principle of democracy lies in a fair trial. It is not only a statutory right, but also a human right, which would be violated when the safeguards provided under the Statute are not followed. The absence of a fair trial would seriously impair and violate the fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India.