When in respect of any piece of land, occupancy rights cannot be granted to an applicant, in such an event the land which stood vested in the State would become the State owned land and the same could be utilized for the purpose of making grants, assignments, allotments or conveyance to deserving and eligible persons. 13.3 Further, when private owners of material resources make an endowment, a gift or a donation to the State, their ownership and control over such resources would vest with the State and the State could utilize such material resources as best to subserve the common good. This is the essence of distribution. Common good: 13.4 What is “common good”? It would mean that while distributing the material resources of the community there must be an object which is achieved,such that there would be no concentration of wealth and means of production in the hands of a few which is also a Directive Principle in clause (c) of Article 39. For instance, if a mining lease is to be assigned to any person who is eligible to take such a lease it must be [2024] 11 S.C.R. 235 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. done in accordance with law such as by an auctionand giving due publicity so that it is not with a view to unjustly enrich a person, as this would be contrary to the notion of common good. Therefore, there cannot be a transfer of private resources being in the ownership and control of a private person to another set of private persons only by excluding the public at large. In other words, the State cannot act as an agent for distribution of privately owned material resources by taking ownership and control of the same and handing it over to other private persons selectively. That is not distribution for subserving the common good. On the other hand, there could also be an instance where only a particular person/entity would be entitled to claim distribution of a material resource of the community having regard to the object and purpose for which the same is to be distributed which would be for the common good. This is in the context of privatisation of the “material resources of the community” which is a recent phenomenon particularly on the initiation of reforms in the Indian economy since the year 1991. However, private persons/entities who are eligible to have the ownership and/or control of the material resources of the community would do so only if it is to subserve the common good. Therefore, while acting under clause (b), the Directive under clause (c) must also be borne in mind by the State inasmuch as the distribution of material resources of the community must be to subserve the common good and not result in concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment. In other words, where the object is to subserve the common good, there would automatically be provisions excluded which induce concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment.