In Indra Sawhney (supra), Justice Sawant writing the concurring opinion observed that only classes which are inadequately represented must be provided reservation under Article 16(4). In the opinion of the learned Judge, a class that is backward will cease to be a beneficiary when the class becomes adequately represented. This observation aligns with the argument that reservation must not be provided once the goal of the provision, which is securing adequate representation is achieved. 159. To navigate this issue, it is necessary that we refer to the debates of the Sub-Committee of Minorities and Sub-Committee of Fundamental Rights to ascertain the reason for the inclusion of the phrase “inadequate representation” in Article 16(4). The Objectives Resolution which was introduced by Mr Jawaharlal Nehru on 13 December 1946 resolved to provide adequate safeguards for minorities, backward and tribal areas, and the depressed and other backward classes. The equality provision in the first draft report submitted by the Sub-Committee on Fundamental Rights did not provide for reservation of seats for the backward community or the minorities. Though the report included provisions emphasizing anti-discrimination and equal opportunity, it did not recommend an enabling provision for affirmative action.219 The Sub-Committee on Minorities along with the Fundamental Rights Sub-Committee decided to examine the clauses recommended to determine if any of them required to be amended to protect minority rights. During the discussion, Mr KM Munshi stated that reservation may have to be made for the minorities in public employment.220 An Advisory 219 There shall be no discrimination against any person on any of the grounds aforesaid in regard to the use of wells, ranks, roads, schools and places of public resort maintained wholly or party out of public funds or dedicated to the use of the general public (b) There shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens- (i) in matters of public employment (ii) in the sercise or carrying on of any occupation, trade, business or profession; and no citizen shall on any of the grounds aforesaid be ineligible for public office or be prohibited from acquiring, holding or disposing of property or exercising or carrying on any occuptation, trade, business or profession within the Union (2) Any enactment, regulation, , , custom or interpretation of law, in force immediately before the commencement of this Constitution by which any penalty, disadvantage, or disability is imposed upon or any discrimination is made against any citizen on any of the grounds aforesaid shall cease to have effect. 220 B Shiva Rao, The Framing of India’s Constitution: Select Documents [Vol II, The Indian Institute of Public Administration] 221 1422 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Committee was formed to make recommendations on how best to reconcile the anti-discrimination provision with the provision for reservation. The Sub-Committee on Minorities recommended that a proviso may have to be added to meet the claims of representation of the marginalized communities.221 160. After the discussion, Dr Ambedkar representing the Advisory Committee, suggested the inclusion of the following provision: “Nothing herein contained shall prevent the State from making provisions for reservation in public services in favour of classes as may be prescribed by the State.” (emphasis supplied) 161.