The bench also observed that distinction between the words “not guilty” as used in TADA, MCOCA and NDPS Act as against the words “prima facie” in the UAPA as held in Watali’s Case (supra) to state that a degree of satisfaction required in the case of “not guilty” is much stronger than the satisfaction required in a case where the words used are “prima facie” 4 [2023] 3 SCR 523 : (2023) 6 SCC 58 5 [2019] 5 SCR 1060 : (2019) 5 SCC 1 148 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 26. In the case of Sudesh Kedia v. Union of India6 the Bench of Justice Nageswara Rao and Justice S. Ravindra Bhat while dealing with a bail application for the offence u/s. 17, 18 and 21 of the UAP Act relied upon the principle propounded in Watali’s case (supra) and observed that: “the expression “prima facie” would mean that the materials/ evidence collated by the investigating agency in reference to the accusation against the accused concerned must prevail until contradicted and overcome or disproved by other evidence, and on the face of it, shows that complicity of such accused in the commission of the stated offence. It must be good and sufficient on its face to establish a given fact or the chain of facts constituting the stated offence, unless rebutted or contradicted.” 27. In the light of these guiding principles, we shall now proceed to decide whether the additional limitations found in Section 43D(5) UAP Act are attracted in the facts of the present case. In other words, we shall inquire if the first test (as set out above), i.e., test for rejection of bail, is satisfied. For this purpose, it will, firstly, have to be examined whether the allegations/accusations against the Appellants contained in charge-sheet documents and case diary, prima facie, disclose the commission of an offence Section 17,18 and 19 of the UAP Act. Section 17 of the UAP Act states: 17. Punishment for raising funds for terrorist act. —Whoever, in India or in a foreign country, directly or indirectly, raises or collects funds or provides funds to any person or persons or attempts to provide funds to any person or persons, knowing that such funds are likely to be used by such person or persons to commit a terrorist act, notwithstanding whether such funds were actually used or not for commission of such act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. 6 (2021) 4 SCC 704 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 149 Gurwinder Singh v. State of Punjab & Another Section 18 of the UAP Act states: 18. Punishment for conspiracy, etc.—Whoever conspires or attempts to commit, or advocates, abets, advises or [incites, directly or knowingly facilitates] the commission of, a terrorist act or any act preparatory to the commission of a terrorist act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.