The article posits the continuation of the pre-existing laws made by a competent authority notwithstanding the repeal of Article 395; and the expression “other” in the article can only apply to provisions other than those dealing with legislative competence. 14. The learned Advocate-General relied upon the following decisions for the said legal position : Gannon Dankerly and Co. v. Sales Tax Officer, Maatancherry [ILR (1957) Kerala 462] ; Sagar Mall v. State [ILR (1952) 1 All 862] ; Kanpur Oil Mills v. Judge (Appeals) Sales Tax, Kanpur [AIR 1955 All 99] ; Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd. v. Janapada Sabha, Chhindwara [(1962) 1 SCR 1] ; Jagdish Prasad v. Saharanpur Municipality [AIR 1961 All 583] ; Saeoshankar v. M.P. State [AIR 1951 Nag 58] ; State v. Yash Pal [AIR 1957 P&H 91] ; and Binoy Bhusan v. States of Bihar [AIR 1954 Pat 346] . It is not necessary to consider in detail the said decisions, as they either resume the said legal position or sustain it, but do not go further. They held that a law made by a competent authority before the Constitution continues to be in force after the Constitution till it is altered or modified or repealed by the appropriate authority, even though it is beyond the legislative competence of the said authority under the Constitution. We give our full assent to the view and hold that a pre-Constitution law made by a competent authority, though it has lost its legislative competency under the Constitution, shall continue in force, provided the law does not contravene the “other provisions” of the Constitution.” 72. The Constitution Bench has held that the words “subject to the other provisions of the Constitution” should be given a reasonable [2024] 7 S.C.R. 725 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India interpretation. It has been held that the interpretation which would carry out the intention of the makers of the Constitution and also which is in accord with the constitutional practice in such matters, should be adopted. The Court held that Article 372 of the Constitution posits the continuation of the pre-existing laws made by a competent authority notwithstanding the repeal of Article 395 of the Constitution. It has been held that the expression “other” under Article 372 of the Constitution can only apply to the provisions other than those dealing with legislative competence. The Court therefore held that a pre-Constitution law made by a competent authority, though it has lost its legislative competency under the Constitution, shall continue in force, provided the law does not contravene the “other provisions” of the Constitution. 73. Another Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Union of India and Another v. Tulsiram Patel20 also had an occasion to consider the said term which is also recorded in Article 309 of the Constitution. The Court held thus: “106. It is not possible to accept this submission. The opening words of Article 309 make that article expressly “Subject to the provisions of this Constitution”. Rules made under the proviso to Article 309 or under Acts referable to that article must, therefore, be made subject to the provisions of the Constitution if they are to be valid.