Such works could very well be treated as integral component for development.” 118. Recently, in the case of Rajeev Suri (supra), emphasizing the need for sustainable development, this Court observed thus: “520. The principle of sustainable development and precautionary principle need to be understood in a proper context. The expression “sustainable development” incorporates a wide meaning within its fold. It contemplates that development ought to be sustainable with the idea of preservation of natural environment for present and future generations. It would not be without significance to note that sustainable development is indeed a principle of development, it posits controlled development. The primary requirement underlying this principle is to ensure that every development work is sustainable; and this requirement of sustainability demands that the first attempt of every agency enforcing environmental rule of law in the country ought to be to alleviate environmental concerns by proper mitigating measures. The future generations have an equal stake in the environment and development. They are as much entitled to a developed society as they are to an environmentally secure society. 521. By the Declaration on the Right to Development, 1986, the United Nations has given express recognition to a right to development. Article 1 of the Declaration defines this right as: “1. The right to development is an inalienable human right by virtue of which every human person and all peoples are entitled to participate in, contribute to, and enjoy economic, social, cultural and political development, in which all human rights and fundamental freedoms can be fully realized.” 1036 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 522. The right to development, thus, is intrinsically connected to the preservance of a dignified life. It is not limited to the idea of infrastructural development, rather, it entails human development as the basis of all development. The jurisprudence in environmental matters must acknowledge that there is immense interdependence between the right to development and the right to natural environment. 523. In International Law and Sustainable Development, Arjun Sengupta in the chapter “Implementing the Right to Development [International Law and Sustainable Development — Principles and Practice (Publisher : Martinus Nijhoff, Edn. 2004) p. 354.] ” notes thus: “… Two rights are interdependent if the level of enjoyment of one is dependent on the level of enjoyment of the other…”” 119. In the case of Resident’s Welfare Association (supra), this Court, speaking through one of us (B.R. Gavai, J. ), observed thus: “151. One another important aspect that needs to be taken into consideration is the adverse impact on environment on account of haphazard urbanisation. It will be relevant to refer to Clause 20.3 of the CMP-2031 which we have already reproduced hereinabove. It has been recommended that an Effective Environmental Management Plan be devised for the region including Chandigarh, which includes environmental strategy, monitoring regulation, institutional capacity building and economic incentives. It is observed that the proposal needs a legal framework and a monitoring committee to examine the regional level proposals/big developments by the constitution of an Inter-State High- Powered Regional Environmental Management Board, as per the proposal of the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India.