them. Certainly, neither Canara Bank nor SBI appear to have been notified as to whether the papers in their custody were to be released. As long as the city coordinators furnished proof of authorisation, the papers were released without question. The custodian banks have to be informed as to whether they should release the question papers in their possession. Had the custodian banks been informed whether or not to release the papers in their possession, the city coordinators would have been unable to collect the incorrect set of question papers, even if they made an honest mistake. NTA must consider the various possibilities and plan the protocol to be followed after careful consideration. 98. The use of mobile applications to communicate with the relevant parties would permit real-time communication and allow NTA to inform the banks even a few minutes before the time at which the city coordinator was authorised to collect the papers. This would ensure that no unscrupulous persons from the custodian banks can take advantage of the information made available to them. NTA already uses a mobile application to communicate with the city coordinators and others so it would not be difficult to communicate with the custodian banks. Other modes of communication may be explored and adopted, as long as the custodian banks are informed whether to release the papers they have stored for safekeeping. 99. The highest scoring candidates in a competitive exam usually have the option of gaining admission into the best institutions. It is consequential in more ways than one to be a candidate who obtains a perfect score. When the results were released, it appeared that sixty-seven aspirants had scored a perfect score of 720 / 720. After the removal of the compensatory marks and the conduct of the re-test for 1563 candidates, the number of persons who had a perfect score dropped to sixty-one. Subsequently, in the course of the hearing, we were informed that forty-four of the sixty-one top scorers had marked the incorrect option to the question in controversy. By its dated 23 July 2024, this Court directed NTA to treat only one of the options as the correct answer and recompute the marks and ranks on the basis of this revision to the answer key. The necessary consequence of these directions is that the scores of the same forty- four aspirants will no longer be 720 / 720. The number of scorers with 720/720 marks then drops to seventeen. It is a matter of serious 92 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports concern that this number fell from sixty-seven to seventeen during the course of the hearing. The intervention of the Court, reports by the media, and representations by candidates ensured that these changes were made in the interests of fairness and justice. However, the system adopted by NTA should be such that just outcomes are reached even when these external catalysts are not present. The system must be such as to inspire public confidence. 100. Another aspect which is most unfortunate is the lack of responsible decision-making with respect to the 1563 candidates who were initially awarded compensatory marks.