In All India Judges Association v Union of India10(for short “All India Judges (1993)), this Court on 24.8.1993, modified some of the reliefs in the original but, inter alia, recommended that the service conditions of judicial officers should be reviewed periodically by an independent Commission exclusively constituted for the purpose. From 1993 onwards, this Court exercising its writ remedy of ‘continuing mandamus’ had issued multiple directions under the rubric of this case. 26. Pursuant to the aforementioned direction, the Union of India appointed the first National Judicial Pay Commission on 21.3.1996 under the chairmanship of Justice KJ Shetty. Justice Shetty Commission submitted a preliminary report on 31.1.1998 and a final report on 11.11.1999. The terms of reference of the Commission are extracted below: “(a) To evolve the principles which should govern the structure of pay and other emoluments of judicial officers belonging to the subordinate judiciary all over the country. (b) To examine the present structure of emoluments and conditions of service of judicial officers in the States, Union territories taking into account the total packet of benefits available to them and make suitable recommendations having regard, among other relevant factors, to the existing relativities in the pay structure between the officers belonging to subordinate judicial service vis-a-vis other civil servants. (c) To examine and recommend in respect of minimum qualifications, age of recruitment, method of recruitment, etc., for judicial officers. In this context, the relevant provisions of the Constitution and directions of the Supreme Court in All India Judges Association case and other cases may be kept in view. 10 [1993] Supp. 1 SCR 749 : (1993) 4 SCC 288 554 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (d) To examine the work methods and work environment as also the variety of allowances and benefits in kind that are available to judicial officers in addition to pay and to suggest rationalization and simplification thereof with a view to promoting efficiency in judicial administration, optimizing the size of the judiciary etc.” 27. The above would indicate that the terms of reference essentially focused on the evolution of principles that would govern the formulation of pay structure and emoluments of judicial officers. Suggestions were also expected on minimum qualifications, age, and “method of recruitment” etc. for judicial officers. The final report submitted on 11.11.1999 focused on the age of retirement, nomenclature for judicial officers, equation of posts, inter-se seniority, the age for direct recruitment, the establishment of All India Judicial Service, etc. 28. Before extracting the relevant portion of the Shetty Commission report which inter-alia, prescribed that no cut-off marks should be fixed for the interview segment, a reference to the context is apposite: “10.95 We have earlier set out the procedures followed by the High Courts for selecting candidates for direct recruitment. Most of the High Courts are having only Viva Voce Test. 10.96 High Courts of Andhra Pradesh, Allahabad, Jammu & Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, however, have prescribed written test in addition to viva-voce. 10.97 The Commission has received innumerable complaints that the selection by only viva-voce has more often led to arbitrariness if not whimsical selection, unjust if not unreasonable.