the court should and need only look into one aspect—the existence of an arbitration agreement. What are the factors for deciding as to whether there is an arbitration agreement is the next question. The resolution to that is simple—it needs to be seen if the agreement contains a clause which provides for arbitration pertaining to the disputes which have arisen between the parties to the agreement. xxx xxx xxx 59. The scope of the power under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act was considerably wide in view of the decisions in SBP and Co. [(2005) 8 SCC 618] and Boghara Polyfab [(2009) 1 SCC 267]. This position continued till the amendment brought about in 2015. After the amendment, all that the courts need to see is whether an arbitration agreement exists—nothing more, nothing less. The legislative policy and purpose is essentially to minimise the Court’s intervention at the stage of appointing the arbitrator and this intention as incorporated in Section 11(6-A) ought to be respected.” (Emphasis supplied) 77. Despite the decision in Duro Felguera (supra), this Court in United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Antique Art Exports Pvt. Ltd. reported in (2019) 5 SCC 362, while dealing with the issue of “full and final settlement” in the context of appointment of an arbitrator, held that mere bald allegation by a party that the discharge voucher was obtained under coercion or undue influence would not entitle it to 878 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports seek referral of the dispute to arbitration unless it is able to produce prima facie evidence of the same during the course of proceedings under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996. Important paragraphs from the said decision are extracted hereinbelow: “15. From the proposition which has been laid down by this Court, what reveals is that a mere plea of fraud, coercion or undue influence in itself is not enough and the party who alleged is under obligation to prima facie establish the same by placing satisfactory material on record before the Chief Justice or his Designate to exercise power under Section 11(6) of the Act, which has been considered by this Court in New India Assurance Co. Ltd. case [...] xxx xxx xxx 17. It is true that there cannot be a rule of its kind that mere allegation of discharge voucher or no claim certificate being obtained by fraud/coercion/undue influence practised by other party in itself is sufficient for appointment of the arbitrator unless the claimant who alleges that execution of the discharge agreement or no claim certificate was obtained on account of fraud/coercion/undue influence practised by the other party is able to produce prima facie evidence to substantiate the same, the correctness thereof may be open for the Chief Justice/his Designate to look into this aspect to find out at least prima facie whether the dispute is bona fide and genuine in taking a decision to invoke Section 11(6) of the Act. 18. In the instant case, the facts are not in dispute that for the two incidents of fire on 25-9-2013 and 25-10-2013, the appellant Company based on the Surveyor›s report sent emails on 5-5-2016 and 24-6-2016 for settlement of the claims for both the fires dated 25-9-2013 and 25-10- 2013 which was responded by the respondent through email on the same date itself providing all the necessary information to the regional office of the Company and also issued the discharge voucher in full and final settlement with accord and satisfaction.