But at the same time, jurisdiction of the Civil Court to determine the right of the parties to the properties in dispute as well as the shares of which they are entitled to has not been taken away by the Regulation. In the instant case though the matter was earlier agitated before the Revenue Court for effecting perfect partition, the Petitioners, having failed to get adequate relief, approached the Civil Court by filing suit in question for declaration 1944 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports of right, title and interest over the suit land. In such premises I do not find any reason how this Section 154 can debar the Petitioners claiming to the title of the land in question from approaching the Civil Court. Section 62 also clearly vests a right upon the person to prefer a suit to the Civil Court for declaration of his right to any property. Therefore, I find sufficient force in the submission of the learned counsel for the Petitioner and accordingly, I am disinclined to approve the views expressed by the learned Civil Judge in the Impugned s, I am of the considered view that the Civil Court is the absolute authority to adjudicate a dispute relating to the title and interest over the immovable property.” (Emphasis supplied) 55. The position of law with respect to the jurisdiction of civil courts to try suits based on title to property has also been explained by the Gauhati High Court in the decision rendered in the case of Ka Trily Tariang v. U. Resdrikson Lyngdoh and Ors. reported in (1984) 2 G.L.R. 8. The High Court inter alia observed that the jurisdiction conferred upon Revenue authority does not prevent the civil court from adjudicating upon the right to an asset when entitlement is claimed. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “[...] In that case as well, the Commissioner acting under Rule 26 of the Settlement Rules had pass an but the Plaintiffs sued the State of Assam claiming his title to the property. The plea of bar under Section 154(1)(a) was taken. Their Lordships held that the provision did not preclude the civil court to entertain suits based on title to the property. Declaration of title to immovable property is out of bound for the Revenue court. It can determine many controversies including those covered by clauses (a) to (m) of Section 154(1) of the Regulation but the civil court is the court competent to decide right, title and interest to immovable property. A civil court cannot only declare title to the property but it can also adjudicate that the Revenue Officer or the courts acted beyond their jurisdiction resulting in a failure of [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1945 Abdul Rejak Laskar v. Mafizur Rahman & Ors. justice. In Dinesh Chandra Sarkar v. Harendra Biswas AIR 1972 Gau. 81, this Court has held that suit for declaration of right, title and interest is not barred by Section 154(1) of the Regulation. Dealing with the provisions of Section 154 of the Assam Land and Revenue Regulation it was held that the matters within the jurisdiction of the Revenue authorities or courts could be decided by them but no such decision of a revenue court could take away the jurisdiction of a civil courts, when a person having a right to an asset claimed entitlement to it and sought declaration of his right in the civil court notwithstanding the provisions contained in Section 154(1)(a) of the Regulation.” (Emphasis supplied) 56.