6 Godfrey Phillips India Ltd. v. Ajay Kumar (2008) 4 SCC 504 : 2008 SCC OnLine SC 603 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1499 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd. v. Awaz & Ors. 24. It is further submitted a Complaint against any purported grievance owing to rate of interests, charged by banks, cannot be the subject matter of a proceeding before the National Commission and an alternate remedy has been provided by the legislature. The present regime under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, provides a mechanism for redressal of grievances of consumers. By virtue of section 10 of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, the Central Government is to notify a Central Consumer Protection Authority for regulating the matters pertaining to the violation of rights of consumers, including against grievances of unfair trade practice. The said authority is thus empowered to enforce the rights of consumers, exclusively. SUBMISSIONS BY THE COMPLAINANTS 25. It is the grievance of the Respondent Complainants that the National Commission has partially allowed the Complaint by holding that charging of interest at rates in excess of 30% p.a. by the bank from its credit card holders, was an unfair trade practice and did not consider the violation of the Benchmark Restrictions to be fixed by the banks in accordance with the circulars issued by the Reserve Bank of India. It is stated the banks have been allegedly charging rates of interest on credit cards in excess of their Benchmark Prime Lending rate (BPLR) on credit limits of less than Rs. 2 lakhs, in contravention to the annual policy 2003-2004. By way of the original Complaint, it had been sought that the banks may be permanently restrained from charging excess rates of interest & subsequently refund the excess amount of interest and service charges collected by the banks. 26. It is argued that the Bank Statement issued by the Banks, for availing the credit card facility, have several heads of hidden miscellaneous expenses for the issue of credit card facility, and entailed exorbitant penalty even during the interest free period. A Bank Statement from American Express Bank has been produced and it is averred that banks are charging: (a) Transaction Fees of 2.5 % on cash advance or on purchase on the credit card required to be borne even during the interest free period of 20-50 days. (b) in case of default, interest, which may have to be paid from credit free period till the date of payment, would be payable over the 2.5 % transaction fee (c) late payment of fees of 30 % of the minimum due up-to Rs. 500 per 1500 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports month. (d) Interest which is to be compounded on a monthly basis (d) the penalty charged to be capitalized every month. 27. Our attention is drawn to the same 2003 Circular issued by the Reserve Bank of India, whereby the RBI has given guidelines as caution to banks, with respect to excessive interest charged by banks, and the same reads as under: “2.12.