The Sessions Court, in such a case, must appraise the convict of the remedies available and, if required, provide legal aid to enable the convict to take recourse to such remedies. After the convict has been made aware of the remedies available, reasonable time be granted to the convict to consider, weigh and even consult a member of his family or friend to finally take a decision on adopting remedies as the possibility of thinking logically and rationally may be impeded or hampered because of the situation being faced by the convict. The Sessions Court can issue a warrant only after providing such reasonable time to the convict and after satisfying itself that the convict has taken a conscious decision of not pursuing the available remedies. The reasonable time can be of seven days. The Sessions Court can direct the counselling of the convict if it is not satisfied that the decision is a well-informed, considered and conscious decision. If such a procedure is followed, it enables the convict to take recourse to the available legal remedy. Moreover, if an of issue of warrant of execution is passed after notice to the convict, it enables the convict to challenge the of issuing a warrant of execution. But after the convict exhausts all remedies, including filing mercy petitions or after the Sessions Court is satisfied that the convict has taken a conscious decision of not availing the remedies, the execution warrant must be issued without any delay. It is the responsibility of the trial court to take up and conclude the proceedings of issuing a warrant of execution as expeditiously as possible. The trial court must give necessary out of turn priority. 26. After the decisions on mercy petitions, if there is an inordinate and unexplained delay in actual execution for no fault on the part of the convict, there is no reason why the principles set out in paragraph 23 should not apply. The principles will also apply to a case where there is a long and unexplained delay on the part of the Sessions Court in issuing the warrant of execution in accordance with Sections 413 and 414 of CrPC. After the of rejection of mercy petitions is communicated to a convict, the sword of Damocles cannot be kept hanging on him for inordinately long time. This can be very agonising, both mentally and physically. Such inordinate and unreasonable delay will violate his rights under Article 21 of the Constitution. In such a case, this Court will be justified in commuting the death penalty into life imprisonment. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 599 State of Maharashtra & Ors. v. Pradeep Yashwant Kokade & Anr. 27. A convict can invoke even the jurisdiction of a High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution if there is an inordinate and unexplained delay in the execution of the death sentence post-confirmation of the sentence. The High Court will apply the same principles summarised in paragraphs 22 to 25. 28. No hard and fast rule can be laid down as regards the length of delay, which can be said to be inordinate.