12. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the paper book. 13. It is not a matter of dispute that the appellant is an institution entitled to Grant-in-Aid and the employees thereof are entitled to pensionary benefits in terms of the aforesaid Scheme. The only argument raised by the learned counsel for the State is regarding conduct of the appellant in fighting litigation after the State had directed reinstatement of the respondent no. 2 and finally settling the matter before the High Court. In our opinion, the same cannot be fatal for the appellant and burden it with the retiral benefits of respondent no. 2 whereas the Scheme provides for otherwise. There is no exception provided in the Scheme to enable the State to deny payment of retiral benefits to an employee of the Grant-in-Aid Institution under certain circumstances and shift the burden on the institution. 14. The relied upon by the State may not have application in the facts of the case, wherein it was found that the action of the Education Institution was without jurisdiction, transgressing its power to terminate its employee. If the facts of the present case are concerned, no such finding has been recorded by the appellate authority. There were serious charges against the respondent no. 2 which included inter alia instigation of students to go on strike, improper behaviour with the co-employees, attempt to pollute the atmosphere in the institution, violation of rules and regulations of the institution and involvement in the activities which may cause damage to the institution. Out of 30 charges, 10 were proved. After inquiry, with a view to maintain discipline in the institution, it was found appropriate that the respondent no. 2 be dismissed from service. However, the appellate authority found the charges established to be trivial in nature and opined that those should have been sorted out. The appellate authority found that the punishment of dismissal is too harsh and the issues could have been resolved by way of discussion. 15. The appellant, keeping in view the discipline in the institution, thought it appropriate to challenge the same. In such circumstances, it cannot be opined that it’s conduct was such that it should be burdened with the retiral benefits of delinquent employee. It is not the opinion [2024] 12 S.C.R. 373 Nutan Bharti Gram Vidyapith v. Government of Gujarat and Anr. of the appellate authority or any Court that the action taken by the appellant against the respondent no. 2 was without jurisdiction as was the case in Educational Society, Tumsar and Others (supra). 16. For the reasons mentioned above, the appeals are allowed. The impugned dated 21.04.2023 passed by the High Court, allowing the Review Application filed by the State and dismissing the Review Application filed by the appellant, is set aside. The Review Application filed by the appellant is allowed. As a consequence, the dated 26.07.2022 is modified. The consequence thereof is that the State, respondent no. 1 shall be liable to pay retiral dues to respondent no.