Where one of the parties to the suit transfers the suit property (or a part of it) to a third-party, the latter is bound by the result of the proceedings even if he did not have notice of the suit or proceeding. The principle on which this doctrine rests was explained by Lord Turner in Bellamy v. Sabine11 as follows: “It is, as I think, a doctrine common to the courts both of Law and Equity and rests, as I apprehend, upon this foundation that it would plainly be impossible that any action or suit could be brought to a successful termination, if alienations pendente lite were permitted to prevail. The plaintiff would be liable in every case to be defeated by the defendants alienating before the or decree, and would be driven to commence his proceedings de novo, subject again to be defeated by the same course of proceedings.” 48. Justice M H Beg in Jayaram Mudaliar v. Ayyaswami12 set out the content of the doctrine of lis pendens as follows: “14. The background of the provision set out above was indicated by one of us (Beg, J.,) in Jayaram Mudaliar v. Ayyaswami [(1972) 2 SCC 200, 217 : AIR 1973 SC 569]. There, the following definition of the lis pendens from Corpus Juris Secundum (Vol. LIV, p. 570) was cited: “Lis pendens literally means a pending suit, and the doctrine of lis pendens has been defined as the jurisdiction, power, or control which a court acquires over property involved in a suit pending the continuance of the action, and until final therein.” It was observed there: “Expositions of the doctrine indicate that the need for it arises from the very nature of the jurisdiction of Courts and their control over the subject-matter of litigation so that parties litigating before it may not remove any part 11 (1857) 1 De G&J 566 12 [1973] 1 SCR 139 : AIR 1973 SC 569 698 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the subject-matter outside the power of the Court to deal with it and thus make the proceedings infructuous.” 49. The purpose of lis pendens is to ensure that the process of the court is not subverted and rendered infructuous. In the absence of the doctrine of lis pendens, a defendant could defeat the purpose of the suit by alienating the suit property. This purpose of the provision is clearly elucidated in the explanation clause to Section 52 which defines “pendency”. Amending Act 20 of 1929 substituted the word “pendency” in place of “active prosecution”. The Amending Act also included the Explanation defining the expression “pendency of suit or proceeding”. “Pendency” is defined to commence from the “date of institution” until the “disposal”. The argument of the respondents that the doctrine of lis pendens does not apply because the petition for review was lying in the registry in a defective state cannot be accepted. The review proceedings were “instituted” within the period of limitation of thirty days. The doctrine of lis pendens kicks in at the stage of “institution” and not at the stage when notice is issued by this Court.