5. This resulted in the institution of the petitions before the High Court, as noticed above, and the of the High Court which has been questioned in these proceedings. 1 “TNPCB” 2 [2019] 3 SCR 777 : (2019) 19 SCC 479. 1126 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ii. The of this Court in 2013 6. An earlier of this Court, reported as Sterlite Industries (India) Limited v. Union of India,3 concerned the same unit as in the present proceedings. Environmental clearances were granted to the unit in 1995 and it commenced production in 1997. Separate writ petitions were instituted before the High Court, inter alia for directions to cancel the environmental clearances; close the operation of the unit; and to the state to take action against the unit for its failure to take safety measures to remedy pollution and to protect against industrial accidents. By an dated 28 September 2010, the High Court allowed the writ petitions and directed that the unit be closed. On appeal, a two-Judge Bench of this Court in Sterlite Industries (supra) adjudicated the validity of this . This Court held that: a. The High Court was not justified in interfering with the decision to grant environmental clearance on the ground of procedural impropriety; b. The High Court was not justified in directing the closure of the plant on the ground that it was located in the SIPCOT industrial complex which was within a 25 km radius of four ecologically sensitive islands in the Gulf of Mannar. This is because one of the consent s permitted the establishment of the plant at this location. However, the possibility of shifting the plant in the future was not precluded, if it became necessary for the purpose of conserving the environment; c. The High Court ought not to have interfered with the exercise of power by the TNPCB, which reduced the width of the mandated green belt in the no-objection certificate; d. Article 21 of the Constitution empowered the High Court to direct the plant to be closed if it was found to be polluting the environment, notwithstanding the fact that environmental clearances had been granted. This could be done if no other remedial measure was available; and e. Inspections of the unit indicated that some emissions and effluents were beyond the permissible limit prescribed by 3 (2013) 4 SCC 575. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1127 Vedanta Limited v. The State of Tamil Nadu & Ors TNPCB. The unit was polluting the environment in violation of legal norms (detailed in the following paragraphs). 7. In terms of the directions of this Court, TNPCB issued directions for the removal of deficiencies. It was then claimed on behalf of the unit that the deficiencies had been removed. On the basis of a joint inspection by National Environmental Engineering Research Institute4 and the Central Pollution Control Board,5 this Court found that several suggestions towards remediation had been complied with. This Court was of the view that closure was therefore not the only remedy.