48. Inspired by community-driven conservation efforts, the Piplantri model, created in a small village in Rajasthan’s Rajsamand district, shows [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1867 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. how environmental protection, gender equality, and economic growth can work together to change communities. It started after the tragic death of a girl child of Shri Shyam Sundar Paliwal, the Sarpanch of the village. The village had suffered from environmental damage due to excessive marble mining, which led to water shortages, deforestation, and economic decline. To counter this, the community led by its visionary Sarpanch Shri Shyam Sundar Paliwal introduced a practice of planting 111 trees for every girl born. This initiative transformed the damaged environment not only of the village but also of the nearby areas. This phenomenal effort also gave positive impetus to the efforts for reducing societal biases against women. 49. The Piplantri model has had many positive effects. Environmentally, over 40 lakh trees have been planted, which has helped raise the water table by 800-900 feet and cooled the climate by 3-4°C. These efforts have improved local biodiversity and protected the land from soil erosion and desertification. Economically, the planting of indigenous species of trees like gooseberry, aloe vera, and bamboo has created sustainable jobs. Aloe vera processing, furniture making, and other businesses have increased local incomes, providing work, especially for women, through self-help groups. Socially, the model has helped eliminate harmful practices like female foeticide. The village now has a rare distinction of a higher female population ratio i.e. 52% and ensures that all girls receive education. Financial support through the “Kiran Nidhi Yojna”18 has empowered girls and their families, creating a community that celebrates and rejoices on the birth of a girl child rather than resenting it. (iii) Rajasthan’s PoliCy FRamewoRk and CeC ReCommendations 50. The Rajasthan State Forest Policy, 2010, had recognized the critical importance of Orans, providing for their legal and financial support, demarcation, and community-led management. However, the Rajasthan Forest Policy, 2023, has diluted these protections by relegating Orans to the status of general community lands, thereby 18 Started by Shya Sundar Paliwal under “Kiran Nidhi Yojna,” a bank account is opened in the name of the girl child, with an initial deposit of Rs. 2,100. The entire village collectively contributes Rs. 21,000 for the girl, and the family adds Rs. 10,000. This total sum of Rs. 31,000 is then placed in a fixed deposit, which can be accessed when the girl turns 20. The parents are required to sign an affidavit committing to not practice female foeticide, ensuring they will not marry their daughter before the legal age, and pledging to provide her with education. This initiative empowers the girls and supports their independence. 1868 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports eroding the focused conservation mechanisms previously afforded to them. 51. Given their ecological, cultural, and spiritual significance, Oran lands must be granted the legal status of “forests” under the FC Act. This designation would not only ensure their protection against encroachment and degradation but also reinforce community participation in sustainable forest management.