Ltd. (TLPL)). Under the Credit Agreement, monies disbursed thereunder could not be brought into India. Therefore, none of the monies disbursed under the Credit Agreement (of which the USD 533 million forms a part) has ever been brought into India. Indeed, the allegation that I have received any sum of monies disbursed under the Credit Agreement has never been made by GI.AS in any proceeding whatsoever, including the proceeding under Section 7 of the IBC filed by it before the NCLT. 6. I specifically confirm that there has been no violation of the dated 18 March 2024 passed by the Delaware Bankruptcy Court, and I have not taken any steps in contravention of the same. I also confirm that I have not directly, indirectly or in any form or manner received any [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1817 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. sum of money from disbursements made under the Credit Agreement. In fact, the foreign remittance received by me since execution of the Credit Agreement is from two secondary sales of my shareholding in TLPL in January and November 2022 totalling approximately USD 109 million, as demonstrated by the SH-4 annexed hereto … 7. I further confirm that Byju Raveendran has not transferred any money or extended any security of his assets towards raising the sums for payment of the Settlement Amount to the BCCI. 8. I further state and confirm that the Settlement Amount comprises funds raised by me personally: a. from the sale and the gains/income on such sale of shares held personally by me in TLPL between May 2015 and January 2022. By way of these sales, I had accumulated approximately INR 3600 crores. The forms SH-4 evidencing these sales are hereto annexed and marked Exhibit A. Out of the aforementioned amount, approximately INR 1050 crores was paid as income tax. The IT returns filed by me over the relevant period and which would reflect these amounts are hereto annexed and marked Exhibit B. The remaining amounts of approximately INR 2600 crores was infused back into TLPL due to its operational needs and to ensure that TLPL continues to carry on business as a going concern, including paying salaries to its 27000 employees and sustaining the platform which has over 150 million students worldwide (which is a matter of record). The amounts that remained with me were used to pay the first tranche of the Settlement Amount (in the amount of INR 50 crores) to BCCI on 30 June 2024; and b. from liquidation of personal assets in India, which will be used to pay the balance amount of the Settlement Amount.” 19. In view of these developments, on 1 August 2024, the NCLAT passed an interim staying the constitution of the CoC. 1818 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports v. Impugned Judgement 20. Before the NCLAT, the appellant contended that (i) Section 12A of the IBC and Regulation 30A of the CIRP Regulations 2016 deal with the settlement of claims after CIRP is initiated, both before and after the CoC is constituted.