Therefore, the fact that the Central Government has not framed any regulation along the lines of the Orissa Act was not relevant; and (v) The declaration under Section 2 of MMDR Act has taken over the entire field of conservation and development of minerals. Resultantly, the particular subject matter would be subtracted from the scope and ambit of Entry 23 of List II and the State legislature would also lose the legislative competence to levy a fee under Entry 66 of List II.213 150. In M A Tulloch (supra), the Constitution Bench held that the legislative competence of the States to levy fees under Entry 66 of List II is also affected to the extent to which the subject-matter of regulation of mines and mineral development is taken over by the Parliamentary declaration under Entry 54 of List I. 151. The third major decision dealing with the inter-relationship between Entry 54 of List I and Entry 23 of List II is Baijnath Kedia v. State of Bihar.214 In that case, an amendment to the Bihar Land Reforms 211 M A Tulloch (supra) [5] 212 M A Tulloch (supra) [14] 213 M A Tulloch (supra) [15] 214 [1970] 2 SCR 100 : (1969) 3 SCC 838 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1665 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. Act 1950 and the rules pertaining to the modification of the terms and conditions of leases of minor minerals were challenged. Having held that it was bound by Hingir-Rampur (supra) and M A Tulloch (supra), the issue before this Court was the extent to which the declaration by Parliament left any scope for the state legislature. The Court observed that by the legislative declaration under Section 2 read with Section 15, the whole of the field relating to minor minerals came within the jurisdiction of Parliament and no scope was left for the State legislature. Although Section 15 allowed the State legislature to make rules, it did not create a scope for legislation at the state level.215 Consequently, it was held that the amendment to the Bihar Act was without jurisdiction. In Hingir-Rampur (supra) and M A Tulloch (supra), it was held that the whole field of conservation and development of minerals was covered by the MMDR Act. In Baijnath Kedia (supra), it was held that the field of minor minerals was covered by the central legislation, thereby depriving the state legislation of its plenary legislative power under Entry 23 of List II to that extent. 152. The Solicitor General has relied on the above decisions to submit that the consequence of the whole of the legislative field being occupied by Parliament under the MMDR Act is that the state legislatures possess only such powers as are expressly conferred on them by Parliament. The propositions put forth by the Solicitor General can be encapsulated as follows: a. Hingir-Rampur (supra) shows that the subject-matter of statutory levies pertaining to minerals is covered by the legislative declaration. Although the MMDR Act does not contain a provision similar to Section 6 of the MMRD Act 1948, it provides for statutory levies such as royalty and dead-rent.