4:12 You will inherit half of what your wives leave if they are childless. But if they have children, then ˹your share is˺ one-fourth of the estate—after the fulfilment of bequests and debts. And your wives will inherit one-fourth of what you leave if you are childless. But if you have children, then your wives will receive one-eighth of your estate— after the fulfilment of bequests and debts. And if a man or a woman leaves neither parents nor children but only a brother or a sister ˹from their mother’s side˺, they will each inherit one-sixth, but if they are more than one, they ˹all˺ will share one-third of the estate1—after the fulfilment of bequests and debts without harm ˹to the heirs˺.2 ˹This is˺ a commandment from Allah. And Allah is All-Knowing, Most Forbearing. 4:176 They ask you ˹for a ruling, O Prophet˺. Say, “Allah gives you a ruling regarding those who die without children or parents.” If a man dies childless and leaves behind a sister, she will inherit one-half of his estate, whereas her brother will inherit all of her estate if she dies childless. If this person leaves behind two sisters, they together will inherit two-thirds of the estate. But if the deceased leaves male and female siblings, a male’s share will be equal to that of two females. Allah makes ˹this˺ clear to you so you do not go astray. And Allah has ˹perfect˺ knowledge of all things.1” 19. Reading of the above verses reveals clearly with the use of the words ‘leave’, ‘leaves’ or ‘man dies’ that division of property is only possible upon the death of a person, amongst his heirs. There is 936 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports no prescription as to how the partition of property may take place when a person is alive. 20. One may reasonably conclude, having referred to the primary texts and commentaries on Mohammedan Law, that partition while a person is alive between him and his heirs is impermissible. The manner in which partition is to take place after the death of the ancestor is set out in great detail in the sources of Mohammedan Law however, the same is beyond the scope of the present lis. 21. Sultan Saheb therefore during his lifetime could not have partitioned his property, giving two parts thereof to his sons. The same is not in accordance with law. The possibility of Sultan Saheb’s succeeding their father in interest of the said property, could only have arisen in 1978 when Sultan Saheb passed away. When the partition of property would have taken place upon his death in 1978, the appellants as also the respondents herein would have received shares as prescribed under Mohammedan Law. As already observed supra, the only way permissible to Sultan Saheb to have given two parts of his property to his two sons would have been through hiba, the requirements of which have been culled out further ahead in this . 22. Let us now turn our attention to the next question arising for adjudication i.e., the claim of the appellants herein that their father Sultan Saheb had in fact gifted two parts of his property to them.