13. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant society submitted that there being merit in the appeals, those may be allowed by setting aside the impugned common and passed by the High Court. But at the same time, the interim passed by this Court dated 15.02.2021 may be made absolute. D. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS 14. On the other hand, these appeals have been vehemently opposed by the learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent by submitting that the no error, not to speak of any error of law, could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned and . Accordingly to the learned counsel, the appellant society is a “State” within Article 12 of the Constitution for the following reasons:- a) That, as per the amendments made to the Memorandum of Army Welfare Education Society, the address of the Army Welfare Education Society (AWES) is shown to be the Adjutant General’s Branch in the Integrated headquarters of the Ministry of Defence [MoD] (Army). b) Further, the Executive Committee and the Board of Governors i.e., the President, Vice President and the Secretaries are none other than the Lt. Generals, chief of the Army Staff, and General Officer commanding in-chief of the Eastern, Southern, Western and Northern commands. 2190 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c) That, as per the Financial Management clause of the said Memorandum, “the corpus and grants for establishment of Army educational institution will be provided by the executive Committee from the welfare funds of the Adjutant General Branch, Army Headquarters.” d) AWES is a government run institution i.e., by the Ministry of Defence and hence, a State under Article 12 of the Constitution of India. 15. It was further submitted that the Army Public School-2, Roorkee, is affiliated with the CBSE and is governed by its norms. In other words, the AWES and its affiliate school - Army Public School-2, Roorkee are governed and regulated by statutory provisions. Assuming for the sake of arguments that the dispute is private in nature, the present case is still amenable to writ jurisdiction for the service conditions of the answering respondents are governed/regulated by statutory provisions. 16. It was further argued that the CBSE Affiliation Bye-Laws Norm 3 (v) categorically provides that “The school in India must pay salaries and admissible allowances to the staff not less that the corresponding categories of employees in the State Government schools or as per scales etc. prescribed by the Government of India.” In fact, AWES publishes advertisement to fill up any vacancy in Army Public School as “Govt. Jobs” in Job’s category. It was submitted that considering the alliance between the appellant and St. Gabriel’s Academy Roorkee, the respondents were under a legitimate expectation that their conditions of service would not be changed to their disadvantage by the appellant. 17. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel appearing for the respondents prayed that there being no merit in the appeals, those may be dismissed and the impugned and passed by the learned single Judge as affirmed in appeal may be given effect to.