30. Consequently, given our analysis above, it is apparent that there exists no direct piece of evidence to determine fair and just compensation in the instant cases. We must, therefore, resort to the settled principle of guesstimation.8 E.1.2. Applicability and use of the principle of guesstimation 31. Guesstimation is a heuristic device that enables the court, in the absence of direct evidence and relevant sale exemplars, to make a reasonable and informed guess or estimation of the market value of the land under acquisition, and concomitantly the compensation payable by the appropriate Government. In that sense, guesstimation hinges on the Court’s ability to exercise informed judgement and expertise in assessing the market value of land, especially when the evidence does not tender a straightforward answer. 32. This principle accentuates the fundamental understanding that determining compensation for land is not a matter of exact science but involves a significant element of estimation. Indeed, this holds true for valuation of land in general, which is affected by a multitude of factors such as its location, surrounding market conditions, feasible uses etc. Accordingly, while evidence and calculations can aid in estimating the land value, they ultimately serve as tools for approximation rather than precision. Instead, land valuation—and consequently the affixation of compensation—remains an exercise of informed estimation, requiring the integration of diverse data points and professional concerning subjective, intangible and 8 Trishala Jain v. State of Uttaranchal (2011) 6 SCC 47, para 63 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 459 New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Harnand Singh (Deceased) through LRs & Ors. dynamic elements. Pursing a single precise valuation or compensation figure is bound to be unjust, representing a rigid approach and a procrustean endeavour at best. 33. Having said that, it is important to clarify that the process of determining compensation is not entirely subjective. While it may not be possible to arrive at a definitive figure, the exercise is still epistemologically objective in so far as it is grounded in evidence and the consideration of relevant factors. In case the compensation is fixed agnostically to the factors affecting the valuation of the land, the resultant figure might be arbitrary and may fail to adequately compensate the landowner for the expropriated land. Hence, while some subjectivity may exist in fixing the final figure based on these factors, the sliding scale of judicial discretion cannot be extended to mere speculation. 34. Accordingly, while the Court can use the principle of guesstimation in reasonably estimating the value of land in the absence of direct evidence, the exercise ought not to be purely hypothetical. Instead, the Court must embrace a holistic view and consider all relevant factors and existing evidence, even if not directly comparable, to arrive at a fair determination of compensation. Trishala Jain v. State of Uttaranchal,9 summarizes these yardsticks as follows: “65. It will be appropriate for us to state certain principles controlling the application of “guesstimate”: (a) Wherever the evidence produced by the parties is not sufficient to determine the compensation with exactitude, this principle can be resorted to.