The words “any other sufficient reason” have been interpreted in Chhajju Ram v. Neki [(1921-22) 49 IA 144 : (1922) 16 LW 37 : AIR 1922 PC 112] and approved by this Court in Moran Mar Basselios Catholicos v. Most Rev. Mar Poulose Athanasius [AIR 1954 SC 526 : (1955) 1 SCR 520] to mean “a reason sufficient on grounds at least analogous to those specified in the rule”. The same principles have been reiterated in Union of India v. Sandur Manganese & Iron Ores Ltd. [(2013) 8 SCC 337 : JT (2013) 8 SC 275] 20.2. When the review will not be maintainable: (i) A repetition of old and overruled argument is not enough to reopen concluded adjudications. (ii) Minor mistakes of inconsequential import. (iii) Review proceedings cannot be equated with the original hearing of the case. (iv) Review is not maintainable unless the material error, manifest on the face of the , undermines its soundness or results in miscarriage of justice. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 907 Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. (v) A review is by no means an appeal in disguise whereby an erroneous decision is reheard and corrected but lies only for patent error. (vi) The mere possibility of two views on the subject cannot be a ground for review. (vii) The error apparent on the face of the record should not be an error which has to be fished out and searched. (viii) The appreciation of evidence on record is fully within the domain of the appellate court, it cannot be permitted to be advanced in the review petition. (ix) Review is not maintainable when the same relief sought at the time of arguing the main matter had been negatived.” 13. It is thus settled that the review would be permissible only if there is a mistake or error apparent on the face of the record or any other sufficient reason is made out. We are also equally aware of the fact that the review proceedings cannot be equated with the original hearing of the case. The review of the would be permissible only if a material error, manifest on the face of the , undermines its soundness or results in miscarriage of justice. We are also aware that such an error should be an error apparent on the face of the record and should not be an error which has to be fished out and searched. 14. In the light of the aforesaid principles, we will have to examine the present case. IV. CONSIDERATION OF THE OF THE FULL BENCH OF THE HIGH COURT IN JAI SINGH II 15. The background in which Jai Singh II has been decided has already been stated by us in the beginning. In the first round of litigation, the High Court had held the provisions of Section 2(g)(6) of the 1961 Act to be unconstitutional being violative of second proviso to Article 31-A of the Constitution of India. This Court in the first round has set aside the of the Full Bench of the High Court and remanded the matter for deciding the factual aspect as to whether the lands in question were within the ceiling limit or not.