d. Conversely, if the Legislature by itself (particularly, post- Constitution) decides to establish an institution where besides preserving the culture, values, traditions, language and conventions of a religious or linguistic minority community, it promotes other streams of education without any barrier to children belonging to other religions, it will be highly debatable to discern whether such a university can take refuge under the protective umbrella of Article 30. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1853 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 191. Having laid down the broad principles to be followed to determine as to whether AMU qualifies as a minority institution within the meaning of Article 30, we leave it for the regular bench to determine such status, in light of the parameters laid down in our opinion. We, therefore,do not deem it appropriate to express any final view as to whether or not AMU is a minority institution within the meaning of Article 30 of the Constitution. Accordingly, we refrain ourselves from determining the factual issue enumerated as ‘Issue No. VII’. VI. Conclusion 192. Thus, drawing upon the comprehensive analysis presented in the preceding sections, we thus hold that: a. There is no conflict between the seven-judge bench opinion in Kerala Education Bill (supra) and the five-judge Constitution Bench in Azeez Basha (supra) on the other. b. The six-judge Constitution Bench in Sidhajbhai Sabhai (supra), laying down that the right under Article 30 is absolute and unconditional, is not the correct principle of law; the judgement is no more binding in nature and stands effectively overruled in TMA Pai (supra), to that extent. Consequently, Azeez Basha (supra) does not suffer from any legal infirmity on the premise that it did not cite or follow Sidhajbhai Sabhai (supra). c. There is no substantial difference between ‘doubting’ or ‘disagreeing’ with a judgement. That being so, the reference by a two-judge bench in Anjuman (supra) doubting the correctness of the five-judge bench in Azeez Basha (supra) and referring it to a seven-judge bench suffers from multiple illegalities, including judicial impropriety. d. In view of the dictum of the Constitution Bench in Dawoodi Bohra (supra), a two-judge bench has no authority whatsoever to doubt or disagree with a judgement of the larger bench, and directly refer the matter to a bench having a numerically greater strength than the matter so doubted. The reference by the two- judge bench in Anjuman (supra) is nothing but a challenge to the authority of the Chief Justice of India being the master 1854 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports of the roster and in derogation of the special powers enjoyed upon under Article 145 of the Constitution read with VII Rule 2 of the Supreme Court Rules, 1966 (as was applicable). Consequently, the said reference is not maintainable. However, the subsequent reference dated 12.02.2019, in which the then Hon’ble Chief Justice of India was the presiding judge, is maintainable. e. The reference in Anjuman (supra) to a seven-judge bench for the reconsideration of the five-judge decision in Azeez Basha (supra) is bad in law and ought to be set aside.