PE 5 was registered on 28th September, 2012. It related to all the coal block allocations made during the year 1993 to 2006. It is not in dispute that the coal allocation in favour of KPCL was also a subject matter of investigation, but nothing untoward was noticed in that. The JVA between KPCL and KECML also withstood the test of scrutiny. As a result, allocation of coal blocks made in favour of KPCL were not interfered with. 8. DID CBI PRIMARILY RELY ON THE AUDIT REPORT OF THE CAG? 8.1 We shall first examine the submission made by the appellants that the respondent–CBI solely relied on the Audit report of the CAG of 2013 to launch its prosecution in the year 2015. This contention has been strongly refuted by the respondent–CBI that has asserted that the Department had on its own initiative, come across several documents including the CAG Report which exposed commission of the offence and the extent of misappropriation of money by the appellants and the other co-accused and it had not solely relied on the CAG Report to commence the investigation. 8.2 In the course of hearing, this Court had directed learned counsel for the respondent–CBI to produce the files of the Department on the basis whereof, three Preliminary Inquiries were registered – PE-2/2012/EO-I,75 PE-4/2012/EO-I76 and PE-5/2012/EO-I.77 It transpires from the said records that PE-2 was registered on 02nd June, 2012 on the directions issued by the CVC that had forwarded a complaint received by it alleging irregularities in the allotment of coal blocks to Private Companies during the period 2006 to 2009 and in awarding a contract by State owned PSUs for the development of coal blocks allocated to them under the Government dispensation. Subsequently, two more references were received by the respondent–CBI from the CVC and vide OM 75 In short PE-2 76 In short PE-3 77 In short PE-4 1214 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports dated 19th September, 2012, the CVC forwarded a third complaint received from seven Members of Parliament (Lok Sabha) and directed the respondent – CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry. 8.3 The file produced by the respondent–CBI reveals that premised on the Source Information Report78 submitted by an Inspector from the Department pertaining to some irregularities in the allocation of coal blocks under the Government Dispensation Category allegedly in connivance with public servants, the matter was taken up by CBI for verification. The notings in the file states that it was not possible to verify the allegations discretely. Therefore, the SIR was directed to be registered as a PE. These records falsifies the suggestion made by the respondent–CBI that there was a SIR that disclosed irregularities in the JVA executed between KPCL and KECML. The stand of the respondent – CBI that PE-5 was registered well before the Audit Report of the CAG and originated independently thereof, is also factually misleading because CBI’s own record shows that the scope of enquiry in respect of PE-5 registered on 28th September, 2012, was entirely different and had no relationship with the JVA and other agreements executed by KPCL and KECML.