After receiving their responses, the authority found that their appointments were based on forged/fabricated and bogus documents, however, terminated their services. 2.3 On filing appeals against the of termination, they were dismissed by the appellate authority, vide 5 reproduced as under - “…Sri Biswanath Biswas, however, could not able to produce an’ documents to establish his initial appointment on compassionate ground against death of his father while in service or any other relevant details regarding his father’s identity, proof of working in the Railways, Station and place of posting, relevant documents viz. Identity, Medical Card of his deceased father. There is also whisper about retiral benefits received by the family on account of pre-mature death of his deceased father. Therefore, the Disciplinary Authority has arrive at a conclusion that grounds exposed in the show cause notice have been proyed and accordingly decided to terminate him from Railway Service. 3 Suspension dated 29th August 2005 in respect of Sri Biswanath Biswas 4 Show Cause notice dated 11th November, 2005 in respect of Sri Biswanath Biswas 5 of Appellate Authority dated 31st March 2008 in respect of Sri Biswanath Biswas 12 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Sri Biswanath Biswas, cannot claim any protection under the Discipline & Appeals Rule since his initial appointment was itself by fraudulent means.” 2.4 On filing original applications before the Central Administrative Tribunal against the termination and the Appellate Authority’s , the Tribunal dismissed the applications by a common dated 21st September, 2010, observing thus:- “9. In the OA also the applicants have not stated about the service particulars of their fathers viz where their father working or whom they retired etc as referred to in the appellate . It is the settled position of law that a person who has not come up with clean hands cannot get equity from a court of law. The only point the applicant have raised is that no protection under 311 of the Constitution was given and no enquiry was held. We are not inclined accept these contention because job obtained fraudulently is void ab initio and such a person cannot get protection under the constitution. Moreover FIR was also lodge against them and the matter is pending before appropriate Court of Law.” 3. The respondent-employees preferred writ petitions wherein the High Court held that the of the Tribunal was untenable. It was observed that the Railway Servants (Discipline & Appeal) Rules, 19686 have been misinterpreted because as per circular of the Railway Board, Rule 14 thereof only provides for dismissal of government servants upon the charges levelled against them being proved when they are temporary employees. The Rule, however, does not indicate that when a person is in regular service the dismissal can take place sans any disciplinary inquiry. The appellant-employers were directed to reinstate the respondent-employees with the liberty to place them under suspension if they choose to hold a departmental inquiry in accordance with the Discipline Rules. Further, it was directed that during the period of such suspension, subsistence allowance would have to be paid.