Whether the State should earmark seats for the each of the sub-categorized classes or follow a preference model; and b. Whether the State can allocate seats or preference for each of the castes in the Scheduled Castes List. This section is not intended to prescribe an inflexible criterion for the State. Our analysis will lay down broad constitutional parameters without trenching on matters of policy. a. Model of special provisions 179. A crucial issue which arises for consideration is with respect to the model of reservations for the sub-classified classes. There are two models that the State may employ while reserving seats for the sub-classified castes. It needs to be analyzed if both the methods are constitutional. 180. In the first model, the class(es) that are more socially backward are given a preference to all the seats that are reserved for the Scheduled Castes. There are two variations of this model. In the first variation, certain castes are given a preference over all the seats reserved for the category of Scheduled Castes. In other words, the sub-categorized class will get the first bite at the apple. In the second variation, the sub-categorized class will have a preference over a certain percentage of seats. Any unfilled seats will be available to the other categories. 181. In the second model, seats shall be exclusively available to certain castes. The exclusive model differs from the preference model to the limited extent that in the former, the seats that are not filled will be carried over to be filled by the same castes in the subsequent year while in the latter, the seats that are not filled will be available to the other castes within the same class. There are two variations to this model as well. In the first variation, a certain percentage of seats will be reserved for the sub-categorized class and the State shall carry forward the unfilled seats, if any, to be filled by the same class in the subsequent year. In the second variation, all the seats are exclusively available to a certain caste from the category and the State shall carry forward the unfilled seats. 182. Whether the preference or the exclusive model is unconstitutional would depend on whether the variation in-effect excludes any caste [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1431 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. notified as a Scheduled Caste with respect to that State by the President under Article 341(1). With respect to the preference model, the first variation by which preference is given to certain castes to all the seats would be an unconstitutional approach because there is a possibility that other categories within the class of the Scheduled Castes are excluded. For example, if the State grants preference to three of the thirty castes classified as the Scheduled Castes over all the seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes, it is possible that the three castes exercise their preference and fill up all the seats. This would lead to a situation where the other twenty-seven castes classified as the Scheduled Castes would be excluded from the benefit of reservation.