The environmental rule of law recognises the overlap between and seeks to amalgamate scientific learning, legal principle and policy intervention. Significantly, it brings attention to the rules, processes and norms followed by [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2081 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. institutions which provide regulatory governance on the environment. In doing so, it fosters a regime of open, accountable and transparent decision making on concerns of the environment. It fosters the importance of participatory governance — of the value in giving a voice to those who are most affected by environmental policies and public projects. The structural design of the environmental rule of law composes of substantive, procedural and institutional elements. The tools of analysis go beyond legal concepts. The result of the framework is more than just the sum total of its parts. Together, the elements which it embodies aspire to safeguard the bounties of nature against existential threats. For it is founded on the universal recognition that the future of human existence depends on how we conserve, protect and regenerate the environment today.” This Court distilled the challenges that confront a constitutional court in using the framework of an environmental rule of law. Noting the often-intractable problem of adjudicating environmental infractions in the absence of precise, quantifiable and concrete evidence, this Court appreciated the valuable principled guidance rendered by environmental rule of law in the following words: “54. … The point, therefore, is simply this — the environmental rule of law calls on us, as Judges, to marshal the knowledge emerging from the record, limited though it may sometimes be, to respond in a stern and decisive fashion to violations of environmental law. We cannot be stupefied into inaction by not having access to complete details about the manner in which an environmental law violation has occurred or its full implications. Instead, the framework, acknowledging the imperfect world that we inhabit, provides a roadmap to deal with environmental law violations, an absence of clear evidence of consequences notwithstanding.” (emphasis supplied) 2082 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Public Trust Doctrine: 29. At this stage, I shall refer to certain observations made by this Court in the context of preservation of environment and on public trust doctrine. According to this Court, all environment-related developmental activities should benefit more people while maintaining the environmental balance. This could be ensured only by strict adherence to sustainable development, without which the lives of the coming generations will be in jeopardy. In M.C. Mehta vs. Union of India, (1991) 2 SCC 353, it was observed that law alone also cannot help in restoring a balance in the biospheric disturbance. Nor can funds help effectively. The situation requires a clear perception and imaginative planning. It also requires sustained effort and result oriented strategic action. 30. This Court’s jurisprudence on the right to a safe and healthy environment is a firewall against unscrupulous and unsustainable decision-making. It encapsulates a concomitant duty for the State, as understood in light of Articles 48 and 51A(g) of the Constitution of India.