On information received from her mother (PW-7), she went to the Civil Hospital, Solapur, along with her husband where she saw Meena (the deceased), in a burnt condition and it was the deceased who [2024] 2 S.C.R. 995 Dattatraya v. The State of Maharashtra told her that the appellant had kept a mistress at Kati-Sawargaon and it was for this reason, that he was picking quarrels with her. At the time of the incident, she was cooking food on the stove for her husband and it was for this reason that when he poured kerosene on her, which was lying in the can, the stove burst and she came out of the room shouting for help. She was also asked by people who had gathered at the house by that time as to why her husband has done this to her. This witness (PW-8), then states that the deceased died in the hospital after nine days. She had also recognized the accused who was before the Court. This witness was again put to a lengthy cross examination without giving any benefit to the defence. 14. Both PW-7 and PW-8 have clearly established the fact that the burn injuries were caused by the appellant and that he had returned to his house in an inebriated state and was under the influence of liquor while he did the act, after picking a quarrel with his wife. The presence of PW-7, being a witness, in the house at the time of the incident was never in doubt. 15. The statement was given to PW-8 by the deceased stating how she sustained burn injuries at the hands of her husband, i.e., the present appellant, and the same was first recorded in the statement which was given immediately after she had reached the hospital at about 01.30 AM on 27.01.2007, before PW-1. PW-1 was working as ‘Avval Karkun’2 in the Tahsil Office, North Solapur, at the relevant point of time and was requested by the police at 12:30 AM in the night to record the dying declaration of the deceased at Civil Hospital, Solapur. 16. The examination-in-chief of PW-1 reads as under:- “ Exam-in-Chief by APP Shri Jadhav 1. I am working as Aval Karkun in Tahsil office, North Solapur. Since 2d Jan. 2007 I am working as Special Executive Magistrate. For two days, work of recording of dying declaration was allotted to me on Friday and Saturday. On 26th Jan. 2007 I was in my house. Police had been to my house in the night at about 12.30 O’clock. I was requested to record the dying declaration orally. Thereafter 2 Special Executive Magistrate 996 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports I had been to Civil Hospital, Solapur. A letter was given to me for recording dying declaration of Meena Gawali and her husband Datta Gawali. I am having the copy of letter with me. I had given my endorsement on the office copy of the letter of the police. The said letter now shown to me is same.