The focus of the Writ Petition concerning GoM No. 522 was the relaxation of conditions which had been prescribed in the earlier GoMs. 12. The High Court referred to Rules 3 and 10 of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Alienation of State Lands & Land Revenue [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1385 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others Rules, 1975,12 which pertain to the alienation of land to local authorities. The Court recorded that according to the 1975 Rules, land acquired by the State could be alienated to a local body/ authority for unremunerative public purposes without charging a price. However, when the land was to be allocated for remunerative public purposes or to private entities, it could only be done at market value. Rule 10 allows the Government to deviate from the established procedures. However, any such deviation must follow a reasonable process for land alienation, including auction, where such alienation/sale is deemed necessary. 13. The Court noted that a reading of GoM No. 522 made it clear that it relaxed the conditions of GoM No. 243, with the intent of providing undue benefits to individuals who would not otherwise qualify for land allotment under GoM No. 243. The relaxation was made in favour of (i) Sitting and former MLAs, including widows of deceased MLAs; (ii) Sitting MPs from Andhra Pradesh in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha; (iii) Judges of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh; (iv) AIS officers; (v) Persons of eminence and (vi) Journalists. There was no justification for allotting land to these categories of persons by relaxing conditions, to make them eligible for allotment of land even if they had a house in their name, or in the name of their spouse or children, or had earlier been allotted a plot of land at a concessional rate, provided they did not have any house in the cities of Hyderabad or Secunderabad. The Appendix to GoM No. 522, which lists the categories of beneficiaries entitled to the relaxation, only states that the allotment to such categories was done irrespective of their private possessions, in to “ensure equity and avoid discrimination”. The Court found no plausible reason for relaxing the restrictions outlined in GoM No. 243, stating that the revised policy under GoM No. 522 was contrary to public interest and it favoured certain individuals at the cost of the public exchequer. The State was unjustifiably giving the benefit of concessional land allotment to some affluent persons, who had no pressing need for housing sites, while depriving the persons who were genuinely in need of a housing plot. Further, the State was also losing out on a substantial amount of revenue that it could have generated by duly auctioning the Government land instead of allotting it at such low rates. 12 For short, “1975 Rules”. 1386 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. The Court held that the principle of equality had been undermined by the policy. GoM No. 1424, dated 28.09.2006, was deemed consistent with GoM No.