used in Section 17(5)(d) is a factual question which has to be determined keeping in mind the business of the registered person and the role that building plays in the said business. If the construction of a building was essential for carrying out the activity of supplying services, such as renting or giving on lease or other transactions in respect of the building or a part thereof, which are covered by clauses (2) and (5) of Schedule II of the CGST Act, the building could be held to be a plant. Then, it is taken out of the exception carved out by clause (d) of Section 17(5) to sub-section (1) of Section 16. Functionality test will have to be applied to decide whether a building is a plant. Therefore, by using the functionality test, in each case, on facts, in the light of what we have held earlier, it will have to be decided whether the construction of an immovable property is a “plant” for the purposes of clause (d) of Section 17(5). 66. In the light of what we have held above, by setting aside the impugned in Civil Appeal Nos. 2948 and 2949 of 2023, the writ petitions are remanded to the High Court of Orissa for limited purposes of deciding whether, in the facts of the case, the shopping mall is a “plant” in terms of clause (d) of Section 17(5). Appeals are partly allowed in above terms. 67. While deciding these cases, we cannot make any final adjudication on the question of whether the construction of immovable property carried out by the petitioners in Writ Petitions amounts to plant, and each case will have to be decided on its merit by applying the functionality test in terms of this . The issue must be decided in appropriate proceedings in which adjudication can be made on facts. The petitioners are free to adopt appropriate proceedings or raise the issue in appropriate proceedings. 68. The writ petitions are rejected subject to the interpretation of clause (d) of sub-section (5) of Section 17 of the CGST Act made by us. Result of the Case: A ppeals partly allowed and writ petitions rejected. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey