The completion of the selection process prior to 11.08.2023 is not material. What is important is the date of appointment which is certainly after the cut-off date. They will stand disqualified, as they do not have the essential qualification for appointment as primary school teachers. 11. We have also gone through the 2019 Rules of Chhattisgarh. In Rule 8 (II), the qualification of an Assistant Teacher reads as under: - “Rule 8 (II): Educational qualifications and experience – The candidate must possess the educational qualifications and experience as prescribed for the service as shown in column (5) of Schedule III. For Preliminary education, the prescribed qualification will be applicable as per provisions of the Right to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009.” Column 5 of Schedule III provides that the minimum educational qualifications required for the post of teachers shall be as per Annexure I of the Rules. This Annexure prescribes the minimum qualification for Assistant Teacher as follows: 818 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “a) Senior Secondary (or its equivalent) with at least 50% marks and 2-year Diploma in Elementary Education by whatever name known) OR Senior Secondary (or its equivalent) with at least 45% marks and 2-year Diploma in Elementary Education (by whatever name known) in accordance with the NCTE (Recognition Norms and Procedure) Regulations, 2002 OR Senior Secondary (or its equivalent) with at least 50% marks and 4-year Bachelor of Elementary Education (B.EL.Ed.) OR Senior Secondary (or its equivalent) with at least 50% marks and 2-year Diploma in Education (Special Education) OR Graduation and 2-year Diploma in Elementary Education (by whatever name known) OR Graduation with at least 50% marks and B.Ed. qualification (graduate from the institution recognised from NCTE) shall also be eligible for appointment as teacher for classes 1 to 5. Provided he / she undergoes, after appointment, a NCTE recognised 6-month special programme in Elementary Education. And (b) Passed the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET), to be conducted by the appropriate Government, in accordance with the guidelines framed by NCTE for this purpose.” (emphasis supplied) The entire reliance of the petitioner is on the above provisions. We have already seen that Rule 8(II) while prescribing the qualifications of Assistant Teacher makes a reference to the qualifications as given [2024] 8 S.C.R. 819 Navin Kumar & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. Etc. under the Right to Education Act, 2009. Not only this, the aforesaid provision placing B.Ed. as a qualification is again subsequent to the Notification of NCTE dated 28.06.2018, which has already been quashed and set aside by our judgement in Devesh Sharma (supra). Therefore, by implication, qualification given in the Chhattisgarh Rules to the extent it makes B.Ed. a qualification also cannot be implemented, following the law laid down in Devesh Sharma (supra). 12. In fact, we have been shown today an of NCTE dated 04.09.2023 whereby the judgement in Devesh Sharma (supra) was communicated to Chief Secretaries of all State Governments for further appropriate action. In spite of this, appointments were given to B.Ed.