(iii) In case the respondent is posted to a station in the NCT of Delhi, the appellant and the respondent will have custody of the minor children for two weeks each including the weekends, every month. The children shall stay with the appellant for the first two weeks [2024] 6 S.C.R. 267 Col. Ramneesh Pal Singh v. Sugandhi Aggarwal of every month and with the respondent for the next two weeks of every month. At the end of the second week of every month, i.e., on Sunday evening, the appellant shall drop the children at the respondent’s accommodation. At the end of every fourth week, i.e., on Sunday evening, the respondent shall drop the children back at the appellant’s residence. (iv) During summer vacations and winter vacations, the appellant and the respondent shall have custody of the minor children for an equal number of days. Such days can be mutually agreed upon by the parties. It is clarified that in case the children are required to travel as a result of the said arrangement during vacations, the expenses for their travel shall be borne by the parent who they are visiting. Therefore, if the children are travelling from the respondent’s station of posting to Delhi, the expenses shall be borne by the appellant. If the children are travelling from Delhi to the respondent’s station of posting, the expenses shall be borne by the respondent.” 3.8. Aggrieved by the Impugned , the Appellant preferred SLP (C) No. 28466 of 2023 (the “SLP”) before this Court i.e., now converted to this instant appeal. Vide an dated 05.01.2024, this Court stayed the operation of the Impugned . 3.9. It would also be relevant to clarify that, up until this stage, the custody of the Minor Children has essentially remained with the Appellant despite (i) various interim (s) passed by (a) the High Court; and (b) the Family Court in favour of the Respondent; and (ii) the initiation of contempt proceedings before the High Court. Contentions of the Parties 4. Shri Vivek Chib, Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant, urged the following: 268 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4.1. That the Minor Children have been residing with him happily since ‘15 i.e., for period extending to almost to 9 (nine) years and it is the desire of the Minor Children to continue to reside with the Appellant. In this regard, it was submitted that the aforesaid preference has been communicated by the Minor Children to various court(s) from time -to-time including inter alia the High Court. 4.2. That the High Court proceeded on an erroneous assumption that the prolonged period of separation between the Respondent and the Minor Children has sub-consciously influenced the Minor Children against the Respondent. 4.3. That the Underlying passed by the Family Court was a detailed and well-reasoned which has been passed after a thorough analysis of the copious evidence and material(s) on record in favour of the Appellant. 4.4. Lastly, Mr. Chib relied on the following decision(s) of this Court to buttress the aforesaid submission(s): (a) Jitender Arora v. Sukriti Arora, (2017) 3 SCC 726; (b) Nil Ratan Kundu v. Abhijit Kundu, (2008) 9 SCC 413; (c) Mausami Moitra Ganguli v. Jayant Ganguli, (2008) 7 SCC 673; (d) Vishnu v. Jaya, (2010) 6 SCC 733; and (e) Lahari Sakhamuri v. Sobhan Kodali, (2019) 7 SCC 311.