Inviting our attention to the findings recorded by the learned Single Judge, the learned senior counsel submitted that while allowing the petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, the learned Single Judge, by a detailed , has dealt with all the issues canvassed by the parties. Pointing out the findings recorded by the Division Bench in the impugned , he submitted that it cannot be said that the reasons recorded by the learned Single Judge are not elaborate. The reasons are very detailed and more than elaborate. In short, the submission is that the remand is wholly unwarranted, and the Division Bench ought to have decided the appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act on merits. 6. The appellant was the respondent before the Arbitral Tribunal. Even the claimant Samir Narain Bhojwani (described in this as the respondent) has filed the Civil Appeal arising out of Special Leave Petition (C) No.20359 of 2023. The intervenor before the Division Bench in the appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act has preferred a Civil Appeal arising out of Special Leave Petition (C) Diary No.40494 of 2023. The plea by the respondent is naturally for restoration of the award of the Arbitral Tribunal. We have heard the detailed submissions of the learned senior counsel representing the respondent (the claimant) and the intervenors. We are not referring to the submissions made by them relating to the merits of the Award, considering the limited scope of these appeals. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 7. After considering the submissions made across the Bar, we find that the issue revolves around the power of the Appellate Court dealing with the appeal under Section 37(1)(c) of the Arbitration Act to pass an of remand to Section 34 Court. Before we address the issue regarding the power of the Appellate Court, we will need to refer to the award made by the Arbitral Tribunal. There are six different 144 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports parts of the award by the Arbitral Tribunal. The operative part of the award of the Arbitral Tribunal reads thus: “.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 203. In view of the foregoing discussion, the following Award is made: I (a) It is declared that the Development Agreement dated 10th March 2003 is valid, subsisting and binding upon the Claimant and the Respondent; (b) It is declared that the Claimant is entitled to retain possession of 15 Flats in Wing A (earmarked for the Respondent) and 0.63 Flat in Wing B (earmarked for the Respondent), till the Respondent complies with all the directions being given in this Award; (c) The Respondent is directed to construct at its own cost 107 PAP tenements (or any higher number as may be specified by SRA) at Shiv Shakti Nagar, Kandivali, relatable to the Andheri Kamgar Nagar CHS Scheme and handover the same to SRA within 2 months from the date of this Award; (d) The Respondent is further directed to obtain from SRA a certificate of discharge of the Respondent from its obligation of constructing 107 (or any higher number of) PAP tenements relatable to Andheri Kamgar Nagar CHS Scheme, and handing over the same to SRA, within 3 months from the date of this Award; (e) The Respondent is directed to obtain further Commencement Certificate for construction of 6th to 22nd floors of Wing C (further CC for Wing C) on the basis of sanctioned building plans dated 21st October 2010, within 4 months from the date of this Award; (f) In case SRA requires the Respondent to comply with any condition under any Letter of Intent or under any Regulation or Circular, including payment of any premium, before issuance of further CC for Wing C, the Respondent shall comply with such condition or [2024] 7 S.C.R.