b. The appellant had been declared as the successful candidate after due verification of his eligibility and there could have been no occasion for HPCL to disqualify him on the complaint of the added respondent, and that too without putting the appellant on notice. c. HPCL, having issued the Advertisement, could not have altered the rules and guidelines after the appellant was declared eligible and successful. d. The entries from serial no. 608 onwards in the Advertisement did not bear any column for Gram Panchayat as the locations therein were urban or semi-urban; implying that there was no error in the Advertisement and such an omission was conscious. e. The Single Judge had rightly observed that the advertised location for the concerned showroom was Haripal with reference to specification of Block Haripal; and since the appellant had offered land for the showroom at a location within the jurisdictional limits of Haripal Police Station and within geographical limits of Haripal Block, consequently, the same should have been considered to be covered by the advertised location. 11. Mr. Parijat Sinha, learned counsel appearing for HPCL, in support of upholding the impugned submitted inter alia that: [2024] 3 S.C.R. 831 Tapas Kumar Das v. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited & Ors. a. The Unified Guidelines are comprehensive in nature and left no room for ambiguity as to the location requirements to obtain an LPG distributorship from inter alia HPCL. b. In the State of West Bengal, villages were not identified as units of revenue, but they were in fact identified as mouzas. Therefore, the boundary of any village could only be defined in terms of mouzas. Hence, the Advertisement had not been issued for Block Haripal, but only for the mouza/village Haripal as per the third column of Part 2 of the Advertisement. Hence, the intention of mentioning Haripal in the third column was to indicate Haripal mouza/village, and not the cluster of villages/ towns/cities. c. Clause 8 A(n) of the Unified Guidelines provided for the requirements of the showroom to be owned/leased by the concerned applicant desirous of obtaining an LPG distributorship. A reading of the Unified Guidelines, along with the fact that the fifth column of Part 2 of the Advertisement was for the District, the fourth column was for the Block, and the third column was for the Location, meant that the third column specified the uniqueness of the location intending it to be for the concerned village; it would be incorrect to read the third and fourth columns as being synonymous. Hence, a mention of Haripal in the third column meant mouza/village Haripal and not Block Haripal. d. In this vein, since the appellant’s showroom fell within mouza Gopinagar, the same made his candidature ineligible; though located in Block Haripal, it was not within mouza Haripal. 12. Appearing for the added respondent and seeking dismissal of the appeal, Mr. Zoheb Hossain, learned counsel submitted inter alia that: a. The added respondent was a proper and necessary party in W.P. 1595 (W) of 2019 before the High Court since the Cancellation Letter had been issued as a consequence of acceptance of the complaint dated 9th November 2018.