However, SEBI has not acted on such reports; d. The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence7 had addressed a letter dated 31 January 2014 to the then SEBI Chairperson alerting them about possible stock market manipulation being committed by the Adani group by over-valuation of the import of power equipment. However, SEBI did not take adequate action based on this letter; e. SEBI must be directed to revoke amendments to the FPI Regulations which have done away with restrictions on opaque structures. As a result of these amendments, SEBI, the Enforcement Directorate8 and the CBDT have not been able to give any clear findings with regard to price manipulation and insider trading. SEBI has tied its own hands; f. SEBI must be directed to revoke the amendment made to its LODR Regulations which have altered the definition of “related party”; g. SEBI’s inability to establish a prima facie case of regulatory non- compliance and legal violations by the Adani group promoters despite starting an investigation in November 2020, appears to be prima facie self-inflicted. The unprecedented rise in the price of the Adani scrips occurred between January 2021 and December 2022, over a period when the Adani group was already under SEBI investigation; h. A few members of the Expert Committee may have a conflict of interest and there is a likelihood of bias, which was not brought to the notice of the Court by the concerned members; and i. SEBI has willfully delayed the submission of its status report on the investigation into the Adani group within the time granted by this Court. 6 “OCCRP” 7 “DRI” 8 “ED” 184 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 10. On the other hand, the learned Solicitor General, appearing on behalf of SEBI made the following submissions: a. Twenty-two out of twenty-four investigations being conducted by SEBI are complete. In these investigations, enforcement actions/ quasi-judicial proceedings would be initiated, wherever applicable; b. The delay by SEBI in filing the report is only ten days which is unintentional and not willful, given that twenty-four investigations were to be carried out; c. SEBI has been taking various steps on the areas identified by the Expert Committee and will also take into consideration the suggestions of the Expert Committee to improve its practices and procedures; d. The events pertaining to the present batch of petitions relate to only one set of entities in the market without any significant impact at the systemic level. While the shares of the Adani group saw a significant decline on account of the selling pressure, the “wider Indian market has shown full resilience”; e. The petitioner’s reliance on the letter by the DRI is misconceived. After having received DRI’s letter, SEBI sought information from DRI on the subject and received a response. Further, while SEBI’s examination was in process, the Additional Director, DRI (Adjudication) found the allegations of over-valuation to be incorrect. The CESTAT and this Court also dismissed appeals against the ; f. The OCCRP report relied on by the petitioner lacks documentary support and certain important facts with regard to the source of the report have been concealed; and g. The FPI Regulations, initially, had allowed “opaque structures” under certain conditions, inter alia, that they undertake to disclose the details of beneficial owners on being sought.