the reservation under Clause (1) of Article 16, and not the Vertical reservation i.e. the 498 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports reservation under Clause (4) of Article 16 of the Constitution of India. In the case of Indra Sawhney & Others vs. Union of India and Others1 the concept of “Vertical Reservations” and “Horizontal Reservations” has been aptly explained. The relevant paragraph 812 thereof reads as under: - “812. We are also of the opinion that this rule of 50% applies only to reservations in favour of backward classes made under Article 16(4). A little clarification is in at this juncture: all reservations are not of the same nature. There are two types of reservations, which may, for the sake of convenience, be referred to as ‘vertical reservations’ and ‘horizontal reservations’. The reservations in favour of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other backward classes under Article 16(4) may be called vertical reservations whereas reservations in favour of physically handicapped under clause (1) of Article 16 can be referred to as horizontal reservations. Horizontal reservations cut across the vertical reservations — what is called interlocking reservations. To be more precise, suppose 3% of the vacancies are reserved in favour of physically handicapped persons; this would be a reservation relatable to clause (1) of Article 16. The persons selected against this quota will be placed in the appropriate category; if he belongs to SC category he will be placed in that quota by making necessary adjustments; similarly, if he belongs to open competition (OC) category, he will be placed in that category by making necessary adjustments. Even after providing for these horizontal reservations, the percentage of reservations in favour of backward class of citizens remains — and should remain — the same. This is how these reservations are worked out in several States and there is no reason not to continue that procedure.” 13. Thus, in view of the said clarification made in Indra Sawhney, there remains no doubt that the reservation for persons with disabilities would be relatable to Clause (1) of Article 16 and the persons 1 [1992] Supp. 2 SCR 454 : 1992 Supp. (3) SCC 217 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 499 Rekha Sharma v. The Rajasthan High Court, Jodhpur & Anr. selected against this quota will be placed in appropriate category i.e. if he/she belongs to Scheduled Category, he/she will be placed in that category by making necessary adjustments, and if he/she belongs to open category, necessary adjustments will be made in the open category. 14. The concept of Overall Reservations and Compartmentalised Reservations is also aptly explained by this Court in Anil Kumar Gupta and Others vs. State of U.P. and Others.2 It has been observed therein that where the seats reserved for the Horizontal Reservations are proportionately divided amongst the Vertical (Social) Reservations and are not intertransferable, it would be a case of Compartmentalised Reservations, whereas in the Overall Reservation, while allocating the special reservation candidates to their respective social reservation category, the Overall Reservation in favour of special reservation categories has to be honoured.