Mother Provincial, (1970) 2 SCC 417 to argue that the words ‘establish’ and ‘found’ have the same meaning. 63. It was further submitted that in to qualify as a minority educational institution, an institution must be established for the betterment of the minority community and the inclusion of any outsiders must be merely incidental. It was argued that the administrative control must lie with the minority and that on a cumulative understanding it should be clearly visible that the institution in question is actually a minority institution and to a masked phantom as warned of in A.P. Christians Medical Educational Society v. Government of Andhra Pradesh, (1986) 2 SCC 667. He finally submits that the AMU is an institution of national character and hence, it cannot be a minority institution. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1939 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 64. Mr. Vikramjit Bannerjee, learned Additional Solicitor General of India, briefly traced the history and purpose of incorporating Articles 25-30 from the Constituent Assembly Debates. It was argued that the purpose of these provisions was to instil a sense of confidence in the minorities with a final view to erasing the difference between majority and minority altogether. In that view, allowing an institute of national importance to be classified as a minority institution would go against the principles behind Article 30. To support his stand, he relied on Bal Patil v. Union of India, (2005) 6 SCC 690. It was argued that the words “institution of national importance” in Entry 63 of List I must be read keeping in mind the principle of noscitur a sociis which would indicate that the AMU is intended to be a secular institution open to all. 65. Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior Counsel, submitted that in the pre-constitution era, the sole prerogative of establishing universities lay with the Governor-General-in-Council. He refers to the establishment of a number of Universities during the time of British time to show that all such Universities were established by an Act of the Legislature. It was argued that the intent of a minority in establishing a university was material factor because the ultimate fact of establishment could be only through the Government. It was argued that the Muslim community in the pre-constitution era did not identify as minorities at all. Therefore, it was stated that if the community itself did not accept a minority character, it was not open to confer such a character on them through operation of Article 30 insofar as the AMU is concerned. It was argued that the numerical inferiority is only one aspect of minority status. Other aspects would include whether or not the community was dominant either socially or politically and whether or not it considered itself a minority. He relied on certain reports of the United Nations to reinforce the idea that minority must be defined with respect to socio-political dominance. 66. Mr. Dwivedi referred to history of negotiations between the proponents of a Muslim University and the British Government to argue that all major demands of the community were rejected and administrative control of the university by the government was a condition precedent for approval.