A record of such application must be made in designated register/database. c) Where copy of judgement is not available with the prisoner, the DLSA shall make available an extra copy of the judgement to the prisoner to enable filing of the petition/jail appeal. 1784 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports d) Upon receiving a request for legal assistance, the HCLSC/SCLSC must immediately appoint a lawyer to the case, details of whom must be duly intimated to the prisoner via the Prison Superintendent, as per prescribed formats provided in the NALSA’s Handbook of Formats, 2020. e) Details of the lawyer appointed by the HCLSC/ SCLSC must be duly noted in the register/database maintained at the PLAC. f) Regular interaction and communication between the counsel and the client/ convict must be ensured by SCLSC, HCLSC, DLSA and SLSA in to update the beneficiary as to the progress of the case. Where the prisoners complain of lack of interaction with lawyer assigned by HCLSC/SCLSC, the DLSA shall intimate the same to the HCLSC/SCLSC at the earliest. g) The PLV shall provide updates to the prisoner on progress in his/her case. Information may be sourced directly from the HCLSC/SCLSC or through the relevant Court websites. h) DLSA may undertake to jointly conduct camps with HCLSC/SCLSC to apprise prisoners of the various remedies in law for bail/appeal/review/revision as well as writ remedies.” NALSA has also adopted methods to strengthen the monitoring of PLACs and to review their functioning. Statistical Data 15. NALSA has stated that as per the information received from the SLSAs, there are a total of 1265 Jails (including sub jails and women jails), 1256 PLACs and 6663 Jail Visiting Lawyers. As of 2023-24, NALSA has interacted with 4,56,798 inmates and provided legal assistance to 3,24,867 inmates. Further, as of June, 2024, 880 appeals of convicts have been filed in the Sessions Courts, 1,593 appeals in the High Courts and as on date (that is up to 04.09.2024), 1309 convicts have been able to file special leave petitions in this Court. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1785 Suhas Chakma v. Union of India & Ors. Legal Aid Defense Counsel System 16. A pioneering measure adopted by NALSA since the year 2021-22 is the introduction of the Legal Aid Defense Counsel System with a view to strengthen and professionalize legal services delivered. At present, as per the report, around 611 of the 703 districts in the country have the Legal Aid Defense Counsel System in place. Just as there is a prosecuting office for the prosecution, this is an institutionalized method of providing defense counsel assistance in legal aid matters. The Legal Aid Defense Counsel System includes dedicated, full-time experienced lawyers to represent the accused. The lawyers exclusively deal with criminal legal aid cases ensuring effective and efficient representation, timely and effective client consultations, effective monitoring of legal aid cases, professional management of legal aid work in criminal matters and enhance responsiveness to the litigant. The modified Legal Aid Defense Counsel System Scheme of 2022 provides for the selection process of the Legal Aid Defense Counsels (LADCs), the number of human resources to be engaged, the infrastructural requirements, essential qualifications and the role of legal services institutions.