Thus, the presumption would be that after Minerva Mills, the unamended Article 31-C would continue in force. Indeed, it is evident that cases such as Bhim Singh and Sanjeev Coke proceeded on this presumption. [Para 69] 2.2. The only plausible exception to this presumption would be if it could be demonstrated that Parliament, when enacting the Forty-Second Amendment would have repealed the words “the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of Article 39” independent of their enactment of the words “all or any of the principles laid down in Part IV.” In this case, no reference to the broader legislative proceedings or external aids is necessary to arrive at the inference that Parliament would not have independently repealed these words. The text of the amendment adopted by Parliament itself makes it abundantly clear that there was no independent intention to repeal. The effect of Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment was to expand the scope of the immunity provided by Article 31-C to legislation. Under the unamended Article [2024] 11 S.C.R. 3 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 31-C, immunity was only provided to legislation if it gave effect to the Directive Principles found in clause (b) or clause (c) of Article 39. However, by Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment, the scope of this immunity was significantly expanded to immunise legislations that gave effect to any or all of the Directive Principles in Part IV of the Constitution. Thus, the intention of Parliament in enacting Section 4 of the constitutional amendment was undoubtedly to expand the scope of the immunity granted by Article 31-C. This being the situation, it cannot be suggested that Parliament would have repealed the words “the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39” if it did not simultaneously enact the broader language expanding the scope of Article 31-C. If Parliament had independently repealed these words, it would have not just reduced the scope of Article 31-C but altogether eliminated the effect of the Article. Without the words “the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39” in Article 31- C, the provision would have been rendered nugatory. Given Parliament’s manifest intention to expand the scope of Article 31-C by Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment, it is not plausible to hold that Parliament independently sought to repeal the words “the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39” from Article 31-C. Therefore, it is evident that the legislative intent of Parliament when adopting Section 4 of the Forty- Second Amendment was composite, to repeal and enact (i.e., to substitute) through one single action. This Court cannot therefore disaggregate the steps of repeal and enactment and give effect to the repeal even after invalidating the enactment. After Minerva Mills invalidated Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment, the composite legal effect of Section 4 is nullified and the unamended text of Article 31-C stands revived. [Para 70] 2.3. The text of the unamended Article 31-C was challenged, and the first part of the Article was upheld by thirteen- judge decision in Kesavananda Bharati while the latter half of the Article was invalidated.