In Golak Nath v. State of Punjab, a Bench of eleven Judges of this Court was called upon to decide the validity of the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act 1964 which included certain state agrarian laws in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution. The majority held that an amendment to the Constitution was “law” according to the definition under Article 13. Further, it was held that constitutional amendments are also subject to limitations prescribed under Article 13(2).9 Resultantly, the constitutional amendment was declared void for infringing Article 13(2). The next issue before the Court was whether the decision should be applied prospectively. 8. Golak Nath (supra) overruled earlier decisions10 of this Court which had held that Parliament can amend or abridge the fundamental 5 Linkletter v. Walker, 381 US 618 (1965) 6 Chicot County Drainage Dist. v. Baxter State Bank, 308 US 371 (1940) 7 Chicot County Drainage Dist (supra) 8 404 US 97 (1971) 9 Constitution of India, Article 13 10 Shankari Prasad Singh Deo v. Union of India (1951) SCC 966; Sajjan Singh v. State of Rajasthan (1964) SCC OnLine SC 25. 552 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports rights in Part III of the Constitution. The States had relied on the earlier rulings to enact agrarian legislation. During 1950 and 1967, various amendments were carried out to the Constitution validating the agrarian reforms undertaken after Independence. In this context, Chief Justice K Subba Rao observed that giving retrospective operation to the decision “would introduce chaos and unsettle the conditions in our country.” Resultantly, it was observed that overruling the earlier decisions but restricting the ruling to the future and not to the past was a “reasonable principle” to resolve extraordinary situations: “49. […] It is really a pragmatic solution reconciling the two conflicting doctrines, namely, that a court finds law and that it does make law. It finds law but restricts its operation to the future. It enables the court to bring about a smooth transition by correcting its errors without disturbing the impact of those errors on the past transactions. It is left to the discretion of the court to prescribe the limits of the retroactivity and thereby it enables it to mould the relief to meet the ends of justice.” (emphasis added) 9. The Chief Justice held that the power of this Court to apply the doctrine of prospective overruling could be traced to Article 142 and formulated the following propositions about the applicability of the doctrine: a. It can be invoked only in matters arising under the Constitution; b. It can be applied only by this Court as it has the constitutional jurisdiction to declare law binding on all the courts in India; and c. The scope of the retroactive operation of the law is left to the discretion of this Court to be moulded in accordance with the justice of the cause or matter before it. 10. After laying down the broad canvas, the learned Chief Justice concluded: “53. […] What then is the effect of our conclusion on the instant case?