Since market value is highly volatile, there cannot be any uniform system of determining the market value. It cannot be argued, therefore, that the land has been granted at a concessional rate as it has been sold at basic market value. (ix) There are enough safeguards in the impugned GoMs which ensure that the allotments made are not maliciously converted into a profiteering exercise. One such safeguard is that allotment is not made directly to individuals, but through a society. Further, an employee is entitled to such allotment only once during her/ his service. A cut-off date is also prescribed. If both spouses are in government service, only one of them is eligible for land allotment. The allotment is not alienable or transferable by any instrument, including GPA, for a period of ten years from the date of allotment. (x) Allotments to specified categories also includes family members of AIS officers who died in harness prior to their retirement, including those killed by Naxalites while on duty, and had not availed facilities of allotment of housing sites at concessional rates. 28. On behalf of the Writ Petitioners, it is submitted that: (i) A policy or an executive decision should be backed by a social and welfare purpose. It should not be for the profit or benefit of private individuals or a particular class. Public interest should be the paramount consideration. Departure 17 Year 1906 according to the Gregorian Calendar. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1395 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others from these principles should be for compelling reasons that must be rational and not suggestive of discrimination, bias, jobbery or nepotism. (ii) Land is a natural resource and being so it should be expended to best subserve the common good. It should not be dissipated at a consideration lower than the actual worth. One set of citizens, without good reason and justification, cannot prosper at the cost of the other set of citizens. (iii) Valuable government property of around Rs. 10,000 crores belonging to the people of the State, which is held in trust by the State Government, is sought to be transferred in favour of the privileged section or class of persons without an overwhelming or legitimate public purpose. The eight categories of persons include MLAs, MPs, officers of the AIS, journalists, Judges of the Supreme Court and High Court, State Government employees, etc. (iv) The size of plots which are being sold at the basic price clearly shows arbitrariness and discrimination as Judges of the Supreme Court and High Court, MPs, MLAs, and officers of the AIS are being allotted plots of 500 square yards, whereas others have been allotted smaller plots. (v) Almost all MPs, MLAs, Judges of the Supreme Court and High Court, officers of the AIS and even journalists, already own a plot or a house within the State. Therefore, they should not be shown any indulgence in distribution of the State’s largesse which would allow them to profiteer at the cost of the State and the common man.