750 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) The Fund constituted under sub-section (1) shall be administered by such officer or officers of the Board as may be appointed by it in this behalf. (3) The amount of fee (realised by a Market Committee established under the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961 (Punjab Act 23 of 1961)] under sub-section (2) of section 5 shall be credited to the Fund within such period as may be prescribed and the grants from the [State Government and Local Authorities and the loans raised by the Board under section 5-A] shall also be credited to this Fund.” 11. The relevant provisions of the 2003 Policy under which such exemptions have been sought are reproduced as follows: “11.4 Development of Agro & Food Processing Industry 11.4.1 Definition For the purpose of this policy, Agro-Food Processing Industries would mean an activity involved in the production of value added/high end products from primary agricultural/horticultural crops including floriculture & vegetables and their residues available in the State. It will also include cultivation of processing/ superior quality & high yielding varieties of all kinds of crops and their post-harvest operations such as cleaning, grading, packaging, storage, transportation, marketing etc. The extent of value addition should be atleast 50% of the basic value. However, this will not include rice, pulse and cereal mills, decorticating, expelling, crushing, roasting and frying of oil seeds, preparing of bread other than by mechanised bakery, refining and hydrogenation of edible oils, including manufacture of Vanaspati. It will further include the non-molasses based alcohol plants. 11.4.2 Incentives (i) For agriculture commodities other than wheat and paddy no market fees shall be levied on purchases made by agro and food processing units. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 751 State of Punjab & Ors. v. M/s Punjab Spintex Ltd. (ii) Similarly for commodities other than wheat and paddy purchased by food and agro processing units, no Rural output tax shall be charged. …” 12. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material on record. 13. Learned Counsel appearing for the Appellant State argued that the Market fees under the 1961 Act and Rural Development fees under the 1987 Act are two different “fees” levied under two different Acts having different objects and purpose. That the 2003 Policy does not specifically exempt Rural Development fees and therefore, such an assumption cannot be made by the Respondent. Further, it was submitted that there are various industries that are exempted from Market fees and not exempted from Rural Development fees, including the company M/s Partap Furane Pvt. Ltd. with which a similarity as being claimed by the Respondent. 14. On the other hand, Mr. Aman Lekhi, Ld. Senior Counsel appearing for the Respondent argued that the expression ‘Market fees’ has been used in the Policy of 2003 because both the 1961 Act and the 1987 Act contemplate levy of fees in a notified market area and not in the sense of fees levied under the 1961 Act as has been argued by the Appellant State.