5. The High Court has non-suited the appellant/plaintiff on two counts. Firstly, that defendant no. 1 is not the sole owner of the property which was the coparcenary property and the other coparceners did not sign the initial agreement and secondly, that the appellant/ plaintiff having failed to appear in the witness box, the testimony of his Power of Attorney Holder cannot be read as statement of the plaintiff in a civil suit of this nature. 6. Admittedly, the initial agreement dated 26.09.1995 was executed by Defendant no. 1-Gajay Bahadur Bakshi. It is the case of the appellant/ 618 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports plaintiff that Gajay Bahadur Bakshi was the Power of Attorney Holder of Defendant nos. 2 to 11, the other co-owners/coparceners of the suit property. However, the agreement itself no where states that Gajay Bahadur Bakshi has executed the agreement as Attorney Holder of Defendant nos. 2 to 11. On the contrary, it is mentioned in the agreement that Gajay Bahadur Bakshi would be responsible for getting the sale deed executed and registered by all the co-owners or co-khatedars at the time of registration. Neither the names of all the co-owners/ coparceners/co-khatedars are mentioned in the agreement, thus, the High Court is right in finding that all the co-owners have not signed the agreement. The subsequent endorsement of receipt of additional amount of Rs. 40,000/- is also not signed by all the co-parceners. The same is the condition with the 3rd agreement dated 26.12.1996 and the extension endorsement dated 27.03.1997 and 23.04.1997. Significantly, the so-called power of attorney pleaded in the plaint through which the defendant nos. 2 to 11 authorised defendant no. 1 to execute the agreement, have not been produced and proved in the Trial Court. Thus, neither in the agreement nor in course of trial the power of attorney is proved by tendering the same in evidence. Hence, in the absence of evidence, the High Court rightly held that the agreement is not signed by all the co-owners. 7. In the matter of Shanmughasundaram & Ors. Vs. Diravia Nadar (dead) by Lrs. & Anr.1, this Court has held that in the event all the co-sharers of the property have not executed the sale agreement, a suit for specific performance cannot be decreed. The following is held in paras 29,30 & 31: “29. The facts in present case are distinguishable. Admittedly, the property has been jointly inherited by two brothers and three sisters. As heirs under the Hindu Succession Act, they inherited the property as co-owners. In the absence of partition between them, the two brothers together had undivided share in the property, and they could not have agreed for sale of the entire property. They were competent to execute agreement to the extent only of their undivided share in the property. In the event of sale of such undivided share, the vendee would be required to file a suit for partition 1 [2005] 2 SCR 649 : AIR 2005 SC 1836 [2024] 5 S.C.R.