4. The appellant continued in possession of the property in suit. However, as the respondents were trying to interfere with the possession of the appellant, she filed the suit. 5. The respondents contested the suit and filed their written statements. According to them, the defence taken was that they had purchased 8 cents of land by way of registered sale deed on 13.03.1974 which was with respect to an open piece of land and did not contain any building as such. The suit of 1976 filed by them was with respect to the constructions raised by the appellant and not with respect to 8 cents of land. The appellant had no right, title or interest over the suit property. The suit was liable to be dismissed. 6. The Trial Court framed the following six issues: (i). Whether the suit property properly absolutely belongs to the plaintiffs? (ii). Whether the decision of the Honourable High Court of Madras in S.A. No. 2082/1990 relates to the entire 8 cents of the suit property or whether it pertains to the house in a portion of the suit property? (iii). Whether the plaintiffs have been in possession and enjoyment of the entire suit property? (iv). Whether the plaintiffs are entitled to the relief of permanent injunction as prayed for? (v). Whether the suit property is to be demarcated and northern boundary is put up as prayed for? (vi). What reliefs are the Plaintiffs entitled to? 7. Issue No. 2 related to the question whether the of the High Court in Second Appeal No. 2082 of 1990 related to the entire 8 cents of the property or whether it pertained only to the house in a portion of the land in dispute. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 15 MARY PUSHPAM v. TELVI CURUSUMARY & ORS. 8. The Trial Court, vide judgement dated 30.06.1997, decreed the suit for declaration of title, possession and permanent injunction but only with respect to the portion over which the house property was situated out of the total extent of 8 cents of the suit property. With respect to the other property, the suit was dismissed. 9. Aggrieved by the dismissal of the suit, the appellant preferred an Appeal which was registered as Appeal No. 169 of 1997. The Sub- Judge vide judgement dated 13.10.2003 modified the judgement and decree of the Trial Court and declared that the appellants were entitled for the entire suit property for relief of declaration of title, permanent injunction and for setting up their boundary for securing the said property. The learned Sub-Judge had mainly relied upon the of the High Court dated 30.03.1990 in the earlier round of litigation. 10. Aggrieved by the of the Sub-Judge, the respondents preferred second appeal before the High Court registered as Second Appeal No. 451 of 2004. The High Court, by the impugned dated 21.07.2009, allowed the appeal, set aside the of the Sub-Judge and restored the decree of the Trial Court. Aggrieved by the same, the plaintiff has preferred the present appeal.