7. The High Court, consequently, directed the new Presiding Officer to hear the appellant on the question of sentence and pass an appropriate in terms of Section 235(2) of the Cr.P.C. 8. The aggrieved appellant is before us. 9. We have heard learned Senior Counsel/counsel for the parties and perused the record. 10. Section 235 of the Cr.P.C. reads as follows: “ of acquittal or conviction 1. After hearing arguments and points of law (if any), the Judge shall give a in the case. 2. If the accused is convicted, the Judge shall, unless he proceeds in accordance with the provisions of section 360 hear the accused on the question of sentence, and then pass sentence on him according to law.” 11. A plain reading of the provision leaves no room to doubt that a of conviction shall have two components; namely, (i) on the point of conviction; and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 705 Harshad Gupta v. The State of Chhattisgarh (ii) Where the accused is convicted, a separate of sentence to be passed according to law, after hearing the accused on the question of sentence. 12. The aforesaid provision mandates that once the of conviction is delivered, the accused has a right to be heard on the quantum of the sentence. This is so, in view of the well-established principle of law that various relevant factors, including mitigating circumstances, if any, are to be kept in mind by the Court while awarding an adequate and proportionate sentence. 13. It is not in dispute that in deference to Section 235(1) of the Cr.P.C., the appellant was duly heard and a of conviction was recorded and pronounced on 30.04.2015. 14. Consequential thereto, the appellant was entitled to be heard on the question of sentence. Since the appellant himself had been seeking adjournments and exemption from personal appearance due to the injuries suffered by him in a road accident and meanwhile the Presiding Officer had been transferred, it was but natural that the new Presiding Officer was required to hear the appellant on the quantum of the sentence, for faithful compliance with Section 235(2) of the Cr.P.C. and then, to pass an appropriate of sentence. 15. The process and procedure contemplated under Section 235(2) of the Cr.P.C. cannot annul the of conviction recorded under sub-section (1) thereof. Both clauses operate in their respective fields, though sub-section (2) is contingent upon the outcome under sub-section (1) of Section 235 of the Cr.P.C. The occasion to comply with sub-section (2) of Section 235, thus, arises only when there is a of conviction passed under Section 235(1) of the Cr.P.C. 16. The contention of the appellant, that with the transfer of the Presiding Officer post his conviction, the new Presiding Officer was obligated to hear him afresh even on the question of conviction, is wholly misconceived and misdirected. Once the dated 30.04.2015 was pronounced, the conviction of the appellant stood finalized within the meaning of Section 235(1) of the Cr.P.C., whereupon the Trial Court became functus officio for the purpose of sub-section (1) of Section 235 of the Cr.P.C.