[2024] 9 S.C.R. 774 : 2024 INSC 708 Bhagwan Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors. (Criminal Appeal No(s). 3883-3884 of 2024) 20 September 2024 [Bela M. Trivedi* and Satish Chandra Sharma, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Respondent Nos.3 and 4, son-in-law and daughter of the petitioner respectively, made attempts to falsely implicate the Respondent No.2-a star witness in the Nitish Katara case on whose evidence the accused son and nephew of Ex-Minister and M.P. Mr. D.P. Yadav were convicted, by filing various false proceedings in the name of the petitioner without his knowledge, consent or authority in the High Court and Supreme Court with the assistance of a battery of advocates and many other unknown persons. Present SLP was filed against Respondent No.2 in the name of the petitioner against the allowing the Respondent No.2’s application u/s.482, CrPC quashing the criminal proceedings against him and another rejecting the recall application filed against the aforesaid . Affidavit of the petitioner was notarized by the Notary in his absence and was submitted with the SLP memo. Petitioner denied filing any SLP and stated that the same was falsely filed in his name. Headnotes† Abuse of process of law – Fraud on Court – False proceedings filed in the name of the petitioner in the High Court and Supreme Court without his knowledge, consent or authority by filing false and fabricated vakaltnamas, affidavit – Whether the Respondent Nos.3 and 4 made attempts to falsely implicate the Respondent No.2 by filing the aforesaid false proceedings with the assistance of advocates: Held: Yes – Respondent No.2 is being made to suffer for being witness in the Nitish Katara case by continuously targeting him with false and frivolous cases, including the present one at the behest of Yadav family and their associates – To create or to assist creating false documents and to use them as genuine knowing them to be * Author [2024] 9 S.C.R. 775 Bhagwan Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors. false in the Court proceedings, to falsely implicate somebody in the false proceedings filed in the name of the person who had no knowledge whatsoever about the same are punishable offences – They are acts of frauds committed not only on the person sought to be falsely implicated and on the person in whose name such false proceedings are filed without his knowledge and consent, but also a fraud committed on the Courts – In the present case, High Court and Supreme Court were taken for a ride and the entire justice delivery system was put to stake by the respondent nos.3 and 4, their associates and the Advocates, who helped them in forging and fabricating the documents filed in the High Court and Supreme Court, and to pursue the false proceedings filed in the name of the petitioner without his knowledge, consent or authority – In the extraordinary facts and circumstances, considering the gravity and seriousness of the case, investigation handed over to the CBI – CBI to register the regular case, after holding preliminary inquiry if necessary, against all the persons found involved and responsible, and shall investigate all the links leading to the commission of the alleged crimes and fraud on court – Director, CBI to do the needful in this regard and submit the report within two months.