Digital Supreme Court Reports India (provided such requirement, action or omission to act is not due to the breach by the SPD or BESCOM, of any Law or any of their respective obligations under this Agreement); vi. Inability despite complying with all legal requirements to obtain, renew or maintain required licenses or Legal Approvals; vii. Fire, Earthquakes, explosions, accidents, landslides; viii. Expropriation and/or compulsory acquisition of the Project in whole or in part; ix. Chemical or radioactive contamination or ionizing radiation; or x. Damage to or breakdown of transmission facilities of either Party; b) The availability of the above item (a) to excuse a Party’s obligations under this Agreement due to a Force Majeure Event shall be subject to the following limitations and restrictions: (i) The non-performing Party gives the other Party written notice describing the particulars of the Force Majeure Event as soon as practicable after its occurrence; (ii) The suspension of performance is of no greater scope and of no longer duration than is required by the Force Majeure Event. (iii) The non-performing Party is able to resume performance of its obligations under this Agreement, it shall give the other Party written notice to that effect; (iv) The Force Majeure Event was not caused by the non performing Party’s negligent or intentional acts, errors or omissions, or by its negligence/failure to comply with any material Law, or by any material breach or default under this Agreement; (v) In no event shall a Force Majeure Event excuse the obligations of a Party that are required to be completely performed prior to the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event.” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1043 Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited v. Hirehalli Solar Power Project LLP & Others 10. Re: Applicability of the force majeure clause: The primary issue for our consideration is whether the delay in this case is due to a force majeure event as defined under Article 8.3, and consequently whether the respondents were entitled to an extension of time under Article 2.5. If the answer to these questions is affirmative, the tariff cannot be lowered under Article 5.1 and liquidated damages cannot be imposed under Articles 2.2 and 2.5.7. 10.1 The law on force majeure, specifically in the context of PPAs, has been comprehensively dealt with by this Court in Energy Watchdog v. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission.18 The Court delved into contractual jurisprudence on force majeure clauses and frustration of contracts. It held that Sections 32 and 56 of the Indian Contract Act, 187219 govern the law on force majeure. When the contract contains an express or implied force majeure clause, it is governed under Chapter III of the Contract Act, specifically Section 32. In such cases, the ‘doctrine of frustration’ in Section 56 does not apply and the court must interpret the force majeure clause contained in the contract.20 It held that a force majeure clause must be narrowly construed.21 10.2 The present case is clearly one where the PPA contains an explicit force majeure clause in Article 8.3, which has already been extracted above.