Under Entry 52 of List I, Parliament has the competence to enact laws with respect to certain industries, the control of which by the Union is necessary in public interest. It is a general entry. It does not confer any taxing power. Thus, Entry 52 of List I may only impact the entries in List II that deal with the regulatory aspect of industries as we have explained in the previous section of this . It does not have any impact on taxing entries. Thus, the observation in paragraph 84 of Synthetics (7J) (supra) is overruled; and b. We have also held that Parliament in exercise of the power under Article 246 read with Entry 52 of List I cannot legislate with respect to the field covered by Entry 8 of List II. The observations in paragraph 85 of Synthetics (7J) (supra) that after the amendment to IDRA in 1956 bringing fermentation industries within the scope of the enactment, the Union has competence over both potable and non-potable alcohol is overruled. The law enacted in terms of Entry 52 of List I cannot render any entry of List II (including Entry 8) otiose. Thus, Parliament cannot take over the field covered by Entry 8. 195 See MPV Sundararamier & Co. v. State of AP, AIR 1958 SC 468 196 See Synthetics (7J) [84] 197 See Synthetics (7J) [85] [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2031 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons 122. In paragraph 86 of the , this Court in Synthetics (7J) (supra) held that after the inclusion of the fermentation industry in the schedule to IDRA, the State only had legislative competence to: a. enact any legislation in the nature of prohibition of potable liquor referable to Entry 6 of List II and regulating powers; b. lay down regulation to ensure that non-potable alcohol is not diverted and misused as a substitute for potable alcohol; c. levy excise duty and sales tax on potable alcohol under Entry 52 of List II. However, the State cannot levy sales tax on industrial alcohol because “under the Ethyl Alcohol (Price Control) s, sales tax cannot be charged by the State on industrial alcohol”; and d. in case the State is rendering any service, it may charge fees based on quid pro quo. Reliance was placed on observations in Indian Mica (supra). 123. Since this Court in Synthetics (7J) (supra) held that the State lost the competence to enact a legislation on potable alcohol because IDRA occupies the field and that it did not have the competence to enact a law on non-potable alcohol, it traced regulations relating to alcohol to Entry 6 of List II which deals with “public health”. Viewing the consumption of potable alcohol as a public health concern on a reading of Article 47 along with Entry 6 of List II, this Court held that the State has the competence to deal with (a) and (b) above. In view of our holding that : (a) the expression ‘intoxicating liquor’ in Entry 8 is not limited to alcoholic beverages; and (b) Entry 52 of List II cannot occupy the field covered by Entry 8 of List II, the observations in Synthetics (7J) (supra) by which alcohol was only traced to the entry on public health is erroneous.