(See Dhirendra Nath Gorai v. Sudhir Chandra Ghosh [Dhirendra Nath Gorai v. Sudhir Chandra Ghosh, (1964) 6 SCR 1001 : AIR 1964 SC 1300] , Jaswantlal Natvarlal Thakkar v. Sushilaben Manilal Dangarwala [Jaswantlal Natvarlal Thakkar v. Sushilaben Manilal Dangarwala, 1991 Supp (2) SCC 691] and Kadiyala Rama Rao v. Gutala Kahna Rao [Kadiyala Rama Rao v. Gutala Kahna Rao, (2000) 3 SCC 87] .) 14. A charge of fraud or material irregularity under 21 Rule 90 must be specifically made with sufficient particulars. Bald allegations would not do. The facts must be established which could reasonably sustain such a charge. In the case before us, no such particulars have been given by the respondent of the alleged collusion between the other respondents and the auction-purchaser. There is also no material irregularity in publishing or conducting the sale. There was sufficient compliance with 21 Rule 67(1) read with 21 Rule 54(2). No doubt, the trial court has said that the sale should be given wide publicity but that does not necessarily mean by publication in the newspapers. The provisions of 21 Rule 67 clearly provide if the sale is to be advertised in the local newspaper, there must be specific direction of the court to that effect. In the absence of such direction, the proclamation of sale has to be made under 21 Rule 67(1) “as nearly as may be, in the manner prescribed by Rule 54 sub-rule (2)”. Rule 54 sub-rule (2) provides for the method of publication of notice and reads as follows: ‘54. (2) The shall be proclaimed at some place on or adjacent to such property by beat of drum or other customary mode, and a copy of the shall be affixed on a conspicuous part of the property and then upon a conspicuous part of the courthouse, and also, where the property is land paying revenue to the Government, in the office of the Collector of the district in which the land is situate and, where the 508 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports property is land situate in a village, also in the office of the Gram Panchayat, if any, having jurisdiction over that village.’” 15. After examining the facts of this case in the light of the law laid down in Saheb Khan [Saheb Khan v. Mohd. Yousufuddin, (2006) 4 SCC 476], we are of the considered opinion that the reasoning and the conclusion arrived at by the executing court deserves to be restored as against that of the High Court in the impugned . In other words, no case was made out by the -debtor for setting aside of the sale of the property in question on the ground of committing any material irregularity or fraud in publishing or in conducting the sale so as to enable the Court to invoke its powers under 21 Rule 90(2) of the Code. 16. It is noticed that Respondent 1, in her application for setting aside the sale, had mainly raised four objections. Firstly, clear 15 days’ notice was not given for sale of the properties as required under the Rules.