b. The High Court failed to take into consideration that the complainant has not alleged that the appellant intentionally insulted or intimidated him with an intent to humiliate him as a member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe community. A perusal of the telecast makes it clear that the appellant did 1102 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not refer to the caste or community of the complainant. Even if the statements made in the video are said to be defamatory, the same by itself is not sufficient to attract an offence under the Act, 1989. c. The complainant has not alleged that the appellant by words, either written or spoken, had promoted or attempted to promote feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will against the members of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes. Thus, no offence under Section 3(1)(u) of the Act 1989 is made out against the appellant. d. The High Court failed to consider the s of the co-ordinate benches in XXX v. State of Kerala reported in ILR 2022 4 Ker. 620 and State of Kerala v. Hassan reported in 2002 (2) KLT 505, wherein it has been reiterated that the offence under Section 3(1)(u) of the Act, 1989 would be attracted only if the feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will are promoted or attempted to be promoted against members of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes as a class and not on criticizing an individual member. e. The decision of this Court in Hitesh Verma v. State of Uttarakhand reported in (2020) 10 SCC 710 held that an offence under Section 3(1)(r) is not established merely on the fact that the victim is a member of the Scheduled Caste, unless there is an intention to humiliate a member of the Scheduled Caste or Schedule Tribe for the reason that the victim belongs to such caste. f. The decision of this Court in Ramesh Chandra Vaishya v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. reported in 2023 SCC OnLine SC 668 held that every insult or intimidation would not amount to an offence under Section 3(1)(x) of the Act, 1989 unless, such insult or intimidation is targeted at the victim because he is a member of a particular Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe. g. The High Court failed to consider the decision of this Court in Prathvi Raj Chauhan v. Union of India reported in (2020) 4 SCC 727 wherein it was held that if the complaint does not make out a prima facie case for applicability of the provisions of the Act, 1989 then the bar created by Section 18 and Section 18A(i) would not apply. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1103 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr. C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE COMPLAINANT 10. Mr. Haris Beeran, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the complainant/Respondent No.2 made the following submissions: a. The appellant is a habitual offender in creating controversies by intentionally propagating false and defamatory campaigns against respectable members of society with the sole purpose of attracting subscriptions to his web platform.