49. As discussed above, the FIR against the accused-petitioner was pertaining to a dispute which prima facie appears to be of a civil nature and hence, the learned Magistrate ought not to have toed the line of the Investigating Officer while granting police custody remand of the accused-petitioner. 50. As a matter of fact, the application seeking police custody remand of the petitioner could not have been entertained without seeking [2024] 8 S.C.R. 279 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. permission of this Court as observed in the case of Sushila Agarwal(supra). 51. In this regard, we are benefitted by the of this Court in the case of Ashok Kumar v. Union Territory of Chandigarh6 wherein, it has been held that a mere assertion on the part of the State while opposing the plea for anticipatory bail that custodial investigation is required would not be sufficient. The State would have to show or indicate more than prima facie case as to why custodial investigation of the accused is required for the purpose of investigation. 52. Moving further, it must be noted that at the end of the remand period, the 6th ACJM (contemnor-respondent No. 7) entertained an application filed on behalf of the accused-petitioner under Section 437 CrPC and directed his release on bail on furnishing bail bonds. Indisputably, the accused had already furnished bail bonds to the Investigating Officer pursuant to his appearance on 11th December, 2023 and hence, the direction given by the contemnor-respondent No. 7 in requiring the accused to furnish a fresh set of bail bonds for his release from custody was improper and clearly contumacious. The explanation sought to be offered regarding the misconception that had played in the mind of contemnor-respondent No. 7 may have been accepted, had the accused been released without insisting for fresh bail and bonds. However, the fact that a formal application was taken under Section 437 CrPC and only thereafter, the accused-petitioner was released on bail is in clear defiance of this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023. The period between the culmination of the police custody remand and the release of the accused-petitioner upon furnishing bail bonds i.e. from 16th December, 2023 to 18th December, 2023 is a grey area in which there was no authorising the custody of the petitioner and thus clearly the petitioner was illegally detained for nearly 48 hours. 53. It is pertinent to note that the learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner had taken a strong exception to the remand application which fact is noted in the proceedings sheet dated 13th December, 2023. However, the contemnor-respondent No. 7 brushed aside the said objection which according to us, was bound to be sustained 6 2024 SCC OnLine SC 274 280 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports without any exception, since this Court’s was unambiguous and only possible interpretation was that the petitioner should be released on bail, in the event of his arrest. 54. We, prima facie feel that the contemnor-respondent No.