(2) Notwithstanding anything in clause (3), Parliament, and, subject to clause (1), the Legislature of 256 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. Reading the relevant entries of the Seventh Schedule in the context of Article 246, the distribution of legislative competence with respect to legislation on stamp duty is as follows. The Parliament has the exclusive power to legislate on the rate of stamp duty with respect to certain instruments, namely: bills of exchange, cheques, promissory notes, bills of lading, letters of credit, policies of insurance, transfer of shares, debentures, proxies and receipts, under Entry 91 of List I. As per Entry 63 of List II, the legislatures of the states have the exclusive power to legislate on the rate of stamp duty with respect to documents other than those specified in Entry 91 of List I for their state or any part of their state. In other words, there is a distribution of instruments between the Parliament and the state legislatures as regards the legislative competence to fix rates of stamp duty. However, as per Entry 44 of List III, the Parliament and the legislatures of the states have concurrent powers to legislate on stamp duties (other than duties or fees collected by means of judicial stamps), but not including rates of stamp duty. 12. A combined reading of the constitutional scheme shows that the power to prescribe the rate of duty is mutually exclusive and has been clearly demarcated between the Parliament and the legislatures of the state.23 Insurance policies, which are the relevant instrument for the purpose of the present case, fall under Entry 91 of List I for the purpose of prescription of rate of duty. This means that only the Parliament holds the exclusive power and the legislative competence under the Constitution to prescribe the rate of stamp duty on insurance policies. There is no dispute regarding this point. 13. The issue however that falls for our consideration is whether the state government can enact a law that imposes stamp duty on insurance policies by using the rate prescribed by the Parliament by sourcing legislative competence through Entry 44 of List III. any State also, have power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the “Concurrent List”). (3) Subject to clauses (1) and (2), the Legislature of any State has exclusive power to make laws for such State or any part thereof with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the “State List”). (4) Parliament has power to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included 2 [in a State] notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List.” 23 VVS Rama Sharma (supra), paras 14-15 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 257 Life Insurance Corporation of India v. The State of Rajasthan and Ors.