55. Despite these s and with an intention to clarify the law, we would state that the matters which are connected with the sanctioning and implementation of the scheme right from the date on which it is presented or the date from which the scheme is made effective, whichever is earlier, would be the matters which squarely fall within the ambit and scope of Section 22 of SICA 1985 subject to their satisfying the ingredients stated under that provision. This would include the proceedings before the civil court, Revenue Authorities and/or any other competent forum in the form of execution or distress in relation to recovery of amount by sale or otherwise of the assets of the sick industrial company. It is difficult for us to hold that merely because a demand by a creditor had not been made a part of the scheme, pre- or post-sanctioning of the same for that reason alone, it would fall outside the ambit of protection of Section 22 of SICA 1985. xxx xxx xxx 58. Section 22 is the reservoir of the statutory powers empowering BIFR to determine a scheme, right from its presentation till its complete implementation in accordance with law, free of interjections and interference from other judicial processes. Section 22(1) deals with the execution, distress or the like proceedings against the company’s properties, including appointment of a Receiver. It also specifically provides that even a winding-up petition would not be instituted and no other proceedings shall lie or proceed further, except with the consent of BIFR. xxx xxx xxx 61. It can safely be perceived that the provisions of Section 22 of SICA 1985 are self-explanatory. They would cease 364 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to operate within their own limitations and not by force of any other law, agreement, memorandum or even articles of association of the company. The purpose is so very clear that during the examination, finalisation and implementation of the scheme, there should be no impediment caused to the smooth execution of the scheme of revival of the sick industrial company. It is only when the specified period of restrictions and declarations contemplated under the provisions of SICA 1985 is over, that the status quo ante as it existed at the time of the consideration and finalisation of the scheme, would become operative. This is done primarily with the object that the assets of the company are not diverted, wasted, taken away and/or disposed of in any manner, during the relevant period. xxx xxx xxx 69. Sections 22, 22-A, 26 and 32 have to be read and construed conjointly. A common thread of legislative intent to treat this law as a special law, in contradistinction to the other laws except the laws stated in the provisions and to ensure its effective implementation with utmost expeditiousness, runs through all these provisions. It also mandates that no injunction shall be granted by any court or authority in respect of an action taken or to be taken in pursuance of the powers conferred to or by under this Act.