The parties having chosen the Indian Arbitration Act, 1996 as the law governing the substantive contract, the agreement to arbitrate and the performance of the agreement and the law governing the conduct of the arbitration; it would, therefore, in our opinion, be vexatious and oppressive if Enercon GmbH is permitted to compel EIL to litigate in England. … xxx 123. The cases relied upon by Dr Singhvi relate to the phrase “arbitration in London” or expressions similar thereto. The same cannot be equated with the term “venue of arbitration proceedings shall be in London”. Arbitration in London can be understood to include venue as well as seat; but it would be rather stretching the imagination if “venue of arbitration shall be in London” could be understood as “seat of arbitration shall be London”, in the absence of any other factor connecting the arbitration to London. In spite of Dr Singhvi’s seemingly attractive submission to convince us, we decline to entertain the notion that India would not be the natural forum for all remedies in relation to the disputes, having such a close and intimate connection with India. In contrast, London is described only as a venue which Dr Singhvi says would be the natural forum. xxx 1208 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 135. In the present case, even though the venue of arbitration proceedings has been fixed in London, it cannot be presumed that the parties have intended the seat to be also in London. In an international commercial arbitration, venue can often be different from the seat of arbitration. In such circumstances, the hearing of the arbitration will be conducted at the venue fixed by the parties, but this would not bring about a change in the seat of the arbitration. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 48. What can be discerned from the above decision of this Court in Enercon (supra) is that for determining the seat of arbitration the closest connection test involves identifying the law with which the agreement to arbitrate has its closest and most real connection. Where the parties have expressly or impliedly provided the law governing the substantive contract, the arbitration agreement and the curial law, the law with which the agreement to arbitrate has its closest and most real connection would be the law of the seat of arbitration. Where the question before the courts involves ascertaining whether a particular place is the seat or venue of arbitration, the place with the closest connection with the law governing the arbitration agreement would be the seat of arbitration. Interestingly, although this Court deliberately did not address whether seat is to be determined based on the closest connection with the law governing the arbitration agreement or the curial law since in the facts of the said case both the law governing the contract and the curial law were the same, yet this Court approvingly referred to two other decisions in Roger Shashoua (1) v. Sharma, [2009] EWHC 957 (Comm) and Sulame´rica Cia Nacional de Seguros SA v. Enesa Engelharia SA, (2013) 1 WLR 102 (CA) wherein the seat of arbitration was construed on the basis of the curial law.