Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, it is hereby clarified that notwithstanding anything contained [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2073 China Development Bank v. Doha Bank Q.P.S.C. & Ors. in any other law for the time being in force, a license, permit, registration, quota, concession, clearances or a similar grant or right given by the Central Government, State Government, local authority, sectoral regulator or any other authority constituted under any other law for the time being in force, shall not be suspended or terminated on the grounds of insolvency, subject to the condition that there is no default in payment of current dues arising for the use or continuation of the license, permit, registration, quota, concession, clearances or a similar grant or right during the moratorium period;” Section 14(1) imposes an embargo or prohibition on certain acts. However, it does extinguish the claim. If the argument that the claims of all the creditors of the Corporate Debtor are extinguished once the moratorium comes into force is accepted, no creditor would be able to file a claim. For example, if money advanced is secured by a promissory note or a negotiable instrument, a suit for recovery based on the said documents will not lie once a moratorium comes into force. But, the liability under the documents will continue to exist. In fact, after moratorium, no creditor can recover any dues from the Corporate Debtor. But still, there is a provision for making a claim. Hence, the argument based on moratorium deserves to be rejected. The DoH will continue to be valid. However, on the basis of the DoH, something which is prohibited by Section 14, cannot be done. Therefore, Section 14 will be of no assistance to the 1st respondent-Doha Bank. 64. When we are on the interpretation of DoH, we must refer to sub- clause (vi) of clause 16 of the DoH, which provides that every provision contained in the deed shall be severable and distinct from every other such provision. It goes to the extent of stating that if any one or more of the provisions of the DoH are invalid, illegal and unenforceable, the same will not affect the remaining provisions. Therefore, the last part of clause 5(iii) of the DoH is severable from the main transaction of the hypothecation. 65. Another argument was canvassed based on the definition of ‘claim’ under Section 3(6) of the IBC. If the right to payment exists or if a breach of contract gives rise to a right to payment, the definition of ‘claim’ is attracted. Even if that right cannot be enforced by reason of 2074 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the applicability of the moratorium, the claim will still exist. Therefore, whether the cause of action for invoking the guarantee has arisen or not is not relevant for considering the definition of ‘claim’. 66. Much capital was made of the fact that the CoC, including the appellants as well as the third-party lenders, have voted for the Resolution Plan. At this stage, we may note that the NCLAT has not held against the appellants on the ground that if the case of the appellants is accepted, it will amount to modification of the Resolution Plan.