The Executive Council, under Section 24, was touted to be the executive body of the University. With its constitution, term of office of members and powers and duties prescribed by the AMU Statutes. Similarly, the Academic Council, being the academic body of AMU, would have the control and general regulation and be responsible for the maintenance of standards of instruction and for the education, examination, discipline and health of students, apart from the conferment of degrees. 51. The power to make the AMU Statutes was set out in the following manner under Section 27: “27. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Statutes may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: - [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1781 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. (a) The conferment of honorary degrees and the appointment of Patrons, Vice-patrons and Rectors; (b) The institution of Fellowships, Scholarships, Exhibitions, Medals and Prizes; (c) The terms of office, and the method and conditions of appointment of the officers of the University; (d) The designations and powers of officers of the University; (e) The constitution, powers and duties of the authorities of the University; (f) The classification and mode of appointment of teachers of the University; (g) The institution and maintenance of Halls; (h) The constitution of Provident and Pension Funds for the benefit of the officers, teachers and servants of the University; (i) The maintenance of a register of registered graduates; (j) The instruction of Muslim students in the Muslim religion and theology; (k) The establishment of Intermediate colleges and schools; and (l) All matters which by this Act are to be or may be prescribed by Statutes.” 52. In similar parlance, the power to make Ordinances was incorporated within Section 29: “29. Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Statutes, the Ordinances may provide for all or any of the following matters namely: - (a) The courses of study to be laid down for all degrees, diplomas and certificates of the University; (b) The conditions of the award of fellowships, scholarships, studentships, exhibitions, medals and prizes; 1782 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (c) The conditions under which students may be admitted to the degree or diploma courses and to the examinations of the University and shall be eligible for degrees and diplomas; (d) The admission of students to the University; (e) The terms of office and terms and management of appointment and duties of Examining Bodies, Examiners, and Moderators and the conduct of examinations; (f) The conditions of residence of students of the University, and the levying of fees for residence in Halls; (g) The conditions under which women may be exempted from attendance at lectures and tutorial classes; (h) The fees to be charged for courses of study in the University and for admission to the examinations, degrees, and diplomas of the University; (i) The maintenance of discipline among the students of the University; (j) The regulation and management of any Intermediate colleges and schools maintained under Section 12; and (k) All matters which by this Act or the Statutes are to be or may be provided for by the Ordinances.” C.2.