The involvement of a public authority necessitates cognizance to ensure that the Agreement upholds constitutional principles. In such scenarios, it becomes the solemn duty of the judiciary, entrusted under the Constitution as an independent arbiter, to intervene and protect the interests of the public at large. 28. Second, it is crucial to recognise that when a contract involving a State instrumentality like NOIDA, significantly impacting the public, the metes and bounds of judicial review ought to be expanded. The guiding principle is that every State action must prioritise public interest. If a governmental action disproportionately favours a private entity at the expense of public welfare, it is liable to be struck down as invalid.12 As rightly acknowledged by the High Court also, the State is duty-bound to act equitably and in accordance with the Public Trust Doctrine, ensuring that no action harms the broader public interest.13 29. In light of the above, it is evident that the High Court was justified in entertaining the petition filed by Respondent No. 1 in public interest. The continued levy of toll and the Concession Agreement were directly impacting the rights and interests of commuters. NTBCL’s 10 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. Chief Executive Officer, 2024 SCC Online SC 1682. 11 Silippi Constructions Contractors v. Union of India, (2020) 16 SCC 489. 12 Kasturi Lal Lakshmi Reddy. v. State of Jammu and Kashmir, 1980 (4) SCC 1. 13 Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India, 2012 (3) SCC 1. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2023 Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. v. Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association and Others attempts to classify the Concession Agreement as a purely private contractual matter, sequestered from such scrutiny, thus holds no ground. The Project, having been developed for public benefit, cannot escape judicial oversight, particularly when the allegations pertain to the public’s rights and interests, which are being infringed upon by the levying of user fees. The contention of NTBCL seeking dismissal of Respondent No. 1’s petition at the threshold was thus rightly rejected by the High Court. G.2 The validity of awarding the contract to NTBCL 30. One of the primary contentions raised by Respondent No. 1 before the High Court was that the contract for the development and construction of a significant project like the DND Flyway had been awarded to NTBCL without NOIDA having followed any formal tender procedure, such as advertising or issuing a notice inviting competitive tenders. In response, NTBCL argued that, at the time, it would not have been feasible to float tenders due to a shortage of private companies capable of undertaking such large-scale infrastructure projects. NTBCL further contended that the mere absence of a competitive tendering process was not, in itself, sufficient grounds to invalidate the agreement. 31. In this context, it is evident that NTBCL entered into an agreement with NOIDA to undertake a project that involved an overwhelming public element, comprising of public funds and public assets. When such a project is undertaken by the State in partnership with a private entity, the element of public interest necessitates strict adherence to Constitutional obligations.