The right to establish and administer broadly comprises the following rights: (a) to admit students; (b) to set up a reasonable fee structure; (c) to constitute a governing body; (d) to appoint staff (teaching and non-teaching); and (e) to take action if there is dereliction of duty on the part of any employees.” 168. Therefore, “administration” and its link with the question of establishment is to be ascertained by locating who exercised the “choice” with regard the crucial aspects of an institution and to what extent was the minority’s decision making expressed in the tangible outcomes at the time of establishment. It is at this point that the “choice” of the minority marries itself with the “administration” by the minority community. As stated above, the choice can be said to have been exercised by the minority community, if the minority community is present in some higher echelons of the administrative setup. Such positioning of the minority community would, in fact, enable the community to exercise its “choice” as the said choice is a function of the decision making of the minority community. If the minority community is not the decision maker in offices of prominence in the institution, the offices which hold the keys to giving character to the institution, the claim of administration or establishment by the minority community would fall flat. G.5 Locating the real positive indicia 169. In light of the above, in discerning real positive indicia for adjudging the question of establishment, there cannot be a rigid formula; rather, 1994 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports it would rely on various factors depending on the era, type, and nature of the institution under consideration. The following broad parameters can be culled out from the s and may be considered by the Court while adjudicating the question of establishment : i. Firstly, to claim “establishment”, the minority community must actually and tangibly bring the entirety of the institution into existence. The role played by the minority community must be predominant, in fact almost complete to the point of exclusion of all other forces. The indicia which may be illustrative and exhaustive in this regard may be nature of the institution, the legal/statutory basis required for establishing the institution, whether the establishment required any “negotiation” with outside forces, the role in acquiring lands, obtaining funds, constructing buildings, and other related matters must have been held completely minority community. Similarly, while teachers, curriculum, medium of instruction, etc. can be on secular lines, however, the decision-making authority regarding hiring teachers, curriculum decisions, medium of instruction, admission criteria, and similar matters must be the minority community. The choice of having secular education in the institution must be made expressly by the minority community, demonstrating the link between institution and the persons claiming to establish it. ii. Secondly, the purpose of the institution must have been to predominantly serve the interests of the minority community or the sole betterment of the minority community, irrespective of the form of education provided and the mode of admission adopted.