[2024] 10 S.C.R. 1931 : 2024 INSC 812 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons (Civil Appeal No. 151 of 2007) 23 October 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud,* CJI, Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, B.V. Nagarathna,* J B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma, Augustine George Masih, JJ.] Issue for Consideration The issues which arise for adjudication in this reference pertain to the scope of the power of the State Legislatures under Entry 8 and the meaning of the phrase “intoxicating liquor”. The question is whether “intoxicating liquor” in Entry 8 only includes potable alcohol, such as alcoholic beverages or also includes alcohol which is used in the production of other products; whether Entry 52 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution overrides Entry 8 of List II; whether the expression ‘intoxicating liquors’ in Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution includes alcohol other than potable alcohol; and whether a notified under Section 18G of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act is necessary for Parliament to occupy the field under Entry 33 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. Headnotes† Constitution of India – Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule – Whether Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution is an industry-based entry or a product-based entry: Held: [Per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma, Augustine George Masih, JJ.] Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution is both an industry-based entry and a product-based entry – The words that follow the expression “that is to say” in the * Author 1932 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Entry are not exhaustive of its contents – It includes the regulation of everything from the raw materials to the consumption of ‘intoxicating liquor”. [Para 140(a)] – [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J. (dissenting)] Entry 8-List II deals with “intoxicating liquors” – The misuse, diversion or abuse of “industrial alcohol” as “intoxicating liquors” can also be controlled and prevented under Entry 8-List II by the State Legislatures having regard to Article 47 of the Constitution – It is also made clear that the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act 1951 which has been enacted by the Parliament by virtue of Entry 52-List I has taken control of “Fermentation Industries” as a scheduled industry – Such “Fermentation Industries” would exclude “intoxicating liquors”. [Para 33(a)] Constitution of India – Entry 52 of List I, Entry 24 of List II – Whether Parliament can occupy the field of the entire industry merely by issuing a declaration under Entry 52 of List I: Held: [Per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma, Augustine George Masih, JJ.] Parliament cannot occupy the field of the entire industry merely by issuing a declaration under Entry 52 of List I – The State Legislature’s competence under Entry 24 of List II is denuded only to the extent of the field covered by the law of Parliament under Entry 52 of List I.