It amounts to abandoning the arbitration itself. It results in abandonment of the notional ‘arbitration proceeding’ that had commenced by virtue of Section 21 and thus amounts to an abandonment of a significant nature. Therefore, it is all the more important to import and apply the principles underlying 23 Rule 1 of the CPC to abandonment of applications under Section 11(6). ii. Issue No. 2 67. It was submitted by the appellant that the fresh application filed by the respondent under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 before the High Court was beyond the period of limitation prescribed for filing of such an application and was not maintainable. The appellant also contended that the substantive claims raised by the respondent are also ex-facie time-barred and thus the High Court ought to have dismissed the fresh arbitration application filed by the respondent on this ground as well. 68. The basic premise behind the statutes providing for a limitation period is encapsulated by the maxim “Vigilantibus non dormientibus jura subveniunt” which means that the law assists those who are vigilant and not those who sleep over their rights. The object behind having a prescribed limitation period is to ensure that there is certainty and finality to the litigation and assurance to the opposite party that it will not be subject to an indefinite period of liability. Another object achieved by a fixed limitation period is that only those claims which are initiated before the deterioration of evidence takes place are allowed to be litigated. The law of limitation does not act to extinguish the right but only bars the remedy. 69. The limitation period governing applications under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 has recently been explained by a three-Judge Bench of this Court, to which My Lord, the Chief Justice of India and myself [2024] 12 S.C.R. 177 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad were a part, in M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Aptech Ltd. reported in 2024 INSC 155. The said decision has referred to Article 137 of the Limitation Act, 1963 to hold that the limitation period for making an application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 is three years from the date when the right to apply accrues. 70. On the aspect of when the limitation period for filing an application seeking appointment of arbitrator would commence, the aforesaid decision has held that it is only after a valid notice invoking arbitration has been issued by one of the parties to the other party and there has been either a failure or refusal on part of the other party to make an appointment as per the appointment procedure agreed upon between the parties, that the clock would start ticking for the purpose of the limitation of three years. 71. In the case at hand, the respondent invoked the arbitration clause vide a notice dated 09.07.2016. Since there was no response to the said notice by the appellant, the respondent filed an application for appointment of arbitrator before the High Court under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 on 16.02.2018.