as to how his deceased wife suffered injuries and the giving of a false explanation unerringly point to the guilt of the appellant. It is firmly and clearly established that it was the appellant and the appellant alone who was the perpetrator of the crime. 21. It is true that S.I. Mohkam Singh (PW-17) had admitted in his crossexamination that the appellant’s daughter had disclosed even before sending the rukka to the Police Station that the appellant had committed the gruesome act and that this fact not been mentioned in the rukka does not in any way belies the prosecution version. Perhaps the I.O. thought that it would be inappropriate to record the statement of a child aged about five years for the purpose of registration of an FIR against her father and to first independently investigate and come to more solid evidence. It may also be mentioned that during the investigation of this case, an application was moved by the appellant’s father for getting the statement of Shaheena (PW-3) recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. which was not recorded by the learned Metropolitan Magistrate as the child was found to be tutored. It seems that the I.O. preferred not to be criticised for getting the case registered 184 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on the basis of statement of a child of tender age. And so he did not record Shaheena’s (PW-3) statement in the rukka. 22. We are conscious of the fact that Shaheena (PW- 3) has not supported the prosecution version that her father, the appellant had caused injuries on the person of her deceased mother. The same, however, is of no consequence as the child was of tender years and as observed by the Trial Court was tutored by the appellant’s father. The appellant, however, cannot make any advantage if PW-3 did not support the prosecution version. 23. We are not going to attach much importance to the alleged harassment and the demand of dowry by the appellant because of the contradictions and the discrepancies in the statements of PWs 4 and 11. Otherwise also, this is not a case under Section 306/304-B IPC and thus, the alleged harassment was of no consequence and could at best have provided some motive for commission of the crime. 24. In view of the foregoing discussion, we are of the view that the appeal is devoid of any merit; the same is accordingly dismissed. The and on sentence passed by the Trial Court are affirmed. 25. The appeal stands disposed of in above terms.” 22. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant is here before this Court with the present appeal. B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 23. Mr. Rishi Malhotra, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant, submitted that the entire case of the prosecution rests on circumstantial evidence and thus all the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be carefully established by the prosecution and the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and inconsistent with the innocence of the accused.