In other words, the judicial review of the of the President or the Governor under Article 72 or Article 161 of the Constitution, as the case may, is available and such scan be impugned on the following grounds: 878 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports i. that the has been passed without application of mind; ii. that the is mala fide; iii. that the has been passed on extraneous or wholly irrelevant considerations; iv. that relevant materials have been kept out of consideration; v. that the suffers from arbitrariness. (f) Further, in Swamy Shraddananda, it was observed that judicial notice has to be taken of the fact that remission, if allowed to life convicts in a mechanical manner without any sociological or psychiatric appraisal of the convict and without any proper assessment as to the effect of early release of a particular convict on the society. It was further observed that, the power of executive clemency is not only for the benefit of the convict but what has to be borne in mind is the effect of the decision on the family of the victims, society as a whole and the precedent which it sets for the future. Thus, the exercise of power depends upon the facts and circumstances of each case and has to be judged from case to case. Therefore,one cannot draw the guidelines for regulating exercise of power. Further, the exercise or non-exercise of power of pardon or remission is subject to judicial review and a pardon obtained by fraud or granted by mistake or granted for improper reasons would invite judicial review and the vindication of the rule of law being the main object of judicial review, the mechanism for giving effect to that justification varies. Thus, rule of law should be the over arching conditional justification for judicial review. (g) In Rajan, it was observed that where a person has been convicted on several counts for different offences in relation to which life imprisonment has been granted, the convict may succeed in being released prematurely only if the competent authority passes an of remission concerning all the life sentences awarded to the convict on each count which is a matter to be considered by the competent authority. 48.7. With regard to the remission policy applicable in a given case, the following s are of relevance: [2024] 1 S.C.R. 879 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others (a) In Jagdish, a three Judge Bench of this Court considered the conflicting opinions expressed in State of Haryana vs. Balwan, (1999) 7 SCC 355 (“Balwan”) on the one hand and Mahendar Singh, and State of Haryana vs. Bhup Singh, (2009) 2 SCC 268 (“Bhup Singh”) on the other. The question considered by the three-Judge bench was, whether, the policy which provides for remission and sentence should be that which was existing on the date of the conviction of the accused or should it be the policy that existed on date of consideration of his case for premature release by the appropriate authority.