Digital Supreme Court Reports a two-Judge Bench defined the ambit of the expression “regulation of mines and mineral development”, observing: “31. […] The word “regulation” may have a different meaning in different context but considering it in relation to the economic and social activities including the development and excavation of mines, ecological and environmental factors including States’ contribution in developing, manning and controlling such activities, including parting with its wealth, viz. the minerals, the fixation of the rate of royalties would also be included within its meaning.” 139. In Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. v. Union of India,200 it was held that the concept of “mineral development” can include captive mining, an assessment of its requirement by different industries and equitable distribution of mining leases. Tata Iron & Steel (supra) was decided in the context of the unamended Section 8(3) of the MMDR Act which allowed the Central Government to renew mining leases “in the interests of mineral development.” 140. As a concept, mineral development is a term of wide import. It encompasses exploitation of minerals, reduction of wastage in the beneficiation process, regulation of mining activities for ecological and environmental factors and equitable distribution of mineral resources and mining leases. Mineral development has been expressly recognized in Chapter VI of the MMDR Act. Section 18(1) mandates the Central Government to take all such steps as may be necessary by making rules for the conservation and systematic development of minerals in India and for the protection of the environment by preventing or controlling any pollution which may be caused by prospecting or mining operations. Section 18(2) indicates that the Central Government may make rules on matters pertaining inter alia to regulation of mining operations in any area; regulation of the excavation or collection of minerals from any mine; development of mineral resources in any area; regulation of arrangement of storage of minerals; and regulation of prospecting operations, disposal or discharge of waste slime or tailing arising from mining operations. In terms of Section 18, Parliament has framed the Mineral Conservation and Development Rules 2017 to provide a framework for conservation 200 [1996] Supp. 3 SCR 808 : (1996) 9 SCC 709 [64] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1659 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. of minerals, systematic and scientific mining, development of minerals and protection of the environment.201 141. The expression “mineral development” has also been understood under the MMDR Act in a comprehensive manner, to include all activities and transactions relating to the working of mines, extracting of minerals, their storage and disposal, as well as the conservation of the environment. Having established the meaning and scope of the subject-matter in Entry 54 of List I and Entry 23 of List II, we now analyze the inter-relationship between the two entries in greater detail. ii. Analysis of Hingir-Rampur, M A Tulloch, and Baijnath Kedia 142. In Hingir-Rampur Coal Co. Ltd. v. State of Orissa,202 writ petitions were filed before this Court challenging the Orissa Mining Areas Development Fund Act 1952203 which levied cess on the petitioner’s colliery.