In our view, the High Court is correct in dismissing such an argument for, had it indeed been property co-owned, the heirs of the two deceased donees, Madhavi Amma and Ravunni Nair, would have also inherited their respective shares. However, across all judicial fora the fact that the property devolved upon nine co-donees as opposed to eleven, as it was originally intended, has remained undisturbed. We find no reason to take a different view. Our conclusion that branch 5 held the property jointly is supported by the fact that the compromise deed, which granted them the said property, was never challenged before any Court of law. The parties consisting the 5th branch are : – Parukutty Amma and her children, namely, 5-Karunaka Menon, 6-Neelakanda Menon, 7-Parukutty herself, 8-Narayani Amma and 9-Ammukutty Amma. This branch is known by the name of Karunakara Menon, who is one of the sons of Parukutty Amma as shown by the following words: ‘A scheduled item No.5 having value of Rs.750 and B schedule item no.3,4,5 debt is allotted to the share of 5th branch Karunakara Menon and others and the separate allocated share is taken possession by each branches…’ 46. The appointment of Karunakara Menon as karnavan manifests the intention that the parties wished to jointly hold the property as tharwad. Karanavan, as eluded to earlier, is the manager of a joint family property similar in position to karta, however, not exactly the same. The person appointed to such a position is generally the eldest male member of the thavazhi. 47. In terms of the above conclusion, it appears that the original defendants’ reliance on the minority view may be misplaced as, at the cost of repletion, we may state that the difference of opinion was only with respect to inheritance by single females and not thavazhis. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1037 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. Issue 2 48. Now adverting to the next issue, learned counsel for the petitioners make claim that the property under item No.2 is not governed by Marumakkathayam law but instead it is a puthravakasam property belonging to one Padmanabhan. The said fact is disputed by record as in a mortgage deed No.3181 executed by the mother of Padmnabhan, Parvathy Amma in favour of Purukutty Amma and her children, it is clearly stated that: “The property described in the schedule is assigned in my favour as Pandaravaka puthuval pattom and I obtained pattayam and accordingly myself and son deceased Padmanabhan along with other branch members have executed partition deed…… and accordingly myself and the said Padmanabhan had obtained possession and after the death of Padmanabhan his every right over the property is inherited by me.” (Emphasis supplied) 49. The above-extracted portion shows that Parvathy Amma, after the death of her son Padmanabhan, received the property in her own right. Apart from a few transactions, no other evidence was placed on record to prove that property was Putravakasha and not Marumakkathayam. Parvathy Amma executed the mortgage deed in favour of her daughter-in-law and her minor children.