Ms. Binu Tamta, Nitin Mishra, Advs. for the Respondents. Respondent-in-person. / of the Supreme Court Vikram Nath, J. 1. The autonomy and independence of administrative bodies are fundamental to their ability to perform their designated functions effectively. These institutions are established to carry out specialized 622 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports tasks that require a level of impartiality and expertise, which can only be achieved if they are free from undue interference. Ensuring their independence is essential for maintaining the integrity and efficacy of the administrative system. Interfering in the functioning of these bodies can be detrimental, as it undermines their ability to operate efficiently and impartially. Such interference can stem from restrictive interpretations of their powers or direct interventions that impede their operational autonomy. Administrative bodies must have the freedom to establish and implement internal procedures and regulations that best suit their unique mandates and operational needs. The principle of non-interference is not merely an administrative convenience but a cornerstone for upholding the rule of law and ensuring that these bodies can serve the public interest effectively. When these institutions are allowed to function without external pressures, they can make decisions based on expertise and objective criteria, which enhances their credibility and public trust. 2. The present appeal challenges the and dated 21.05.2010, passed by the High Court of Delhi in Writ Petition (C) No. 12714 of 2009. The High Court, by the impugned , quashed the Central Information Commission (Management) Regulations, 20071 framed by the Chief Information Commissioner2 and held that the CIC has no power to constitute Benches of the Commission. This appeal is confined to the issue of the validity of the Regulations and the powers of the CIC under Section 12(4) of the Right to Information Act, 2005.3 3. The matter originates from an application filed by one Mr. Sarbjeet Roy, proforma Respondent No.2, under Section 18 read with Section 19 of the RTI Act, seeking information concerning the ongoing modification of the Master Plan of Delhi for the year 2021.4 The applicant also sought directions to the Delhi Development Authority5 to fulfil its obligations under Section 4 of the RTI Act, which mandates proactive disclosure of information by public authorities. 1 In short, “the Regulations” 2 In short, “CIC” 3 In short, “the RTI Act” 4 In short, “MPD 2021” 5 In short, “DDA” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 623 Central Information Commission v. D.D.A. & Anr. 4. On 22.09.2009, the CIC issued an directing the constitution of a Committee to inquire into the matter of compliance with Section 4 of the RTI Act by the DDA and to submit a report to the Commission. The Committee comprised Ms. Sujata Chaturvedi, Director, Ministry of Urban Development; Shri Dunu Roy, Hazards Centre, Delhi; and Shri Pankaj KP Shreyaskar, Joint Registrar, CIC. 5. Aggrieved by this , the Contesting Respondent authority-DDA filed a Writ Petition (C) No. 12714/2009 before the Delhi High Court. During the proceedings before the Delhi High Court, the DDA specifically challenged the summoning of its Vice-Chairman by the CIC, arguing that such authority is vested solely with the High Court.