108. However, at the same time, this flexibility should not be understood as a complete autonomy. While the statutory rules or, in the absence of the same, the promotion policy formulated must be followed, they must at the same time have some nexus or bearing with the nature of the post and the requirements of service. For instance, where the promotion is based on ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and the nature of promotion allows for superseding a senior, the selection body whilst formulating the promotion policy cannot simpliciter as a matter of choice refuse to provide for assessment of comparative merit, as the promotion herein is by its nature an accelerated form of promotion and as such comparative assessment becomes crucial. 109. The principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ are a flexible and a fluid concept akin to broad principles within which the actual promotion policy may be formulated. They are not strict rules or requirements and by no means can supplant or take the place of statutory rules or policies that have been formulated, if any. These principles are dynamic in nature very much like a spectrum and their application and ambit depends upon the rules, the policy, the nature of the post and the requirements of service. The sketch below illustrates the broad spectrum in which these principles operate: - 1132 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 110. Thus, the principles applicable to promotion such as the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ can best be described as two ends of a spectrum. They are broad categories or frameworks for promotion and do represent the actual modalities by which promotions are to take place. It is the rules and the promotion policy, along with the intention of the legislature or the selection board, as the case may be, that supplements these principles and delineates the actual modality of how promotion is to take place. Through these rules and promotion policy, the legislature or the selection body specifies the area and the parameters or the weightage which is to be given to the aspect of “Merit” and “Seniority” on the said spectrum. 111. No doubt while construing the rule of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ or ‘Merit- cum-Seniority’, some of the observations of the decided cases are not uniform. In State of Mysore v. C. R. Seshadri & Ors. reported in AIR 1974 SC 460, Krishna Iyer, J., held that if the criterion for promotion is one of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’, comparative merit may have to be assessed, if length of service is equal or an outstanding junior is available for promotion. 112. The decision of this Court in Sujata Kohli (supra) has been strongly relied upon on behalf of the petitioner herein, however the same is of no avail to them, as in the said case this Court had no occasion to examine the meaning of the expression ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ in reference to All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra). This Court in Sujata Kohli (supra) only went so far as to say that ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ means that neither merit can be forsaken nor seniority alone can be given primacy.