But, in our view, when no intervention was called for in the writ petition filed by one of the convicts /respondent No. 3 herein, this Court was misled to issue directions contrary to law and on the basis of suppression and misstatements made by respondent No. 3 herein. We have held that of this Court dated 13.05.2022 to be a nullity and non est in the eye of law. Consequently, exercise of discretion by the State of Gujarat is nothing but an instance of usurpation of jurisdiction and an instance of abuse of discretion. If really State of Gujarat had in mind the provisions of law and the s of this Court, and had adhered to the rule of law, it would have filed a review petition before this Court by contending that it was not the appropriate Government. By failing to do so, not only are the earlier s of this Court in the matter have been vindicated but more importantly, rule of law has been breached in usurping power not vested in it and thereby aiding respondent Nos. 3 to 13. This is a classic case where the of this Court dated 13.05.2022 has been used for violating the rule of law while passing s of remission in favour of respondent Nos. 3 to 13 in the absence of any jurisdiction by respondents – State of Gujarat. Therefore, without going into the manner in which the power of remission has been exercised, we strike down the s of remission on the ground of usurpation of powers by the State of Gujarat not vested in it. The s of remission are hence quashed on this ground also. Section 432(2)of the CrPC: Opinion of the Presiding Judge of the convicting court: 51. Sub-section (2) of Section 432 of the CrPC states that when an application is made to the appropriate Government, inter alia, for remission of a sentence, the appropriate Government may require the Presiding Judge of the Court before or by which the conviction was had or confirmed, to state his opinion, as to, whether, the application should be granted or refused, together with his reasons for such opinion and also to forward with the statement of such opinion a certified copy of the record of the trial or of such record thereof as exists. 890 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 52. Learned ASG Sri S.V. Raju submitted that the expression “appropriate Government may require the opinion of the Presiding Judge of the Court” indicates that this is not a mandatory requirement, therefore, in the instant case the opinion of the Presiding Judge of the Court by which respondent Nos. 3 to 13 were convicted, namely, the Special Judge, Mumbai, was unnecessary. It was further submitted that since the State of Gujarat was considering the applications for remission filed by respondent Nos. 3 to 13, the opinion of local Sessions Judge at Dahod was obtained as a member of the Jail Advisory Committee and there was a positive opinion for grant of remission to respondent Nos.