[Paras 113, 114] 2. Article 341(1) does not create a deeming fiction – The phrase “deemed” is used in the provision to mean that the castes or groups notified by the President shall be “regarded as” the Scheduled Castes – Even if it is accepted that the deeming fiction is used for the creation of a constitutional identity, the only logical consequence that flows from it is that castes included in the list will receive the benefits that the Constitution provides to the Scheduled Castes – The operation of the provision does not create an integrated homogenous class. [Para 205(c)] 3. Sub-classification within the Scheduled Castes does not violate Article 341(2) because the castes are not per se included in or excluded from the List – Sub-classification would violate the provision only when either preference or exclusive benefit is provided to certain castes or groups of the Scheduled Castes over all the seats reserved for the class. [Para 205(d)] Held (per B.R. Gavai, J.) (Concurring): The ground realities cannot be denied – Even among the Scheduled Castes, there are some categories who have received more inhuman treatment for centuries and generations as compared to the other categories – The hardships and the backwardness which these categories have suffered historically would differ from category to category – Therefore, merely because they are part of a single or a combined Presidential List, it cannot be said that they form part of a homogeneous group. [Para 261] 1326 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Held (per Bela M. Trivedi, J.) (Dissenting): 1. While giving a broad and generous construction to the Constitutional provisions, the rule of “plain meaning”, or “literal” interpretation, which is the “primary rule” has to be kept in mind. [Para 79(ii)] 2. The Presidential List specifying “Scheduled Castes” under Article 341 assumes finality on the publication of the notification, and the castes, races or tribes, or groups within castes, races or tribes specified in the notification are deemed to be the “Scheduled Castes” in relation to that State or Union Territory as the case may be, for the purposes of the Constitution and as such assume special status of “Scheduled Castes”. [Para 79(iii)] 3. It is only the Parliament by law which can include in or exclude from the list of the “Scheduled Castes” specified in the notification notified under Clause (1), any caste, race or tribe or part of or group within any caste, race or tribe – Such notification notified under Clause (1) cannot be varied even by the President by issuing any subsequent notification. [Para 79(iv)] 4. It is by virtue of the notification of the President under Article 341 that the “Scheduled Castes” come into being – Though the members of Scheduled Castes are drawn from different castes, races or tribes, they attain special status of “Scheduled Castes” by virtue of Presidential Notification – The etymological and evolutionary history and the background of the nomenclature “Scheduled Castes”, coupled with the Presidential s published under Article 341 of the Constitution, make the “Scheduled Castes”, a homogenous class, which cannot be tinkered with by the States.