With respect to the Scheme, the following questions need to be looked into: i. Whether the dispute pertaining to payment of the requisite amount under the Supplementary Award arose before or after the “Effective Date” fixed in the Scheme? [2024] 9 S.C.R. 459 M/s Ultra-Tech Cement Ltd. v. Mast Ram & Ors. ii. Whether the subject land is an integral part of the cement project and the liability of paying compensation under the Supplementary Award for the said land can be imposed on the Appellant despite the said land not being in its name? 22. Clause 1.1 (o) defines the “Effective Date” as the date on which the Scheme becomes effective in accordance with its terms, which shall be the Closing Date [defined in Clause 1.1(k) and Clause 10.1]. The said date was decided to be 29.06.2017 among the parties. 23. Clause 1.1(w) defines the business and assets transferred by JAL to the Appellant. The definition of the same is reproduced below: “…(w) “JAL Business” means the business of manufacturing, sale and distribution of cement and clinker manufactured at the JAL Cement Plants, including all rights to operate such business, its movable or immovable assets, captive power plants, DG sets, coal linkages, rights, privileges, liabilities, guarantees, land, leases, licenses, permits, mining leases, prospecting licenses for mining of limestone, letters of intent for mining of limestone, tangible or intangible assets, goodwill, all statutory or regulatory approvals, logistics, marketing, warehousing, selling and distribution networks (marketing employees, offices, depots, guest houses and ether related facilities for the JAL Business), employees, existing contracts including fly-ash contracts, railway sidings, fiscal incentives in relation to the JAL Business, more particularly described in Schedule I hereto, but does not include (i) construction equipment and such assets to be listed in Schedule II. (ii) any liability including contingent liability disclosed in the balance sheet of JAL Business on the Closing Date provided to the Transferee, other than those included in the JAL Financial Indebtedness and JAL Net Working Capital; (iii) any guarantee or deposits for any disputes; (iv) the JAL Excluded Employees; (v) JAL Non Moving Stores, Doubtful Receivables of the JAL Business, non-recoverable debtors, loans 460 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or advances in the books of the Transferor1. For this purpose, non-recoverable debtors; loans or advances shall refer to such debtors; loans or advances for which Transferor1 has not received any confirmation for the receivables as mentioned in Clause 9.1 (i); (vi) coal mitting block - Mandla (North) and the related guarantees, deposits etc; (vii) fiscal incentives in relation to the JAL Business that accrue up to the Closing Date; (viii) any intellectual property of Transferor1; (ix) litigations pertaining to the JAL Business as of the Closing Date; (x) freehold plot of land admeasuring about 1087 square metres at Varanasi and land admeasuring 24.7 acres outside the Balaji plant in Krishna, Andhra Pradesh; (xi) 180 megawatt power plant at Churk, Uttar Pradesh; (xii) railway siding in Turki, Rewa, Madhya Pradesh; (xiii) Related Party payables or receivables; and (xiv) Ghurma limestone mine, Padrach limestone mine and Bari dolomite mine It is clarified that the guarantee listed in Schedule III B, which shall be updated as of the Closing Date, shall be the only guarantees which shall be taken over by the Transferee on the Closing Date…” [Emphasis Supplied] 24.