[2024] 5 S.C.R. 155 : 2024 INSC 353 Ajay Ishwar Ghute & Ors. v. Meher K. Patel & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 4786 of 2024) 30 April 2024 [Abhay S. Oka* and Ujjal Bhuyan, JJ.] Issue for Consideration This Hon’ble Court was considering a challenge to an of the High Court disposing of a writ petition in terms of a “Minutes of ” filed by the Advocates, and signed by the parties to the petition, without impleading the affected parties. Headnotes Practice and Procedure – Considerations by the Court while passing an in terms of “Minutes of ” – passed by the Court based on the “Minutes of ” is not a consent , it is an in invitum – Court must record brief reasons indicating the application of mind. Held: An passed in terms of “Minutes of ” is an in invitum – The Court must first examine whether it will be lawful to pass an in terms of the “Minutes of ” – The Court must consider whether all necessary parties have been impleaded to the proceedings in which the “Minutes of ” have been filed – The Court must consider whether third parties will be affected by the sought in terms of the “Minutes of ” – If the Court is of the view that necessary parties were not impleaded, the Court ought to allow the Petitioner to implead them – On the failure of the Petitioner to implead them, the Court must decline to pass an of disposing of the Petition in terms of the “Minutes of ” – The reason is that an of the Court passed without hearing the necessary parties would be illegal – Only if the Court is satisfied that an in terms of the “Minutes of the ” would be legal, the Court can pass an in terms of the “Minutes of ” – While passing an in terms of the “Minutes of ”, the Court must record brief reasons indicating the application of mind. [Para 17] Practice and Procedure – Practice of advocates drafting “Minutes of ” was evolved to save time – Advocates * Author 156 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports who sign and tender the “Minutes of ” have a greater responsibility. Held: Reliance placed on the of this Hon’ble Court in Speed Ways Picture Pvt. Ltd. and Anr. v. Union of India and Anr. [1996] Supp. 7 SCR 636 : (1996) 6 SCC 705 : 1996 INSC 1202 where this Hon’ble Court considered the practice of passing s in terms of “Minutes of ” – For the convenience of the Court and as a matter of courtesy, the advocates draft “Minutes of ” containing what could be incorporated by the Court in its – Perhaps this practice was evolved to save the time of the Court – The advocates who sign and tender the “Minutes of ” have greater responsibility – Before they sign the “Minutes of the ”, the advocates have an important duty to perform as officers of the Court to consider whether the they were proposing will be lawful – They cannot mechanically sign the same – After all, they are the officers of the Court first and the mouthpieces of their respective clients after that.