In view of the provisions of the Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) Act, 1981 read with the Sugar (Control) , 1966 issued under the Essential Commodities Act, it was held that the provisions of the Sugarcane Act and the Sugarcane , on the one hand, and the Bihar Market Act on the other could not operate harmoniously and, therefore, the Sugarcane Act and the Sugarcane prevailed over the Market Act. It was then contended that the appellants therein should be allowed to get refund of the market fee which they had paid under the Market Act subject to their showing that they had not passed on the burden on the principle of unjust enrichment. Dealing with the above contentions, it was observed as follows: (SCC pp. 667- 68, paras 112-13) “112. Under these circumstances, keeping in view the peculiar facts and circumstances of these cases, we deem it fit to direct in exercise of our powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India that the present decision will have only a prospective effect. Meaning thereby that after the pronouncement of this all future transactions of purchase of sugarcane by the sugar factories concerned in the market areas as well as the sale of manufactured sugar and molasses 1236 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports produced therefrom by utilising this purchased sugarcane by these factories will not be subjected to the levy of market fee under Section 27 of the Market Act by the Market Committees concerned. All past transactions up to the date of this which have suffered the levy of market fee will not be covered by this and the collected market fees on these past transactions prior to the date of this will not be required to be refunded to any of the sugar mills which might have paid these market fees.”” (Emphasis supplied) 205. Taking a clue from the above referred decisions, it could be said that this Court has been endowed with the power to mould the relief so as to do complete justice in a given situation, and to avoid the possibility of chaos and confusion that may be caused in the society at large. In the present case, a number of immigrants who came into the State of Assam from Bangladesh, have already been conferred with citizenship under Section 6A of the Citizenship Act. Further, as discussed, the unconstitutionality of Section 6A is attributable to the efflux of time. 206. Section 6A being manifestly arbitrary, temporally unreasonable and, demonstrably unconstitutional cannot be allowed to continue for all times to come. Hence, in my opinion it would be appropriate to declare Section 6A as unconstitutional with prospective effect. This would ensure that the benefit which has already been derived by the immigrants in Assam is not taken away, more particularly when the challenge to Section 6A has been made after a considerable delay. VI. CONCLUSION 207. The distinction drawn between the State of Assam and other states for the grant of citizenship to immigrants was on the basis of special circumstances prevailing in Assam at the time of enactment of Section 6A.