Section 19 provided for the deduction of (i) expenses in realising the interest and (ii) the interest payable on the money borrowed for investment. Section 20 dealt with the deduction of (i) expenses in realising the interest and (ii) the interest payable on money borrowed for investment in the case of a Banking company. Section 21 provided that the interest payable outside India was not admissible for deduction. Sections 18 to 21 were repealed by the Finance Act, 1988, effective from 1st April 1989. We are dealing with cases involving the period post the deletion of the four Sections. 6. In Civil Appeal Nos.3291-3294 of 2009, which is the lead case, the appellant-assessee is a Scheduled Bank. The appellant was engaged in the purchase and sale of government securities. The securities were treated as stock-in-trade in the hands of the appellant. The amount received by the appellant on the sale of the securities was considered for computing its business income. The appellant consistently followed the method of setting off and netting the amount of interest paid by it on the purchase of securities (i.e., interest for the broken period) against the interest recovered by it on the sale of securities and offering the net interest income to tax. The result is that if the entire purchase price of the security, including the interest for the broken period is allowed as a deduction, then the entire sale price of the security is taken into consideration for computing the appellant’s income. According to the appellant’s case, the assessing officer allowed this settled practice while passing regular assessment s for the assessment years 1990-91 to 1992-93. However, the Commissioner of Income Tax (for short, ‘CIT’) exercised jurisdiction under Section 263 of the IT Act and interfered with the assessment s. The CIT held that the appellant was not entitled to the deduction of the interest paid by it for the broken period. The Commissioner relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd. v. Additional Commissioner of Income Tax, Bangalore.1 This Court held that under the head “interest on securities”, the interest for a broken period was not an allowable 1 (1991) Supp (2) SCC 147 864 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports deduction. Being aggrieved by the s of the CIT, the appellant preferred an appeal before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (for short, ‘Appellate Tribunal’). The Tribunal allowed the appeal by holding that the decision of this Court in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 was rendered after considering Sections 18 to 21 of the IT Act, which have been repealed. Therefore, the Tribunal held that as the appellant was holding the securities as stock-in-trade, the entire amount paid by the appellant for the purchase of such securities, which included interest for the broken period, was deductible. The respondent Department preferred an appeal before the High Court against the decision of the Appellate Tribunal. By the impugned , the High Court interfered and, relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.,1 allowed the appeal.