The Sessions Court applied the bail restricting provision contained in Section 43-D (5) of the 1967 Act to deny bail to the appellant. Thereafter, on 09.01.2020, the appellant had filed a regular bail application before the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, invoking the provisions of Section 439 of the 1973 Code. 7. As the investigation had been transferred to the NIA during subsistence of the bail application before the High Court, the learned Single Judge, before whom the appellant’s petition was pending, directed that the bail application ought to be placed before a Division Bench and the NIA was also impleaded as respondent to the said petition. Under normal circumstances, the bail petition would have been heard by a learned Single Judge only. This direction, however, was made considering the provisions of Section 21(2) of the 2008 Act. The dated 17.07.2021 passed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court, placing the bail application before the Division Bench, reads: - "1. Learned counsel for the applicant states that, the case is now being investigated by N.I.A. under the 276 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports N.I.A. Act. He seeks leave to add N.I.A. as a party respondent. Learned counsel for the applicant seeks two weeks time to carry out amendment. Time is granted. 2. Since the N.I.A. has taken over the investigation, the matter will have to be placed before the Division bench. I have taken this view in Criminal Bail Application No.2024 of 2021 vide dated 11/06/2021 based on the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s in the case of State of Andhra Pradesh, through Inspector General, National Investigation Agency, Vs. Mohd. Hussain @ Salim, as reported in (2014) 1 Supreme Court Cases 258. 3. Hence, the following is passed: (i) Leave to amend is granted to add N.I.A. as a party respondent. (ii) Amendment shall be carried out within a period of two weeks from today. (iii) Office to take steps to place this matter before the appropriate Division Bench. (iv) The applicant shall supply second set of this application.” 8. The Division Bench heard the bail application and by an passed on 17.01.2023, which is assailed before us, disposed of the appellant’s prayer for bail, giving liberty to the appellant to approach the Trial Court for filing a fresh application for bail. Prior to the passing of the which is impugned before us, the NIA had submitted a second supplementary chargesheet dated 09.10.2020, implicating seven more persons as accused in the case. They are Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Hany Babu, Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaychore, Jyoti Jagtap and Stan Swamy. It is the case of the prosecution that the second supplementary chargesheet filed by the NIA contains certain incriminating materials against the appellant as well. It is primarily on account of the second supplementary chargesheet being filed, the Division Bench of the High Court refused to consider [2024] 4 S.C.R. 277 Shoma Kanti Sen v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. the appellant’s petition for bail on merit.