Stating so, the learned counsel prayed to set 4 (2008) 13 SCC 506 1328 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports aside the impugned passed by the High court and allow these appeals. 7. On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the Respondent No.1 made detailed submissions reiterating the averments stated in the counter affidavit. According to him, U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad viz., Respondent No.1 is the Housing Board of the State of Uttar Pradesh, an autonomous body created under the statute and governed by the U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965.5 With a view to eliminate housing problem and have a planned development in the District of Meerut, they floated a scheme called “Shastri Nagar Yojna No.7”. In the said scheme, plots were carved out and categorized as residential and commercial as per usage. The residential plots could be used only for constructing the residential house and no commercial activity was permitted on the said plots. However, the Respondent No.5 started raising illegal commercial construction on the plot allotted to him, without obtaining any sanction from the competent authority. Though the Respondent No.1 sent show cause notices/communication to the Respondent No.5 to stop the illegal construction and get the same regularized, the Respondent No.5 did not respond to the same and he continued to construct the shops for commercial purposes. Therefore, the competent authority rightly passed the of demolition of the unauthorized construction. But the said was not enforced by the Respondent No.1, due to non-co-operation of the local as well as police authorities. Finally, the Respondent No.1 approached the High Court by filing the writ petition stating that the subject property was patently in violation of the statutory provisions applicable and it has to be demolished. The High Court after taking note of the facts and circumstances of the case, rightly passed the impugned , which need not be interfered with by this Court. 7.1. In reply to the contentions raised on the side of the appellants, the learned counsel for the Respondent No.1 made the following submissions: (i) The Respondent No.5 got the property converted from leasehold to freehold on the basis of the fabricated construction completion certificate. 5 For short, “the Act” [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1329 Rajendra Kumar Barjatya and Another v. U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad & Ors. (ii) Unauthorized construction was made only by the original allottee i.e., Respondent No.5 and not the appellants. Further, the Respondent No.1 did not know about the change of interest qua the subject property as it was never intimated to them. Moreover, the appellants were aware of the unauthorized construction and notices issued to stop the same, at the time of purchasing the shops itself. In such circumstances, there was no need for the appellants to be arrayed as parties before the High Court in adherence to the principles of natural justice. (iii) The Respondent No.1 from the year 1990 onwards had served several notices on the Respondent No.5, directing him to stop the unauthorized construction, but he never paid heed to any of the notices and continued to raise the unauthorized construction.