If it does not, then such a legislation can be struck down as the Judiciary is not deprived of its powers of judicial review. The legislation in question has to establish a nexus with the principles specified in Article 39(b) and (c) to be a valid legislation. This is the law in terms of Kesavananda Bharati and Minerva Mills. To put it differently what and when do the “privately owned resources” come within the definition of “material resources” is not for this Court to declare. This is not required. The key factor is whether such resources would subserve common good. Clearly the acquisition, ownership or even control of every privately owned resource will not subserve common good. Yet at this stage we cannot come out with a catalogue of do’s and don’ts. We must leave this exercise to the wisdom of the legislatures. [Para 49] 8. The incorporation of Article 38 as well as Article 39(b) and (c) in Part IV of our Constitution was based on the prevalent philosophy of the time and the path of development India chose to follow. The interpretation given to the above provisions by this Court, particularly in Ranganatha Reddy and Sanjeev Coke also has its contextual relevance. Perhaps in some ways situations have changed. What has not changed, however, is the inequality. There is today a political equality and there is also an equality in law, yet the social and economic inequalities continue as cautioned by Dr. Ambedkar in his speech in the constituent Assembly on November 25, 1949. The inequality in income and wealth and the growing gap between the rich and the poor is still enormous. It will therefore not be prudent to abandon the principles on which Articles 38 and 39 are based and on which stands the Three Judge opinion in Ranganatha Reddy and the unanimous verdict in Sanjeev Coke. [Para 50] 9. The broad and inclusive meaning given to the expression “material resources of the community” by Justice Krishna Iyer and Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy in Ranganatha Reddy and Sanjeev Coke respectively has stood us in good [2024] 11 S.C.R. 21 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. stead and has lost none of its relevance, or jurisprudential value, nor has it lost the audience which appreciates these values. I must also record here my strong disapproval on the remarks made on the Krishna Iyer Doctrine as it is called. This criticism is harsh, and could have been avoided. The Krishna Iyer Doctrine, or for that matter the O. Chinnappa Reddy Doctrine, is familiar to all who have anything to do with law or life. It is based on strong humanist principles of fairness and equity. It is a doctrine which has illuminated our path in dark times. The long body of their is not just a reflection of their perspicacious intellect but more importantly of their empathy for the people, as human being was at the centre of their judicial philosophy. [Para 50] Case Law Cited In the of Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI: Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Co v. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. [1983] 1 SCR 1000 : (1983) 1 SCC 147 : 1982 INSC 93 and State of Karnataka v. Ranganatha Reddy [1978] 1 SCR 641 : (1977) 4 SCC 471 : 1977 INSC 196 [Minority opinion of Justice Krishna Iyer] – held, erroneous.