24.5 Mr. Ray reiterated that 6th ACJM (contemnor-respondent No. 7) was deluded by the prevailing practice referred to supra while passing the of police custody remand. She had no intention whatsoever to flout or disregard the passed by this Court and that she tenders unconditional apology for any act or omission committed by her which may be construed to be in disregard to the dated 8th December, 2023. On these submissions, he implored the Court to condone the unintentional act of the contemnor-respondent No.7 and to discharge the contempt notice issued to her. 25. By way of additional submissions, Shri S.V. Raju, learned ASG appearing on behalf of Kamal Dayani, Additional Chief Secretary, Government of Gujarat (contemnor-respondent No. 1) and Shri R. Basant, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the High Court of Gujarat (respondent No. 8) tried to persuade the Court that no contempt was committed by any of the contemnors, by harping upon the prevailing practice in the State of Gujarat that the Courts, be it the Sessions Court or the High Court while passing pre-arrest bail s under Section 438 CrPC, invariably incorporate a clause to the effect that in case the Investigating Officer wants to seek [2024] 8 S.C.R. 265 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. police custody of the accused, an application in this regard may be filed before the concerned Magistrate who would be empowered to direct that the accused in whose favour the anticipatory bail is passed, could be detained in police custody under valid of the concerned Magistrate. Learned counsels thus, urged that the contemnors-respondent Nos. 1 and 8 who were acting under this misconception based on a long-standing practice formed by virtue of the Division Bench in Sunilbhai Sudhirbhai Kothari (supra) may not be castigated as having acted in wilful disobedience of this Court’s and therefore, the contempt notices may be discharged while accepting the unconditional apology tendered on behalf of them. 26. So far as contemnor-respondent Nos. 1 and 6 are concerned, they have neither filed any affidavits nor any significant contest was made on behalf of these contemnors-respondents to the contempt proceedings presumably because the thrust of the petitioner’s allegations regarding non-compliance/flouting of this Court’s is directed against the other respondents. 27. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at bar and have gone through the material available on record. Discussion: - 28. Before proceeding to consider the rival submissions, at the outset, we may note that a bare perusal of the under contempt dated 8th December, 2023 would leave no room for doubt that the interim protection of anticipatory bail granted by this Court to the petitioner was absolute, until modified or altered upon final disposal of the Special Leave Petition(Crl.) No. 14489 of 2023 which is still pending consideration before this Court. The language of the was clear and unambiguous, hence, none of the contemnors-respondents could have entertained any doubt in their minds nor was there any scope for the interpretation that the petitioner could be remanded to police custody during the currency of the interim dated 8th December, 2023.