In furtherance of the above, it was also urged that the impugned Guidelines, in effect, also discriminate between Chartered Accountants practicing in smaller cities and towns as they are not in a position to charge the fee for each tax audit assignment in the same manner which can be charged by a Chartered Accountant practicing in big metropolitan cities. In effect, it was contended that the restriction will cause a more significant drop in the income of Chartered Accountants practicing in mofussil areas. As a result of this uneven restriction, an efficient Chartered Accountant may be able to complete the entire audit work within a short duration and remain unemployed for the rest of the year, was the submission made. 4.5 As further contended by the petitioners, the main object of the 1949 Act, is to regulate the conduct of the members of the respondent-Institute in carrying out their professional duties and the exercise of agency by a Chartered Accountant in choosing his own volume of work cannot be considered professional 808 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports misconduct. Furthermore, where the Act and Rules made thereunder would be entitled to bring restrictions or provisions only for the purpose of attaining the prescribed professional standards, a mere choice of work could not be considered professional misconduct. 4.6 During the course of arguments, analogies were often drawn to the legal profession to argue that, it is, firstly, inconceivable that a cap could be put on the number of cases that an advocate can take up and, secondly, there is no norm, custom, or practice of the profession that would require the rule-making body to ensure equitable distribution of work to younger Chartered Accountants. Relatedly, it was contended that the equitable distribution of work cannot automatically lead to betterment of the standards of chartered accountancy profession in the country. 4.7 It was further submitted on behalf of the petitioners that a Chartered Accountant’s fundamental right to practice the profession is unreasonably restricted as there is no sanctity in the ceiling limit prescribed by the respondent-Institute. According to the petitioners, such a restriction ignores the differentiation in professional competence, sincerity, experience, ability and other factors that would enable a Chartered Accountant to complete more than the specified limit while simultaneously ensuring compliance with all quality standards. The petitioners also vehemently argued that all auditors cannot be assumed to take equal time in completing a tax audit and the consequential conclusion that a Chartered Accountant would be able to satisfactorily fulfil his obligations only up to specified tax audit assignments under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961 would be fallacious. Furthermore, according to petitioners, by classifying both in the same category, the Guidelines fail to acknowledge the difference in competency between a senior Chartered Accountant who has years of experience, reputation, facility of ten articled clerks and availability of other audit staff with a fresh Chartered Accountant who has no articled clerk and no audit staff. Reliance in this regard was placed on Raja Video Parlour vs. State of Punjab, (1993) 3 SCC 708 (“Raja Video Parlour”), wherein this Court held that limiting the maximum seating capacity to 50, irrespective of the size of the screen in a cinema hall was unconstitutional and violative of Article 19(1)(g).