Even otherwise, the appellant cannot have a grouse on this count because the record reveals that the Liquidator had sent a reply on 15th [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1299 V.S. Palanivel v. P. Sriram, CS, Liquidator, Etc. November, 2019 to a written objection taken by the appellant on the Valuation reports submitted by the Registered Valuers on 08th November, 2019, wherein, it was stated that neither he nor the other ex-Directors of the company had responded to the Liquidator’s suggestion for calling a meeting of the CoC. Despite this, neither the appellant nor the other ex-Directors of the company took any step to depute a person from amongst them to be a part of the Stakeholders’ Consultation Committee. In view of the aforesaid facts, the objection taken by the appellant that the Liquidator has breached Regulation 31A, does not hold any water. Nor is the Court inclined to examine the submission made at the instance of the appellant that in the absence of any explanation appended to Regulation 31A as it stood before 25th July, 2019, it was incumbent for the Liquidator to have constituted a Stakeholders’ Consultation Committee in view of his own conduct noticed above. Further, such an objection was taken for the first time at the stage the appellant filed a recall application before Adjudicating Authority on 25th September, 2020 by which time the entire sale transaction was over. 35. ALLEGATION OF VIOLTION OF REGULATION 33 OF THE IBBI REGULATIONS, 2016 AND ITS EFFECT 35.1 The appellant has raised serious objections regarding violation of Regulation 33 of the IBBI Regulation, 2016 by the Liquidator. Regulation 33 that deals with the mode of sale of assets has already been extracted above. Schedule I under Regulation 33 lays down the manner in which the assets of the Corporate Debtor are to be sold by the Liquidator. Schedule I is sub-divided into two segments, the first part deals with sale of an asset through auction and the manner in which such a sale shall be conducted by the Liquidator and the second part deals with private sales. The relevant clauses of Schedule I for purposes of the present discussion are as follows: “SCHEDULE I MODE OF SALE (Under Regulation 33 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Liquidation Process) Regulations, 2016) 1300 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 1. AUCTION (1) Where an asset is to be sold through auction, a liquidator shall do so the in the manner specified herein. xxxxx (3) The liquidator shall prepare terms and conditions of sale, including reserve price, earnest money deposit as well as pre-bid qualifications, if any. xxxxx (6) The liquidator shall provide all assistance necessary for the conduct of due diligence by interested buyers. xxxxx (12) On the close of the auction, the highest bidder shall be invited to provide balance sale consideration within ninety days of the date of such demand: Provided that payments made after thirty days shall attract interest at the rate of 12%. Provided further that the sale shall be cancelled if the payment is not received within ninety days.