Clauses 6 and 8 of the Deposit Agreement read as follows : “6. It is agreed by and between the parties hereto that on the said Lease Agreement of any renewal thereof expiring by efflux of time or coming to an end for any reason whatsoever as provided in the said Lease Agreement the Lessor shall refund (without any deduction on any account and without interest) the said deposit to the Lessee simultaneously with the Lessee removing itself/ its officers / employees using the leased premises from and vacating the leased premises and giving charge thereof to the Lessor (reasonable wear and tear, damages/ Loss to / destruction of the leased premises by fire not caused [2024] 6 S.C.R. 285 Mahendra Kaur Arora v. HDFC Bank Ltd by the willful neglect on the part of the Lessee, its officers /employees using the leased premises, Civil commotion, riots, air attack, act of God and anything else beyond the control of the Lessee excepted).” 8. In the event the Lessor does not refund the said deposit to the Lessee in full, at the time of the said Lease Agreement or any renewal thereof comes to an end, as aforesaid, then the consequences mentioned in para nos. i) to iii) hereunder shall follow: i) The Lessee shall (without prejudice to its rights and remedies in law) , not be obliged or bound to vacate and give charge of the leased premises to the Lessor and the Lessee shall be entitled to use or permit, the leased premises to be used by any person of its choice without being liable to pay any rent, outgoings or damages to the Lessor until such time as the Lessor does not refund to the Lessee the said deposit in full ; and ii) In addition, the Lessor shall be liable to pay to the Lessee interest @ 24% p. a. compounded quarterly, on the said deposit from the date of termination or expiry of the said Lessee Agreement or any renewal thereof till the date of refund of the said deposit by the Lessor to the Lessee; and iii) In the event the Lessor is unable to return the deposit as aforesaid for a period of 30 days from the date it becomes due, the Lessee shall be liberty to further sub- let the leased premises for period of not less than 12 months at a time on such terms and conditions as the Lessee may in its absolute discretion may deem fit” 9. It is the stand of the respondent-Bank that in terms of the aforesaid clauses of the Deposit Agreement, the appellant-landlady was under an obligation to refund the security deposit to the respondent-Bank at the time of handing over vacant and peaceful possession of the leased premises, which she failed to do and therefore, the aforesaid clauses entitle the respondent-Bank to continue using the leased 286 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports premises itself or by any other person of its choice without any liability to pay any rent/outgoings/damages.