As a consequence of this, the Constitution did not leave it to the wisdom of the legislature of each State to determine the salaries and allowances payable to judges of the High Court or for that matter, issues pertaining to their rights in respect of leave of absence and pension. 18. The constitutional history is of significance because it indicates the careful manner in which provisions pertaining to salaries, allowances and pensions of the Judges of the High Courts were drafted so as to preserve the independence of the judiciary. It is in this backdrop that it becomes necessary to consider the position of a Judge of the district judiciary who is subsequently appointed as a Judge of the High Court. 19. This Court has, on several occasions underlined the importance of financial independence, and financial dignity for serving and 7 The judges of each High Court shall be entitled to such salaries and allowances, and to such rights in respect of leave and pensions, as may from time to time be fixed by or under law made by the Legislature of the State in which the Court has its principal seat, and until they are so fixed, shall be entitled to such salaries, allowances and rights in respect of leave of absence or pension as are specified in the Second Schedule: Provided that the salary of the Chief Justice of a High Court shall not be less than four thousand rupees per month and the salary of any other judge of a High Court shall not be less than three thousand and five hundred rupees per month: Provided further that neither the salary of a judge nor his rights in respect of leave of absence or pension shall be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment. 1052 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports retired judges of the district judiciary. In the decision of this Court in All India Judges Association Vs Union of India,8 the nature of the inter-relationship between judicial independence and financial independence has been reiterated in the following terms: “13. Judicial service is an integral and significant component of the functions of the State and contributes to the constitutional obligation to sustain the rule of law. Judicial service is distinct in its characteristics and in terms of the responsibilities which are cast upon the officers of the District Judiciary to render objective dispensation of justice to citizens. The State is duty bound to ensure that the conditions of service, both during the tenure of office and after retirement, are commensurate with the need to maintain dignified working conditions for serving judicial officers and in the post-retirement emoluments made available to former members of the judicial service. Members of the district judiciary are the first point of engagement for citizens who are confronted with the need for dispute resolution. The conditions in which judicial officers across the country are required to work are arduous. The work of a judicial officer is not confined merely to the working hours rendered in the course of judicial duties in the court.