In this meeting, issues like expansion of organisation, strengthening of Muslims on political, educational and administrative fronts were discussed. Nothing incriminating is alleged to have been mentioned which would attract charges under the UAPA, 1967 especially the ones which have been alleged to have been committed by the Appellant. Reference has also been made with regard to the meeting held on 6th and 7th of July 2022 at Ahmad Palace. In the said meeting, no active role is attributed to the Appellant except for he being present and that the premises where this meeting was held was in his possession being a tenant. Again, there is nothing incriminating against the Appellant in the statement given by witness “Z” with regard to the present meeting. The witness has merely stated 6 [2024] 8 SCR 633 : 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1945/ Criminal Appeal No. 317 of 2024 decided on 13.08.2024. 1104 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports that the meeting was convened in view of the derogatory statements made by one Nupur Sharma against Prophet Mohammad. 26. This Court in the case dealing with the bail application of Md. Jalaluddin, the co-accused of the Appellant and the owner of the premises had an occasion to deal with the paragraphs of the chargesheet where reference to the meetings held on 29th May 2022 and 6th and 7th of July, 2022 were made. The said paragraphs had been reproduced herein under. On consideration of the allegations made therein, when seen in the context of the statement of the protected witness ‘Z’ as has been supplied to the Court for perusal it was stated in Paragraph 11 of the said (relevant part) reads as follows: “11. xxx xxx xxx xxx Paragraph 17.16 alleges that protected witness Z stated that in the meeting, subjects such as the expansion of the organisation, basic and advanced training of PFI members and future PFI plans were discussed, and a direction was given to trained PFI cadre to eliminate one Nupur Sharma. In the statement of protected witness Z, all that is not found. In fact, protected witness Z stated that during the meeting, emphasis was given on strengthening the status of Muslims, imparting them basic and advanced training and strengthening the status of education, politics and administration of Muslims and Muslim empowerment. Going by the witness’s version, we find that there was no discussion about the activities of PFI in the meeting held on 29th May 2022. We are not reproducing the statement of the protected witness Z as it has been kept in a sealed cover. Suffice it to say that what is reproduced in paragraph 17.16 is not correct. The material portion of witness Z’s actual statement has been completely distorted in paragraph of the charge sheet. Several things which protected witness Z did not state have been incorporated in paragraph 17.16. Unfortunately, paragraph 17.16 attributes certain statements to protected witness Z, which he did not make. NIA owes an explanation for that. The investigating machinery has to be fair.