The terms of its reference were as follows: “(a) to inquire into the extent and effect of concentration of economic power in private hands and the prevalence of monopolistic and restrictive practices in important sectors of economic activity other than agriculture with special reference to- (i) the factors responsible for such concentration and monopolistic and restrictive practices; (ii) their social and economic consequences, and the extent to which they might work to the common detriment; and (b) to suggest such legislative and other measures that might be considered necessary in the light of such enquiry, including, in particular, any new legislation to protect essential public interests and the procedure and agency for the enforcement of such legislation.” 64 This Commission gave its report in 1965 called the ‘Report of the Monopolies Inquiry Commission 1965’, which was prepared after taking views from leading businessmen, State governments and various other stakeholders. Chapter II titled ‘Causes of Concentration’ in the report, earmarked the following as the primary reasons for concentration of wealth in India: 64 Introduction to rePOrt Of the MOnOPOlies inQuiry cOMMissiOn 1965. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 307 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. (a) Easier Access to Credit: Big enterprises were able to obtain credit from banks on much easier terms than small businesses, which further helped in the growth of concentration, as they can offer much better security. (b) Only the Indian industrialists had the skill and knowledge to successfully run an enterprise. They were able to raise sufficient capital, from the public through limited liability public companies, so as to afford licences and import raw materials and machinery required to proliferate the nascent economy of independent India. (c) As a result of the policies to achieve self-reliance, most foreign enterprises were taken over by a few Indian industrialists as only they could afford such an acquisition. (d) Formation of Industrial Conglomerates: During World War II, the colonial government granted subsidies to certain enterprises to expand their production capacity in to support the war effort. This helped increase their profits and allowed them to acquire their competitors, leading to an elimination of competition and concentration of economic power in the hands of those few select business houses The Report referred to the provisions in the Constitution to prove the point that the framers of our Constitution were aware of the tendency of the national economy, which favoured concentration of wealth in a few hands and this had to be remedied: “It would be wrong to think that the dangers of excessive concentration were not recognised by the Indian statesmen. The makers of the Indian Constitution were well aware of this potential danger. It was to impress upon the future governments of the country the need of fighting this danger that the following principles were laid down in article 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution.” 65 The point which is being made here is that private wealth was only concentrated in a few hands and there was a huge gap between the 65 rePOrt Of the MOnOPOlies inQuiry cOMMissiOn 1965 (vOl-i), Pg.