As noted earlier, the appellants are Secured Lenders within the meaning of the MSTA. Therefore, as per clause 2, Secured Lenders had made available the secured facilities to the Obligors. It provides that Obligors shall repay the secured facilities availed by it together with the interest, liquidated damages, premia of prepayment, financing charges, etc., including the remuneration payable to the Security Trustee. As stated earlier, two RCom entities, namely RCom and RTL, are the borrowers of the appellants. Thus, these two companies are Obligors who covenanted to repay the secured facilities availed by it together with interest, liquidated damages, etc. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2069 China Development Bank v. Doha Bank Q.P.S.C. & Ors. 56. We have already quoted the first part of clause 5(iii) of the DoH. The effect of the clause is that all the four RCom entities, including the Corporate Debtor, hypothecated their assets by way of first ranking pari passu charge to the Security Trustee, who was acting in trust and for the benefit of the secured parties for the purpose of securing due discharge of the Obligor’s obligations in connection with secured facilities. The Security Trustee acted on behalf of the appellants by accepting the security of hypothecation. Therefore, the DoH is a document executed on behalf of the appellants. The effect of clause 5(iii) is that for the discharge of liabilities of the RCom entities, all four RCom entities hypothecated their properties for securing repayment of the facilities extended by the appellants to RCom and RTL. In short, the parties to the DoH are Security Trustees acting on behalf of the present appellants, the Corporate Debtor who is not the borrower of the appellants and the other three RCom entities. Therefore, there are three parties to the DoH. Promise to discharge the Liability of third party 57. Sub-clause (i) of clause 3 of the DoH is a clause which is normally found in hypothecation agreements. Then comes sub-clause (iii) of clause 5 of the DoH, which we have already quoted. It provides that in the event of default committed by the borrowers (in the case of the appellants, the borrowers are RCom and RTL), the Security Trustee is entitled to take charge and/or possession of, seize, recover, receive and remove the hypothecated goods and/or sell by public auction or private contract, dispatch or consign for realisation or otherwise dispose of or deal with any part of the hypothecated property. It is obvious that this action of realisation is to be done by the Security Trustee in terms of sub-clause (c) of clause 2.2.1 of the MSTA. Thus, the security of hypothecation can be enforced by the Security Trustee on behalf of the appellants. 58. Sub-clause (iii) of clause 5 of the DoH further provides that each of the Chargors agree to accept the Security Trustee’s account of sales and realisation as sufficient proof of the amount realised and relative expenses and to pay on demand by the Security Trustee and/or receiver any shortfall or deficiency thereby shown.