In other words, the replication of the petitioner is to controvert the averments made in the written statement to the election petition. That apart, prima facie, the averments pleaded in the replication are not contrary to the averments made in the election petition and in fact, they are only explanatory to the plea taken by the first respondent in the written statement. 25. The argument of the learned counsel for the first respondent that the replication sought to be made by the petitioner clearly violates the requirement of the provisions of the Representation of People Act, 1951 and that the petitioner sought to introduce new facts after the expiry of 45 days, cannot be countenanced for the reason that the petitioner does not insert any new facts. It appears that the first respondent has filed his written statement on 4.8.2022 and petition to grant leave to file replication was filed on 7.9.2022 within a reasonable time. 58 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 26. As stated supra, the statement made in the replication are the denial of the statement made in the written statement filed by the first respondent to the election petition. If the same is received, no prejudice would be caused to the other side, especially, the first respondent. Moreover, it is the bounden duty of the election petitioner to clarify the averments made by the first respondent in his written statement. That apart, there is no bar for clarification of the earlier pleading, which has already been taken in the election petition by the petitioner. xxx 31. …………. On a perusal of the replication filed by the petitioner, this Court finds that the averments set out in the replication are not contrary to the averments set out in the election petition and these are only explanatory to the plea advanced by the first respondent in the written statement. Therefore, in to explain/clarify the plea of the first respondent and for fair trial of the election petition and also in the interest of justice, this court is inclined to grant leave to the petitioner to file replication.” 5. We have heard Mr. Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel, for the appellant (i.e., the returned candidate) and Mr. Anupam Lal Das, learned senior counsel, for the contesting respondent (i.e., the election petitioner). Submissions on behalf of Appellant/Returned Candidate 6. Mr. Shyam Divan appearing for the appellant, inter alia, submitted: (i) The remedy of an election petition is a statutory remedy governed by the provisions of the 1951 Act. There is no provision in the 1951 Act for filing a replication in response to a written statement. Hence, there is no foundation in law for the impugned ; (ii) Election petitioner’s replication is barred by the provisions of section 814 (1) of the 1951 Act as it sets out a time-limit of 45 4 Section 81. Presentation of petitions.— (1) An election petition calling in question any election may be presented on one or more of the grounds specified in sub section (1) of Section 100 and Section 101 to the High Court by any candidate at such election or any elector within 45 days from, but not earlier than the date of election of the returned candidate, or if there are more than one returned candidate at the election and dates of that election are different, the latter of those two dates.