Thus, because of the setting-aside of the s impugned and due to the superannuation, she cannot now be allowed to join the duty in the respondent No. 1 institution. Simultaneously, it would not be appropriate to give liberty to the Trust to initiate departmental action for the allegations as raised in the letter of Trustee dated 05.03.2003, especially after a lapse of more than 20 years, in particular when the appellant had already attained the age of superannuation in 2015. Therefore, while deciding the questions (A) and (B) in favour of appellant, we deem it appropriate to direct the Trust to regularize the service period of the appellant from 24.09.2003 (when they wrongly [2024] 2 S.C.R. 637 Dr. Mrs. Suman V. Jain v. Marwadi Sammelan through its Secretary and Others treated the appellant as having resigned) till the date of joining the duty at the new Institution as Principal on 01.10.2007. In the facts of the case, the principle of ‘no work no pay’ would apply and the appellant would not be entitled to back-wages and salary for such regularized period, as she has not worked with the Trust. Thus, it would suffice to observe that in view of her deemed continuance and in view of our findings hereinabove, the period from 24.09.2003 to 01.10.2007 would be regularized by the respondent and be counted as period spent on duty for all purposes including pension. 30. In view of the above discussion, we direct that on the regularization of the period and treating the same as period spent on duty, the service tenure of the appellant, both in the institution run by Trust and in M.M.P. Shah College would be counted without any break in service. Since she would have then completed minimum 20 years’ service required for pension under the Rules, she would be entitled to her pension and other retiral benefits. The retiral and pensionary benefits should be calculated and paid accordingly including the arrears of pension. The said exercise be completed within a period of four months from the date of this . On failure to pay retiral benefits/pension and arrears thereof within the time as specified, the appellant shall be entitled to interest @ 7% per annum. 31. Accordingly, this appeal stands allowed in the above terms, and the s passed by the College Tribunal and the High Court stand set-aside. Pending application(s), if any, shall also stand disposed of. No as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeal allowed.