[Paras 12-16] List of Acts Uttarakhand Unaided Private Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Fixation of Fee) Act; Shri Guru Ram Rai University Act 2016 List of Keywords Medical admission; Undergraduate medical degree course; Fixation of fee; Extra payment of tuition fee; Provisional certificate for completion of the course; Internships; Original documents submitted by students. Case Arising From EXTRA-ORDINARY CIVIL JURISDICTION: Special Leave Petition (C) No. 19953 of 2024 From the and dated 06.08.2024 of the High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital in WPMS No. 775 of 2023 Appearances for Parties Gaurav Agrawal, Sr. Adv., Ms. Tanvi Dubey, Raghav Sabharwal, Mekala Ganesh Kumar Reddy, Aditya Nema, Advs. for the Petitioners. Gopal Sankaranarayanan, Sr. Adv., Sagar Gaur, Ankit Shah, Dilip Annasaheb Taur, Advs. for the Respondents. 410 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court 1. The dispute in the present case relates to the fixation of the fee for the undergraduate medical degree course offered by a college in the State of Uttarakhand. The petitioners are students who were granted admission in 2018 to the undergraduate medical degree course administered by the third respondent - Shri Guru Ram Rai Institute of Medical and Health Sciences College. The students completed the course in 2023. The second respondent is the Shri Guru Ram Rai University, a university governed by an Act of the state legislature,1 of which the third respondent is a constituent college. 2. The state legislature enacted the Uttarakhand Unaided Private Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Fixation of Fee) Act in 2006. The Act applies to “unaided private professional educational institutions in the state which are affiliated to state-funded universities, councils, boards or other bodies established under law, excluding minority institutions”.2 The Act establishes an ‘Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee’, which inter alia determines the fees for admission to professional courses of private institutions.3 The Act also provides for the constitution of an appellate authority to hear appeals against the s of the Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee.4 3. On 4 April 2018, a nodal agency appointed by the State Government prescribed the fee structure for the undergraduate medical courses of seven medical colleges, including the third respondent. The fee structure as posted by the nodal agency on their website (Annexure P-2) prescribed a fee of rupees four lakhs for State quota seats and rupees five lakhs for the All India quota seats. 4. These fees and allied issues were the subject matter of writ petitions filed by the second and third respondents before the 1 Shri Guru Ram Rai University Act 2016, Uttarakhand Act No. 03 of 2017. 2 S.2, Uttarakhand Unaided Private Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission & Fixation of Fee) Act. 3 S.4, Ibid. 4 S.12, Ibid. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 411 Sahil Bhargava & Ors. v. State of Uttarakhand & Ors. Uttarakhand High Court.5 The High Court, by an interim directed that admissions may be carried out and the fee collected will be subject to the final outcome of the Writ petition.