The Parliament of India, under List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India had conferred upon the Reserve Bank of India, the powers of subordinate legislation to formulate directives, circulars, and administrative policies, having statutory force and being binding on all Banks from time to time1 Our attention is also drawn to the Preamble of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 which enlists the endeavour of the RBI to “ secure monetary stability in India, having a modern monetary policy framework to meet the challenge of an increasingly complex economy, while maintaining price stability is the endeavour of the Reserve Bank of India. 10. The observations by the National Commission that the rate of interest, in excess of 30% per annum is an unfair trade practice, is per se illegal and is an interference with the clear, unambiguous delegation of powers in favour of the Reserve Bank of India and runs contrary to the legislative intent of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 11. It is submitted that the National Commission has ostensibly exercised jurisdiction by supplanting itself as the regulator of the banking systems instead and in the place of Reserve Bank of India, notwithstanding the bar under section 21A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. It is contended that Section 21A and 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 are enabling provisions for the Reserve Bank of India to give directions/guidelines to banks/banking companies, in the public interest. Section 21A in specific, creates an embargo upon courts/tribunals to re-open and adjudicate upon transactions on the ground that the rate of interest is excessive. The said provisions are reproduced as under: “21A: Rates of interest charged by banking companies not to be subject to scrutiny by courts: 1 Keshav Lal Khemchang & Sons Pvt. Ltd & Ors. Vs Union of India (2015) 4 SCC 770 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1493 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd. v. Awaz & Ors. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Usurious Loans Act, 1918 (10 of 2018), or any other law relating to indebtedness in force in any State, a transaction between a banking company and its debtor shall not be reopened by any court on the ground that the rate of interest charged by the banking company in respect of such transaction is excessive.” 35A: Power of the Reserve Bank to give directions: (1) Where the Reserve Bank is satisfied that: (a) In the public interest; or (aa) in the interest of banking policy; or [inserted by Act 58 in the [public interest]; or (b) to prevent the affairs of any banking company being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interests of the depositors or in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the banking company; or (c) to secure the proper management of any banking company generally, it is necessary to issue directions to banking companies generally or to any banking company in particular, it may, from time to time, issue such directions as it deems fit, and the banking companies or the banking company, as the case may be, shall be bound to comply with such directions.