18. In the premises under Section 71 of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act claims which are time-barred on the date when a requisition is issued under Section 69(2) of the said Act are not “amounts due” under Section 71 and cannot be recovered under the said Act. Our conclusion is based on the interpretation of Section 71 in the light of the provisions of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act.” Under the said provision, the Government in public interest could make the Revenue Recovery Act applicable to recovery of amounts 252 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports due to any person or class of persons or to any specified institution or any class or classes of institutions and on such notification by the provisions of the Act was applicable to such recovery. Admittedly, in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra) a notification was issued making the provisions of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act applicable to the Kerala Financial Corporation. The Kerala Financial Corporation is also a Corporation under the said Financial Corporation Act to which Section 32-G applied. 21. In our view, while the Court focused on the implication of a notification under Section 71 of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act whereunder the Government could declare the Act applicable to any institution, the attention of the Court in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra) was not drawn to the powers envisaged under the State Financial Corporations Act which were also applicable to the recovery of debts in Kerala. As noticed above, the statement of objects and reasons of the State Financial Corporations Act refers to providing State Financial Corporations with ‘special privileges in the matter of enforcement of claims against borrowers’. This is reflected through Section 32-G of the State Financial Corporations Act which we have set-out hereinabove. 22. This Court in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra) held that the words ‘amounts due’ occuring in the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act would only include legally recoverable debts i.e. debts which are not time-barred. For this purpose, it may be apposite to refer to the relevant portions from the decision in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra): “9. In the case of Hansraj Gupta v. Dehra Dun-Mussoorie Electric Tramway Co. Ltd. [AIR 1933 PC 63 : 60 IA 13] the Privy Council was required to interpret the words “money due” under Section 186 of the Companies Act, 1913. Section 186 dealt with the recovery of any money due to the company from a contributory. Interpreting the words “money due”, the Privy Council said that the phrase would only refer to those claims which were not time-barred. 10. The same reasoning would apply in the present case also. The Kerala Revenue Recovery Act does not create any new right. It merely provides a process for speedy recovery of moneys due. Therefore, instead of filing a suit, (or an application or petition under any special Act), obtaining a decree and executing it, the bank or the financial [2024] 6 S.C.R. 253 K.P. Khemka & Anr. v. Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited & Ors.