So, under fear and making the pressure on Preetam Singh, a fictitious agreement was prepared by plaintiff Murari Singh without any consideration in to deter late Preetam Singh, so that the should not sale the land. Neither this agreement was acted upon nor was disclosed any time. The said amount for consideration, written in the agreement, is shown at very low price from the market price. …………………………………………………” Thus, the legal representative of the first defendant did not plead that the first defendant was addicted to several vices and that to prevent him from selling the suit property for supporting his bad lifestyle, the suit agreement was executed. It is merely stated that the second plaintiff prepared a fictitious agreement without any consideration to deter the first defendant from selling the land. It is not pleaded that as the first plaintiff was an influential person, he was brought into the picture to deter the first defendant. The second and third defendants filed a written statement. The contention raised by them in the written statement is entirely different. In paragraph 12 of the written statement, they pleaded thus: “………………………………………………… 406 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. That the alleged agreement to sale dated 17.12.1981 is a forged document and was never acted upon. The plaintiff no. 1 and Sh. Pritam Singh are relative to each other. The plaintiffs are the resident of some other districts. They never paid any money. They got prepared a forged documents colluding with some persons of their party. The agreement to sale is illegal and the plaintiffs are not entitled of any relief on the basis of this forged document. …………………………………………………” The legal representative of the first defendant did not dispute that the first defendant signed the agreement. However, the other defendants raised a contention that the suit agreement was a forged document. The second to fourth defendants did not plead anything about the object of getting the agreement for sale executed from the first defendant. The case that the first defendant was addicted to vices and that with a view to deter him from selling the suit property, the agreement for sale was executed, was pleaded for the first time by the mother of the first defendant in her evidence. Even the allegation that the first plaintiff was joined as a purchaser to put pressure on the deceased - the first defendant was made by her for the first time in her evidence. Thus, the contention that the deceased-first defendant was addicted to vices was never raised in the written statements and the same has come by way of an afterthought in the evidence of the mother of the first defendant. Moreover, the stand of the second to fourth defendants in their written statement is that the suit agreement was forged and was prepared by the plaintiffs and some persons of their party. Therefore, in the facts of the case, it is very difficult to accept the contention that the suit agreement was got executed from the first defendant with the object to deter him from selling the suit property to meet the demands of his bad lifestyle.