4. The Board has also decided that these instructions may kindly be brought to the notice of all departmental officers by issuing suitable standing s. Sd/- (Rajendra Singh) Under Secretary to the Government of India” 39. As regards the observations in Sayed Ali (supra) on the inter se link between Sections 17 and 28 of the Act, 1962 respectively, he submitted that no such mandate flows from either of the two sections and reading any such linkage into the scheme of the Act, 1962 would directly undermine the powers of search, seizure and investigation of the DRI officers under the Act, 1962 along with the assignment of functions as proper officers to issue show cause notices post such search and investigation. Although no disability is to be found in any provisions of the Act, 1962, yet Sayed Ali (supra) creates such an embargo and also proceeds to hold that empowering such officers to issue show cause notices would result in multiple persons dealing with the same issue leading to utter chaos and confusion. He submitted that the Board has been issuing circulars and notifications from time to time with a view to ensure that no such overlap occurs. He also argued that the respondents have not adduced any evidence [2024] 12 S.C.R. 233 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. or empirical statistics to even remotely indicate that an importer has been visited with either multiple show cause notices or adjudication s on the same subject. 40. He further submitted that the Board had vested DRI with the power to issue only show cause notices and the adjudication s in furtherance of the show cause notices were to be passed by the respective port officers. In cases involving multiple ports, common adjudicators were assigned powers by the Board and later also by the DRI and these adjudicators never involved themselves either in the investigation of the case or in the issuance of show cause notices. In such circumstances, he submitted that both the findings in Sayed Ali (supra) require reconsideration. 41. He further drew our attention to Circular No. 18/2015 – Customs dated 09.06.2015 issued by the Board pertaining to the appointment of common adjudicating authority and the mode and manner of assignment of functions for adjudication with a view to avoid multiplicity or plurality. The same is extracted below: “Circular No. 18/2015- Customs F.No. 450/145/2014- Cus IV Government of India Ministry of Finance Department of Revenue Central Board of Excise and Customs To All Chief Commissioner of Customs / Customs (Preventive) All Chief Commissioners of Customs and Central Excise All Commissioners of Customs All Commissioners of Customs and Central Excise Sir / Madam, Subject: Appointment of common adjudicating authority -regarding Reference is invited to Notification No 60/2015-Customs (N.T. ), dated 04.06.2015 whereby the power to appoint 234 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports common adjudicating authority in cases investigated by DRI upto the level of Commissioner of Customs has been delegated to Principal Director General of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence in terms of section 152 of the Customs Act, 1962.