1.1 The sum and substance of all the questions referred to this Bench could be crystallised on the short point for consideration, namely, whether the expression “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8 -List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India includes within its scope and ambit “industrial alcohol” and consequently, whether a State Legislature has the competence to legislate on “industrial alcohol”. My short answer is that there is a lack of legislative competence in the State Legislature when viewed from the constitutional framework and statutory framework of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (for short, “IDRA”) passed by the Parliament on the strength of Entry 52 – List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India and having regard to Section 2 of the said Act read with its various provisions and the First Schedule thereto, particularly, Item 26 which deals with “Fermentation Industries” (other than potable alcohol). However, the discussion on scope and ambit of Entry 33(a) – List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution is distinct and shall be discussed later. Therefore, Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. vs. State of Uttar Pradesh, 2046 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports AIR 1990 SC 1927 (“Synthetics and Chemicals (7J)”), has been correctly decided by the seven-Judge Bench of this Court. On the aspect of Section 18G of the IDRA occupying the field and consequently, whether the State Legislatures are denuded of their powers on the content of the subject matter of the said Section in the context of Entry 33(a) – List III as per first part of Article 254(1) shall be adverted to later. I propose to discuss the reasons for aforesaid view. 1.2 Since the Entries under discussion are in their respective Lists of the “Seventh Schedule of the Constitution”, it would be unnecessary to refer to them as being part of “Seventh Schedule of the Constitution” in the following discussion. Genesis of the controversy: 2. The genesis of this present controversy insofar as the reference to the nine-Judge Bench is concerned, emanates from the of the seven-Judge Bench of this Court in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J). The said authored by Sabyasachi Mukharji, J. (as His Lordship then was) held that the scope of the expression “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8 – List II did not extend to “industrial alcohol” and regulation of the same by State Legislature is impermissible in law having regard to the constitutional framework, particularly the relevant Entries of Lists I and II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. The said dictum of the seven-Judge Bench was doubted by a three-Judge Bench of this Court in State of UP vs. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish vide dated 25.10.2007 and the following questions were formulated for consideration by a larger Bench: “Q. 1. Does Section 2 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, have any impact on the field covered by Section 18-G of the said Act or Entry 33 of List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution?