While clause (1) of Article 38 is general in nature, clause (2) inserted by Section 9 of the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978 w.e.f. from 20.06.1979 is illustrative of the content of the ideal in clause (1) of Article 38. Clause (2) of Article 38 states that States shall, in particular,strive to minimise the inequality in income and endeavour to eliminate the inequality in status, facilities and opportunities, not only among individuals but also among groups of people, residing in different areas or engaged in different vocations. Article 38 envisions social justice for enhancing human dignity in an egalitarian, social, economic and political democracy. The said Article essentially speaks of the social and economic revolution which is an example of the Constitution of India’s transformative vision. The State takes the responsibility in bringing abouta welfare State, a just“social ” where“justice - social, economic and political” prevails and where there is equity, equality and non-discrimination by bringing about“equality of status and of opportunity”, as enumerated in the Preamble of the Constitution. Thus, Article 38 is a keystone for the implementation of the Directive Principles. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 219 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Article 39: 11. Article 39 (b) and (c) are relevant for the purpose of this reference. In the draft Constitution, Article 39 was Article 31 which was debated upon by the Constituent Assembly and the draft Article 31 was renumbered as Article 39 of the Constitution. In Waman Rao, it was observed by the Court speaking through learned Y.V. Chandrachud, C.J.that the clauses of Article 39 contain Directive Principles which are vital to the well-being of the Country and the welfare of its people. Article 39 (b) and (c) which are relevant for the purposes of this case, say that the State shall direct its policy towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good; that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of the production to the common detriment. In Article 39(b), the most significant expression is “distribution”. That the material resources of the community have to be so distributed as best to subserve the common good. The task of distribution of the material resources of the community is the responsibility of the State. The distribution must be of the material resources of the community in to best subserve the common good. What is the subject matter of distribution is the ownership and control of the material resources of the community. 11.1 The main objective of Article 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution is the building of a welfare State with a social which is egalitarian so as to bring about a non-violent social transformation in the Country. That is why Article 37 of the Constitution states that while the provisions contained in Part IV (Directive Principles of State Policy) though not enforceable by any court, the principles therein laid down are nevertheless fundamental in the governance of the Country and it shall be the duty of the State to apply these principles in making laws.