is recorded belatedly i.e. after 6 days. She further submits that there is no explanation at all as to why his statement was not recorded for 6 days. She submits that even the testimony of the IO would show that the IO did not find it necessary to go to the hospital for 6 days to record the statement of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12). She further submits that, from the evidence of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12), it would also be clear that he has not witnessed the incident. She submits that the statement of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) has been recorded by the police after he was informed that an FIR has been registered against the present appellant for committing the murder of his wife, daughter and mother. As such, no credence could be given to the testimony of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12). 5. Ms. Roy submitted that if the testimony of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) is discarded, then the only circumstances upon which the prosecution relies are recovery of hammer and clothes at the instance of the present appellant on a memorandum under Section 27 of the Evidence Act, 1872. It is however submitted that the said recoveries are all farcical and cannot be relied on. She therefore submitted that the present appeal deserves to be allowed. 6. Ms. Roy submits that, in the event this Court finds that the prosecution has proved that the present appellant has committed the offence, then the death penalty would not be warranted in the facts and circumstances of the case. She submits that there are various mitigating circumstances as to be found from the various reports placed on record that the appellant was not a hardened criminal. She submits that there is nothing on record to establish that there is no possibility of the present appellant being reformed. She therefore submits that the present case would fall under the middle path as laid down by this Court in a catena of s 760 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports including Swamy Shraddananda (2) alias Murali Manohar Mishra v. State of Karnataka.4 7. Per contra, Shri Siddharth Dharmadhikari, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-State submits that the learned trial court and the High Court have concurrently on the basis of the evidence placed before them come to a considered conclusion that the prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. He submits that the ocular testimony of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) is corroborated by the other circumstantial evidence. He submits that the hammer used in the crime has been recovered on the statement of the present appellant recorded under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. He further submits that one chhanni is also recovered on the basis of the memorandum of the appellant under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. The recovery of blood-stained clothes, according to the learned counsel, is another circumstance which establishes the complicity of the present appellant with the crime in question. He further submits that Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) is an injured witness and therefore a greater credence would be attached to his testimony.