It was urged that, unlike the three-judge bench , the five-judge bench and the seven-judge bench dropped the issue concerning Article 26 (2013) 7 SCC 522 (“seven-judge bench ”) 27 [1999] Supp. 2 SCR 394 : (1999) 7 SCC 580 : 1999 INSC 394 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 43 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 31C and only referred the Article 39(b) question to a larger bench. Therefore, it was urged that this Court restrict the scope of this judgement to the interpretation of Article 39(b) and more specifically, only to the question of whether “material resources of the community” include privately owned resources. 28. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the appellants urged this Court to understand the scope of the reference more expansively. They broadly submitted that this Court may consider five issues and filed detailed submissions on each of these questions. The issues which they raised are: firstly, whether the unamended Article 31C survives after the amendment to the provision by the forty-second amendment was struck down in Minerva Mills. Second, the meaning of Article 39(b) and whether the phrase ‘material resources of the community’ includes privately owned resources. Third, whether the MHADA Act gives effect to the principles laid down in Article 39(b) and is protected by Article 31C. Fourth, in view of the decision in IR Coehlo, whether a challenge under Articles 14, 19 and 21 can continue to be mounted even if the Act is protected by Article 31C. Finally, the appellants have also filed their submissions challenging the constitutionality of specific provisions of Chapter VIII-Aof the MHADA Act on other grounds. 29. Eventually, during the course of the hearing, the counsel for the appellants fairly conceded that the last three issues may be argued before a regular bench after the present reference is answered. They urged that this Court, however, must determine the question about whether Article 31C survives in the Constitution as it was a central theme in the reference s and also has a bearing on the interpretation of Article 39(b). We agree with this understanding. 30. In our considered view, although the seven-judge bench does not directly refer the question regarding the survival of Article 31C to this bench of nine judges, it must form a part of our analysis for the following reasons: i. The issue about the survival or revival of Article 31C is intrinsically connected to the question of interpreting Article 39(b). If this Court concludes that Article 31C does not survive as part of the Constitution after the decision in Minerva Mills, no protection will be provided to the MHADA Act even if it has a nexus with the principles laid down in Article 39(b). Therefore, 44 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports logically, in the context of this reference, this Court must first decide the question about the survival of Article 31C before adjudicating on the interpretation of Article 39(b). ii. The question about the survival of 31-C has never been conclusively answered by this Court.