891 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others levy the tax from the lessor instead of from the actual occupiers. (2) A lessor from whom a tax is levied under the proviso to sub-section (1) may, in the absence of a contract to the contrary, recover the tax from any or all of the actual occupiers. 181. Property taxes to be a first charge on premises on which they are assessed. – (1) Property taxes due under this Act in respect of any building or land shall, subject to the prior payment of the land revenue, if any, due to the State Government thereupon, be a first charge, in the case of any building or land held immediately from the State, upon the interest in such building or land of the person liable for such taxes and upon the movable property, if any, found within or upon such building or land and belonging to such person; and, in the case of any other building or land, upon the said building or land and belonging to the person liable for such taxes. Explanation. - The term «property taxes» in this section shall be deemed to include any charges payable for water supplied to any premises and the costs of recovery of property taxes as specified in the rules. (2) In any decree in a suit for the enforcement of the charge created by subsection (1), the Court may the payment to the Corporation of interest on the sum found to be due at such rate as the Court deems reasonable from the date of the institution of the suit until realization, and such interest and the cost of enforcing the said charge, including the costs of the suit and the cost of bringing the premises or movable property in question to sale under the decree, shall, subject as aforesaid, be a first charge on such premises and movable property along with the amount found to be due, and the Court may direct payment thereof to be made to the Corporation out of the sale proceeds.” Legal status of the Custodian under the Act: 14. At this stage, it would be useful to dilate on the jurisprudential aspect of ownership of property and examine the nuances thereof vis-à-vis the status of the Custodian of Enemy Property for India under the Act. 892 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14.1 According to Salmond on Jurisprudence, the expression ‘ownership’ in a generic sense, extends to all classes of rights, whether proprietary or personal, in rem or in personam, in re propria or in re aliena. Every man is the owner of the rights which he owns. Ownership in its generic sense as a relation in which a person stands to any right vested in him, is opposed to two other possible relations between a person and a right. In the first place, it is opposed to possession. A man has possessory right without owning it or secondly, he may own a right without possessing it.