The date of completion of the Conditions Precedent was defined as the ‘Effective Date’. Given the uncertainty surrounding the Effective Date, the NCLT, in its Plan Approval , mandated the completion of Conditions Precedent and the attainment of the Effective Date within the first 90 days from the Approval Date. The also granted the flexibility to request an extension of the 180-day timeline, allowing for an outer limit of 270 days, in accordance with the provisions outlined in the Resolution Plan. 5. These conditions precedent had to be fulfilled, in any event, within an outer limit of 270 days failing which the Resolution Plan would automatically stand withdrawn. Upon this eventuality taking place, the members of the Resolution Applicant in the Monitoring Committee are to resign, and the remaining members of the committee are to assume absolute control over the Corporate Debtor. Following the Effective Date, the SRA is then required to infuse funds and fulfil specified payments to stakeholders, including disbursements to Employees, Workmen, and other Operational Creditors, within 180 days from the Effective Date. 6. The Successful Resolution Applicant5 and the consortium of lenders represented by the State Bank of India6 were not ad idem on whether the conditions precedent were fulfilled. The SRA took the position that all conditions precedent had been duly fulfilled. Consequently, on May 20 2022, the DGCA reissued an Air Operation Certificate, confirming the authorization for the Corporate Debtor to engage in commercial air operations. The SRA communicated via email to the Lenders, affirming compliance with all prerequisites and proposing that May 20 2022, should be recognized as the effective date 5 “SRA” 6 “SBI” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1051 State Bank of India and Ors v. The Consortium of Mr Murari Lal Jalan and Mr Florian Fritsch and Anr under the Resolution Plan. However, the lenders took a position to the contrary. On 15th November 2022, the SRA filed I.A. No. 3398 of 2022 (Implementation Application) and I.A. No. 3508 of 2022 (Exclusion Application) before the NCLT seeking a determination in accord with its position. 7. By an dated 13 January 2023, the NCLT came to the conclusion that the SRA was compliant with the conditions precedent. It allowed the Implementation Application, thereby inter alia permitting the SRA to take control and management of the Corporate Debtor. The period of six months for implementation would commence from 16 November 2022. The tribunal reasoned that: (i) On 21 October 2022, the NCLAT confirmed SRA’s compliance with necessary conditions precedent (CPs) to the satisfaction of MC. Despite the lenders seeking clarification through IA 4771 of 2022, the NCLAT’s findings were reaffirmed on 20 December 2022; (ii) There is no dispute regarding compliance with CPs at serial no. (i) and (v) as per the approved plan, including the validation of the Air Operator Certificate by DGCA and MoCA, and the approval of the demerger of the ground handling business into AGSL; (iii) Concerning CP at serial no. (ii), the business plan’s submission and approval to DGCA and MoCA were deemed as complete, with the issuance of the Air Operator Certificate (AOC), considered as implicit approval; (iv) Regarding slot allotment approval, aligned with the plan approval , confirming slots were granted as per the plan; (v) For International Traffic Right Clearance, the requirement was deemed satisfied after successfully recommencing operations, adhering to applicable laws, and plan approval conditions.