The facts and given circumstances in each case, the nature of the crime, the manner in which it was planned and committed, the motive for commission of the crime, the conduct of the accused, the nature of weapons used and all other attending circumstances are relevant facts which would enter into the area of consideration. 8. Therefore, undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence would do more harm to the justice system to undermine the public confidence in the efficacy of 786 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports law and society could not long endure under such serious threats. It is, therefore, the duty of every court to award proper sentence having regard to the nature of the offence and the manner in which it was executed or committed, etc.” 3. Besides the decisions in Hazara Singh and Shailesh Jasvantbhai’s cases (supra), this Court also referred to the decisions in Ahmed Hussein Vali Mohammed Saiyed & Anr. v. State of Gujarat,4 State of Madhya Pradesh v. Bablu,5 and State of Madhya Pradesh v. Surendra Singh,6 therein. Thereupon, in paragraph 17 of Bawa Singh’s case (supra) this Court held thus:- “17. Recently, in State of M.P. v. Bablu and State of M.P. v. Surendra Singh, after considering and following the earlier decisions, this Court reiterated the settled proposition of law that one of the prime objectives of criminal law is the imposition of adequate, just, proportionate punishment which commensurate with gravity, nature of crime and the manner in which the offence is committed. One should keep in mind the social interest and conscience of the society while considering the determinative factor of sentence with gravity of crime. The punishment should not be so lenient that it shocks the conscience of the society. It is, therefore, solemn duty of the court to strike a proper balance while awarding the sentence as awarding lesser sentence encourages any criminal and, as a result of the same, the society suffers.” 4. Thus, the clamour or claim for comeuppance viz., deserved punishment proportionate to the gravity of the offence is a continuous and continuing demand based on civic sense and unfailing in categories of serious offences where more than individual interest is also involved, the above rule of proportionality in providing punishment is not failed as otherwise it will impact the society. At the same time, we may hasten to add that we shall not be understood to have held that imposition of sentence on such offenders shall be to satisfy 4 [2009] 8 SCR 719 : (2009) 7 SCC 254 5 [2014] 9 SCR 467 : (2014) 9 SCC 281 6 [2014] 13 SCR 554 : (2015) 1 SCC 222 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 787 Baba Natarajan Prasad v. M. Revathi the society and we are only on the point that following the rule of proportionality in imposing punishment would promote and bring and liness in society. 5. The case on hand unfolds as grievance of grave deviation of the principle of sentencing thus laid down by this Court and it carries a consequential prayer for enhancement of punishment for conviction for the offence under Section 494 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short, ‘I.P.C.’).