or the duty so accepted by that person, within thirty 308 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports days of the receipt of the notice and inform the proper officer of such payment in writing. (6) Where the importer or the exporter or the agent or the employee of the importer or the exporter, as the case may be, has paid duty with interest and penalty under sub-section (5), the proper officer shall determine the amount of duty or interest and on determination, if the proper officer is of the opinion- (i) that the duty with interest and penalty has been paid in full, then, the proceedings in respect of such person or other persons to whom the notice is served under sub-section (1) or sub- section (4), shall, without prejudice to the provisions of sections 135, 135A and 140 be deemed to be conclusive as to the matters stated therein; or (ii) that the duty with interest and penalty that has been paid falls short of the amount actually payable, then the proper officer shall proceed to issue the notice as provided for in clause (a) of sub-section (1) in respect of such amount which falls short of the amount actually payable in the manner specified under that sub-section and the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 309 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. period of one year shall be computed from the date of receipt of information under sub-section (5). Provided further that where The legislature the amount of duty which has has removed not been levied or has been the pecuniary short-levied or erroneously distinction and refunded or the interest the consequent payable has not been paid, approvals from part paid or erroneously different authorities refunded is one crore rupees for issuance of show or less, a notice under this cause notices. sub-section shall be served by the Commissioner of Customs or with his prior approval by any officer sub-ordinate to him: Provided also that where the amount of duty has not been levied or has been short-levied or erroneously refunded or the interest payable thereon has not been paid, part paid or erroneously refunded is more than one crore rupees, no notice under this sub- section shall be served except with the prior approval of the Chief Commissioner of Customs. Explanation : Where the (7) In computing the period This is an analogous service of the notice is stayed of one year referred to in provision. by an of a court, the clause period of such stay shall be (a) of sub-section (1) excluded in computing the or five years referred to aforesaid period of one year in sub-section (4), the or six months or five years, period during which there as the case may be. was any stay by an of a court or tribunal in respect of payment of such duty or interest shall be excluded. 310 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) The proper officer, after (8) The proper officer This is an analogous considering the representation, shall, after allowing the provision and if any, made by the person on concerned person an pertains to the whom notice is served under opportunity of being heard adjudication / sub-section (1), shall determine and after considering the determination of the the amount of duty or interest representation, if any, amount specified due from such person (not made by such person, in the show-cause being in excess of the amount determine the amount of notice when issued specified in the notice) and duty or interest due from under sub-section thereupon such person shall such person not being (1) of the new pay the amount so determined.