The entire payment to the Employees/ Workmen dues including dues of Authorized Representatives of Employees/ Workmen is being made in priority within 175 (one hundred seventy five) days from the Effective Date. […] (g) Other than Admitted Workmen and Employees Dues which the Resolution Applicant proposed to pay, all other potential obligations and workmen dues including any dues towards Provident Fund (Contribution of Employees / Company), Gratuity, Employees State Insurance Scheme, Professional Tax or any other taxes in nature of employment owed or payable to, (including any demand for any penalty, penal interest already accrued/ accruing or in connection with any claims) and all rights and entitlements of present or past, direct or indirect, permanent or temporary, employees and/or workmen of the Corporate Debtor, whether admitted or not, due or contingent, asserted or unasserted, crystalized or uncrystallized, known or unknown, secured or unsecured, disputed or undisputed, present or future, whether or not set out in the balance sheet of the Corporate Debtor or the profit and loss account statements of the Corporate Debtor or the List of Creditors, claim submitted or not submitted, claim admitted or not admitted, in relation to any period prior to the ICD will be written off in full and shall be deemed to be permanently extinguished and waived off subject to Clause 9.9 of this Resolution Plan by virtue of the of Adjudicating Authority approving the Resolution Plan and neither the Corporate Debtor nor the Resolution Applicant shall, at no point of time be, directly or indirectly, held responsible or liable in relation thereto. […] 2068 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (i)(xi) For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby clarified that notwithstanding the acceptance or rejection of the terms of the proposed demerger by the employees and/or workmen, the Resolution Applicant shall ensure the payment of (i) minimum value due and payable to such employees and workmen (under Section 30(2) of the IBC); and (ii) the CIRP costs admitted by the Resolution Professional, subject to a maximum of Rs. 475 Crores. xxx xxx xxx 6.4.4. Treatment of Financial Creditors […] Summary of payments and security package Head Amount Security Value of Date of Date of Payable Offered Security Creation Release of of Security Security Cash Up to Rs. PBG of Rs. Rs. 393.5 Effective PBG Payment 185 Crores 47.5 Crores Cr (with Date adjusted BKC) BKC Property To be (if given) released on sale of BKC Or Mortgage over Year 5 or Dubai on complete payment, Property No. Rs. 147.5 whichever 1 valued at Cr is earlier more than Rs. (without 100 Crores BKC) Cash Rs. 195 BKC Property Rs. 445 Effective To be Payment Crores (if given) Cr Date released on sale of BKC (with Mortgage over BKC) Effective Year 5 or Dubai Date on complete payment, Property No. whichever 1 valued at Or is earlier more than Rs. 100 Crores Mortgage over Rs. 200 Effective Dubai Cr Date Property No. (without 2 valued at BKC) more than Rs. 100 Crores [2024] 11 S.C.R.