b) The State had submitted in the contempt proceedings that there was serious dispute with respect to the question of title which could only be adjudicated in a civil suit; however, during the course of the review proceedings, the senior counsel appearing for the State categorically stated that no civil suit had been filed till date. c) During the period 1968 to 2022, the appellant had consistently taken the plea of absolute title having been escheated to the Government, but in course of consideration of the review petitions, undertook a mutually inconsistent plea of the subject land being Government land on the basis of revenue entries. d) The appellant did not raise objections with respect to fraud and fabrication when the additional documents were produced by the first respondent before the High Court; having acquiesced to the same, the appellant was now estopped from raising such pleas. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1091 S. Tirupathi Rao v. M. Lingamaiah & Ors. e) The first respondent relied on a multitude of s by both judicial and administrative authorities to prove that the subject land was privately purchased, and constituted self-acquired lands of the first respondent’s predecessor in interest. ANALYSIS 8. The present lis confronts us primarily with two inter-related legal issues. The first one requires us to examine whether the parameters set out in XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC for exercising the power of review, as interpreted by this Court in its numerous s, were at all satisfied for the High Court to embark on an exercise of review. The second issue requiring our consideration is the terminus a quo for commencement of the point of limitation in matters of contempt, in the light of provisions of section 20 of the Act read with Article 215 of the Constitution and rule 21 of the Writ Rules. This would, in turn, require us to examine whether the contempt petition could have been held to be maintainable by the High Court on the ground of the appellant having continued to observe the (directing mutation to be effected) in the breach; in other words, whether there was a continuing wilful breach of the of the Single Judge dated 5th March, 2009, amounting to civil contempt. These being preliminary legal issues are proposed to be dealt with at the outset. Needless to observe, hardly any other issue would survive for decision should any of these issues be answered in favour of the appellant and against the first respondent. 9. We are not too inclined to examine the contention raised on behalf of the appellant that he was not extended reasonable and adequate opportunity of hearing, once the Division Bench (review) allowed the review petitions and proceeded to reverse the decision of the Division Bench (original) on merits. There are other formidable grounds of challenge, which would necessarily fall for our examination and succeeding on one of such grounds would render the contention raised redundant. 10. The Division Bench (review) extensively discussed the grounds which need to exist so as to validate the invocation and exercise of the Court’s power of review.