The Learned Judge rejected the contention that merely because a sprinkling of harijans/girijans happen to find their way into the services, the efficiency of the administration of the country would be affected. On the contrary, he states that the merit-mongers are greater risks in many respects than the naive tribals and the slightly better off low castes. 116. It is pertinent to note the observations made by the Learned Judge towards the end of paragraph 94 and in paragraph 98 are most important for the purposes of the present reference. Paragraph 98 reads thus: “98. The argument is that there are rich and influential harijans who rob all the privileges leaving the serf-level sufferers as suppressed as ever. The Administration may 1514 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports well innovate and classify to weed out the creamy layer of SCs/STs but the court cannot force the State in that behalf.” 117. Chinnappa Reddy, J. in his separate concurring observed thus: “123. Because fundamental rights are justiciable and directive principles are not, it was assumed, in the beginning, that fundamental rights held a superior position under the Constitution than the directive principles, and that the latter were only of secondary importance as compared with the Fundamental Rights. That way of thinking is of the past and has become obsolete. It is now universally recognised that the difference between the Fundamental rights and directive principles lies in this that Fundamental rights are primarily aimed at assuring political freedom to the citizens by protecting them against excessive State action while the directive principles are aimed at securing social and economic freedoms by appropriate State action. The Fundamental rights are intended to foster the ideal of a political democracy and to prevent the establishment of authoritarian rule but they are of no value unless they can be enforced by resort to courts. So they are made justiciable. But, it is also evident that notwithstanding their great importance, the directive principles cannot in the very nature of things be enforced in a court of law. It is unimaginable that any court can compel a legislature to make a law. If the court can compel Parliament to make laws then parliamentary democracy would soon be reduced to an oligarchy of Judges. It is in that sense that the Constitution says that the directive principles shall not be enforceable by courts. It does not mean that directive principles are less important than Fundamental rights or that they are not binding on the various organs of the State. Article 37 of the Constitution emphatically states that directive principles are nevertheless fundamental in the governance of the country and it shall be the duty of the State to apply these principles in making laws. It follows that it becomes the duty of the court to apply the directive principles in interpreting the Constitution and the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1515 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. laws. The directive principles should serve the courts as a code of interpretation.