The reports submitted by Members of Parliament are also fully covered by protection extended under clause (2) of Article 105 of the Constitution of India. 449.2. The publication of the reports not being only permitted, but also are being encouraged by Parliament. The general public is keenly interested in knowing about the parliamentary proceedings including parliamentary reports which are steps towards the governance of the country. The right to 1926 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports know about the reports only arises when they have been published for use of the public in general. 449.3. Section 57(4) of the Evidence Act, 1872 makes it clear that the course of proceedings of Parliament and the Legislature, established under any law are facts of which judicial notice shall be taken by the Court. 449.4. Parliament has already adopted a report of “privilege committee”, that for those documents which are public documents within the meaning of the Evidence Act, there is no requirement of any permission of the Speaker of Lok Sabha for producing such documents as evidence in court. 449.5. That mere fact that document is admissible in evidence whether a public or private document does not lead to draw any presumption that the contents of the documents are also true and correct. 449.6. When a party relies on any fact stated in the Parliamentary Committee report as the matter of noticing an event or history no exception can be taken on such reliance of the report. However, no party can be allowed to “question” or “impeach” report of Parliamentary Committee. The parliamentary privilege, that it shall not be impeached or questioned outside Parliament shall equally apply both to a party who files claim in the court and other who objects to it. Any observation in the report or inference of the Committee cannot be held to be binding between the parties. The parties are at liberty to lead evidence independently to prove their stand in a court of law. 449.7. Both the parties have not disputed that parliamentary reports can be used for the purposes of legislative history of a statute as well as for considering the statement made by a minister. When there is no breach of privilege in considering the parliamentary materials and reports of the Committee by the Court for the above two purposes, we fail to see any valid reason for not accepting the submission [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1927 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. of the petitioner that courts are not debarred from accepting the parliamentary materials and reports, on record, before it, provided the court does not proceed to permit the parties to question and impeach the reports. 449.8. The Constitution does not envisage supremacy of any of the three organs of the State. But, functioning of all the three organs is controlled by the Constitution. Wherever, interaction and deliberations among the three organs have been envisaged, a delicate balance and mutual respect are contemplated. All the three organs have to strive to achieve the constitutional goal set out for “We the People”.