Explanation.- For the purposes of clause (c),- (i) where a contract involved the payment of money, it is not essential for the plaintiff to actually tender to the defendant or to deposit in court any money except when so directed by the court;” 35. This Court concluded that the petitioner was not ready and willing to perform his part (as required by Section 16(c)) because the balance sale consideration was not paid within three months as required by Clause 3: “58. From the aforesaid, it is clear that the purchaser ought to have been vigilant in the case at hand to enforce his right and could not have been lackadaisical in his approach. From the facts, it is clear that the purchaser had entered into an agreement way back on 26/27/.03.1997, which had a clause mandating completion of the contract by payment of the remaining consideration within three months. The aforesaid clause was drafted, as alluded to earlier, for providing one last opportunity for the purchaser to make good their lapse which had happened on the earlier occasion. In this context, the time for performance 692 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the contract including the payment lasted till the month of June 1997.” (emphasis supplied) 36. It is clear from the above extract that this Court held that the petitioner was not ready and willing to perform the contract in which time was of essence. The conclusion that time was of essence was derived based on an interpretation of Clause 3 read with Clause 21. The reasoning based on which this Court held that the petitioner was not ready and willing to perform the contract falls in view of the conclusion that the interpretation of Clause 21 and Clause 3 by this Court is erroneous because of the factual misconception and omission, respectively. 37. In paragraph 67 of the , this Court also held that the first and the second respondents were ready and willing to perform their obligation of providing the documents: “67. On the aspect of the vendor’s obligation to provide requisite and necessary documents, DW1 (Smt. Katta Sujatha Reddy), has averred that all the documents were available. It is only after the purchaser was satisfied about the sound title that he entered into the agreement to sell.” 38. There is an error apparent on the face of the record in the factual finding recorded above. The Trial Court recorded that the respondents did not produce the records. The Trial Court expressly noted that DW-1 initially stated that they produced the certificates. However, during the cross-examination, DWs 1-3 deposed that they had not obtained and produced these documents. The observations of the Trial Court in this regard are extracted below: “70. […] It is in the written statement and as well as in the reply lawyers notice as if the defendants got secured these documents. But, the fact remains and undisputed is, the defendant have not obtained such certificates and they have not furnished them to the plaintiff and they have not even informed to the plaintiff what are the steps taken by them in obtaining these documents and the [2024] 11 S.C.R.