15. As stated earlier, the provisions pertaining to the offences under the PC Act particularly the offences under Section 7, 8, 9, 10 and 13, have been substantially amended, and the new offence under Section 7(A), has been inserted by the Amendment Act 16/2018. Such substitution in place of existing provisions and such insertion of new provisions in the PC Act, have created new set of rights and liabilities under the Act. Section 17A having been newly inserted simultaneously with such amendments in the provisions pertaining to the offences, in my opinion, Section 17A could be made applicable only to the said amended/ newly inserted offences under the PC Act. Section 17A having been introduced as a part of larger legislative scheme, and the other offences under the PC Act having been redefined or newly inserted by way of Amendment Act, 2018, Section 17A is required to be treated as a substantive and not merely a procedural in nature. Such a substantive amendment could not be made applicable retrospectively to the offences like Section 13(1)(c) and 13(1)(d), which have been deleted under the Amendment Act, 2018. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 595 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. 16. The submission of ld. Senior Advocate Mr. Salve that since Section 17A constitutes a legal bar to the very initiation of enquiry, inquiry or investigation into the offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant, without the previous approval of the functionaries specified in the said provision, such a provision is procedural in nature, and therefore the mandate of Section 17A should be made retroactively applicable i.e. even to the pending enquiry, inquiry or investigation, if not made applicable retrospectively, also can not be accepted. The cardinal principle of construction is that every statute would have prospective operation, unless it is expressly or by necessary implication made to have a retrospective operation. There could not be a presumption against the retrospectivity. In the instant case, the Amendment Act, 2018, by which Section 17A was inserted, was specifically made applicable with effect from 26.07.2018 by the Central Government vide the Notification of the even date. Hence, the intention of the Legislature was also to make the amendments applicable prospectively from a particular date and not retrospectively or retroactively. In Vineeta Sharma vs. Rakesh Sharma and Others13, a three-judge bench has very aptly distinguished the effect of retrospective statute, retroactive statute and prospective statute, and has observed as under: - “61. The prospective statute operates from the date of its enactment conferring new rights. The retrospective statute operates backwards and takes away or impairs vested rights acquired under existing laws. A retroactive statute is the one that does not operate retrospectively. It operates in futuro. However, its operation is based upon the character or status that arose earlier. Characteristic or event which happened in the past or requisites which had been drawn from antecedent events. Under the amended Section 6, since the right is given by birth, that is, an antecedent event, and the provisions operate concerning claiming rights on and from the date of the Amendment Act.