Lord Mustill and Stewart Boyd term Section 4 as one of the ‘four pillars’ of the UK Arbitration Act.64 They observe that the provision is one of the instances indicating the influence of the state on the internal law of arbitration.65 iii. Appointment of arbitrators 34. Section 10 provides that “parties are free to determine the number of arbitrators, provided that such number shall not be an even number.”66 If parties fail to determine the number of arbitrators, the arbitral tribunal shall consist of a sole arbitrator. Section 11 pertains to the appointment of arbitrators. Section 11(2) provides that subject to Section 11(6), parties “are free to agree on a procedure for appointing the arbitrator or arbitrators.” Section 11 provides recourse to the following contingencies if the parties fail to adhere to the agreed procedure for the appointment of an arbitrator or arbitrators: “(3) Failing any agreement referred to in sub-section (2), in an arbitration with three arbitrators, each party shall appoint one arbitrator, and the two appointed arbitrators shall appoint the third arbitrator who shall act as the presiding arbitrator; (4) If the appointment procedure in sub-section (3) applies and – (a) a party fails to appoint an arbitrator within thirty days from the receipt of a request to do so from the other party; or (b) the two appointed arbitrators fail to agree on the The choice of law other than the law of England and Wales or Northern Ireland as the applicable law in respect of a matter provided for by a non-mandatory provision of this Part is equivalent to an agreement making provision about that matter. For this purpose an applicable law determined in accordance with the parties’ agreement, or which is objectively determined in the absence of any express or implied choice, shall be treated as chosen by the parties.”] 64 Lord Mustill and Stewart Boyd, Commercial Arbitration (2nd edn, Butterworths 2001) 23. 65 Ibid, at 57. 66 Section 10, Arbitration Act. [It reads: “10. Number of arbitrators – (1) The parties are free to determine the number of arbitrators, provided that such number shall not be an even number. (2) Failing the determination referred to in sub-section (1), the arbitral tribunal shall consist of sole arbitrator.”] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2213 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company third arbitrator within thirty days from the date of their appointment, The appointment shall be made, on an application of a party, by the Supreme Court or, as the case may be, by the High Court or any person or institution designated by such Court. (5) Failing any agreement referred to in sub-section (2), in an arbitration with a sole arbitrator, if the parties fail to agree on the arbitrator within thirty days from receipt of a request by one party from the other party to so agree the appointment shall be made, upon request of a party, by the Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court or any person or institution designated by such Court.