[Paras 25, 37, 28, 29, 34, 35, 37] Interpretation of statutes – Principles of statutory interpretation – Reading down and reading up: Held: Reading down and reading up are two principles in the realm of statutory interpretation – Reading down refers to the practice of interpreting a statute narrowly, limiting its scope or [2024] 5 S.C.R. 741 M/s Sundew Properties Limited v. Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission & Anr. application to specific situations or individuals – This approach is commonly employed when the language of a statute is ambiguous or when there is a need to avoid potential conflicts with other laws or constitutional provisions – If a law is unclear about whether it applies to certain types of businesses, a court may choose to read down the statute to only include those businesses explicitly mentioned in the text – Reading up involves interpreting a statute broadly, extending its scope or application beyond what is expressly stated in the text – Reading up is a concept that is invoked with great caution within the legal framework because it can lead to judicial activism or judicial overreach – Practice of reading up a provision can only be justified when it aligns with legislative intent, maintains the fundamental character of the law, and ensures that the resulting interpretation remains consistent with the original context to which the law applies – This holds especially true for subordinate legislation, which require greater scrutiny – Reading up a provision of subordinate legislation in a manner that it militates against the primary legislation not permissible. [Paras 30, 32] Legislation – Enabling/primary legislation and subordinate legislation – Harmonization between – Requirement: Held: Authority to enact subordinate legislation is derived from the enabling/primary legislation and it is imperative that such legislation harmonizes with the provisions outlined in the primary legislation – Electricity Act has conferred power on the Central Government to make Rules and on the Central Electricity Authority and the Central Commission to make Regulations – All such rules/regulations are to be made consistent with the Electricity Act – Rules/Regulations are enacted to supplement the main provision, not to supplant it – They serve the crucial role of bridging potential gaps within the primary legislation, yet, their function is not to create webs and voids merely to clog and hamper their implementation – Any gaps addressed by Rules/Regulations must be discernible within the framework of primary legislation. [Para 33] Case Law Cited Sesa Sterlite Limited. v. Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission and Others [2014] 13 SCR 426 : (2014) 8 SCC 444; State of Bombay v. Pandurang Vinayak Chaphalkar [1953] 1 SCR 773 : (1953) 1 SCC 425; B.R. Kapur v. State of Tamil Nadu [2001] Supp. 3 SCR 191 : (2001) 7 SCC 231 – referred to. 742 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports List of Acts Electricity Act, 2003; Special Economic Zones Act, 2005; Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Distribution Licence) Regulations, 2013; Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014; Distribution of Electricity Licence (Additional Requirements of Capital Adequacy, Creditworthiness and Code of Conduct) Rules, 2005.