The name of the appellant, however, does not figure in his first statement recorded by the State Police on 02.11.2018. 29. In the light of these materials we shall have to examine the strength of prosecution’s case to implicate the appellant in the offences specified under Sections 16, 17, 18, 18B, 20, 38, 39 and 40 of the 1967 Act. There is also allegation against her for commission of offence under Section 13 of the same statute, but that offence does not come under the purview of the bail restricting provision of Section 43D (5) of the 1967 Act and we shall deal with that accusation in the succeeding paragraphs of this . The offences under Chapter IV of the 1967 Act with which the appellant has been charged with by the prosecuting agency, mainly stem from commission of a terrorist act or any act in connection therewith. Section 15 of the 1967 Act stipulates: - 296 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “15. Terrorist act.— (1) Whoever does any act with intent to threaten or likely to threaten the unity, integrity, security, economic security, or sovereignty of India or with intent to strike terror or likely to strike terror in the people or any section of the people in India or in any foreign country,— (a) by using bombs, dynamite or other explosive substances or inflammable substances or firearms or other lethal weapons or poisonous or noxious gases or other chemicals or by any other substances (whether biological radioactive, nuclear or otherwise) of a hazardous nature or by any other means of whatever nature to cause or likely to cause— (i) death of, or injuries to, any person or persons; or (ii) loss of, or damage to, or destruction of, property; or (iii) disruption of any supplies or services essential to the life of the community in India or in any foreign country; or (iii-a) damage to, the monetary stability of India by way of production or smuggling or circulation of high quality counterfeit Indian paper currency, coin or of any other material; or (iv) damage or destruction of any property in India or in a foreign country used or intended to be used for the defence of India or in connection with any other purposes of the Government of India, any State Government or any of their agencies; or (b) overawes by means of criminal force or the show of criminal force or attempts to do so or causes death of any public functionary or attempts to cause death of any public functionary; or [2024] 4 S.C.R. 297 Shoma Kanti Sen v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. (c) detains, kidnaps or abducts any person and threatens to kill or injure such person or does any other act in to compel the Government of India, any State Government or the Government of a foreign country or an international or inter- governmental organisation or any other person to do or abstain from doing any act; or commits a terrorist act.