He stated: “Now, having regard to the fact that there are various ways by which economic democracy may be brought about, we have deliberately introduced in the language that we have used, in the directive principles, something which is not fixed or rigid. We have left enough room for people of different ways of thinking, with regard to the reaching of the ideal of economic democracy, to strive in their own way, to persuade the electorate that it is the best way of reaching economic democracy, the fullest opportunity to act in the way in which they want to act. Sir, that is the reason why the language of the articles in Part IV is left in the manner in which this Drafting Committee thought it best to leave it. It is no use giving a fixed, 140 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports rigid form to something which is not rigid, which is fundamentally changing and must, having regard to the circumstances and the times, keep on changing. It is, therefore, no use saying that the directive principles have no value. In my , the directive principles have a great value, for they lay down that our ideal is economic democracy. [..] I think, if the friends who are agitated over this question bear in mind what I have said just now that our object in framing this Constitution is really twofold : (i) to lay down the form of political democracy, and (ii) to lay down that our ideal is economic democracy and also to prescribe that every Government whatever, it is in power, shall strive to bring about economic democracy, much of the misunderstanding under which most members are labouring will disappear.” 155. An insight may also be gleaned from Dr Ambedkar’s response to a proposal by Professor KT Shah to include the phrase “India shall be a Secular, Federal, Socialist Union of States” in draft Article 1 of the Constitution.129 Dr Ambedkar opposed the proposal with a two-fold response. First, he reiterated his position that the Constitution is not a mechanism to install a particular political party, structure of social organisation or economic policy. To lay down such a policy about how social and economic life is to be organised, in his view, would “destroy democracy” and take away citizens’ liberty to choose the method of social organisation that suits their needs. He stated that while at that point in time, a socialist organisation may be deemed to be beneficial, future generations may devise a different form of social organisation. Second, he conceded that the several Directive Principles, including Article 31(ii), which corresponds with the present Article 39(b) are already “socialistic” in their direction and thus, the amendment was ‘superfluous’. The observations of Dr Ambedkar are extracted below: “Mr. Vice-President Sir, I regret that I cannot accept the amendment of Prof. K. T. Shah. My objections, stated briefly are two. In the first place the Constitution, 129 Constituent Assembly Debates, Vol VII (15th November 1948) [2024] 11 S.C.R.