173. Property taxes leviable. – (1) For the purposes of sub-section (1) of Section172 property taxes shall comprise the following taxes which shall, subject to the exceptions, limitations and conditions hereinafter provided, be levied on buildings and lands in the City - (a) a general tax which may be levied, if the Corporation so determines, on a graduated scale; (b) a water tax; (c) drainage tax leviable in areas provided with sewer system by the Corporation; 888 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (d) a conservancy tax in areas in which the Corporation undertakes, the collection; removal and disposal of excrementitious and polluted matter from privies, urinals and cesspools. (2) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act or rules made thereunder, these taxes shall be levied on the annual value of buildings or land as the case may be: Provided that the aggregate of the property taxes shall in no case be less than 15 per cent nor more than 25 per cent of the annual value of the building of land or both assessed to such taxes. 174. Definition of “Annual Value” – “Annual value” means – (a) in the case of railway stations, colleges, schools, hostels, factories, commercial buildings, and other non-residential buildings, a proportion not below 5 per cent, to be fixed by rule made in this behalf of the sum obtained by adding the estimated present cost of erecting the building, less depreciation at a rate to be fixed by rules, to the estimated value of the land appurtenant thereto; and (b) in the case of a building or land not falling within the provisions of clause (a), the gross annual rent for which such building exclusive of furniture or machinery therein, or such land is actually let, or where the building or land is not let or in the opinion of the assessing authority is let for a sum less than its fair letting value, might reasonably be expected to be let from year to year. Provided that where the annual value of any building would, by reason of exceptional circumstances, in the opinion of the Corporation, be excessive if calculated in the aforesaid manner, the Corporation may fix the annual value at any less amount which appears to it equitable. Provided further that where the Corporation so resolves, the annual value in the case of owner occupied buildings and land shall for the purposes of assessment of property taxes be deemed to be 25 per cent less than the annual value otherwise determined under this Section. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 889 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others 175. Restrictions on imposition of water tax.-The imposition of a tax under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 173 shall be subject to the restriction that the tax shall not be imposed – (i) on any land exclusively for agricultural purposes, unless the water is supplied by the Corporation for such purposes; or (ii) on a plot of land or building the annual value whereof does not exceed rupees three hundred and sixty and to which no water is supplied by the Corporation; or (iii) on any plot or building, no part of which is within the radius prescribed for the City, from the nearest stand-pipe or other waterworks whereat water is made available to the public by the Corporation.