Immediately on receiving the draft seniority list, the appellant herein made a representation against the same and when a favourable decision was not forthcoming, he approached the CAT for challenging the validity thereof. He submitted that the finding of the High Court that the private respondents herein(writ petitioners) were senior to the appellant as on the date of initial appointment is totally against the record. 13. He further urged that the extant rules do not provide that the promotion from Fitter(semi-skilled) to Fitter(skilled) would be dependent on passing the trade test. Thus, as soon as the appellant completed the probation period, his services would have to be confirmed and reckoned from the date of initial appointment, and by virtue thereof, the appellant would be entitled to be placed above the private respondents in the of seniority. 14. Learned counsel submitted that the period spent during training/ probation has to be reckoned for computation of length of service and the same cannot be excluded while assigning seniority to an employee. In support of his arguments, learned counsel placed reliance on the of this Court in the case of L. Chandrakishore Singh v. State of Haryana.15 15. He further submitted that the movement of the employee from semi- skilled to skilled grade tantamounts to confirmation/ upgradation and 15 AIR 1975 SC 613 134 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not a promotion. In support of this contention, reliance was placed on the of this Court in the case of BSNL v. R. Santhakumari Velusamy.16 16. Learned counsel also placed reliance on the Office Memorandum17 dated 4th November,1992, issued by the Government of India, Department of Personnel and Training, which was in force at the time when the appellant and the private respondents were appointed, wherein, it is provided: - “Seniority for Promotion effective from 4th November, 1992 [Government of India, Department of Personnel and Training, Office Memorandum No. 20011/5/90-Estt. (D), dated the 4th November, 1992] Seniority to be determined by the of merit indicated at the time of initial appointment.- The seniority of Government servants is determined in accordance with the general principles of seniority contained in M.Η.Α., Ο.Μ. No. 9/11155-RPS, dated the 22nd December, 1959 (See Section II). One of the basic principles enunciated in the said OM is that, seniority follows confirmation and consequently permanent officers in each grade shall rank senior to those who are officiating in that grade. 2. This principle has been coming under judicial scrutiny in a number of cases in the past; the last important being the one delivered by the Supreme Court on 2-5-1990, in the case of Class II Direct Recruits Engineering Officers’ Association v. State of Maharashtra. In Para. 47 (A) of the said , the Supreme Court has held that once an incumbent is appointed to a post according to rule, his seniority has to be counted from the date of his appointment and not-according to the date of his confirmation. 3. The general principle of seniority mentioned above has been examined in the light of the judicial pronouncement 16 [2011] 14 SCR 502 : (2011) 9 SCC 510 17 ‘OM’, hereafter [2024] 10 S.C.R.