With such a pronouncement the obligation is cast upon the authorities to itself extend the benefit thereof to all similarly situated persons. Such a situation can occur when the subject-matter of the decision touches upon 34 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the policy matters, like scheme of regularization and the like. On the other hand, if the of the court was in personam holding that benefit of the said shall accrue to the parties before the court and such an intention is stated expressly in the or it can be impliedly found out from the tenor and language of the , those who want to get the benefit of the said extended to them shall have to satisfy that their petition does not suffer from either laches and delays or acquiescence.” 21. The principles laid down in the case of Arvind Kumar Srivastava (supra) are referred by this court in Shoeline vs. Commissioner of Service Tax & Ors.” reported as (2017) 16 SCC 104 to observe that when there is a declaration of law by court, the can be treated as in rem and require equities to be balanced by treating those similarly situated, similarly. 22. Therefore, as this Court is directing appointments strictly in accordance with merit of the candidates in the recruitment test, as per the revised list, we are of the view that parity relief should be considered for all similarly situated persons. A differential treatment for those who did not approach the Court earlier may not be warranted in the facts of the present case, by treating them to be fence sitters and would amount to denial of opportunity under Article 14 and Article 16 of the Constitution of India. One reason for taking such a view is the prolonged recruitment process commencing from 12.09.2006 culminating in the official declaration of result on 04.09.2011, interspersed with multiple litigations by the aggrieved candidates. 23. Also, one cannot ignore that the job seekers who participated in the recruitment test following the Board’s notification dated 22.12.2006 and are selected, are put in limbo waiting for employment for last several years. So far those who are not yet appointed, the door of justice must be opened as this Court is quite capable of hearing the silent knocks of the selectees, possibly incapacitated to approach the Court by reasons beyond their control. 24. That apart, the High Court’s dated 6.10.2015 as earlier stated, must be construed as in rem with intention to give benefit to all similarly situated persons irrespective of whether they were before the Court or not. On the other hand, this Court’s [2024] 10 S.C.R. 35 Khunjamayum Bimoti Devi v. The State of Manipur & Ors. rendered on 16.03.2016 is confined only to those covered by the and should be considered to be a in personam. For this reason also, the benefit of the High Court’s dated 6.10.2015 should be made available by the State Authorities to everyone as per their respective merit position, in the revised select list, against the notified 1423 posts of Primary Teachers.