Prosecution had proved its case beyond all reasonable doubt against each of the accused. Therefore, while upholding the conviction and sentence, the High Court dismissed the appeal. 12. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that both the trial court and the High Court committed a manifest error in convicting the appellant under Sections 148 and 302/149 IPC. He submits that allegation against the appellant was that he was carrying a country- made pistol. As the informant and others tried to rush towards Satya Narain on hearing his cries as he was being assaulted by the other accused persons, appellant Nitya Nand fired from his country-made pistol thereby threatening the informant and the others who tried to rescue Satya Narain. As the appellant fired from his country-made pistol, all the accused persons made good their escape from the crime scene. However, neither were there any firearm injuries on the person of the deceased nor on anyone else. That apart, there was no recovery of any country-made pistol or empty cartridge from the crime scene or from anywhere else. In the absence thereof, both the courts below were not justified in so convicting the appellant. 12.1. Learned counsel for the appellant further submits that Laxmi Narain, who was with the deceased and who had walked ahead 42 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports along with the informant while talking with Bhola Shankar and Kuldeep Kumar Tiwari, was not examined by the prosecution as a witness. This is a crucial omission as because only due to gifting of the property by Laxmi Narain to the sons of the deceased Satya Narain which led to such bad blood between the brothers leading to the fatal incident. Learned counsel also emphasized that another crucial omission on the part of the prosecution is that Kuldeep Kumar Tiwari was not examined as a witness. Such glaring omission has cast uncertain shadows over the prosecution case. Omission to examine Kuldeep Kumar Tiwari as a prosecution witness has completely punctured the prosecution case because it was he who had written the FIR lodged by the informant besides being an eyewitness. 12.2. Learned counsel for the appellant finally submits that appellant has been convicted solely on the basis of suspicion. In a criminal trial, the conviction must be based on hard evidence and not on mere suspicion. Even if there is an iota of doubt as to the culpability of an accused, as in the present case, he has to be given the benefit of the doubt. That being the position, the impugned conviction and sentence of the appellant should be interfered with by this Court. 13. Learned counsel for respondent No. 1, State of U.P., has vehemently argued that conviction and sentence of the appellant is fully justified. There is no reason to interfere with the same. 13.1. He submits that there was a clear motive for the accused persons, including the appellant, to have caused the murder of Satya Narain. According to him, the accused Shree Dev, deceased Satya Narain, and Laxmi Narain were the three brothers, Laxmi Narain being the youngest of the three.