iv) Sri Luthra refuted the argument of the petitioners that in the light of the grievous nature of the offence, the convicts herein do not deserve remission. At the stage of remission, the length of sentence or the gravity of the original crime cannot be the [2024] 1 S.C.R. 809 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others sole basis for refusing premature release as held in Satish vs. State of UP, (2021) 14 SCC 580 (“Satish”). Therefore, any argument regarding the factual nature of the crime or the impact it had on society are not relevant for consideration of remission was the submission of Sri Luthra. v) That it is open for the High Court as well as this Court to modify the punishment by providing for a specific period of incarceration without remission, considering the purported heinous nature of the offence but neither the High Court nor this Court chose to exercise the said power to incarcerate the private respondents herein for a duration which was non-remittable. This shows that the aforesaid argument advanced by the petitioner is only a red herring. vi) It was emphasized that an of remission passed by an authority merely affects the execution of the sentence, without interfering with the sentence passed by the Court. Therefore, since the matter has already attained finality, it is not possible to question the validity of such an on factual grounds alone, such as, the nature of crime, impact on society and society’s cry for justice. vii) Learned senior counsel submitted that the mere fact that fine had not been paid or that there was a default in payment of the fine imposed does not impact the exercise of the power of remission. The sentence is something which an offender must undergo unless it is set aside or remitted in part or in whole either in appeal, or in revision, or in other appropriate judicial proceedings or ‘otherwise’, whereas, a term of imprisonment ed in default of payment of fine stands on a different footing vide Shantilal;Abdul Gani vs. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1950) SCC OnLine MP 119 (“Abdul Gani”) and Shahejadkham Mahebubkham Pathan vs. State of Gujarat, (2013) 1 SCC 570 (“Shahejadkham Mahebubkham Pathan”). Further, reliance was placed on Sharad Kolambe, wherein it was observed by this Court that, “If the term of imprisonment in default of payment of fine is a penalty which a person incurs on account of non-payment of fine and is not a sentence in strict sense, imposition of such default sentence is completely different and qualitatively distinct from a substantive sentence.” 810 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. Learned senior counsel appearing for respondent No.7 Mrs. Sonia Mathur, while adopting the submissions of other senior counsel further contended as under: 15.1. That as per Section 432 (7)(b) of the CrPC and the judicial precedent set in Radheshyam Bhagwandas Shah, the appropriate government would be the State of Gujarat. The said has attained finality as the Review Petition filed against the said was dismissed by this Court on 13.12.2022.