6. After conducting the investigation, the IO filed a chargesheet on 22.06.2011, where the present appellants were not named as accused. There were only four named accused in the chargesheet, however, Mahendra Singh who was arrayed as Accused No. 4 was absconding. It was categorically stated in the chargesheet that after investigation, it came to light that the naming of the present appellants was false. 7. Trial: On 20.05.2016, PW-1 was examined where she stated that “My old enmity with accused Bacha Singh has been going in for the last 11 years and on the basis of suspicion, I had written the names of Shankar and Vishal in the FIR.” However, at a later stage of her examination, she stated that “It is wrong to suggest that because of old enmity, I have wrongly written the names of Bacha Singh and his sons in the FIR”. Apart from PW-1, none of the other 5 witness, spoke about the complicity of the appellants in the commission of the offence. 8. Trial Court: Pursuant to the statement made by PW-1 in her examination in chief, the Assistant Public Prosecutor, on 31.07.2017, filed an application under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. to summon the appellants herein to face the trial. 9. The Ld. Trial Court, on 24.08.2017, allowed the application filed by the APP after noting certain previous decisions of this Court where it was held that if the evidence tendered in the course of trial shows that any person not named as an accused has a role to play in the commission of the offence, then he could be summoned to face trial even though he may not have been charge sheeted. 10. High Court: The above passed by the Trial Court was challenged by the Appellants before the High Court by filing a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. This petition came to be dismissed by the High Court by its dated 04.04.2023. While dismissing the petition, the High Court noted that at the stage of Section 482, the Court is only supposed to see if there exists a prima-facie case. It is this of the High Court which is impugned before us. 11. Issue: The only question arising in the present appeal is whether the power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. has been properly exercised in light of the facts of the present case and evidence on record. 12. Analysis: We have heard Ld. counsel for appellants, Ms. Preetika Dwivedi and Ld. counsel for the Respondent State Mr. Ankit Goel. 14 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. At the outset, we may note that the four accused who were charge- sheeted, have passed away. As against them, the trial has abated. The learned counsel for the Respondent State has argued that even if the trial has abated against existing accused, there is no bar in summoning the appellants and starting the trial afresh1. This position of law is well-settled and the learned counsel for the appellant has also not disputed the same.