[Para 52, 58, 60] Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006 – s.11 – Intention – Explained. Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006 – s.12 – Child marriage when void ab initio – Stated. Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 – s.11(2) – Presumption of negligence – Nature of presumption: Held: s.11(2) raises a presumption – Any person in charge of a child who was married off, is presumed to have negligently failed to prevent the child marriage – The presumption is however, rebuttable and may be rebutted by proving that the person could not have prevented the marriage or failed at preventing it, despite their best efforts – This principle is only applicable to an offence u/s.11. [Para 62] Child marriage – Laws governing child rights – Protective legislations such as Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 – Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 – ss.2(14), 27, 106, 107 – Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act 2005 – ss.2(b), 13, 24 – Legal Services Authorities Act 1987 – s.12 – Protective framework of the Acts: Held: 1. The principles of the POCSO Act are directly threatened by the commission of child marriage. The intent of the POCSO Act is to protect children from sexual advances. Child marriage on the other hand is an institution which puts minor girls directly in harm’s way. Under the POCSO Act, a man is liable to punishment for having sex with his minor wife. Nevertheless, the existence of child marriage and its continued recognition in the law as a valid (and voidable) marriage threatens the dignity of children. The institution of child marriage, more directly than any other institution, stipulates for the sexual abuse of child brides by design. [Para 81] 2.1 The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act provides a comprehensive framework to deal with children in need of care and protection (CNCP). Section 27 of the JJ Act establishes 1518 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) to inter alia handle and resolve complaints in relation to children who are in need of care. The CWC's role is to ensure the children's basic needs are met and that they are protected, treated, developed, and rehabilitated. Therefore, children who are married off are required to be produced before the CWC so that they may be rehabilitated and taken care of. As a beneficial social legislation aimed at children, the society and units constituted under the JJ Act are required to proactively identify remedies and strategies for the rehabilitation and protection of victims of child marriages. [Para 85] 2.2 Children who are at risk of marriage at the hands of their family or relatives are expressly recognised as CNCP under the Act. The JJ Act further prescribes for their protection, rehabilitation and development. While victims of child marriage are protected under the JJ Act, it further strengthens the effort to eliminate child marriages by creating a trained and skilled force of police officers to deal with children.