Following the heels of the said , the respondents made an endeavor to serve the grounds of detention along with the relevant documents on the very next day i.e., 20.09.2023 with due translation in the Bengali language. The detenue who was in a correctional home steadfastly refused to receive them despite persuasive attempts made by the Respondents. A panchnama was prepared, and before its due execution another abortive attempt was made to make him receive the grounds of detention, along with the relevant documents. The detenue reiterated his earlier stand, however, a facility was extended to him to read the documents in its entirety. The panchnama was signed not only by two independent witnesses but the detenue as well. Interestingly, the detenue after signing the panchnama in the English language has proceeded further to write “I have refused to receive any document”, leading to the obvious inference that his so called ignorance of English was only an afterthought. 5. Two more attempts were made by the respondents to serve the documents along with the grounds of detention. After refusing to receive the same on the second occasion i.e., on 03.10.2023 it was finally received by him on 10.10.2023. Interestingly, the detenue, through the appellant, filed the Writ Petition on 03.10.2023 inter alia contending that the respondents have not served the grounds of detention. The Division Bench of the High Court of Calcutta dismissed the Writ Petition inter alia holding that it was the detenue himself [2024] 1 S.C.R. 271 Sarfaraz Alam V. Union of India & Ors. who had refused to receive the grounds of detention, a fact clearly indicated and proved through the panchnama. SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANT 6. Learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that it is incorrect to state that the detenue has refused to receive the grounds of detention. In any case the detenue has not been informed or communicated regarding his right to make a representation against the detention . Both functions are mutually reinforcing as mandatory under Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India, 1950. 7. Not all the relevant materials have been served on the detenue, such as the telephonic conversation between the detenue and others. The grounds of detention could have been served on the family members of the detenue even on the first occasion. There ought to have been an affidavit on the refusal of the detenue pertaining to the grounds of detention, by the official concerned. So also, on the question of the contents having been read over to him and being read by him. An of detention being an exception, if two views are possible, the one in favor of the detenue should find favor with the Court. To reinforce the aforesaid submissions, learned senior counsel have placed reliance on the following decisions of this Court, ● State Legal Aid Committee, J&K v. State of J&K, (2005) 9 SCC 667 ● Kamleshkumar Ishwardas Patel v. Union of India, (1995) 4 SCC 51 ● Thahira Haris v. Govt.