Since the correctness of Chinnaiah does not arise before us, we need not say more about this reference which will be decided on its own merits.” 73. After noting above, the Five-Judge Bench in Jarnail Singh did not agree with the view taken by the Five-Judge Bench in Ashok Kumar * that the creamy layer principle is merely a principle of identification and not a principle of equality. The Bench in Jarnail Singh agreed with that part of decision in M. Nagaraj and Others vs. Union of India and Others* which held that the creamy layer test is applicable to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in exercise of application of the basic structure test,however, it did not agree with Nagaraj, when Nagaraj required the States to collect quantifiable data on backwardness, in so far as Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are concerned. The Bench in Jarnail Singh held that “it would clearly be contrary to Indra Sawhney, which had held that the requirement of social and educational backwardness cannot be applied to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, who inevitably fall within the expression “Backward Class of Citizens” and * [2007] 7 SCR 63 : (2008) 6 SCC 1 * [2006] Supp. 7 SCR 336 : (2006) 8 SCC 212 1640 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports therefore the decision the in Nagaraj would have to be declared to be bad on this ground.” In my opinion, such observations in Jarnail Singh are self-contradictory. In any case, the Bench had no occasion to deal with nor had dealt with the issue whether sub-classification of “Scheduled Castes” notified in the Presidential List under Article 341 was permissible to be made by the States. 74. It is very common that the Constitutional Benches in their s deal with many complex facts and legal issues. Not all that has been said in the body of would become a precedent or binding for other Courts. The s of the Constitution Benches have to be read in the context of questions which arose for consideration before them. Certain observations made in the may be necessary for deciding the issues involved, but every observation made on law in the course of delivering the may not have a binding effect as a precedent. Any observation or remark made or opinion expressed incidentally or collaterally, and not directly upon the question posed before the Court would be an ‘obiter dicta’ and not a ‘precedent’. A decision is an authority for what it decides and not what can logically be deduced therefrom, as held in State of Haryana vs. Ranbir alias Rana.23 It was also observed in ADM Jabalpur vs. Shivakant Shukla 24 that the statements which are not part of ratio decidendi constitute obiter dicta and are not authoritative. 75. In none of the cases – Indra Sawhney or Jarnail Singh, the issue of sub-classification of “Scheduled Castes” in the context of Article 341 was raised or argued, nor was decided by the concerned Benches, as was raised and decided in E.V.