NO 5. That I have never been arrested in any criminal case (cognizable or non-cognizable) nor have I ever surrendered in any such criminal case. NO 6. That the details of the criminal cases which have been registered against me or in which I have been challaned or which were/are pending against me in the court or under investigation by the police are as follows (if the information is nil then write ‘zero’) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 727 Ravindra Kumar v. State of U.P. & ORS. 7. That the details of the criminal cases pending against me in any court and in which I was punished or acquitted or discharged are as follows (if the information is nil then write ‘zero’) ZERO 11. That if anything mentioned in the application is found to be false or the facts are found to be concealed and if I am immediately unconditionally terminated from the Uttar Pradesh Police Service and also given statutory punishment, then it will be acceptable to me.” 8. In the meantime, the police verification proceeded. On 09.12.2004, the report of Police Station, Gauri Bazar, District Deoria stated that while a case in crime no. 95 of 2004 under Sections 324, 352 and 504 IPC was registered against the candidate, the candidate was acquitted and there was no appeal filed against the acquittal . Further, there was no other case pending in any court nor was any case registered against the candidate at the police station. The SHO further mentioned as follows: “The character of the candidate is excellent. As per my consent the candidate is eligible to do government service under the State Government” Moreover, the Gram Pradhan also seconded the “excellent” character of Appellant in the Character Certificate issued by him. The Character Certificate issued by the Gram Pradhan reads as under:- “CHARACTER CERTIFICATE It is certified that Ravindra Kumar s/o Late Pardesi Prasad, is a permanent resident of Village Bagapar, Post Katora, Police Station Gauri Bazar, District Deoria (Uttar Pradesh). I know and recognize him very well. His character is excellent. I wish him a bright future. Signature and seal Gram Pradhan” 9. Thereafter, on 10.12.2004, the Superintendent of Police, Deoria, whilst taking note of the report of Police Station, Gauri Bazar, District Deoria, informed the Commandant, 8th Battalion, PAC., Bareilly that, in his opinion, the candidate was eligible to do government service 728 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under the State Government. The relevant portion of the letter dated 10.12.2004 is reproduced as follows- “….The character of the candidate is excellent. Therefore, the candidate Shri Ravindra Kumar s/o Shri Pardesi Ram r/o Bagapar, Post Kathaura, Police Station Gauri Bazar, District Deoria is eligible to do government service under the State government.” 10. The State of U.P., in support of the cancellation letter dated 12.04.2005, relies on a letter dated 31.12.2004 written on behalf of the Inspector General of Police, PAC to the Commandant, 8th Battalion, PAC wherein it was stated, that with regard to the cases of the appellant and two others, who were found to be acquitted in criminal cases during character verification and who had not mentioned the factum of those cases in the affidavit, it was to be ensured that action as per the rules regarding submission of false affidavit be taken against those candidates.