Through CBI v. Paltan Mallah, the 6 [2022] 3 SCR 366 : (2022) SCC On Line SC 705 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 401 Kalinga @ Kushal v. State of Karnataka By Police Inspector Hubli extra judicial confession made by the co-accused could be admitted in evidence only as a corroborative piece of evidence. In absence of any substantive evidence against the accused, the extra judicial confession allegedly made by the co-accused loses its significance and there cannot be any conviction based on such extra judicial confession of the co-accused.” 15. It is no more res integra that an extra judicial confession must be accepted with great care and caution. If it is not supported by other evidence on record, it fails to inspire confidence and in such a case, it shall not be treated as a strong piece of evidence for the purpose of arriving at the conclusion of guilt. Furthermore, the extent of acceptability of an extra judicial confession depends on the trustworthiness of the witness before whom it is given and the circumstances in which it was given. The prosecution must establish that a confession was indeed made by the accused, that it was voluntary in nature and that the contents of the confession were true. The standard required for proving an extra judicial confession to the satisfaction of the Court is on the higher side and these essential ingredients must be established beyond any reasonable doubt. The standard becomes even higher when the entire case of the prosecution necessarily rests on the extra judicial confession. 16. In the present case, the extra judicial confession is essentially based on the deposition of PW-1, the father of the deceased. Without going into the aspect of PW-1 being an interested witness at the threshold, his testimony is fatal to the prosecution case on multiple parameters. PW-1 deposed that the appellant had arrived at his residence on 14.11.2002 and mentioned about the deceased. Despite so, the appellant was allowed to leave the residence and no action whatsoever was taken by PW-1. The incident took place on 03.11.2002 and despite lapse of 11 days, PW-1 had no clue about his deceased son. On the eleventh day, when the appellant arrives at his residence and mentions adversely about his deceased son, PW-1 does nothing about it. In fact, on the next day as well, PW-1 started off normally and went to his shop in a routine manner. Thereafter, he came back home in the afternoon of 15.11.2002 and confronted the appellant about the incident. There is no explanation as to how the 402 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports appellant arrived at his residence again on 15.11.2002. Nevertheless, PW-1 deposed that when he, his mother and wife confronted the appellant, he confessed to the murder of the deceased. Thereafter, they took him to the police station. 17. Before we refer to the proceedings which took place at the police station, it is of utmost relevance to note that the confession was made before PW-1, his mother and wife.