21. The contention of the learned senior counsel was that there is no material whatsoever on the record of the case to show that the intention of the accused appellants was to defraud the complainant right at the time of the inception of the transactions. Furthermore, since the allegation of the complainant is regarding disproportionate sharing of profits enuring from the land deals which he entered with the accused appellants with open eyes, the offence of criminal breach of trust would also not be made out against the accused appellants. 22. He urged that the essential ingredients of the offences alleged are not made out from the highest allegations levelled by the complainant as set out in the charge sheet warranting continuation of the criminal proceedings against the accused appellants. He placed reliance on the s of this Court in State of Haryana and Others v. 822 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Bhajan Lal and Others1; Indian Oil Corpn. v. NEPC India Ltd. and Others2 and Anand Kumar Mohatta and Another v. State(NCT of Delhi), Department of Home and Another3 in support of his contentions and buttressed that the criminal proceedings sought to be taken against the appellants as a consequence to the charge sheet are fit to be quashed as the same amount to a sheer abuse of process of Court apart from the fact that the charge sheet does not disclose the necessary ingredients of any cognizable offence. Submissions on behalf of respondents-complainant and State:- 23. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent complainant as well as the learned Standing Counsel representing the State vehemently and fervently opposed the submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the appellants. It was contended that, the accused appellants won over the trust of the complainant by using honey quoted language, and thereby, fraudulently induced him to make huge investments in land deals. The complainant was assured time and again by the accused that he would be given his due share of profits or the plots from the lands, as the case may be, which would be purchased in the name of the accused because the complainant being a Government teacher could not indulge into such transactions. The complainant fell for the allurements given by the accused appellants and invested huge sums of money for land deals placing blind faith on the assurances given by accused. However, the accused appellants resiled from their promises and defrauded the complainant by failing to give him the requisite number of plots which would fall in his share commensurate with the investment made by him. The complainant was also deprived of his rightful share in the profits reaped after some of the plots had been sold. 24. They submitted that merely because the complainant has also availed civil remedy for the same grievances, that by itself cannot disentitle him from invoking jurisdiction of the criminal Court to prosecute the accused appellants for their fraudulent acts because the allegations set out in the complaint constitute both the civil wrong as well as criminal offences and thus parallel proceedings can continue.