Singh, Sr. Advs., Ashok Kumar Singh, Shantwanu Singh, Ms. Pragya Singh, Akshay Singh, Rahul Dubey, Daya Krishan Sharma, D K Sharma, Rohit Vats, Yashdeep, Akshay Amritanshu, Samyak Jain, Ayush Raj, Ankit Swarup, Neelmani Pant, Ms. Apoorva Singh, Rishi Bhargava, Ms. Yashvi Aswani, Jasbir Singh Malik, Ms. Chandni Sharma, Shaurya Lamba, Varun Punia, K. Maruthi Rao, Mrs. Anjani Aiyagari, Gaurav Yadava, Mohinder Jit Singh, Hardik Rupal, Satyam Aneja, Ms. Suveni Bhagat, Ms. Vishwaja Rao, Rahul Narang, Harshed Sundar, Nihar Dharmahikari, Shubham Rana, Piyush Goel, Mrs. Sunita Sharma, Ms. N. Annapoorani, Devvrat, Manoj K. Mishra, Snehashish Mukherjee, Ms. Rashmi Malhotra, Puneet Singh Bindra, Sachin Sharma, Ms. Harshita Sharma, Ms. Sachita Chawla, Ms. Swati Setia, Devesh Kumar Agnihotri, Rohit Pandey, Meenesh Kumar Dubey, Ms. Yugandhara Pawar Jha, Amrendra Kumar Singh, Vibhu Shanker Mishra, Kumar Gaurav, Shashank Shekhar, Vikas Gupta, [2024] 6 S.C.R. 493 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr. Pratap Venugopal, Chanchal Kumar Ganguli, Manish Goswami, Upendra Mishra, Ratnesh Kumar, Meghraj Singh, Pradeep Kumar Yadav, Pankaj Kumar, Pankaj Singh, Munawwar Naseem, Siddharth, Mukes Kumar, Subhendu Adikari, Siddharth Batra, Rhythm Katyal, Ms. Archna Yadav, Chinmay Dubey, Ms. Shivani Chawla, Pratyush Arora, Ashutosh Chugh, Rajesh Srivastava, Gaurav Verma, M/S. Krishna & Nishani Law Chambers, Anil C Nishani, H. M. Harish, Krishna M Singh, Nikhil Jain, Rajiv Kumar, K Krishna Kumar, Vishwesh R Murnal, P. Prasanna Kumar, Ajit Achappa, Kiran Kumar, Hitesh Kumar Sharma, S.K. Rajora, Akhileshwar Jha, Amit Kumar Chawla, Sandeep Singh Dhingra, Ms. Niharika Dewivedi, Ms. Priya Singh, Sanjay Singh, Ms. Kavita Singh, Advs. for the appearing parties. Petitioner-in-person Respondent-in-person / of the Supreme Court Bela M. Trivedi, J. 1. An important question of law pertaining to the Legal Profession as a whole that has fallen for consideration before this Court is – whether a complaint alleging “deficiency in service” against Advocates practising Legal Profession, would be maintainable under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 as re-enacted in 2019? In other words, whether a “Service” hired or availed of an Advocate would fall within the definition of “Service” contained in the C.P. Act, 1986/2019, so as to bring him within the purview of the said Act? 2. The present set of Appeals emanate from the impugned dated 06.08.2007 passed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC), New Delhi in Revision Petition No.1392/2006, in which the NCDRC has held inter alia that if there was any deficiency in service rendered by the Advocates/Lawyers, a complaint under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (for short “CP Act, 1986”) would be maintainable. FACTUAL MATRIX 3. The short facts in C.A. No.2649/2009, arising out of the impugned passed by the NCDRC are that: - 494 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) The appellant is an Advocate by profession. The respondent Mr. D.K. Gandhi had hired the services of the appellant as an advocate for filing a Complaint in the Court of Metropolitan Magistrate, Tis Hazari Court, Delhi, against one Kamal Sharma under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, as the cheque for Rs.20,000/- issued by the said Kamal Sharma in favour of the respondent D.K.