In the meeting of the Board of Directors of KECML held on 13th January, 2009, those who had participated included Mr. S.M Jaamdar, the then Managing Director of KPCL and Chairman of KECML, Mr. R. Balasubramanian, the then Executive Director and Company Secretary of KPCL and Director of KECML, Mr. D.C. Sreedhar, the then Director (Finance) of KPCL and Director of KECML, Mr. U.K. Upadhyaya, Chairman and Managing Director of EMTA and former MD of KECML (appellant No. 2 in the appeals). In the Meeting held on 23rd February, 2010, the Board of Directors of KECML subsequently concluded that washing of raw coal was necessary since a specific grade of coal was required by the BTPS for generation of power and therefore, washed coal should continue to be supplied on the same basis. The appellants have also pointed out that GCWL was known to KPCL that had earlier entered into an agreement with GCWL along with two other washery operators for washing of coal mined by Western Coalfields Limited. However, the respondent-CBI has questioned the execution of the MoU between KECML and GCWL, in particular, Clause 12 thereof. 3.5 WASHABILITY REPORT OF THE CENTRAL INSTITUTE OF MINING AND FUEL RESEARCH, NAGPUR 3.5.1 In the year 2009, to check the statistics of the coal mine, the appellants approached a Government Laboratory, [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1187 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation namely, Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research27 for testing of the Integrated Baranj Open Cast Mines28. The team of officers from CIMFR visited the site, collected 100 MT of coal for testing and furnished a Detailed Washability Report. The report states that the rejects did not contain any useful c.v. as the GCV of the rejects was 1094 Kcal/Kg and the useful heat value was negative. 3.6 REVISED MINING PLAN 3.6.1 After the mining continued for about two years in terms of the original Mining Plan submitted in the year 2004, KPCL decided to increase the capacity of BTPS from 2.5 Mty to 5 Mty. As a result, the appellants were required to prepare a revised Mining Plan for supplying the increased mining demands. On 20th December, 2010, the appellants addressed a letter to the MoC for seeking approval of the revised Mining Plan. At that stage, a new technology for utilization of the rejects for its carbon value was introduced, described as the Fluidised Bed Combustion29. The letter issued by the appellants to the MoC mentioned that the rejects generated could be gainfully utilized for its carbon content by generating power through FBC/CFBC power plants of appropriate capacity. It is not in dispute that the new technology of FBC could have been put to use only when a plant in respect of the same was set up for which several approvals would be required from various departments besides the process of acquiring land for setting up the plant spreading over four to five years, as a power plant could not be installed within the mining lease area.