Clause 11 of the PoA further makes it clear that the PoA-holder had the authority to sell movable or immovable property including land, livestock, trees etc. and receive payment of such sales on behalf of the land-owners/principals. However, Clause 15 of the PoA, which has been strenuously relied upon by the respondent no.2, while opposing [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1175 Bharat Sher Singh Kalsia v. State of Bihar & Anr. the present appeal, states that the PoA-holder was authorized to present for registration the sale deed(s) or other documents signed by the land-owners/principals and admit execution thereof before the District Registrar or the Sub-Registrar or such other officer as may have authority to register the said deeds and documents, as the case may be, and take back the same after registration. 24. Thus, the Court is required to interpret harmoniously as also logically the effect of a combined reading of the afore-extracted clauses. As such, our endeavour would, in the first instance, necessarily require us to render all three effective and none otiose. In to do so, this Court would test as to whether all the three clauses can independently be given effect to and still not be in conflict with the other clauses. 25. With this object, when the three clauses are read, it is obvious, at the cost of repetition, that Clause 3 pertains to execution of any type of deed and receiving consideration, if any, on behalf of the land-owners/ principals and to get the registration thereof carried out. Basically, this would take care of any type of deed by which the PoA-holder was authorized to execute and also receive consideration and get registration done on behalf of the land-owners/principals. 26. Clause 11 of the PoA deals specifically with regard to sale of movable or immovable property including land and receiving payments of such sales on behalf of the land-owners/principals. 27. In this eventuate, Clauses 3 and 11 of the PoA together authorized the PoA-holder to execute deeds, including of/for sale, receive consideration in this regard and proceed to registration upon accepting consideration on behalf of the land-owners/principals. 28. Coming to Clause 15 of the PoA, which states that the PoA-holder was authorized to present for registration the sale deeds or other documents signed by the land-owners/principals and admit execution thereof, is, in our understanding in addition to Clauses 3 and 11 of the PoA and not in derogation thereof. The reason to so hold is that besides the contingencies where the PoA-holder had been authorized to execute any type of deed and receive consideration and get registration done, which included sale of movable/immovable property on behalf of the land-owners/principals, the land owners/ 1176 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports principals had also retained the authority that if a Sale Deed was/ had been signed by them, the very same PoA-holder was also authorized to present it for registration and admit to execution before the authority concerned. 29. Thus, in the instant case, had it been a situation where the land- owners/principals had executed a Sale Deed in favour of any third party prior to the Sale Deed executed and registered by the PoA- holder with regard to the property in question, and the PoA-holder had not presented the said Sale Deed and had gone ahead with himself executing and getting registered a different or a subsequent Sale Deed in favour of the appellant, the matter would be entirely different.