1529 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. or by making a provision that is inconsistent with the Act. Any rule made in exercise of such delegated power has to be in consonance with the provisions of the Act, and if the rule goes beyond what the Act contemplates, the rule becomes in excess of the power delegated under the Act, and if it does any of the above, the rule becomes ultra vires the Act.” 63. In Assam Co. Ltd. (supra), it was observed that enactment empowered the State Government to make such rules as were necessary for carrying out the purposes of the enactment. It was further observed that the object and the scheme of the enactment did not empower the State authorities to recompute agricultural income contrary to the computation made by the Central officers. It was held that the rule framed by the State government was ultra vires because it enlarged the scope of the enactment. 64. In Consumer Online Foundation and Others v. Union of India,75 this Court was dealing with the validity of the levy of development fees on embarking passengers by the lessees of the Airports Authority of India76 at the international airports in New Delhi and Mumbai. The unamended Section 22A of the Airports Authority of India Act 199477 empowered the AAI, after the previous approval of the Central Government, to levy development fees on embarking passengers “at the rate as may be prescribed.” A two-Judge Bench of this Court held that the development fee was in the nature of a cess or tax for generating revenue for the specified purposes mentioned in Section 22A.78 Further, it was held that the power to levy a development fee under Section 22 could not be exercised without the rules prescribing the rate at which the development fee was to be levied. Since no rules were framed prescribing the rate of development fee, it was held that the levy was without authority of law. 65. In Consumer Online Foundation (supra), the Central Government determined the rate of development fee in two letters communicated to the lessees. This Court held that under Section 22A the Central 75 [2011] 5 SCR 911 : (2011) 5 SCC 360 76 “AAI” 77 “AAI Act” 78 Section 22A, AAI Act. 1530 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Government only had the power to grant its approval to the levy and collection of development fees but had no power to fix the rate at which the development fee would be levied and collected from embarking passengers. The rates determined by the Central Government were held to be ultra vires the AAI Act. 66. From the above discussion, we can cull out the following principles: (i) a delegate cannot act contrary to the express provisions and object of the parent legislation; (ii) a delegate cannot widen or constrict the scope of the parent legislation or the legislative policy prescribed under it; and (iii) a fiscal provision has to be construed strictly and a delegate cannot consider any circumstance, factors or condition not contemplated by the parent legislation.