Per A.K. Ganguly, J. : (SCC p. 102, paras 76-77)“76. The sanctioning authority must bear in mind that what is at stake is the public confidence in the maintenance of the rule of law which is fundamental in the administration of justice. Delay in granting such sanction has spoilt many valid prosecutions and is adversely viewed in public mind that in the name of considering a prayer for sanction, a protection is given to a corrupt public official as a quid pro quo for services rendered by the public official in the past or may be in the future and the sanctioning authority and the corrupt officials were or are partners in the same misdeeds. …77. By causing delay in considering the request for sanction, the sanctioning authority stultifies judicial scrutiny and determination of the allegations against corrupt official and thus the legitimacy of the judicial institutions is eroded. It, thus, deprives a citizen of his legitimate and fundamental right to get justice by setting the criminal law in motion and thereby frustrates his right to access judicial remedy which is a constitutionally protected right.”]. This is also a non-sequitur. It must also be kept in mind that the complainant or victim has no other remedy available for judicial redressal if the criminal proceedings stand automatically quashed. At the same time, a decision to grant deemed sanction may cause 354 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports prejudice to the rights of the accused as there would also be non-application of mind in such cases.” (Emphasis supplied) 30. The observations in Vijay Rajmohan (supra) regarding the power of sanction being open to the standard principle of judicial review; the same being inbuilt in our legal structure; public confidence being at stake if a rule of law is violated, are principles that in our considered view it will apply equally to sanctions under UAPA. In context of the PC Act, it has been held that non-compliance of a mandatory period cannot ipso facto lead to quashing of criminal proceedings. This is where a difference emerges between the PC Act and the UAPA. The implication, social as well as legal of both these acts diverges, in as much as the latter entails far graver consequences. [See: State of T.N. v. Sivarasan; 37 Rambhai Nathabhai Gadhvi (supra); and Ashrafkhan (Supra)] The UAPA provides for a detailed procedure which is to be followed in granting of sanction and undoubtedly, the same must be followed in absolute letter and spirit. Construction of 2008 Rules 31. It is well understood that penal statutes are statutes to be interpreted strictly. This canon of construction has been reiterated time and again. It is apposite here to refer to certain authorities in this context. 31.1 Maxwell in The Interpretation of Statutes (11th Edn.) has observed: “The effect of the rule of strict construction might almost be summed up in the remark that, where an equivocal word or ambiguous sentence leaves a reasonable doubt of its meaning which the cannons of interpretation failed to solve, the benefit of the doubt should be given to the subject and against the legislature which has failed to explain itself.