It is, therefore, no use saying that the directive principles have no value. In my judgement, the directive principles have a great value, for they lay down that our ideal is economic democracy. Because we did not want merely a parliamentary form of government to be instituted through the various mechanisms provided in the Constitution, without any direction as to what our economic ideal or as to what our social ought to be, we deliberately included the directive principles in our Constitution. I think if the friends who are agitated over this question bear in mind what I have said just now that our object in framing this Constitution is really twofold: (i) 216 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to lay down the form of political democracy, and (ii) to lay down that our ideal is economic democracy and also to prescribe that every government whoever it is in power, shall strive to bring about economic democracy, much of the misunderstanding under which most members are labouring will disappear. (Constitutional Assembly Debates, Volume VII)” (Source: “Constitutional Law of India” by Dr. Subhash C. Kashyap) Article 37: 10.1 Article 37 states that the provisions contained in Part-IV of the Constitution (Directive Principles of State Policy) shall not be enforceable by any Court, but the principles therein laid down are nevertheless fundamental in the governance of the Country and it shall be the duty of the State to apply these principles in making laws. Although Prof. K.T. Shah, a member of the Constituent Assembly, sought for the Directive Principles being enforceable and proposed devising a suitable mechanism for that purpose,the said suggestion was turned down and the draft Article 29 was added as Article 37 of the Constitution. 10.2 In State of West Bengal vs. Subodh Gopal Bose, AIR 1954 SC 92 (“Subodh Gopal Bose”), this Court held that the Directive Principles of State Policy are not justiciable or enforceable by any Court; nevertheless, there is a duty cast on the courts to interpret the Constitution and the laws in furtherance of the Directive Principles as under Article 37 it has been stated that they are fundamental in the governance of the Country. Thus, it was held that there can be no law which can be in conflict with the Directive Principles of State Policy,although, the Articles in Part-IV by themselves cannot be enforced per se in a court of law. 10.3 It is well-known that the Directive Principles of State Policy have been borrowed from the Irish Constitution. Article 45 of the Irish Constitution provides that the application of the Principles of Social Policy shall not be cognizable by any Court, that the said principles are intended for the general guidance of the Irish National Parliament. Further the application of the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 217 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. social policy in making of laws shall be the care of the Irish National Parliament exclusively. Similarly, Article 37 of the Constitution of India states that the Directive Principles shall not be enforceable by any Court but they are fundamental in the governance of this Country and it shall be the duty of the State to apply the Directive Principles in making laws.