94. Contrarily, the Respondents submitted that the term fraternity means individuals having equal regard for each other and preventing relationships from being confined to specific clans. The Respondents stated that Section 6A reinforces the idea of fraternity, in the absence of which, society would be broken into a division between ‘others’ and ‘us’. 95. Having bestowed our consideration to the contentions set out by the parties, we must examine the meaning of the term fraternity and determine whether Section 6A violates or enforces the idea of fraternity. (a) Meaning of ‘fraternity’ 96. As articulated in the Preamble, the term ‘fraternity’ embodies a sense of collective brotherhood amongst all Indians. It serves as a critical element for national unity and social cohesion. Fraternity assumes [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1055 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 paramount significance in reinforcing the ideals of equality and liberty, both of which are integral facets of the Preamble.85 97. In to have a holistic understanding of what fraternity as an ideal encompasses, it is integral to examine the meaning of ‘fraternity’ as envisaged by the drafters of the Constitution, as well as in terms of other jurisdictions which also employ the notion. Delving into the Constituent Assembly Debates would not only shed light on the ambit of fraternity but would also reveal a consensus that the principles of equality, liberty and fraternity are to be perceived as an indivisible whole. 98. The word ‘fraternity’ was initially not included as a part of the Objectives Resolution, which had been proposed by Jawaharlal Nehru on 13.12.1946 and thereafter adopted by the Constituent Assembly on 22.01.1947. In fact, this very resolution provided the basis for the inclusion of the Preamble to the Constitution of India. Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, however, emphasized the significance of adding the term fraternity into the Preamble, defining it to mean a sense of shared brotherhood among all Indians, and highlighted that it was imperative for national unity and social solidarity.86 In pursuance thereto, Dr. Ambedkar stated as follows: "What does fraternity mean? Fraternity means a sense of common brotherhood of all Indians— if Indians being one people. It is the principle which gives unity and solidarity to social life. It is a difficult thing to achieve. The sooner we realise that we are not as yet a nation in the social and psychological sense of the world, the better for us. For then only we shall realise the necessity of becoming a nation and seriously think of ways and means of realising the goal.” [Emphasis supplied] 99. Dr. Ambedkar introduced the term ‘fraternity’ into the preambular values of the Constitution with the objective of advancing his vision of democracy and eradicating the issues posed by caste distinctions. His vision encompassed fostering a societal framework characterised 85 Dr. B. R. Ambedkar, Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 11, 25.11.1949. 86 Id. 1056 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by shared interests and interconnectedness amongst all Indians. Notably, neither the deliberations within the Constituent Assembly nor Dr. Ambedkar’s conceptualisation of fraternity suggests any inherent restriction of this principle to a specific community or segment of citizens.