36. On the second issue in Arif Azim (supra), which is identical to the issue raised in the present petitions, it was observed that, although, limitation is an admissibility issue, yet it is the duty of the Courts to prima facie examine and reject non-arbitrable or dead claims, so as to protect the other party from being drawn into a time-consuming and costly arbitration process. The findings on both the issues were summarized as thus: "92. Thus, from an exhaustive analysis of the position of law on the issues, we are of the view that while considering the issue of limitation in relation to a petition under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act, the Courts should satisfy themselves on two aspects by employing a two-pronged test — first, whether the petition under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act is barred by limitation; and secondly, whether the claims sought to be arbitrated are ex facie dead claims and are thus barred by limitation on the date of commencement of arbitration proceedings. If either of these issues are answered against the party seeking referral of disputes to arbitration, the Court may refuse to appoint an Arbitral Tribunal.” (Emphasis supplied) 37. However, subsequently, very pertinent observations were made by a seven-judge Bench of this Court in Interplay between Arbitration Agreements Under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, In Re, reported in 2023 INSC 1066 regarding the scope of judicial interference at the Section 11 stage with a view to give complete meaning to the legislative intention behind the insertion of Section 11(6-A) of the Act, 1996. This Court referred to the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the 2015 Amendment Act and opined that the same indicated that the referral courts shall “examine the existence of a prima facie arbitration agreement and [2024] 12 S.C.R. 127 Aslam Ismail Khan Deshmukh v. Asap Fluids Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. not other issues” at the stage of appointment of an arbitrator. These “other issues” would include the examination of any other issue which has the consequence of unnecessary judicial interference in the arbitral proceedings. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: "208. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the 2015 Amendment Act are as follows: "(iii) an application for appointment of an arbitrator shall be disposed of by the High Court or Supreme Court, as the case may be, as expeditiously as possible and an endeavour should be made to dispose of the matter within a period of sixty days. (iv) to provide that while considering any application for appointment of arbitrator, the High Court or the Supreme Court shall examine the existence of a prima facie arbitration agreement and not other issues.” 209. The above extract indicates that the Supreme Court or High Court at the stage of the appointment of an arbitrator shall “examine the existence of a prima facie arbitration agreement and not other issues”. These other issues not only pertain to the validity of the arbitration agreement, but also include any other issues which are a consequence of unnecessary judicial interference in the arbitration proceedings.