10. The contention of appellant – landlord is that the findings of Trial Court on Issue No. 6 is vague and referring to the documents, he submitted that respondent – tenant is in default in depositing month to month rent as per UP Rent Act. Therefore, the findings are completely perverse and contrary to the record placed before this Court. 11. Per contra, learned counsel for the tenant – respondent(s) has taken us through the findings of the Trial Court on Issue Nos. 4, 5 and 6 and submitted that in absence of any material controverting those findings, re-appraisal in exercise of power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India ought not to be done. It is contended that the affidavit filed is only regarding arrears of rent and taxes during pendency, therefore, it cannot form basis to set aside the findings of the Trial Court which dismissed the suit seeking eviction. Learned counsel further made an attempt while referring various documents filed subsequently stating that, the rent which was due has already been deposited. 12. During hearing, it was not disputed by learned counsel for the parties that the provisions of the UP Rent Act are applicable to the suit filed by the appellant – landlord for eviction. Therefore, we are inclined to appreciate the findings recorded on this issue by the Trial Court as affirmed by the High Court. 13. In the UP Rent Act, ‘tenant’ has been defined in Section 3(a) as “a person by whom its rent is payable, till his death.” Further Section 7 deals with ‘Liability to pay taxes’ which specifies ‘subject to any [2024] 9 S.C.R. 993 Prakash Bhalotia (D) Thr His LRs v. Indra Chandra Goyal (D) Thru. LRs contract in writing to the contrary, but notwithstanding the provisions of Section 149 of the Uttar Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1916, the tenant shall be liable to pay to the landlord the taxes i.e. water tax, house tax, in addition to the part of the rent.’ Section 20 of the UP Rent Act, in Chapter-IV, stipulates about bar of suit for eviction of tenant except on specified grounds and provides protection to the tenant as specified. Section 20(2)(a) of the UP Rent Act makes it clear that a suit for eviction of a tenant after determination of his tenancy may be instituted on the ground, where the tenant is in arrears of rent for not less than four months and has failed to pay to the landlord within one month from the date of service of notice of default upon him. Section 20(4) makes it clear that in a suit for eviction for non-payment of rent, at the first hearing of the suit, if the tenant unconditionally pays or tenders to the landlord or deposits in Court the entire amount of rent including the damages for use and occupation of the building due from him together with interest @ 9% per annum along with landlord’s cost of the suit, after deducting any amount already deposited by him under Section 30(1), on such deposit, the Court may pass an relieving the tenant against his liability for eviction.