Central excise revenue stamps, defence (or national) savings stamps, shall be obtained by post offices from local and branch depots and sold to the public in the same manner as ordinary postage stamps. Tobacco excise duty labels and insurance agent licence fee stamps shall be sold to the public at local and branch depots at which they are stocked.” 33 Sections 74 and 75 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 read as follows: “74. Powers to make rules relating to sale of stamps. –– The State Government may make rules for regulating–(a) the supply and sale of stamps an stamped papers, (b) the persons by whom alone such sale is to be conducted, and (c) the duties and remuneration of such persons: Provided that such rules shall not restrict the sale of ten naye paise or five naya paise adhesive stamps. 75. Power to make rules generally to carry out Act. ––The State Government may make rules to carry out generally the purposes of this Act, and may by such rules prescribe the fines, which shall in no case exceed five hundred rupees, to be incurred on breach thereof.” 34 VVS Rama Sharma (supra), paras 18-23 35 ibid. 36 Article 254 of the Constitution reads as follows: “254. Inconsistency between laws made by Parliament and laws made by the Legislatures of States.—(1) If any provision of a law made by the Legislature of a State is repugnant to any provision of a law made by Parliament which Parliament is competent to enact, or to any provision of an existing law with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List, then, subject to the provisions of clause (2), the law made by Parliament, whether passed before or after the law made by the Legislature of such State, or, as the case may be, the existing law, shall prevail and the law made by the Legislature of the State shall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be void. (2) Where a law made by the Legislature of a State with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the Legislature of such State shall, if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent, prevail in that State: Provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the Legislature of the State.” 266 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports matter in the Concurrent List is repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by the Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter, then the law passed by the state shall prevail in that state “if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent”.