The Madarsa Act established the Uttar Pradesh Board of Madarsa Education,3 to regulate, among other things, the standards of education, qualifications for teachers, and conduct of examinations in Madarsas in the State of Uttar Pradesh. The entirety of the Act has been struck down by the High Court. B. Background a. History of Madarsas 2. The term ‘madarsa’ refers to any school or college where any sort of education is imparted.4 The history of the establishment of Madarsas 1 “High Court” 2 “Madarsa Act” 3 “Board” 4 Yoginder Sikand, Bastions of the Believers: Madrasas and Islamic Education in India (Penguin Books, 2005) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 375 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. in the Indian subcontinent may be traced to the rule of the Tughlaqs.5 The pre-colonial Madarsas were of two types: (i) the Maktabs which were attached to mosques and imparted elementary education; and (ii) the Madarsas which were centres of higher learning and contributed to the administrative, religious, and cultural needs of the prevalent society.6 During colonial rule, the relative importance of Madarsas diminished with the introduction of English as the language of the colonial administration.7 3. The colonial government formulated the Education Code of 1908 to recognize Madarsas in Uttar Pradesh for conducting Arabi-Pharsi examinations. The Arabic institutions preparing candidates for Maulvi, Alim, and Fazil examinations and the Persian institutions preparing candidates for Munshi and Kamil examinations were required to make an application to the Registrar of Arabic and Persian Examinations. 4. After Independence, the Department of Education of the UP government issued the Madrasa Education Rules 1969 to bring Madarsas under the domain of the Education Department. Subsequently, the State government framed the UP Non-Government Arabic and Persian Madrasa Recognition Rules 19878 to govern the procedure for recognition and the terms and conditions of service of teachers in the Madarsas. According to the 1987 Rules, recognition to Madarsas was granted by the Recognition Committee and confirmed by the Registrar of Arabic and Persian Exams. The 1987 Rules also prescribed requirements for the quality of buildings and eligibility qualifications for teaching staff as a precondition to the grant of recognition. In 1996, the management of Madarsas was transferred to the Minority Welfare and Waqf Department of the UP government. 5. The Central government has also framed schemes to modernize education imparted in Madarsas. In 1993-1994, the Central Government implemented the Area Intensive and Madrasa Modernization Programme9 to encourage Madarsas and Maktabs 5 ibid 6 Arshad Alam, ‘Understanding Madrasas’ (2003) 38(22) Economic and Political Weekly 2123 7 Padmaja Nair, The State and madrasas in India (Working Paper 15, University of Birmingham 2009) 11 8 “1987 Rules” 9 “Madrasa Modernization Programme” (Under the Madrasa Modernization Programme, the government covered the salary of two madrasa teachers who taught modern subjects. It also provided one-time grants for purchase of science and math kits and book-banks for the madrasa libraries. See PIB, 376 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to teach modern subjects such as Science, Mathematics, English, Hindi, and Social Studies alongside the traditional curriculum.