Therefore, with a view to bring uniformity of approach in such matters and to provide for a secured system of handling of drug samples, the NCB had issued the Standing Instructions No. 1 of 88 vide the Notification dated 15.03.1988. The said Notification of the Standing Instructions no. 1 of 88 pertained to the procedure to be followed for drawing samples from the seized narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, numbering of samples drawn, sealing, mode of packing, dispatch of samples to the concerned laboratory for test etc. The relevant clauses of the said Standing Instructions No. 1 of 88 pertaining to the place and time of drawal of sample, disposal of Remnant sample/ duplicate sample and the drug, read as under: “1.5. Place and time of drawal of sample: Samples from the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances seized, must be drawn on the spot of recovery, in duplicate, in the presence of search (Panch) witnesses and the person from whose possession the drug is recovered, and a mention to this effect should invariably be made in the Panchanama drawn on the spot. 1418 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 1.21. Custody of duplicate sample Duplicate sample of all seized narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances must be preserved and kept safely in the custody of the Investigating officer alongwith the case property. Normally duplicate sample may not be used but in case of loss of original sample in transit or otherwise or on account of trial court passing an for a second test, the duplicate sample will be utilized. 1.22. Disposal of Test Memo As soon as the test result in original or duplicate or both test memos are received, the same will be filled in the Court, trying the case, alongwith, chargesheet/complaint by the Investigating officer. He will keep an attested copy of the same in his case file. 1.23. Disposal of Remnant sample/duplicate sample and the drug At present, the remnant sample/duplicate sample and seized narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances can be disposed of after the proceedings of prosecution is over or by obtaining an from such court under Section 110 of the Customs Act, 1962 and/or 451 of Cr.P.C. While obtaining the of the court under the aforesaid section it is necessary that specific in respect of the remnant sample/ duplicate sample is also obtained. After such has been obtained, the drug or substance along with the samples including remnants shall be disposed of in the manner prescribed. Please acknowledge the receipt of the standing .” 14. Thereafter, recognizing the importance of dispatch, transit, receipt, safe custody, storage, proper accounting and disposal destruction of the seized/confiscated drugs and the need for evolving a uniform procedure, the NCB issued the Standing No. 2 of 88 vide the Notification dated 11.04.1988. The NCB vide the said Standing formulated the procedure to be followed by all the Central and State drug law enforcement agencies for seizure, sampling, storage etc. It was mentioned in clause 3.1 thereof that “all drugs should be properly classified, carefully weighed and sampled on the spot of seizure.” The [2024] 12 S.C.R.