During this entire period, both PW-3 and PW-4 remained with their family and it is not their case that they were kept under influence or were tutored during this period. Pertinently, PW-1 has also deposed that on certain occasions, PW-3 had accompanied the deceased Devaki to her maternal home, which indicates that PW-3 had a sense of attachment with the deceased and the same could have been the reason for giving a statement against her own brother and mother. In fact, the retraction of these statements by PW-3 and PW-4 before the Court appears to be a result of tutoring and manipulation as the said witnesses could have easily been won over by their family members during the intervening period. Furthermore, the witnesses have admitted that the statements were signed by them and there is no suggestion to the effect that the witnesses could not have understood the statements. The statements have been certified by the concerned Magistrate to the effect that they have been read by the witnesses and their consequences have been explained to the witnesses. 30. PW-3 and PW-4 have deposed that they were under threat from the concerned Investigating Officer who was present along with 920 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports them before the Magistrate. The concerned Investigating Officer has been examined as PW-8 in the present case and during his examination, there is not even a suggestion from the appellants to the effect that he was present along with PW-3 and PW-4 at the time of recording their statement under Section 164 or to the effect that he had threatened them to give incriminating statements against the appellants. Furthermore, the concerned Magistrate could have been examined as a witness in the present matter to clear the controversy on this aspect and for unexplained reasons, he was never called for examination especially when a completely hostile version was being provided by the witnesses qua the proceedings which were conducted before him. The appellants failed to place any material on record to justify the allegation of threat and as discussed above, the statements of PW-3 and PW-4 recorded under Section 164 CrPC reflected the correct version of the events that transpired on the fateful day. 31. Having said so, we deem it fit to observe that a statement under Section 164 CrPC cannot be discarded at the drop of a hat and on a mere statement of the witness that it was not recorded correctly. For, a judicial satisfaction of the Magistrate, to the effect that the statement being recorded is the correct version of the facts stated by the witness, forms part of every such statement and a higher burden must be placed upon the witness to retract from the same. To permit retraction by a witness from a signed statement recorded before the Magistrate on flimsy grounds or on mere assertions would effectively negate the difference between a statement recorded by the police officer and that recorded by the Judicial Magistrate. In the present matter, there is no reasonable ground to reject the statements recorded under Section 164 CrPC and reliance has correctly been placed upon the said statements by the courts below.