Supreme Court Reports of the land. This made the agreement void under Section 29 of the Contract Act, 1872. 22.5. Power of Attorney Holder’s Limitations: The intervenor pointed out that the plaintiffs relied on Power of Attorney holder to prove the Agreement to Sell, which was contrary to settled law. The intervenor cited the case of Janki Vashdeo (supra), to argue that a Power of Attorney holder cannot depose for acts done by the principal unless they had direct knowledge of the transaction. 22.6. Lack of Readiness and Willingness: The intervenor argued that the plaintiffs failed to demonstrate readiness and willingness to execute the sale deed, which is a crucial requirement under Section 16(c) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. They submitted that the plaintiffs never acted to get the sale deed executed and failed to take any concrete steps before the death of Sushila Bai on 25/12/1992. ANALYSIS 23. The present case is one of non-concurrent judgement, where the Trial Court, after appreciating and analysing the evidence on record, decreed the suit, however the High Court, on appeal, reversed the findings of the Trial Court and dismissed the suit for specific performance. We have carefully gone through the pleadings and the evidence on record. The findings recorded by the Trial Court and the High Court have already been briefly summarised. The key points germane to the litigation are briefly stated below: - (i). Whether the Agreement to Sell dated 13.08.1990 was validly executed and proved? (ii). Whether the General Power of Attorney executed by Sushila Devi in favour of M.K. Maheshwari on 04.09.1990 and duly registered created any doubt or suspicion on the conduct of the plaintiff-appellants? (iii). Whether the plaintiffs not entering into the witness box in five of the suits would call for an adverse inference, although their Power of Attorney had entered the witness box? (iv). Whether the suit was barred by limitation? [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2399 Shyam Kumar Inani v. Vinod Agrawal & Ors. (v). Whether the forgery alleged by the defendants was actually proved by way of proper pleading and evidence to establish the same or was it just taken as a casual defence? (vi). Whether Kailash Aggarwal (defendant No.1), the eldest son of Sushila Devi, having not filed any written statement nor having entered the witness box on behalf of the defendants, would have an effect of adverse bearing against the defendants? (vii). Whether the finding of the High Court that Sushila Devi was a Pardanashin lady, and thus entitled to the benefit of the same, was actually pleaded and proved by the defendants? (viii). Whether the plaintiff-appellants producing the original sale deed of 1966 under which Sushila Devi had acquired the rights of ownership and the original Rin Pustika of Sushila Devi was a relevant fact and would it adversely impact the defendants? (ix). Whether the alienation by the defendant-legal heirs of Sushila Devi in gross violation of interim injunction granted by the High Court would have an impact on the validity of the sale deed executed in favour of the 3rd parties and also have an adverse impact on the conduct of the defendants?