18. Access to justice, as provided through ordinary courts and tribunals, can be substituted through other systems and forums. As the substitution is only a replacement of the forum, the essentiality of remedy such as credibility, efficiency, etc. must continue to inhere in the substituted forum as well. In public law remedies, this issue was considered when administrative tribunals were constituted for the first time to substitute ordinary remedies. It was upheld subject to the condition that the tribunals are worthy successors, meaning that they must have the necessary credibility, efficiency and other features that are integral to judicial remedy. 19. Similarly, arbitration being a substituted remedy contracted by the parties, it must also comprise the basic features of a judicious remedy, the most important being an independent and impartial decision-making forum. 20. The question whether the substituted forum continues to inhere the essentiality of a remedy, in to be compliant with the larger principle of access to justice, is for the court to examine. The Arbitration Act incorporates this principle of public policy in Sections 11, 12 as well as Section 34. It is in this context that I will now proceed to examine Section 12 of the Act. F. Section 12, subsequent to 2015 Amendment 21. After the amendment, Section 12 of the Act reads: “12. Grounds for challenge.—(1) When a person is approached in connection with his possible appointment [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2305 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company as an arbitrator, he shall disclose in writing any circumstances,— (a) such as the existence either direct or indirect, of any past or present relationship with or interest in any of the parties or in relation to the subject-matter in dispute, whether financial, business, professional or other kind, which is likely to give rise to justifiable doubts as to his independence or impartiality; and (b) which are likely to affect his ability to devote sufficient time to the arbitration and in particular his ability to complete the entire arbitration within a period of twelve months. Explanation1.—The grounds stated in the Fifth Schedule shall guide in determining whether circumstances exist which give rise to justifiable doubts as to the independence or impartiality of an arbitrator. Explanation 2.—The disclosure shall be made by such person in the form specified in the Sixth Schedule. (2) An arbitrator, from the time of his appointment and throughout the arbitral proceedings, shall, without delay, disclose to the parties in writing any circumstances referred to in sub-section (1) unless they have already been informed of them by him. (3) An arbitrator may be challenged only if— (a) circumstances exist that give rise to justifiable doubts as to his independence or impartiality, or (b) he does not possess the qualifications agreed to by the parties. (4) A party may challenge an arbitrator appointed by him, or in whose appointment he has participated, only for reasons of which he becomes aware after the appointment has been made.