The High Court gave imprimatur to 430 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Tribunal’s observation with respect to contributory negligence, however, it modified and enhanced compensation awarded by the Tribunal while disposing of the appeals vide dated 7th April, 2021 (supra). The High Court affirmed the direction of the Tribunal holding the respondent No.2-Insurer responsible to indemnify the claims to the extent of 50%. 11. The appellant-claimants have preferred these appeals by special leave primarily aggrieved by the deduction of the compensation awarded to them on account of contributory negligence. 12. Thus, the core issue involved in these appeals centres around the deduction of 50% compensation awardable to the appellant-claimants, who have assailed the concurrent findings of the Courts below on the aspect of contributory negligence whereby, the driver of the car, i.e. Saiprasad Karande (deceased), was held jointly responsible for causing the collision. 13. The challenge in these appeals is against the concurrent findings of the Courts below. The scope of interference by this Court in such concurrent finding while exercising jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India is well-established. In the case of Sukhbiri Devi v. Union of India,2 this Court noted: “3. At the outset, it is to be noted that the challenge in this appeal is against concurrent findings by three Courts, as mentioned hereinbefore. The scope of an appeal by special leave under Article 136 of the Constitution of India against the concurrent findings is well settled. In State of Rajasthan v. Shiv Dayal 3 reiterating the settled position, this Court held that a concurrent finding of fact is binding, unless it is infected with perversity. It was held therein: — “When any concurrent finding of fact is assailed in second appeal, the appellant is entitled to point out that it is bad in law because it was recorded de hors the pleadings or it was based on no evidence or it was based on misreading of material 2 [2022] 13 SCR 523 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1322 3 (2019) 8 SCC 637 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 431 Sushma v. Nitin Ganapati Rangole & Ors. documentary evidence or it was recorded against any provision of law and lastly, the decision is one which no Judge acting judicially could reasonably have reached. (see observation made by learned Judge Vivian Bose, J. as His Lordship then was a Judge of the Nagpur High Court in Rajeshwar Vishwanath Mamidwar v. Dashrath Narayan Chilwelkar, AIR 1943 Nag 117 Para 43).” 4. Thus, evidently, the settled position is that interference with the concurrent findings in an appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution is to be made sparingly, that too when the impugned is absolutely perverse. On appreciation of evidence another view is possible also cannot be a reason for substitution of a plausible view taken and confirmed. We will now, bearing in mind the settled position, proceed to consider as to whether the said appellate power invites invocation in the case on hand.” (emphasis supplied) 14.