[2024] 9 S.C.R. 64 : 2024 INSC 664 Somprabha Rana & Ors. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. (Criminal Appeal No. 3821 of 2023) 06 September 2024 [Abhay S. Oka* and Augustine George Masih, JJ.] Issue for Consideration High Court, if justified in disturbing the custody of the child, aged one year and five months at the time of passing the , by handing over the custody of the child to her father and paternal side relatives from the custody of her maternal side relatives. Headnotes† Constitution of India – Art. 226 – Writ of Habeas Corpus under, seeking custody of minor – Minor child aged 11 months, in custody of maternal side relatives after the unatural death of her mother – Arrest of father in connection with mother’s death, however later released on bail – Habeas Corpus petition, wherein the High Court directed the maternal relatives to hand over custody of the child to the father and his family – Correctness: Held: When the Court deals with the issue of habeas corpus regarding a minor, the court cannot treat the child as a movable property and transfer custody without even considering the impact of the disturbance of the custody on the child – Such issues cannot be decided mechanically – Court has to act based on humanitarian considerations – Court cannot ignore the doctrine of parens patriae – On facts, High Court did not deal with and consider the issue of the welfare of the child – High Court disturbed the child’s custody based only on the father’s right as a natural guardian – Child had been in the custody of the appellants-maternal side relatives from the tender age of 11 months after her mother’s death, for more than one and a half years – Thus, not a case where custody of the child could be disturbed in a petition u/Art. 226 – At this tender age, if custody of the child is immediately transferred to the father and grandparents, the child would become miserable as she has not met them for a considerably long time – Moreover, * Author [2024] 9 S.C.R. 65 Somprabha Rana & Ors. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. no allegation that the child is not being looked after properly by the appellants – Even assuming that the father is not entitled to custody, at this stage, he is entitled to have access to meet the child, in the child’s best interest that she knows her father and grandparents and remains with them for some time to begin with – Father has shown unwillingness to apply for custody, s of the Court regarding custody not final – Thus, it is proposed to permit the appellants or any of them to apply for custody to the Regular Court under the GW Act – Impugned and set aside – Writ Petition dismissed not on merits but on the ground that the discretion could not have been exercised u/ Art. 226 to disturb the custody at this stage – Appellants to give access to the father and paternal grandparents of the child to meet the child once a fortnight – of access to continue for stipulated period, thereafter, would be open to be modified by the trial court – Guardians and Wards Act, 1890.