The issue of whether Section 18G of the IDRA covers the field under Entry 33(a) of List III does not arise for adjudication in view of the finding that denatured alcohol is covered by Entry 8 of List II”. [Para 140(k)] – [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J. (dissenting)] Denatured alcohol belongs to the family of “industrial alcohol” and therefore, Section 18G of the IDRA has a bearing on the said product – Section 18G occupies the field under Entry 33(a)- List III and, thereby, only Parliament is competent to legislate on all articles or class of articles related to a scheduled industry i.e. “Fermentation Industries”. [Para 33(k)] Constitution of India – Article 246 – Federal balance of the distribution of legislative powers between the Union and the States: Held: [Per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma, Augustine George Masih, JJ.] The federal balance of the distribution of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1937 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons legislative powers between the Union and the States rests on the interpretation of the phrase “notwithstanding” in Clause (1) of Article 246 and “subject to” in Clause (3) of Article 246 – It is more than clear that the phrases provide predominance to Parliament over State Legislatures – The federal balance lies not on the recognition that the Constitution grants Parliament predominant legislative power but on the identification of the scope of such predominance – The scope of the non-obstante clause in Article 246(1) and the subjugation clause in Article 246(3) must not be interpreted in isolation but along with the substantive provisions of the clauses – Clause (1) of Article 246 grants Parliament the “exclusive power” to enact laws with respect to matters in List I – Similarly, Clause (3) of Article 246 grants the Legislature of States, the “exclusive power” to enact laws with respect to matters in List II – On a holistic interpretation of the provisions, it is clear that the non-obstante clause in Article 246(1) and the subjugation clause in Article 246(3) do not permit Parliament to enact laws with respect to the entries in List II – Each of the legislative bodies are sovereign and supreme within the sphere that is allocated to them in the Seventh Schedule – It is crucial to note that Clause (1) of Article 246 stipulates that the power of Parliament to make laws with respect to entries in List I is ‘notwithstanding’ not just the power to make laws with respect to matters in the Concurrent list but also the power to make laws with respect to matters in the State List – A combined reading of the non-obstante clause and the subjugation clause along with the use of the phrase “exclusive power” means only one thing, that when there is a conflict between the entries in List I and List II, the power of Parliament supersedes. [Para 44] Constitution of India – Legislative entries – Interpretation – Overlap between two entries: Held: [Per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma, Augustine George Masih, JJ.]