19. Accordingly, we are of the considered opinion that the submissions of the learned counsel for the respondent and the findings recorded by the learned Single Judge that the present case is covered by the proviso of Section 16 of the Code of Civil Procedure are misplaced. In the facts and circumstances of the case as delineated, the relief in the present suit cannot be entirely obtained through the personal obedience of the defendants. The proviso to Section 16 of the Code of Civil Procedure would be applicable to a case where the relief sought for by the plaintiff was entirely obtainable through the personal obedience of the defendant, i.e., the defendant has not at all to go out of the jurisdiction of the Court for the aforesaid purpose. The present case is not a case of the aforesaid nature. In the present case for execution of the sale deed the defendants will have to go out of the jurisdiction of this Court and get the same executed and registered in Gurgaon. 20. In the present case also it is an admitted position that possession of the said property was with the seller and, therefore, in terms of the provisions of Section 55(1) of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, the relief of possession is inherent in the relief of specific performance of the contract. In our considered opinion the ratio of the decision of the Supreme Court in Babu Lal(supra) and the principles laid down in the case of Harshad Chiman Lal Modi (supra) are applicable to the facts of the present case. In Harshad Chiman Lal Modi (supra) it was found that in addition to passing decree, the court was also required to deliver possession of the property. It was held that such a relief can be granted only by sending the concerned person [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1297 Rohit Kochhar v. Vipul Infrastructure Developers Ltd. & Ors. responsible for delivery of possession to Gurgaon and the court at Delhi does not have the jurisdiction to get the aforesaid decree enforced for the property situate outside territorial jurisdiction of Delhi High Court. The Court while referring to the provisions of Section 16 of the CPC held that the location of institution of a suit would be guided by the location of the property in respect of which and for determination of any right or interest whereof the suit is instituted. The proviso to Section 16 CPC is also not applicable to the case, as the relief sought for cannot be entirely granted or obtained through the personal obedience of the respondent. 21. The decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Adcon Electronics Pvt. Ltd. v. Daulat and Another (2001) 7 SCC 698, relied upon by the respondents, would also not be applicable to the facts of the present case. The said decision was rendered in the context of the expression “suit for land”. The Supreme Court in the said decision held that suit for specific performance of an agreement for sale of the suit property, without a claim for delivery of possession, cannot be treated as a “suit for land” and is, therefore, triable under clause 12 if the other conditions thereunder are fulfilled.