879 Tarsem Lal v. Directorate of Enforcement Jalandhar Zonal Office Provided further that the Court may also direct that a person referred to in clause (ii) be released on bail if it is satisfied that it is just and proper so to do for any other special reason: Provided also that the mere fact that an accused person may be required for being identified by witnesses during investigation shall not be sufficient ground for refusing to grant bail if he is otherwise entitled to be released on bail and gives an undertaking that he shall comply with such directions as may be given by the Court: Provided also that no person shall, if the offence alleged to have been committed by him is punishable with death, imprisonment for life, or imprisonment for seven years or more, be released on bail by the Court under this sub- section without giving an opportunity of hearing to the Public Prosecutor.” (emphasis added) On its plain reading, sub-Section (1) of Section 437 does not apply when an accused appears or is brought before a High Court or Sessions Court. A Special Court is appointed under sub-Section (1) of Section 43 of the PMLA, which reads thus: “43. Special Courts.—(1) The Central Government, in consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court, shall, for trial of offence punishable under Section 4, by notification, designate, one or more Courts of Session as Special Court or Special Courts for such area or areas or for such case or class or group of cases as may be specified in the notification. Explanation.—In this sub-section, “High Court” means the High Court of the State in which a Sessions Court designated as Special Court was functioning immediately before such designation. (2)……………………………………………………” Section 44 (1)(d) provides that while trying a scheduled offence or offence under the PMLA, a Special Court shall hold the trial in accordance with the provisions of the CrPC as they apply to trial 880 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports before a Court of Session. A Special Court is a Court of Session. Therefore, Section 437 will not apply when an accused appears before the Special Court after a summons is issued on a complaint under Section 44 (1)(b) of the PMLA. 11. There are provisions in the CrPC which show that an accused who appears before the Court under a summons issued on a complaint cannot be treated as if he is in a deemed custody. One such provision is Section 205 of the CrPC, which reads thus: “205. Magistrate may dispense with personal attendance of accused.—(1) Whenever a Magistrate issues a summons, he may, if he sees reason so to do, dispense with the personal attendance of the accused and permit him to appear by his pleader. (2) But the Magistrate inquiring into or trying the case may, in his discretion, at any stage of the proceedings, direct the personal attendance of the accused, and, if necessary, enforce such attendance in the manner hereinbefore provided.” (emphasis added) We will examine whether Section 205 of the CrPC will apply to a complaint under Section 44(1)(b) of the PMLA.