The first question considered was, whether, the impugned levy was a levy upon the lands within the meaning of Entry 49 - List II. In this case, the of this Court in India Cement was considered and it was observed that what was of crucial relevance in India Cement was that the levy of cess was not upon the land or upon its yield (or its income) but upon the royalty amount payable to the lessor, which was included within the definition of “land revenue” under the Madras Panchayats Act. The question in India Cement, therefore, arose whether such cess levied with reference to or calculated on the basis of amount of royalty can be called a tax on land. It was held that it could not be so. It was pointed out that the royalty varies according to the particular mineral quarried in a given year and if no mineral was quarried, no royalty would be payable. However, the basis of the was that it was a case where tax was measured not with reference to or on the basis of the income or yield of the land but with reference to the amount of royalty payable by the lessee to his lessor. It was for this reason that the cess was held to be not upon the land. Royalty is a matter of agreement between the lessor and the lessee. It may also be determined by a statutory provision. But royalty is not the produce of the land; royalty is not the income of the land nor is royalty the yield of the land and that is the distinction. In India Cement, the petitioners’ contention was that the impugned measure being a tax not on the share of the produce of the land but on “royalty” payable, the levy of cess was bad. This contention was upheld. It was held that cess on royalty cannot be sustained under Entry 49 - List II as being a tax on land. It was observed that the cess impugned in India Cement was “an additional charge on royalty ” which was impermissible as it was not a tax on land but an impost on royalty paid for exercising mineral rights. 22.1 The aforesaid reasoning in India Cement was therefore distinguished in Goodricke. Similarly, Orissa Cement was also distinguished. It was observed that the levy should not be an [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1801 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. indirect levy on land like the one in India Cement wherein it was on the royalty but not on land itself. However, levy on land quantified on the basis of its yield could be treated as direct levy upon the land. Therefore, in Goodricke, it was observed that the mere fact that the tax was measured with reference to the yield of the land did not make it any the less tax upon the land directly and within the scope of Entry 49 - List II.