The said s have cleared KECML of any blame. On the same set of facts and logic, we are of the opinion that no criminality can be attributed to the appellants. 11. SANCTITY OF AN AUDIT REPORT IN LAW 11.1. As the sanctity of the Audit Report of the CAG of 2013 has been questioned by the appellants, we propose to examine this aspect. Before the year 1971, the CAG used to function under the Government of India (Audit and Accounts ), 1936 as adopted by the Government of India (Provisional Constitution) , 1947. This was followed by the promulgation of the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (Duties, Powers and Conditions of Service) Act, 197184. By virtue of Section 26 of the 84 For short ‘the CAG Act’ [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1221 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation CAG Act, the earlier of 1936 was repealed. Section 10 of the CAG Act requires the CAG to compile the accounts of the Union and the States and on the basis of the said accounts, to prepare an annual account for being submitted to the President of India or the Governor of the State/Administrator of the Union Territory, as the case may be. The scope of the audit of the Union and the States has been stated in Section 13 of the CAG Act. 11.2. Article 149 of the Constitution of India defines the duties and powers of the CAG and provides thus: “149. Duties and powers of the Comptroller and Auditor-General The Comptroller and Auditor-General shall perform such duties and exercise such powers in relation to the “accounts of the Union and of the States and of any other authority or body as may be prescribed by or under any law made by Parliament and, until provision in that behalf is so made, shall perform such duties and exercise such powers in relation to the accounts of the Union and of the States as were conferred on or exercisable by the Auditor-General of India immediately before the commencement of this Constitution in relation to the accounts of the Dominion of India and of the Provinces respectively.” 11.3 The duties of the CAG have been described and discussed at some length in the Arun Kumar Aggarwal (supra) in the following words: “60. The audit of the Union and the States is under Section 13 of the Act. The scope of the audit extends to the audit of all expenditure so as to ascertain whether the monies shown in the accounts as having been disbursed were legally available for such disbursement and whether the expenditure conforms to the authority which governs it. The CAG has to satisfy himself that the rules and procedures designed to secure an effective check on the assessment, collection and proper allocation of revenue are being duly observed under 1222 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 16. The CAG also has to examine decisions which have financial implications including the propriety of the decision making.