It is in the child’s best interest that she knows her father and grandparents and remains with them for some time to begin with. 12. We repeatedly asked the learned senior counsel representing the husband whether the husband was willing to apply for custody. However, he has shown unwillingness to apply for custody. The husband is a member of the Bar practising at the Indore Bench of 72 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Madhya Pradesh High Court. Even he was personally present during the hearing. However, the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants stated that the appellants or any of them would apply for claiming declaration as a guardian and retaining the custody. The earlier application filed by the appellants has been withdrawn. However, s of the Court regarding custody are never final. Therefore, we propose to permit the appellants or any of them to apply for custody to the Regular Court under the GW Act. Even in the petition filed by the appellants, the competent Court can permit the father to take over the custody if it is satisfied that the welfare of the minor requires custody to be granted to the father. 13. We propose to direct the appellants to give access to the father and paternal grandparents of the child to meet the child once a fortnight. To begin with, access can be provided in the office of the secretary of the District Legal Service Authority so that the secretary can supervise the access. We propose to direct the secretary of the District Legal Service Authority to take assistance from a child psychologist or a psychiatrist (preferably female) attached to a local public hospital. If no such expert is available with the local public hospital, such an expert can be appointed at the appellants’ cost. The expert will ensure that the child responds to the father and grandparents and interacts with them. The of access shall continue for four months. After that, it will be open for the concerned Trial Court to modify this of access in all respects. When the child becomes comfortable with his father and grandparents, the Court can also consider granting overnight access to the father and the grandparents. 14. Hence, we pass the following : a. Impugned and dated 23rd June, 2023 is set aside, and Writ Petition No. 11004 of 2023 is hereby dismissed. We make it clear that the Writ Petition is dismissed not on merits but on the ground that on facts, the discretion could not have been exercised under Article 226 of the Constitution of India to disturb the custody of the appellants at this stage; b. On every 1st, 3rd and 5th Saturdays starting from 21st September 2024, the appellants shall take the child to the office of the secretary of the District Legal Service Authority at district Panna in the State of Madhya Pradesh at 03.00 p.m. Under the supervision of the secretary of the District Legal Service [2024] 9 S.C.R. 73 Somprabha Rana & Ors.