The permit raj, which involved acute regulation of economic activity by the State with all its attendant evils, cried out for reforms. A slew of highly liberal reforms in 1991 set the stage for the Nation to make a paradigm shift. As discussed in the Raghavan Committee Report, things moved further in the direction of attaining faster economic growth. The Act is a measure which is intended to achieve the same. The role which was envisaged for the public sector company could not permit them to outlive their utility or abuse their unique position. Disinvestment done in a proper manner was perceived as a solution. However, sans disinvestment, State monopolies, public sector companies and government companies were expected to imbibe the new economic philosophy. The novel idea, which permeates the Act, would stand frustrated, in fact, if State monopolies, government companies and public sector units are left free to contravene the Act. Now that the Nation was more than 50 years’ old after it became a Republic and it no longer was the infant it was, Parliament which best knows the needs of its people, felt that the time was ripe for ushering in the wholesome idea of fair competition. Can it be said that free competition as envisaged under the Act which involves avoidance of anti-competitive agreements, abuse of dominant position and regulation of combinations are against the common good? As to how common good is best served is best understood by the representatives of the people in the democratic form of Government. We must bear in mind the wholesome principle that when Parliament enacts laws, it is deemed to be 238 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports aware of all the existing laws. Properly construed and operated fairly, the “Act” would, in other words, harmonise with common good, being its goal as well.” Further, this Court in paragraphs 118 to 122, observed as under: “118. The appellants rely upon the of this Court in State of T.N. v. L. Abu Kavur Bai, (1984) 1 SCC 515 for the proposition that the scheme of monopoly or nationalisation subserves public good. In the said case, the Court was dealing with a case of nationalisation of transport services. There can be no quarrel with the proposition that the purpose of the Nationalisation Act was indeed to subserve the common good as held in Tara Prasad Singh v. Union of India, (1980) 4 SCC 179. The purpose of the vesting under the Nationalisation Act was to distribute the resource to subserve the common good. 119. We may, in fact, notice the concern of the Court in Tara Prasad Singh about coal being not inexhaustible and the need for a wise and planned conservation of the resources being expressed in para 39. No doubt, all this was at the time when the Nation was confronted with the condition of the mines being what it was as brought out in the Statement of Objects. 120. We agree with the appellants and as held by this Court in State of Karnataka v. Ranganatha Reddy, (1977) 4 SCC 471 that “distribution” is a word of wide meaning and it is covered by Article 39(b) of the Constitution.