204/2008, registered at PS Grand Bazar, Puducherry, relating to the murder of Rajaram. He was subsequently arrested in this case, that is FIR.No.80/2008, which was registered at PS Odiansalai, Puducherry. The expression “custody” under Section 27 of the Evidence Act does not mean formal custody. It includes any kind of restriction, restraint or even surveillance by the police. Even if the accused was not formally arrested at the time of giving information, the accused ought to be deemed, for all practical purposes, in the custody of the police. 26. Reference is made to a recent decision of this Court in Rajesh & Anr. v. State of Madhya Pradesh13, which held that formal accusation and formal police custody are essential pre-requisites under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. In our opinion, we need not dilate on the legal proposition as we are bound by the law and ratio as laid down by the decision of a Constitution Bench of this Court in State of U.P. v. Deoman Upadhyaya14. The law laid down by this Court in a decision delivered by a Bench of larger strength is binding on any subsequent Bench of lesser or coequal strength.15 This Court in Deoman Upadhyay (supra) observed that the bar under Section 25 of the Evidence Act applies equally whether or not the person against whom evidence is sought to be led in a criminal trial was in custody at the time of making the confession. Further, for the ban to be effective the person need not have been accused of an offence when he made the confession. The reason is that the expression “accused person” in Section 24 and the expression “a person accused of any offence” in Sections 26 and 27 have the same connotation, and describe the person against whom evidence 13 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1202. 14 (1961) 1 SCR 14. 15 See s of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra and Anr., (2005) 2 SCC 673 and Union of India and Anr. v. Raghubir Singh (Dead) By Lrs., (1989) 2 SCC 754. Raghubir Singh (supra) and Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Commu- nity (supra) have been subsequently followed and applied by this Court in Trimurthi Fragrances (P) Ltd. v. Government of N.C.T. of Delhi, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1247. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 105 PERUMAL RAJA @ PERUMAL v. STATE, REP. BY INSPECTOR OF POLICE is sought to be led in a criminal proceeding. The adjectival clause “accused of any offence” is, therefore, descriptive of the person against whom a confessional statement made by him is declared not provable, and does not predicate a condition of that person at the time of making the statement. 27. Elaborating on this aspect, a three judge Bench of this Court in Aghnoo Nagesia v. State of Bihar16 has held that if the FIR is given by the accused to a police officer and amounts to a confessional statement, proof of the confession is prohibited by Section 25 of the Evidence Act.