These communities [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1851 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. have historically safeguarded sacred groves and ought to be actively involved in identification and conservation efforts to ensure sustainable practices that align with local biodiversity. (v) The State’s claim that ‘Shree Degray Mataji’ Oran in Jaisalmer is officially listed and recorded in revenue records is vague and lacks supporting documentation. Clarification is needed on whether it is recorded as ‘Forest/Deemed Forest’ or ‘Gair Mumkin Oran’, considering that the area is critical for the protection of the endangered Great Indian Bustard. IV. SUBMISSION ON BEHALF OF AMICUS CURIAE 21. Shri K. Parameshwar, learned Amicus Curiae submitted that sacred groves are vital for linking culture with biodiversity conservation, rooted in the belief that humans are part of a broader ecological community. Protected through practices of veneration and restraint, they embody a grassroot conservation model that integrates cultural traditions with ecological restoration. These groves play a key role in in situ biodiversity preservation, sustaining pristine habitats, endangered species like the Indian gazelle and blackbuck, and keystone species such as the culturally significant khejari tree and the Rohida Tree (Tecomella undulata) also known as the teak of the Thar Desert. They combat soil erosion, recharge aquifers, safeguard genetic diversity, and rely on community-led management for their protection. 22. It was submitted that the Rajasthan Forest Policy, 2023, has regressed by omitting the specific obligations related to sacred groves and their recognition as ‘forests’. In contrast, the Rajasthan State Forest Policy, 2010, provided a detailed framework for the protection of sacred groves (Orans/Dev-vans), emphasizing their ecological and cultural significance. The Rajasthan State Forest Policy, 2010, made the following provisions in respect of the protection of sacred groves: “5.10 Orans/Dev-vans 5.10.1 Orans/Dev-vans are islands of good forests and repositories of rich biodiversity. These orans/ dev-vans are an excellent example of religious faith in conservation. Efforts will be made to provide necessary financial and legal support in consonance with local religious ethos of the local community. 1852 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 5.10.2. District-wise inventory and database will be prepared for all such areas with the support of local NGOs and religious trusts. However, these areas will be demarcated on the ground as well as on cadastral maps on priority. 5.10.3 For management of these orans/ dev-vans, a committee of local people and trustees of the temple can be constituted to protect these areas.” 23. The Rajasthan Forest Policy, 2023, generalizes the commitment by stating: “6.1.3 Actively take up protection, conservation and plantation on community lands like Gochar, Oran, Charagah, etc.” 24. This paradigm shift in the Rajasthan Forest Policy, 2023 dilutes the focused protections previously afforded to sacred groves, relegating them to a broader category of community lands. (i) Community Rights and involvement 25. It was submitted that ‘community forest resource’ is defined under Section 2(a) of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 200611 as “customary common forest land within the traditional or customary boundaries of the village or seasonal use of landscape in the case of pastoral communities, including reserved forests, protected forests and protected areas such as Sanctuaries and National Parks to which the community had traditional access.” Under the Forest Rights Act, Section 3(1)(i) recognizes the rights of forest-dwelling communities to protect, regenerate or conserve, or manage any community forest resource which they have been traditionally protecting and conserving for sustainable use.