As has been stated by this Court in Purushot- tamdas Dalmia v. State of West Bengal [(1962) 2 SCR 101 : AIR 1961 SC 1589 : (1961) 2 Cri LJ 728] there are two types of jurisdiction of a criminal court, namely, (1) the jurisdiction with respect to the power of the court to try particular kinds of offences, and (2) its territorial jurisdiction. While the former goes to the root of the matter and any transgression of it makes the entire trial void, the latter is not of a peremp- tory character and is curable under Section 531 of the Code. Territorial jurisdiction is provided “just as a matter of convenience, keeping in mind the administrative point of view with respect to the work of a particular court, the convenience of the accused who will have to meet the charge levelled against him and the convenience of the witnesses who have to appear before the Court”. Sub-section (8) of Section 488 in fact provides that proceedings under the section “may be taken against any person in any district where he resides or is, or where he last resided with his wife or, as the case may be, the mother of the illegitimate child”. This therefore is ordinarily the requirement as to the filing of an application under Sec- tion 488 within the limits of the jurisdiction of the Magistrate concerned.’ 1174 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 21. Having considered the facts and submissions by the learned counsel for the parties, this Court finds that a case for interference has been made out. The undisputed and admitted facts are that the PoA was executed by the land-owners/principals, including respondent no.2 and others on 12.04.1994, in favour of the person from whom the appellant purchased the land on 24.08.2000. 22. It is also a fact that the PoA-holder executed a Sale Deed and got it registered at Dehradun in favour of the appellant as also that the land is located in Dehradun. Much has been said with regard to a harmonious reading of the various clauses of the PoA viz. Clauses 3, 11 and 15 which read as under: ‘3. To execute any type of deed and to receipt consideration, if any, on our behalf and to get the Registration done of the same. xxx 11. To sell moveable or immoveable property including land, live stock, trees etc. and receive payment of such sales on our behalf. xxx 15. To present for registration all the sale deeds or other documents signed by us and admit execution there of before the District Registrar or the Sub-Registrar or such other Officer as may have authority to register the said deeds and documents as the case may be and take back the same after registration.’ 23. A mere perusal of the above indicates that as per Clause 3, the PoA-holder was authorised to execute any type of deed, to receive consideration in this behalf and to get the registration done thereof.