v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. (iv) No specific date for the release of the security in relation to the PBG has been mentioned; (v) Moreover, in respect of the second tranche comprising of Rs. 195 crores, there was no requirement to furnish any security in the form of a PBG; (vi) The securities, in other words, were of a revolving nature, but significantly on the release of the PBG against a cash payment of Rs. 185 crores, the PBG is not required to be renewed as a fresh security for the following tranches; and …” (emphasis supplied) 120. A perusal of the abovementioned would indicate that both the parties as well as the NCLAT were ad idem on the fact that the terms imposed by the Lender’s Affidavit dated 16.08.2023 were in pursuance of and similar to the terms of the Resolution Plan. This is because, in to take benefit of the offer made in the Lender’s Affidavit, the SRA had repeatedly asserted that the PBG should be allowed to be adjusted under the terms of the Resolution Plan and as a consequence, such an adjustment must be allowed under the Lender’s Affidavit as well. Even the NCLAT in its dated 28.08.2023 had held that the SRA could adjust the PBG of Rs. 150 Crore to take benefit of the offer of the Lender’s Affidavit by relying on Clause 6.4.4 of the Resolution Plan which provided for the summary of payments and security package. 121. Therefore, in our view the conditions imposed on the SRA under the Lender’s Affidavit and the Resolution Plan were one and the same, the only difference being that the Appellants had offered not to press issues relating to the compliance of the Conditions Precedent and grant of extensions/exclusions along with offering to withdraw the Company Appeal and the Appeals pending before this Court. 122. The of this Court dated 18.01.2024 must be seen & understood in the aforesaid background. While the appeal before us had resulted from several interim s of the NCLAT, the question before us was whether the adjustment of the PBG of Rs. 150 Crore was permissible under the Lender’s Affidavit as well as the terms of the Resolution Plan, being one and the same. We interpreted the term 2136 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “infuse” as mentioned in the affidavit and under the Resolution Plan, and arrived at the conclusion that it demonstrably meant “payment in cash”. Therefore, the directions that were issued by this Court, especially the direction that - “the SRA shall peremptorily on or before 31 January 2024, deposit an amount of Rs. 150 crores into the designated account of SBI, failing which the consequences under the Resolution Plan shall follow”, must have been necessarily seen in the context of the Resolution Plan as well. The phrase “failing which the consequences under the Resolution Plan shall follow” was a mandatory direction that should have been taken into account by the NCLAT in its impugned dated 12.03.2024.