No claim under this policy shall be payable unless the terms of this condition have been complied with. 30. Two other important clauses viz., Clause 9 of the Conditions and the memorandum containing the Reinstatement Value Clause are extracted below at the appropriate place in the discussion. Answer to Question No (i) :- 31. There was a debate at the Bar as to whether the memorandum consisting of the Reinstatement Value Clause (extracted later in the ) was a part of the policy. The argument was raised by senior counsel for the Insured who contended that the memorandum containing the Reinstatement Value Clause was not part of the policy. We reject this contention at the outset. This is for the reason that before the NCDRC in the written statement filed by the NIACL, in para 3, it was specifically pleaded as under: “The copy of the fire policy at pages 13 to 22 is a true copy of the policy issued by the Respondent. However, the Reinstatement Value Clause issued along with the policy is not attached to the same. The answering Respondent is filing herewith the copy of the policy with complete terms and conditions and clauses as Annexure R-1 to this written Statement.” 32. In the replication filed by the Insured, there was no denial of this averment. Hence, we reject the contention of the Insured that the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 299 New India Assurance Company Ltd. Through its Manager v. M/s Tata Steel Ltd. memorandum of the Reinstatement Value Clause was not the part of the policy. There are other factors which establish that the Reinstatement Value Clause was part of the Policy. They are discussed hereinbelow. Issue (i), set out above, is answered in favor of NIACL. Discussion of Question No. (ii) :- 33. Coming back to the clauses in the insurance policy, it will be seen that the assurance in the opening clause of the policy was that NIACL will pay to the Insured the value of the property at the time of the happening of its destruction OR the amount of such damage OR at its option, reinstate or replace such property or any part thereof. In the conditions, it was incorporated that the Insured was at all times at its own expense to produce, procure and give to NIACL all such further particulars, plans, specifications, books, vouchers, invoices, duplicates or copies thereof, documents, investigation reports (internal/external), proof and information with respect to the claim and all matters provided for in Clause 6. It is also stipulated that no claim under this policy was payable unless the terms of this condition was complied with. 34. Clause 9 of the Conditions states that if NIACL, at its option, reinstate or replace the property damaged or destroyed, or any part thereof, instead of paying the amount of loss or damage, or join with any other company or Insurance in so doing, NIACL shall not be bound to reinstate exactly or completely but only as circumstances permit and in reasonably sufficient manner, and in no case shall NIACL be bound to spend more in reinstatement than it would have cost to reinstate such property as it was at the time of occurrence of such loss or damage nor more than the sum insured by the Company thereon.