“Ask any parents of an adolescent, may be a boy or girl, you shall get the answer how difficult it is to give a right upbringing to him/her in view of free flow of negative materials from the web and social media, which hamper their thinking process and living. We, therefore, propose to take a “Duty/obligation based approach” to the issue in hand.” (Para 30.2) viii. “It is the duty/obligation of every female adolescent to: (i) Protect her right to integrity of her body. (ii) Protect her dignity and self-worth. (iii) Thrive for overall development of her self transcending gender barriers. (iv) Control sexual urge/urges as in the eyes of the society she is the looser (sic) when she gives in to enjoy the sexual pleasure of hardly two minutes. (v) Protect her right to autonomy of her body and her privacy. It is the duty of a male adolescent to respect the aforesaid duties of a young girl or woman and he should train his mind to a respect a woman, her self worth, her dignity & privacy, and right to autonomy of her body.” (Para 30.3) 590 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ix. “[...] Similarly, parental guidance and education so far as boys are concerned is to include how to respect a woman; how to keep dignity of a woman; how to protect the integrity of body of a woman; and how to befriend a woman without being aroused by sexual urge even if there is advances from the other side till he becomes capable to maintain a family. [. ].” (Para 31) x. “We do not want our adolescents to do anything that shall push them from dark to darker side of life. It is normal for each adolescent to seek the company of opposite sex but it is not normal for them to engage in sex devoid of any commitment and dedication. We want them to spread their wings high with a view to realise their best selves. Sex shall come automatically to them when they grow self-reliant, economically independent and a person which they dreamt one day to be. Along with sex in such a stage shall come love with commitment and dedication towards each other as they shall have the discretion and maturity to understand each other, adjust with each other and forgive each other. We beseech our adolescents to follow a salutary legal principle of Mahabharata “Dharmo Rakshyati Rakshyita” (one who protects law is protected by law) and proceed in their path of self-development without being influenced by bashful urge of urgent sex.” (Para 32) xi. “So far as the case of criminalisation of romantic relationship between two adolescents of opposite sex is concerned it should better be left to the wisdom of the judiciary. Each judiciary in the world has the nicety of pluralism. Each individual judge has his/her own opinion. He/She has his/her own unique style of addressing an issue. [..] We are, therefore, of the view that the grey area of adolescent consensual sex about which much commotion is made should be left to the discretion and wisdom of the judiciary.