The question whether an Act is intended to secure the objects contained in Article 39(b) or not, does not depend upon the declaration by the legislature but depends on its contents. The finding was that MHADA provided for reserving land for securing public amenities without which people could not live there as well as community centres, shopping complexes, parks, roads, drains, playgrounds, all being necessary for civic life and these amenities being enjoyed by all. It was held that this is also a kind of distribution. Reference was made to Ranganatha Reddy which dealt with the question whether nationalisation of bus transport was covered by Article 39(b) and to Krishna Iyer, J’s observations extracted as under: “The next question is whether nationalisation can have nexus with distribution. Should we assign a narrow or spacious sense to this concept? Doubtless, the latter, for reasons so apparent and eloquent. To ‘distribute’ even in its simple dictionary meaning, is to ‘allot, to divide into classes or into groups’ and ‘distribution’ embraces ‘arrangement, classification, placement, disposition, apportionment, the way in which items, a quantity, or the like, is divided or apportioned; the system of dispersing goods throughout a community’ (see Random House Dictionary). To classify and allocate certain industries or services or utilities or articles between the private and the public sectors of the national economy is to distribute those resources. Socially conscious economists will find little difficulty in treating nationalisation of transport as a distributive process for the good of the community. You cannot condemn the concept of nationalisation in our 252 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Plan on the score that Article 39 (b) does not envelop it. It is a matter of public policy left to legislative wisdom whether a particular scheme of takeover should be undertaken. Two conclusions strike as quintessential. Part IV, especially Article 39(b) and (c), is a futuristic mandate to the State with a message of transformation of the economic and social . Firstly, such change calls for collaborative effort from all the legal institutions of the system : the legislature, the judiciary and the administrative machinery. Secondly and consequentially, loyalty to the high purpose of the Constitution viz. social and economic justice in the context of material want and utter inequalities on a massive scale, compels the court to ascribe expansive meaning to the pregnant words used with hopeful foresight, not to circumscribe their connotation into contradiction of the objectives inspiring the provision. To be Pharisaic towards the Constitution through ritualistic construction is to weaken the social- spiritual thrust of the founding fathers’ dynamic faith.” Only the aforesaid portions of Justice Krishna Iyer’s were distilled by this Court in this case. Consequently, it was held that the MHADA was brought into force to implement the directive principle contained in Article 39(b) and hence, even if there was any infraction of Article 14, it was cured by Article 31C which clearly was attracted to the case. 18.1 Therefore, it was observed that the MHADA was protected from challenge owing to the applicability of Article 31C of the Constitution and it was immune from the challenge under Articles 14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution.