He urged that the evidence of Sudha (PW-10) is not trustworthy and deserves to be discarded. (vi) The claim of the prosecution that the accused appellant was absconding is totally unfounded because in the FIR, it was clearly mentioned that the accused appellant after divorcing deceased Usha had started residing in his village Khatta, U.P. However, the Investigating Officer (PW-13) made no effort whatsoever to apprehend the accused appellant from his village. (vii) It has been admitted by material prosecution witnesses that deceased Usha was indulged in sex trade and that Sandeep Kumar used to solicit her services. Sandeep Kumar and Rajbir Singh (PW-14) were apprehended by the police on suspicion of the death of Usha, however, proper investigation was not made on this aspect. As per him, the possibility of Usha having been murdered by some other person cannot be ruled out. 19. Learned counsel concluded his submissions urging that the case is based purely on circumstantial evidence. The entire chain of incriminating circumstances has to be established leading to the only conclusion consistent with the guilt of the accused and inconsistent with the guilt of anyone else. As per the learned counsel, this chain was not established conclusively by cogent and clinching evidence and hence conviction of the accused appellant as recorded by the trial Court and affirmed by the High Court is unsustainable and should be set aside. Submissions on behalf of the respondent-State:- 20. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent State fervently and vehemently opposed the submissions advanced by learned counsel 324 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for the appellant and contended that the chain of incriminating circumstances is complete in all aspects exclusively pointing out towards the guilt of the accused. The learned counsel made the following pertinent submissions imploring the Court to dismiss the appeal and upheld the conviction of the accused appellant: - (i) That the statement of Ashok Kumar Pathak recorded as PW-1 during proceedings under Section 299 CrPC was rightly relied upon as admissible and reliable piece of evidence. The non-examination of Ashok Kumar Pathak during trial is not a deliberate act of prosecution, rather, the witness could not be examined during regular trial after apprehension of the accused appellant. The witness could not be traced by the prosecuting agency inspite of best efforts. The prolonged abscondence of the accused is primarily the reason for non-examination of Ashok Kumar Pathak. (ii) That the complainant Ashok Kumar Pathak in his evidence as PW-1 during proceedings under Section 299 CrPC has admitted his signature on his statement[Exhibit PW-1/A (based upon which FIR was registered)] and also elaborated about the averments made therein which he had witnessed with his own eyes. (iii) That the evidence of Ashok Kumar Pathak clearly establishes the presence of accused appellant with Usha on intervening night of 19th/20th May, 1990, whereafter, the lady was found murdered and the accused was found absconding from the crime scene leaving behind a confessional note. Ashok Kumar Pathak also proved about the motive of the appellant to commit the crime.