Section 3 reads: “On and from the commencement of this Act, there shall be levied and collected a tax on mineral rights at such rates not exceeding the maximum specified in Column 2 of the Schedule against minerals specified in column 1 of that Schedule as the State Government may, from time to time by notification in the Official gazette, fix.” 1676 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The Gujarat High Court held that a mining right is a right to enter upon and occupy land for the purpose of working. A mineral right is a right or title to certain specified minerals in a given tract. Therefore, the High Court followed the principle that a lessee acquires mineral rights if the lessor grants them the permission to remove minerals from the leased area. 177. In his dissenting opinion in Kesoram (supra), Justice S B Sinha sought to draw a distinction between “minerals” and “mineral rights” by observing that mineral rights “cannot be construed as mineral already extracted as contradistinguished from being capable of extraction or otherwise in a state or form when embedded in the earth.”247 The learned Judge observed that when a mineral is extracted, it may be a culmination of the right to deal in the mineral but the mineral rights would not include a right to dispatch extracted minerals. Justice Sinha observed that the right to receive royalty is also a mineral right. According to him mineral rights extend till the extraction of minerals from the earth and do not include the right to dispatch the extracted minerals. There is a fallacy in Justice Sinha’s observations. Statutorily, royalty is a consideration by the lessee to the lessor for winning the minerals and removing them from the leased area. Section 9 of MMDR Act imposes royalty on removal or consumption of minerals by lessee. Royalty, is paid on dispatch of minerals. Thus, mineral rights do not culminate with the extraction of minerals, but include the right to dispatch the extracted minerals as well. 178. The Constitution is a living organic document and must be interpreted in that spirit.248 Enumerated legislative powers ought to be interpreted with a wide and liberal spirit to ensure that the legislatures have the requisite authority to legislate and to allow the executive to govern. The expression “mineral rights” must be construed in this spirit to ensure that the taxing powers of the State under Entry 50 of List II are not unnecessarily curtailed. The natural meaning of the expression “mineral rights” will include the entire bundle of rights that follow ownership of minerals, including rights which can be transferred to a lessee through a mining lease. These rights will 247 Kesoram (supra) [400] 248 Saurabh Chaudri v. Union of India (2003) 11 SCC 146 [71]; Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India (2018) 10 SCC 1 [95]. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1677 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. include the right to extract minerals by working the mines, winning the minerals, and monetizing the minerals obtained by removing or consuming them.