Even otherwise, assuming that the petitioner and the Bank herein deliberately chose not to implead the Subsequent Transferee herein in to mislead this Court in the Main Appeals, the same is immaterial as the Subsequent Transferee too failed to implead itself despite being aware of the pendency of the proceedings before this Court. If at all they were so concerned about the transfer of the Secured Asset in their favour, either they ought to have themselves attempted to implead itself before this Court or requested the Borrower to do the same. In view of the Doctrine of Pari Delicto i.e.., ‘in equal fault, the law aids neither party’, the Subsequent Transferee cannot seek any benefit from the fault of the petitioner or the Bank when it is itself equally at fault. 176. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the considered view that the execution of the Assignment Agreement dated 28.08.2023 and the 1720 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports transfer of the Secured Asset in pursuance thereto in favour of the Subsequent Transferee is hit by lis pendens despite the fact that no notice of pendency was registered in terms of the amended Section 52 of the TPA. 177. We are aware of the two decisions of this Court one in the case of Thomson Press (India) Limited v. Nanak Builders and Investors Private Limited & Ors. reported in (2013) 5 SCC 397 and T. Ravi & Anr. v. B. Chinna Narasimha & Ors. reported in (2017) 7 SCC 342. In both these decisions, the view taken is that Section 52 of the TPA does not render transfers affected during the pendency of the suit void but only render such transfers subservient to the rights as may be eventually determined by the court. 178. In Thomson Press (supra), T.S. Thakur, J. (as he then was) in his separate while supplementing the authored by M.Y. Eqbal, J., observed as under: - “53. There is, therefore, little room for any doubt that the transfer of the suit property pendente lite is not void ab initio and that the purchaser of any such property takes the bargain subject to the rights of the plaintiff in the pending suit. Although the above decisions do not deal with a fact situation where the sale deed is executed in breach of an injunction issued by a competent court, we do not see any reason why the breach of any such injunction should render the transfer whether by way of an absolute sale or otherwise ineffective. The party committing the breach may doubtless incur the liability to be punished for the breach committed by it but the sale by itself may remain valid as between the parties to the transaction subject only to any directions which the competent court may issue in the suit against the vendor.” (Emphasis supplied) 179. The decision in Thomson Press (supra) referred to above has been relied upon in T. Ravi (supra) for the proposition that the effect of Section 52 of the Act 1882 is not to render transfers effected during the pendency of a suit by a party to the suit void; the transfer remains valid subject, of course, to the result of the suit.