Aware of the deadline of 10th November, 2024 (the day the HCJI would demit office) within which the final had to be pronounced, the task of reading the learned dissertation started right away squeezing out time from the long hours that had to be spent in getting ready for the matters on board for each day and in conducting proceedings in court. No sooner had I completed reading the draft opinion, came a revised draft opinion of the HCJI spread over almost the equal number of pages. It reached my residential office in the evening of 25th October, 2024, i.e., on the eve of the short Diwali break. Inter alia, there was one very significant change in the revised draft. While in the first draft “the test laid down” by a Constitution Bench of 5 (five) Judges of this Court in S. Azeez Basha and Anr. vs. Union of India3 “to determine if an educational institution is entitled to the guarantee under Article 30(1)” of the Constitution of India4 was proposed to be overruled, in the revised draft the view taken in Azeez Basha (supra) “that an educational institution is not established by a minority if it derives its legal character through a statute” has been proposed to be overruled. The effect of the revised draft opinion of the HCJI is the defenestration of the view taken in Azeez Basha (supra) that Aligarh Muslim University5 is not a minority institution. Such view has stood its ground for the last more than 50 (fifty) years. It is the only decision of this Court where Article 30(1) was considered and law laid down keeping establishment and administration of a pre- independence era university in perspective as distinguished from schools and colleges, which have been the subject matter of other Constitution Bench decisions. Utilising the short Diwali break, the 2 HCJI, hereafter 3 (1968) 1 SCR 833 4 Constitution 5 “AMU” or “University”, hereafter, depending upon the context 1858 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports draft opinions were read many times over together with perusal of the materials on record to decide whether the erudite opinion of the HCJI commended acceptance by me. On 2nd November, 2024, came another few pages from the office of the HCJI containing corrections effected in quite a few of the paragraphs of the revised draft opinion in track changing mode with paragraph 72 being altogether deleted. 4. Difficult though it is to disagree with any opinion penned by the HCJI, which has always been a product of thorough research and high intellect and is thoughtfully expressed, I could not persuade myself to completely agree with the opinion expressed in the revised drafts and the whole of the proposed conclusions recorded therein. This is when I had decided to pen my own opinion encapsulating my thoughts in brief having regard to the very short time at my disposal. 5. While on the task of preparing the draft opinion and completing it for circulation, arrived separate draft opinions of Hon’ble Surya Kant, J. and Hon’ble Satish Chandra Sharma, J. on 6th November, 2024.