It is thus submitted that the respondent no.1 was not entitled for promotion to the post of Shikshan Sevak, a post that is a part of the teaching cadre and a non-promotional post. 4 Writ Petition No. 1895 of 2007 5 Appeal No. 131 of 2006 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 529 Sant Bhagwan Baba Shikshan Mandal & Ors. v. Gunwant & Ors. 7. Per contra, Mr. Vivek C. Solshe, learned counsel for the respondent no.1 supports the impugned and submits that the entire controversy has been set at rest on amendment of the Maharashtra Employees of Private Schools (Conditions of Service) Regulation Act, 1977, by including the post of Shikshan Sevak under the Act and casting an obligation on the management of Private Schools to fill up the said post by appointing a person suitable in the list of surplus persons maintained by the office of Education Inspector, Greater Bombay or the Education Officer, Zilla Parishad, as the case may be, for absorption to the post. 8. We have heard learned counsel for the parties, perused the records as also the impugned . In our opinion, the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the appellants regarding non-entitlement of the respondent no.1 for appointment from a non-teaching cadre to a teaching cadre has been duly considered and turned down by the High Court for valid reasons. 9. It is not in dispute that the respondent no.1 who was working on the post of Peon, had taken permission from the appellants-Management for undergoing further education and improving his qualifications. It is also not in dispute that in terms of the qualifications acquired by him in the course of his service, the respondent no.1 qualified for being appointed to the post of Shikshan Sevak. Thirdly, on completion of the requisite qualification, the respondent no.1 had submitted a representation to the appellants-management for being appointed to the subject post as and when a vacancy would arise. 10. Despite the aforesaid position, when a vacancy to the subject post arose on Mr. Dhakne superannuating in the year 2006, instead of approaching the Education Inspector/Education Officer/Zilla Parishad, as the case may be, being the office designated by the Director of Education for vacancies to be filled up by a suitable person available on the list of surplus persons maintained in that office, the appellants proceeded to issue an advertisement inviting applications from the public at large for filling up the subject post, thereby completely ignoring the claim of the respondent no.1 for being appointed to the subject post. The High Court has noticed in paragraph 14 of the impugned judgement that even the aspect of issuing a public notice in the daily newspaper is doubtful, since the appellants did not file the relevant page of the daily newspaper along with their counter 530 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports affidavit and what was filed, could not be treated as an authentic newspaper. Further, the application submitted by the respondent No.1 for being appointed to the subject post has not been disputed by the appellants.