1117 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. and the learned Amicus upon perusal of the same shall file a report on these compliances in 2 weeks thereafter. H. The matter will be listed on 07.05.2024, and we wish to take up this matter in a phased manner. The States and High Courts from serial numbers 1 to 10 will be taken up on 07.05.2024, and the monitoring as to due compliance by the remaining stake holders will be taken up subsequently in a staggered manner. I. STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE (SOP) (i) Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned Additional Solicitor General has invited our attention to a document titled as “Guidelines and standard operating procedure for implementation of the scheme for support to poor prisoners” and requested that the same may form part of record and the of this Court. The same shall be taken on record. (ii) In furtherance of the subsequent s passed by this Court on ancillary issues concerned with training public prosecutors and including s of this Court in the Curriculum of State Judicial Academies, we wish to further pass a direction on an SOP framed by Central Government. The SOP if put in place by the Central Government, will indeed alleviate the situation of under trial prisoners by way of establishment of a dedicated empowered committee and funds etc. (iii) For the sake of convenience and for extending the benefit of this SOP to the under-trial prisoners, we wish to extract the SOP in its entirety in this so that all concerned parties act in tandem to ensure due compliance of this SOP and the compliance thereof is incorporated in the next report. “Guidelines and Standard Operating Procedure for implementation of the Scheme for support to poor prisoners i) Funds to the States/UTs will be provided through the Central Nodal Agency (CNA). The National Crime Records Bureau has been designated as the CNA for this scheme. ii) States/UTs will draw the requisite amount from the CNA on case-to-case basis and reimburse 1118 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the same to the concerned competent authority (Court) for providing relief to the prisoner. iii) An ‘Empowered Committee’ may be constituted in each District of the State/UT, comprising of i) District Collector (DC)/District Magistrate (DM), ii) Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, iii) Superintendent of Police, iv) Superintendent/ Dy. Supdt. of the concerned Prison and v) Judge incharge of the concerned Prison, as nominee of the District Judge. Note: This Empowered Committee will assess the requirement of financial support in each case for securing bail or for payment of fine, etc. and based on the decision taken, the DC/ DM will draw money from the CNA account and take necessary action. Note: The Committee may appoint a Nodal Officer and take assistance of any civil society representative/social worker/ District Probation Officer to assist them in processing cases of needy prisoners. iv) An Oversight Committee may be constituted at the State Government level, comprising of i) Principal Secretary (Home/Jail), ii) Secretary (Law Deptt), iii) Secretary, State Legal Services Authority, iv) DG/IG (Prisons) and v) Registrar General of the High Court.