[ * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ] 11. (3)(b) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, the amount of tax credit in respect of a dealer shall be reduced by the amount of tax calculated at the rate of four per cent. on the turnover of purchases- (i) of taxable goods consigned or dispatched for branch transfer or to his agent outside the State, or (ii) of goods taxable which are used as raw materials in the manufacture, or in the packing of goods which are dispatched outside the State in the course of branch transfer or consignment or to his agent outside the State, (iii) of fuel used for the manufacture of goods. :] [Provided that where the rate of tax of the taxable goods consigned or dispatched by a dealer for branch transfer or to his agent outside the State is less than four per cent., then the amount of tax credit in respect of such dealer shall be reduced by the amount of tax calculated at the rate of tax set out in the Schedule on such goods on the 34[taxable turnover of purchases with in the State.] 44 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17. The cogent reading of sub-Section (18) of Section 2 which defines ‘purchase price’, sub-Section 32 of Section 2 which defines ‘turnover of purchases’, and Section 11 of the GVAT Act which deals with entitlement to the tax credit, would lead to only one conclusion, that the purchase price would not include purchases on which no value added tax was claimed nor granted and the component of value added tax stood already paid on purchases. Accordingly, the taxable turnover of purchases would have to be calculated after deducting both the components as has been detailed aforesaid. 18. Therefore, the calculation of taxable turnover of the purchases and reduction value of purchases on which no tax credit was claimed nor granted, and component of value added tax already paid on purchases, was rightly excluded from the total turnover of the Respondent dealer while computing his tax liability under Section 11(3)(b) of the GVAT Act. 19. The passed by the Tribunal as has been upheld vide the impugned of the High Court being in accordance with law calls for no interference and therefore, the appeals deserve dismissal. 20. The appeals, accordingly, stand dismissed. 21. As regards the Transfer Cases which were directed to be heard along with the present Appeals, are allowed in the light of the above passed in the Appeals. Result of the case: Appeals dismissed, Transfer Cases allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey