577 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. Act which governs the claim. It must, therefore, come under the general provision contained in article 115, which governs every action arising out of contract, not otherwise specially provided for.” (Emphasis supplied) 97. In Dhapia v. Dalla91 before a Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court the question was, what Article of the First Schedule to the 1908 Act would apply to a suit for recovery of a specified sum under a contract. In that suit, the plaintiff had made defendant(s) partner to one half of the fishery rights in the tank arising from a Theka, on the condition that they would pay him half the Theka money. The allegations made in the plaint showed that the defendant(s) had already worked out the Theka in respect of their share in it. As that suit was not filed within three years from the date of breach, it was dismissed by the trial court as barred by limitation by applying Article 11592 of the First Schedule to the 1908 Act. The plaintiff preferred appeal, which was allowed on the finding that Article 12093 of the First Schedule to the 1908 Act applied, whereunder the limitation was six years. When the matter travelled to the High Court, an argument was raised that neither Article 115 nor Article 120 could apply, rather Article 11394 would apply. It was contended before the High Court that Article 113 should apply as the claim is nothing but for specific performance. Rejecting this submission and holding that Article 115 of the First Schedule to 1908 Act would apply, the Full Bench held: “8. In our opinion there is no force in this argument. It is true that there was a contract between the parties inasmuch as the plaintiff gave to the defendants one half of the fishery 91 1969 All LJ 718 : AIR 1970 All 206 : 1969 SCC OnLine All 79 92 See Footnote 86 93 See Footnote 85 94 First Schedule of Limitation Act, 1908 Article Description of Suit Period of Limitation Time from which Period begins to run 113 For specific Three years The date fixed for the performance, performance of or, if no such date is fixed, when contract the plaintiff has notice that performance is refused. 578 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports rights in the tank, on the condition that they would pay him half the theka money. The allegations made in the plaint show that the defendants had already worked out the theka in respect of their share in it. All that remained to be done was to pay the proportionate theka money to the plaintiff. In such circumstances no suit for specific performance of contract could be filed: only a suit to enforce the agreement so far as it related to the payment of the proportionate theka money could be, and has been filed. 9. The relevant portion of section 12 of the Specific Relief Act (Act 1 of 1877) reads as follows: “… The specific performance of any contract may in the discretion of the court be enforced— (a) When the act agreed to be done is in the performance, wholly or partly, of a trust; (b) When there exists no standard for ascertaining the actual damages caused by the non-performance of the act agreed to be done; (c) When the act agreed to be done is such that pecuniary compensation for its non- performance would not afford adequate relief, or (d) When it is probable that pecuniary compensation cannot be got for the non- performance of the act agreed to be done……” 10.