The same reads as under: “47. Duty of the State to raise the level of nutrition and the standard of living and to improve public health The State shall regard the raising of the level of nutrition and the standard of living of its people and the improvement of public health as among its primary duties and, in particular, the State shall endeavour to bring about prohibition of the consumption except for medicinal purposes of intoxicating drinks and of drugs which are injurious to health.” What is significant are the words “the State shall endeavour to bring about prohibition of the consumption, except for medicinal purposes of intoxicating drinks which are injurious to health”. It is on the basis of the said Directive Principle that several prohibition and excise laws have been enacted in several States as a constitutional goal to improve the health of the people of India in the context of prevention and prohibition of consumption of “intoxicating liquors”. The manufacture, export, import, transport or sale of “intoxicating liquors” is prohibited except in accordance with a licence, permit or pass granted in that behalf. The State legislations confer power on State Governments in matters concerning liquor licensing and also with regard to imposition of excise duty. 8.1 The following decisions of this Court could be considered at this stage as they are of relevance to the controversy under consideration: a) In Cooverjee B. Bharucha vs. Excise Commissioner and the Chief Commissioner, Ajmer, AIR 1954 SC 220 (“Cooverjee B. Bharucha”), the right of a citizen to carry on trade and business in liquor under Article 19(1) (g) of the Constitution was considered. The impact of 2068 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports liquor on a person who consumes it as well as on the society was discussed. With reference to an American decision in Crowley vs. Christensen (1890) 34 Law Ed. 620 (“Crowley”) at p. 623, it was observed that when liquor is consumed, first of all it affects the person who consumes it, and subsequently, it affects those who are immediately connected and dependent upon him. Hence, there is a need to regulate the business of manufacture and trade in liquor. It was observed that no citizen has an inherent right to sell “intoxicating liquors” in retail. This is because the business of liquor is attended with danger to the community. It can, therefore, be entirely prohibited or regulated as per the discretion of the Government and the Authority concerned. It was held that Regulation could also be in the form of issuance of licences to eligible persons under a particular legislation. The provisions of regulation of liquor, which permit certain eligible persons to carry on the trade to the exclusion of the general public and thereby possibly create a monopoly, is also permissible in law. b) In State of Assam vs. Sristikar Dowerah, AIR 1957 SC 414 (“Sristikar Dowerah”), it was observed as under: “no person has any absolute right to sell liquor and that the purpose of the Act and the rules is to control and restrict the consumption of intoxicating liquors, such control and restriction being obviously necessary for the preservation of public health and morals, and to raise revenue.” The above observation is in line with Article 47 of the Constitution of India which is a Directive Principle.