[2024] 10 S.C.R. 1261 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 is thus, traceable to Entry 17. Provisions of Part II (Articles 10 and 11, in particular) do not confer Parliament the power to enact laws relating to citizenship. The provisions operate in a different sphere. The provisions clarify the scope of the legislative power. 36. The question is whether Parliament’s power under Article 11 is restricted by other provisions in Part II. The provision stipulates that “nothing in the foregoing provisions of this Part”, meaning Articles 5-10, shall derogate from the power to make any provision with respect to citizenship. The word ‘derogate’ may have two meanings: (a) to diminish or reduce; and (b) to diverge or depart.46 The phrase “derogate” is used in six other instances in the Constitution. In one of the instances (Article 1347), the phrase takes the meaning of diverge or depart. In all the other usages,48 the provision takes the meaning of ‘diminish or reduce’. 37. The distinction between a non-obstante clause and the words ‘shall not derogate from’ lies in the fact that the former is used as an expression providing overriding effect while the latter is used as a clarificatory expression. The non-obstante clause is used when there is a link between two clauses/provisions and the link is sought to be detached by carving out an exception. For example, if the provision states that notwithstanding A, B has the power to do action C, it means that the provision confers power on B to do C, and this is an exception to provision A. In contrast, the phrase ‘shall not derogate from’ is used to indicate that certain provisions do not reduce the effect or scope of the provision, thereby, de-linking the two provisions. For example, a provision which states that A shall not derogate B’s power to do C is used when B’s power to do C is conferred elsewhere and it is clarified that the scope of A and the scope of B do not overlap. This is evident on an analysis of the provisions which use the phrase ‘shall not derogate’. The usage indicates that (a) the Constitution confers power elsewhere; and (b) another provision does not override or in any manner impact the power. For example: 46 P Ramanatha Aiyar, Advanced Law Lexicon (6th Edition Volume 2 D-1)1587, (a) Derogate: to lesson in estimation; to invalidate; degenerate; degrade; (b) Derogation: Derogation is the partial repeal or abrogation of a law by a later act that limits its scope or impairs its utility and force. 47 The heading to Article 13 states “laws inconsistent with or in derogation of the fundamental rights”. 48 See second proviso to Article 200, Article 226(4), Article 239AA(3)(b), Article 241, Article 371-F(m) 1262 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a. Clause (4) to Article 226 stipulates that the power conferred upon High Courts to issue certain writs shall not be in derogation of the powers conferred on the Supreme Court by Article 32(2).49 It provides that the former shall not have an impact on the later since they operate in separate fields; b.