The privileges of the members of the House individually bear a functional relationship to the ability of the House to collectively fulfil its functioning and vindicate its authority and dignity. In other words, these freedoms are necessary to be in furtherance of fertilizing a deliberative, critical, and responsive democracy. In State of Kerala v. K Ajith,52 one of us (DY Chandrachud, J) held that a member of the legislature, the opposition included, has a right to protest on the floor of the legislature. However, the said right guaranteed under Article 105(1) of the Constitution would not exclude the application of ordinary criminal law against acts not in direct exercise of the duties of the individual as a member of the House. This Court held that the Constitution recognises privileges and immunities to create an environment in which members of the House can perform their functions and discharge their duties freely. These privileges bear a functional relationship to the discharge of the functions of a legislator. They are not a mark of status which makes legislators stand on an unequal pedestal. 83. MN Kaul and SL Shakdher have in their celebrated work on the Practice and Procedure of Parliament endorsed this view by stating that53 “In modern times, parliamentary privilege has to be viewed from a different angle than in the earlier days of the struggle of Parliament against the executive authority. Privilege at that time was regarded as a protection of the members of 52 [2021] 6 SCR 774 : (2021) 17 SCC 318 53 MN Kaul and SL Shakdher, Practice and Procedure of Parliament, Lok Sabha Secretariat, Metropolitan Book Co. Pvt. Ltd., 7th ed., 229. 520 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Parliament against an executive authority not responsible to Parliament. The entire background in which privileges of Parliament are now viewed has changed because the Executive is now responsible to Parliament. The foundation upon which they rest is the maintenance of the dignity and independence of the House and of its members.” (emphasis supplied) The privileges enjoyed by members of the House are tethered intrinsically to the functioning of the House collectively. A House of Parliament or Legislature functions through the collective will of its individual members. These members acting as constituents of the House may not claim any privilege or immunity unconnected with the working of the entire House. 84. While some cherished freedoms exercised individually by members of the House, including the freedom of speech, have been undeniably understood to be essential to the functioning of the House as a whole, other exercises such as damaging public property or committing violence are not and cannot be deemed to have immunity. The privileges and immunities enshrined in Articles 105 and 194 of the Constitution with respect to Houses of Parliament and the Legislatures, their members and committees, respectively belong to the House collectively. The exercise of the privileges individually by members must be tested on the anvil of whether it is tethered to the healthy and essential functioning of the House.