43. It will be relevant to note that s in both Ajit Singh and Bhagat Ram were delivered on the very same day. 44. In the said case (i.e. Bhagat Ram), the Court was considering the question, as to whether the reservation of land for income of the Panchayat is acquisition of land by the State within the ambit of the second proviso to Article 31-A? 45. It will be relevant to refer to the following observations of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bhagat Ram in the delivered by Hon. S.M. Sikri, J (as his Lordship then was): “2. The first question that arises is whether the scheme insofar as it makes reservations of land for income of the Panchayat is hit by the second proviso to Article 31-A. The scheme reserves lands for phirni, paths, agricultural paths, manure pits, cremation grounds, etc., and also reserves an area of 100 kanals 2 marlas (standard kanals) for income of the Panchayat. We have already held in Ajit Singh case [(1967) 2 SCR 143] that acquisition for the common purposes such as phirnis, paths, etc., is not acquisition by the State within the second proviso to Article 31-A. But this does not dispose of the question whether the reservation 922 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of land for income of the Panchayat is acquisition of land by the state within the second proviso to Article 31-A. We held in that case that there was this essential difference between “acquisition by the State” on the one hand and “modification or extinguishment of rights” on the other that in the first case the beneficiary is the State while in the latter case the beneficiary of the modification or the extinguishment is not the State. Here it seems to us that the beneficiary is the Panchayat which falls within the definition of the word “State” under Article 12 of the Constitution. The income derived by the Panchayat is in no way different from its any other income. It is true that Section 2(bb) of the East Punjab Holdings (Consolidation and Prevention of Fragmentation) Act, 1948, defines “common purpose” to include the following purposes: “… providing income for the Panchayat of the village concerned for the benefit of the village community.” Therefore, the income can only be used for the benefit of the village community. But so is any other income of the Panchayat of a village to be used. The income is the income of the Panchayat and it would defeat the whole object of the second proviso if we were to give any other construction. The Consolidation Officer could easily defeat the object of the second proviso to Article 31-A by reserving for the income of the Panchayat a major portion of the land belonging to a person holding land within the ceiling limit. Therefore, in our opinion, the reservation of 100 kanals 2 marlas for the income of the Panchayat in the scheme is contrary to the second proviso and the scheme must be modified by the competent authority accordingly.” 46.