142 of the Constitution of India, this Court can always issue procedural directions to the Courts for streamlining procedural aspects and ironing out the creases in the procedural laws to ensure expeditious and timely disposal of cases – However, while doing so, this Court cannot affect the substantive rights of those litigants who are not parties to the case before it – The right to be heard before an adverse is passed is not a matter of procedure but a substantive right; and (iv) The power of this Court u/Art. 142 cannot be exercised to defeat the principles of natural justice, which are an integral part of jurisprudence. [Para 37] Constitution of India – Position of the High Courts and its power of superintendence: Held: (Per Abhay S. Oka, J. for himself and Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI., J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, JJ.) A High Court is also a constitutional Court – It is well settled that it is not judicially subordinate to the Supreme Court – A High Court is constitutionally independent of the Supreme Court of India – The power of the High Court u/Art. 227 of the Constitution to have [2024] 2 S.C.R. 949 High Court Bar Association, Allahabad v. State of U.P. & Ors. judicial superintendence over all the Courts within its jurisdiction will include the power to stay the proceedings before such Courts – By a blanket direction in the exercise of power u/Art. 142 of the Constitution of India, the Supreme Court cannot interfere with the jurisdiction conferred on the High Court of granting interim relief by limiting its jurisdiction to pass interim s valid only for six months at a time – Putting such constraints on the power of the High Court will also amount to making a dent on the jurisdiction of the High Courts u/Art. 226 of the Constitution, which is an essential feature that forms part of the basic structure of the Constitution. [Paras 23 and 24] Practice and Procedure – Whether the Court should deal with an issue not arising for consideration: Held: (Per Abhay S. Oka, J. for himself and Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI., J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, JJ.) In the case of Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Company, a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court held that (Judges) are not authorised to make disembodied pronouncements on serious and cloudy issues of constitutional policy without battle lines being properly drawn – Judicial pronouncements cannot be immaculate legal conceptions – It is but right that no important point of law should be decided without a proper lis between parties properly ranged on either side and a crossing of the swords – It is inexpedient for the Supreme Court to delve into problems which do not arise and express opinion thereon. [Para 25] Constitution of India – Art. 226 (3) – Making of an application for vacating interim relief: Held: (Per Abhay S. Oka, J. for himself and Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI., J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, JJ.) On its plain reading, clause (3) is applicable only when an interim relief is granted without furnishing a copy of the writ petition along with supporting documents to the opposite party and without hearing the opposite party – Even assuming that clause (3) is not directory, it provides for an automatic vacation of interim relief only if the aggrieved party makes an application for vacating the interim relief and when the application for vacating stay is not heard within the time specified – Clause (3) will not apply when an interim in a writ petition u/Art.