Section 36A of the WLP Act deals with “Declaration and management of a conservation reserve”, which reads thus : “36A. Declaration and management of a conservation reserve.—(1) The State Government may, after having consultations with the local communities, declare any area owned by the Government, particularly the areas adjacent to National Parks and sanctuaries and those areas which link one protected area with another, as a conservation reserve for protecting landscapes, seascapes, flora and fauna and their habitat : Provided that where the conservation reserve includes any land owned by the Central Government, its prior concurrence shall be obtained before making such declaration. (2) The provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 18, sub- sections (2), (3) and (4) of Section 27, Sections 30, 32 and clauses (b) and (c) of Section 33 shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to a conservation reserve as they apply in relation to a sanctuary.” 25. Section 36C of the WLP Act deals with “Declaration and management of community reserve”, which reads thus : “36-C. Declaration and management of community reserve.—(1) The State Government may, where the community or an individual has volunteered to conserve wild life and its habitat, declare any private or community land not comprised within a National Park, sanctuary or a conservation reserve, as a community reserve, for protecting fauna, flora and traditional or cultural conservation values and practices. (2) The provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 18, sub- sections (2), (3) and (4) of Section 27, Sections 30, 32 and clauses (b) and (c) of Section 33 shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to a community reserve as they apply in relation to a sanctuary. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 219 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal (3) After the issue of notification under sub-section (1), no change in the land use pattern shall be made within the community reserve, except in accordance with a resolution passed by the management committee and approval of the same by the State Government.” 26. Chapter IVA of the WLP Act deals with “Central Zoo Authority and Recognition of Zoos”. The only relevant provision for consideration of the issue in the present matter is Section 38-I, which reads thus : “38-I. Acquisition of animals by a zoo.—(1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, no zoo shall acquire, sell or transfer any wild animal or captive animal specified in Schedules I except with the previous permission of the Authority. (2) No zoo shall acquire, sell or transfer any wild or captive animal except from or to a recognized zoo : Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to a conservation breeding centre.” 27. Chapter IVB of the WLP Act deals with “National Tiger Conservation Authority”. Section 38-O deals with “Powers and Functions of Tiger Conservation Authority”, which reads thus : “38-O. Powers and functions of Tiger Conservation Authority.—(1) The Tiger Conservation Authority shall have the following powers and perform the following functions, namely : — (a) to approve the Tiger Conservation Plan prepared by the State Government under sub-section (3) of Section 38V of this Act; (b) evaluate and assess various aspect of sustainable ecology and disallow any ecologically unsustainable land use such as, mining, industry and other projects within the tiger reserves; (c) lay down normative standards for tourism activities and guidelines for project tiger from time to time for tiger conservation in the buffer and core area of tiger reserves and ensure their due compliance; 220 [2024] 3 S.C.R.