Even the design of the slippers of the original accused No. 1 tallies with the design of slipper found at the place of incident. [6.2] In the present case there is recovery of the knife used in committing the offence, at the instance of original accused No. 2 Pravinsingh which was recovered from the place which could have been known to the said accused alone i.e. from Nala near Palanpur-Siddhpur Highway road. The recovery of the knife at the instance of the original accused No. 2 has been established and proved by examining the panch witnesses. [6.3] In the present case even there is a recovery of the knife at the instance of the original accused Nos. 3 and 5 and the knife used in committing the offence was recovered from the place which was known to the said accused alone. Even the trousers/pant of the original accused Nos. 3 and 5 were recovered at their instance from the house of one Kanjibhai - friend of the said accused. The said pants were having blood stains. The original accused Nos. 3 and 5 have failed to explain the blood stains on their trousers. The recovery of the trouser/pants and the knife at the instance of original accused Nos. 3 and 5 have been established and proved by examining Kanjibhai at Exh.77 and his wife Shobhnaben. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1189 Thakore Umedsing Nathusing v. State of Gujarat [6.4]. It is further submitted that therefore when there are recoveries of the weapons used in committing the offence and even recovery of trousers/pants of original accused Nos. 3 and 5 having blood stains, at the instance of the original accused Nos. 2, 3 and 5 and when original accused No. 1 was as such found/apprehended/arrested with the muddamal jeep and his defence/explanation is found to be false and when the prosecution has been successful in establishing and/or proving the complete chain of events with respect to the involvement of the jeep which was driven by the original accused No. 1, it cannot be said that the trial Court has committed any error in convicting the accused Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 5 for the offence punishable under section 392 of the IPC. It is required to be noted that even the blood stains were found on the hood of the jeep and even on the knife. [6.5]. Now, that takes us to the appeal preferred by the State against the impugned and of acquittal passed by the learned trial Court acquitting the original accused for the offences punishable under sections 302 and 396 of the IPC. So far as the impugned and of acquittal passed by the learned trial Court acquitting the accused for the offence punishable under section 396 of the IPC is concerned, it appears that by the impugned and , the learned trial Court has acquitted the accused for the offence punishable under section 306 of the IPC on the ground that as original accused No. 4 has been acquitted and the number of remaining convicted accused would be only four, the learned trial Court has acquitted the remaining accused for the offence punishable under section 396 of the IPC.