27. So far as the appellant is concerned, the prosecution has emphasised on the following list of materials forming part of this appeal:- (i) A Letter dated 08.06.2017 from one “Comrade M” addressed to “Comrade Surendra”, which carries reference to the appellant to the limited extent that the party leadership has sent instructions to “Comrade Shomasen” for strengthening CPDR and Radical Student’s Union in Nagpur, Chandrapur and Gondia region. This letter also records that necessary funds have been sent, but no specific person is named as the recipient of such funds. (ii) Letter dated 23.12.2017 from one “R” addressed to “Comrade Prakash” which relates to constituting a fact-finding team to gauge the truth about fake encounters in Gadchiroli and it has been indicated that letter that “Shoma” will speak to the friends, presumably of the author and addressee of the letter, in Nagpur who might join the team. (iii) Next is a letter dated 02.01.2018 from one “Com. M” to “Comrade Rona” and the offending part of this letter, so far as the appellant is concerned, is to the effect that “Com. Shoma” [2024] 4 S.C.R. 293 Shoma Kanti Sen v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. and “Com. Surendra” were authorised to provide funds for the future. (iv) Next document bears the character of a minutes of a meeting dated 02.01.2008, which marks the presence of “Shomasen” as a “leading CPDR member”, along with certain other accused individuals. (v) Thereafter, an undated account statement is relied on by the prosecution, which mentions “Shoma” as recipient of “1L” (presumably Rs. one lakh) from “Surendra” who is the accused no. 3 in the present case. (vi) The prosecution has relied on another letter dated 25.09.2017, written by “Com. Prakash” addressed to “Comrade Surendra” where the author asks the addressee to coordinate with “shomasen” and ensure that all pgp files are securely wiped out from all the computers. (vii) Then there is another letter dated 05.11.2017 purported to have been written by “Comrade Surendra” and addressed to “Comrade Prakash” wherein the author informs the addressee that the information from the party has been communicated to “Soma” and she has destroyed all the data on her computer in addition to all the APT files sent by the party, old and new letters and the party’s resolutions etc. (viii) The last set of documents includes the panchnama of the search conducted at the house of the appellant, along with the Forensic Science Laboratory (‘FSL”) Report containing the analysis of the materials seized from the appellant. These documents have been cited by Mr. Nataraj to corroborate the allegations of destruction of evidence at the instance of the co-accused persons. The FSL report reveals that deleted audio and video files were retrieved from hard disk and also mentions that uninstalled softwares have been recovered, but no substantive content of the deleted materials has been placed in the chargesheets. The material placed before us only indicates that the process of deletion had taken place. It appears that all the letters and other materials mentioned in the above list have been purported to have been recovered from the electronic devices of co-accused Rona Wilson.