Having duly inspected the subject land, this Committee deduced that the building structures on the land were unauthorized and not in conformity with the Development Plan. Relying on this analysis, the Government deviated from the Collector’s recommendation and proceeded with the acquisition. We are of the considered view that such departure was made in public interest, with due application of mind and was fully justified. 19. The Respondents have also assailed that the State Government’s decision was at odds with the earlier s of the Commissioner and the ADJ, who had authorized such constructions. We find this submission disingenuous. These s of the Commissioner and ADJ permitted constructions that were to be erected specifically for agricultural purposes, not residential. The dated 23.12.1992, specifically notes that only structures like cattle sheds and green houses would be permitted, as they are subservient to agricultural activities, whereas a modern farm house would be unauthorized under the Punjab Periphery Act. Similarly, the dated 05.04.1994 noted that no such authorization would be necessary, provided the land was to be utilized for agricultural purposes. However, the submissions proffered by the Respondents undermine their own case. While attempting to attack the public purpose element of the acquisition proceedings, they admitted that the usage of the land 2290 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was not limited to ‘agricultural purposes’ and that it was intended to be ‘residential’ in nature as well. This disharmony is visible in the Respondents’ Section 5A objections: “6. That the above said land of the objector is situated adjacent to sector 4 Mansa Devi Complex and the objector has purchased this costly land with a view to set up a farm house thereon, since the purpose of Acquisition is also residential, it would be against the principal of natural justice to uproot the objector first and then to develop the same land for residential purpose meaning thereby the State would be providing residential accommodation to one of after taking away the residential land from the objector, which would serve no public purpose as stated in the notice. Hence, the notice under section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act is liable to be withdrawn qua the above said land of the objector.” [Emphasis supplied] 20. Given how the Respondents have themselves admitted to the intention of developing their lands and structures for non-agricultural activities, we do not wish to second guess the fact-finding exercise conducted by the High-Powered Committee. We must also note that the s of the Commissioner and ADJ were caveated approvals for prospective construction of the agricultural structures. We do not see how these would preclude the State Government from conducting an actual on-ground inspection and coming to a different conclusion as to their actual use. It is indeed possible that following the said s, the land may have had unauthorized structures, which were being used beyond mere agricultural purposes. This possibility is only further enhanced by the Respondents’ own stated intention of putting the lands to residential use. 21.