(1) If a proprietor desires to transfer the proprietary rights in any portion of his sir land without reservation of the right of occupancy specified in Section 49, he may apply to a revenue-officer and, if such revenue-officer is satisfied that the transferor is not wholly or mainly an agriculturist, or that the property is self-acquired or has been acquired within the twenty years last preceding, he shall sanction the transfer.” 14. It was contended before the Privy Council that a decree for specific performance of the agreement of sale could not be made, because such performance would necessitate an application by or on behalf of the vendor to the Revenue Officer for sanction to transfer the cultivating rights in the sir land, and that the court had no jurisdiction to require the vendor to make such an application. In repelling the contention, the Privy Council observed that in view of their construction of the agreement, namely, that the vendor agreed to transfer the cultivating rights in the sir land: “There was, in Their Lordships’ opinion, an implied covenant on the part of the vendor to do all things necessary to effect such transfer, which would include an application to the Revenue Officer to sanction the transfer.” It was further observed that it was not necessary for their Lordships to decide whether in that case the application for [2024] 7 S.C.R. 413 Maharaj Singh & Ors. v. Karan Singh (Dead) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. sanction to transfer must succeed, but that it was material to mention that no facts were brought to their Lordships’ notice which would go to show that there was any reason why such sanction should not be granted. After making the said observations, the Privy Council held that in those circumstances the court had jurisdiction to enforce the contract under the Specific Relief Act, 1877 and 21, Rule 35 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 by a decree ing the vendor to apply for sanction and to execute a conveyance on receipt of such sanction. The decision of the Privy Council in Motilal v. Nanhelal [AIR 1930 PC 287 : (1930) 57 IA 333] therefore is an authority for the proposition that if the vendor agrees to sell the property which can be transferred only with the sanction of some government authority, the court has jurisdiction to the vendor to apply to the authority within a specified period, and if the sanction is forthcoming to convey to the purchaser within a certain time. See also Chandnee Widya Vati Madden v. C.L. Katial [AIR 1964 SC 978 : (1964) 2 SCR 495] and R.C. Chandiok v. Chuni Lal Sabharwal [(1970) 3 SCC 140 : AIR 1971 SC 1238 : (1971) 2 SCR 573] where this Court following the Privy Council decision in Motilal v. Nanhelal case [AIR 1930 PC 287 : (1930) 57 IA 333] reiterated the same principle.” (emphasis added) Hence, a decree enjoining the defendants to obtain permission to sell the suit property can be passed as it is their implied obligation to do so.