It is submitted 964 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that the 1999 modification was challenged by way of an appeal and the said appeal was dismissed. The writ petition challenging the said appellate was also dismissed and therefore during the period in which the transfers were made, it was the Standing s certified on 03.07.1989, which were in vogue. 5. Shri Singh further submits that, even if the words from Clause 20 as were directed to be deleted by the amendment of 30.09.1999; still, in view of the law laid down by this Court in the case of Cipla Ltd. vs Jayakumar R. and Another1, the transfer of workmen from Sirsi Factory to Pune Factory could not be interfered. 6. Learned counsel for the respondents, on the contrary submits that, learned Judges of the Division Bench have rightly held that there was no power to provide stipulation for transfer in the Standing and therefore, the Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court has rightly held the 1999 amendment to be unsustainable. 7. We find that, for deciding the present appeal, it would not be necessary for us to address the first two issues raised by Shri C.U. Singh, inasmuch as, even for the sake of argument if it is accepted that the words directed to be deleted by the amendment of 30.09.1999 are deleted from Clause 20, still in view of the law laid down by this Court in the case of Cipla Ltd. (supra) the transfers could not have been held to be invalid. 8. It will be relevant to refer to paragraph 3 of the of this Court in the case of Cipla Ltd. (supra), which refers to Clause 3 and Clause 11 of the terms of appointment. It reads thus: “3. Briefly stated the facts are that the respondent was appointed as a mechanic by a letter of appointment dated 31-1-1983 in the appellant›s establishment at Bangalore. Two of the terms of appointment which are relevant for the purposes of the present case namely clause 3 and clause 11 are as follows: Clause 3: You will be in full time employment with the Company. You are required to work at the 1 (1999) 1 SCC 300 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 965 M/s. Divgi Metal Wares Ltd. v. M/s. Divgi Metal Wares Employees Association & Anr. Company’s establishment at Bangalore or at any of its establishments in India as the Company may direct without being entitled to any extra remuneration. You shall have to carry out such duties as are assigned to you, diligently and during such hours as may be stipulated by the management from time to time. While you are in service, you shall not be employed elsewhere or have any interest in any trade or business. Clause 11: You will be governed by the Standing s applicable for workmen of the Company, a copy of which is attached for your reference.” 9. It will also be relevant to refer to paragraph 9 of the of this Court in the case of Cipla Ltd. (supra), wherein the argument on behalf of the employee and the relevant clause in the Standing applicable to the parties have been reproduced.