The same analogy has been reiterated by the Supreme Court in the matter of Devender Pal Singh vs. State (NCT of Delhi)[AIR 2002 SC 1661] wherein it was held that when the collective conscience of the community is so shocked, the court must award death sentence. 5. In the above backdrop, as there is a strong need to take stringent measures to deter the rising trend of child sex abuse in the country, the proposed amendments to the said Act make provisions for enhancement of punishments for various offences so as to deter the perpetrators and ensure safety, security and dignified childhood for a child. It also empowers the Central Government to make rules for the manner of deleting or destroying or reporting about pornographic material in any form involving a child to the designated authority. 6. The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Amendment) Bill, 2019, for the aforementioned purpose, which was introduced and pending consideration and passing in the Lok Sabha, lapsed on the dissolution of the Sixteenth Lok Sabha. Hence, the present Bill. 7. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives. NEW DELHI; The 12th July, 2019.” (Emphasis supplied) 216 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 75. Pursuant to the aforesaid 2019 Amendment Act, a slew of amendments were brought within the POCSO, which inter alia included i) the insertion of Section 2(da) by which “child pornography” came to be defined under the Act AND ii) the amendment of Section 15 of the Act whereby now three distinct offences are made punishable under the said provision. Again, at the cost of repetition, the amended Section 15 of the POCSO is reproduced hereunder: - “15. Punishment for storage of pornographic material involving child. – (1) Any person, who stores or possesses pornographic material in any form involving a child, but fails to delete or destroy or report the same to the designated authority, as may be prescribed, with an intention to share or transmit child pornography, shall be liable to fine not less than five thousand rupees and in the event of second or subsequent offence, with fine which shall not be less than ten thousand rupees. (2) Any person, who stores or possesses pornographic material in any form involving a child for transmitting or propagating or displaying or distributing in any manner at any time except for the purpose of reporting, as may be prescribed, or for use as evidence in court, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both. (3) Any person, who stores or possesses pornographic material in any form involving a child for commercial purpose shall be punished on the first conviction with imprisonment of either description which shall not be less than three years which may extend to five years, or with fine, or with both and in the event of second or subsequent conviction, with imprisonment of either description which shall not be less than five years which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.” (Emphasis supplied) 76.