xxx xxx xxx 16. In the case of Tricomdas Cooverji Bhoja the argument that the words ‘compensation for breach of a contract’ point rather to a claim of unliquidated damages than to the claim of payment of certain sum was not accepted because the word compensation has been used in the Indian Contract Act in a very wide sense. 17. The relevant portion of section 73 of the Indian Contract Act reads as follows: ‘73. When a contract has been broken, the party who suffers by such breach is entitled to receive, from the party who has broken the contract, compensation for any loss or damage caused to him thereby, which naturally arose in the usual course of things from such breach, or which the parties knew, when they made the contract, to be likely to result from the breach of it. Such compensation is not to be given for any remote and indirect loss or damage sustained by reason of the breach…… Illustrations ……………….. (n) A contracts to pay a sum of money to B on a day specified. A does not pay the money on that day; B, in consequence of not receiving the money on that day is unable to pay his debts, and is totally ruined. A is not liable to make good to B anything except the principal sum he contracted to pay, together with interest up to the day of payment.’ 18. It is, therefore, clear that the word compensation has been used, in section 73 of the Indian Contract Act in a very wide sense and the present case would be covered by it. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 581 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. 19. We see no reason why the words ‘compensation for breach of contract’ as used in Article 115 should be given a meaning different from the same words as used in Article 116. Article 115 being a residuary Article for suits based on breach of contract, it is obvious that the suit out of which this revision arises would be governed by the said Article.” (Emphasis supplied) 98. On a consideration of the aforesaid decisions as well as the provisions of Section 73 of the Contract Act and Article 55 of the Schedule to the 1963 Act, we are of the view that even a suit for recovery of a specified amount, based on a contract, is a suit for compensation, and if the suit is a consequence of defendant breaching the contract or not fulfilling its obligation(s) thereunder, the limitation for institution of such a suit would be covered by Article 55 of the Schedule to the 1963 Act, provided the suit is not covered by any other Article specially providing for it. 99. In the instant case, there is no dispute that the claim is based on a contract. The finding of the Arbitral Tribunal in paragraph 13.13 (i)97 of the award is that the appellant(s) herein had failed to undertake the performance guarantee test, despite request of the claimant, within the period specified therefor.