[Paras 100, 101, 103] 1.3 On facts, the concerned authorities, who have expertise in the matter, have approved the said site at Pakhrau – In the peculiar facts, this Court is inclined to approve the establishment of the ‘Tiger Safari’ at Pakhrau. [Paras 113 and 114] 1.4. Presence of a Tiger in the forest is an indicator of the well- being of the ecosystem – Unless steps are taken for the protection of the Tigers, the ecosystem revolving around Tigers cannot be protected – The events like illegal constructions and illicit felling of trees on a rampant scale like the one that happened in the Corbett National Park cannot be ignored – Steps are required to prevent this – Courts are not experts in the field – It will be appropriate that [2024] 3 S.C.R. 189 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal experts in the field come together and come out with a solution that would go a long way in the effective management and protection of the Tiger Reserves. [Para 160] 1.5. The following directions need to be issued in the interests of justice : A. The Safaris which are already existing and the one under construction at Pakhrau will not be disturbed. However, insofar as the Safari at ‘Pakhrau’ is concerned, the State of Uttarakhand is directed to relocate or establish a rescue centre in the vicinity of the ‘Tiger Safari’. The directions which would be issued by this Court with regard to establishment and maintenance of the ‘Tiger Safaris’ upon receipt of the recommendations of the Committee which is being directed to be appointed would also be applicable to the existing Safaris including the Safari to be established at Pakhrau. B. The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) shall appoint a Committee consisting of the following : (i) a representative of the NTCA; (ii) a representative of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII); (iii) a representative of the Central Empowered Committee (CEC); and (iv) an officer of the MoEF&CC not below the rank of Joint Secretary as its Member Secretary. The Committee would be entitled to co-opt any other authority including a representative of Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and also take the services of the experts in the field, if found necessary. C. The said Committee will : (i) recommend the measures for restoration of the damages, in the local in situ environment to its original state before the damage was caused; (ii) assess the environmental damage caused in the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) and quantify the costs for restoration; (iii) identify the persons/officials responsible for such a damage. The State shall recover the cost so quantified from the persons/ delinquent officers found responsible for the same. The cost so recovered shall be exclusively used for the purpose of restoration of the damage caused to the environment; and (iv) specify how the funds so collected be utilized for active restoration of ecological damage. D. The aforesaid Committee, inter alia, shall consider and recommend : 190 [2024] 3 S.C.R.