1285 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 75. Having held that both the cut-off date and the singling out of Assam is based on rational considerations, the next question is whether the yardsticks have a rational nexus with the object of the provision. The answer is in the affirmative. Since the migration from East Pakistan to Assam was in great numbers after the partition of undivided India and since the migration from East Pakistan after Operation Search-Light would increase, the yardstick has nexus with the objects of reducing migration and conferring citizenship to migrants of Indian origin. Section 6A would be under-inclusive only when all those who are similarly situated with respect to the object and on the application of the rational yardstick are not included. Similarly, the provision would be over-inclusive only when those who are not similarly situated with respect to these two parameters are included. That not being the case, Section 6A is neither under-inclusive nor over-inclusive. 76. Over-inclusiveness and under-inclusiveness must be determined based on whether there are similarly situated persons/situations who or which have not been included or have been included based on the yardstick identified. The determination cannot be made with reference to the objective without a reference to the yardstick. Doing so would limit the ability of the Legislature to identify the degrees of harm. The yardstick can be challenged where another yardstick affects or is related to the objective in a comparable manner.131 77. The last question which is required to be considered is whether granting ‘citizenship’ has any relevance to the problem identified, that is, migration crisis. It was submitted that if Assam is facing a migration crisis, the State must focus on removing the migrants instead of conferring them citizenship. To elucidate this point, the petitioners submitted that undocumented migrants in other States will not receive the benefit of citizenship and this would lead to a situation where migrants in other states would also move to Assam to secure the benefit of citizenship. This, it has been argued would not satisfy the object of the provision. 78. In the preceding section of this , I have held that the Citizenship Act and the notifications issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs allowed the acquisition of citizenship by undocumented 131 See Williums-Yulee v. The Florida Bar, 575 US (2015) [opinion of Roberts J] 1286 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports citizens through registration under Section 5(1)(a). This was the position until Section 5(1) was amended by the 2003 Amendment Act to exclude applications from ‘illegal immigrants’. Thus, the claim that undocumented migrants to other Indian States were not able to secure citizenship is erroneous. Section 6A carves out an exception in that regime for the State of Assam for the reasons discussed above. Even otherwise, conferring citizenship has a nexus since the legislative object of introducing Section 6A was not just to deal with the migration from Assam but to balance it with humanitarian considerations (including conferment of citizenship) for partition refugees.