Recently, this Court in Bhisham Lal Verma v. State of U.P,13 has again held that there is no blanket rule against filing of successive petition under section 482, Cr. PC before the high court. It was also held that if such a petition is filed, it must be seen whether there was any change in facts or circumstances, necessitating the filing of such petition. 19. Section 482, Cr. PC, on its own terms, saves the inherent powers of the high court to make such s as may be necessary (i) to give effect to any under the Cr. PC, or (ii) to prevent abuse of the process of any court, or (iii) to secure the ends of justice. Change of law can legitimately be regarded as a vital change in circumstance clothing the high court with the power, competence and jurisdiction to entertain the subsequent petition notwithstanding the fact that the 11 [2007] 2 SCR 862 : (2007) 4 SCC 70 12 [2009] 7 SCR 872 : (2009) 7 SCC 495 13 [2023] 14 SCR 55 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1399 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1281 Muskan Enterprises & Anr. v. The State of Punjab & Anr. earlier petition was withdrawn without obtaining any leave, subject to the satisfaction recorded by the high court that the prayed for in the subsequent petition ought to be made, inter alia, either to prevent abuse of the process of any court or to secure the ends of justice. 20. Thus, in our considered opinion, the constricted view taken by High Court to hold that the appellants were required to obtain the leave of the Judge who had dismissed the earlier petition prior to filing the subsequent petition is clearly untenable and not warranted in law. It is noted that the appellants had applied a second time before the High Court only when the law on interpretation of Section 148, N.I. Act was laid down somewhat differently in Jamboo Bhandari (supra) and not on any other ground. It was not a review in disguise that the appellants attempted but their endeavour was to impress the High Court to have the law, currently governing the field, to be applied in their case. In terms of the authorities referred to above, the subsequent petition was well-nigh maintainable. 21. That the decisions in Surinder Singh Deswal (supra) and Jamboo Bhandari (supra) have been rendered by benches of co-equal strength have not escaped our notice. However, notwithstanding the legal position that a cleavage of opinion is discernible owing to Jamboo Bhandari (supra) seeking to explain the law by reading a limited discretion that an Appellate Court has been conferred with by sub-section (1) of Section 148, which the decision in Surinder Singh Deswal (supra) did not read, the latter bench while deciding the matter before it having considered the decision of the former bench, it is the decision of the latter bench which is now the law. 22. Although a reference to a larger bench would have been appropriate in view of the divergent views expressed in the said decisions, we share the later view expressed in Jamboo Bhandari (supra); and, we consider it proper to assign our own reason therefor.