A bare perusal of the aforesaid provision makes it clear that for computing the royalty that may be payable both the i) grade-wise and State wise sale price of mineral as published by IBM and the ii) rate of royalty were being factored along with the quantity of mineral that is produced or dispatched in to determine the ultimate royalty that may be payable. 7. Thereafter, the Central Government by way of the aforesaid 2015 Amendment Act inter-alia inserted Section(s) 9B and 9C into the MMDR Act whereby contributions were required to be paid to the District Mineral Foundation (“DMF”), a non-profit body established to work for the interest and benefit of persons and areas affected by mining related operation and to the National Mineral Exploration Trust (“NMET”) a non-profit autonomous body for the purposes of regional and detailed exploration. 8. As per Section 9B sub-section (5) of the MMDR Act, the contributions towards the DMF were computed as a percentage of the royalty paid by the mining leaseholder that could extend upto a sum equivalent [2024] 12 S.C.R. 79 Kirloskar Ferrous Industries Limited & Anr v. Union of India & Ors. to a maximum of one-third of such royalty. Thereafter, the Mines and Minerals (Contribution to District Mineral Foundation) Rules, 2015 (“DMF Rules”) came to be enacted, Rule 2(a) of which stipulated that the contributions towards DMF shall be computed as ten percent of the royalty paid in accordance with the Second Schedule. On the other hand, the contributions towards the NMET under Section 9C of the MMDR Act, were calculated as a sum equivalent to two percent of the royalty paid. 9. On 04.03.2016, the Central Government vide Notification no. GSR 278(E) enacted and notified the MCR, 2016 rules replacing the erstwhile rules of MCR, 1960, in to revamp the entire mechanism inter-alia for the calculation of royalty on minerals and the grant of concessions. 10. Rule 38 of the MCR, 2016 defines the term ‘Sale Value’ as the gross amount payable as per the sale invoice where the sale transaction is on an arms’ length basis and such price is the sole consideration for the sale excluding taxes. The Explanation appended to the said rule further provides that for computation of ‘Sale Value’ there shall no deduction in respect of royalty, payments or contributions towards DMF and NMET. The relevant provision reads as under: - “38. Sale Value. – Sale value is the gross amount payable by the purchaser as indicated in the sale invoice where the sale transaction is on an arms’ length basis and the price is the sole consideration for the sale, excluding taxes, if any. Explanation - For the purpose of computing sale value no deduction from the gross amount will be made in respect of royalty, payments to the District Mineral Foundation and payments to the National Mineral Exploration Trust.” (Emphasis supplied) 11. Rule 39 sub-rule (3) of the MCR, 2016 further provides how royalty is to be paid and the manner in which it is to be computed.