In all bona fide, the petitioner has submitted that the petitioner is still ready to match the base price fixed by the Indore Development Authority in the second tender by paying the amount of Rs.26,000/- per sq. meter. 7. Had the Indore Development Authority received an offer in the second NIT more than Rs.26,000/- per sq. meter certainly the petitioner would not have any case before this court. But in the second round of NIT, the Indore Development Authority has failed to receive any bid hence the right of the petitioner is still survived to claim the allotment being a successful bidder. The petitioner had approached this court by way of the writ petition before issuance of the second NIT and immediately after dismissal of the writ petition the writ appeal has been filed therefore, the cause for the petitioner is still survived. The Indore Development Authority has wasted public money by cancelling the first NIT and going for the second NIT. Learned counsel or the Indore Development Authority submitted that has the petitioner /appellant participated in the subsequent tented process the allotment would have been done on quoting the price of Rs 26000/- it means the Indore Development Authority has no issue in giving the land to the petitioner/appellant but same will not be given through the court as it is beyond judicial review. For this approach of the Indore Development Authority, a cost is liable to be imposed. 8. Accordingly, the writ appeal is allowed, and the passed by the writ court is set aside. If the petitioner 930 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is ready to pay the price of the in question land @ Rs.26,000/- per sq. meter the land in question be allotted to the appellant.” 7. Hon’ble Division Bench while allowing the writ appeal has held that the respondent was the highest bidder as in the first round of the tendering process, the base price of the land was fixed at Rs. 21,120/- per square meter and the respondent No. 1 offered a bid of Rs. 25,671.90/- per square meter. In the second round while issuing fresh NIT, the IDA has fixed the base price at Rs. 26,000/- per square meter and no offer was received by the IDA in the second round of more than Rs. 26,000/- per square meter and, therefore, the Division Bench held that in case the respondent is willing to pay the amount at the rate of Rs. 26,000/- per square meter, the land in question should be allotted to the respondent No.1. 8. The IDA being aggrieved by the passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Indore, dated 08.02.2022, has preferred the present appeal and it has been vehemently argued by Mr. Balbir Singh, learned Senior Counsel for the appellant that the passed by the Division Bench of the High Court deserves to be set aside as the High Court has in fact decided a suit for specific performance of contract while deciding the Writ Appeal.