17. AND WHEREAS all case records sent by the investigating agency were sent to the Hon’ble Prime Minister, who is the Competent Authority in the Central Government, to decide sanction for prosecution in respect of the IAS officers. 18. AND THEREFORE The Competent Authority, in view of the above position and after carefully considering the facts and circumstances of the case and considering all other relevant material/ documents, including evidence submitted by the Investigating Agency with the proposal, has approved the proposal to decline sanction for prosecution against Shri Yogendra Tripathi, IAS (KN:85) in the instant case, under Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.” 12.4. The aforesaid reveals that before applying its mind, the Competent Authority in the Central Government had sought comments from the Government of Karnataka who had stated that there was no material produced by the respondent-CBI in support of the allegation that Mr. Yogendra Tripathi had conspired to illegally dispose off the coal rejects or with malafide intention deferred the agenda in the 41st Board Meeting of the KPCL. The Competent Authority separately sent the said proposal submitted by the respondent-CBI to the CVC for seeking advice. After examining all the records sent by the investigation agency including the evidence submitted by it, the Office of the Prime Minister who is the Competent Authority in the Central Government, approved the proposal to decline the sanction for 1234 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports prosecuting Mr. Yogendra Tripathi. Yet again, no appeal has been filed by the respondent – CBI before the court questioning the said decision. 12.5. The respondent-CBI having accepted the decision taken by the Sanctioning Authority in respect of Mr. R. Nagaraja and the decision of the Competent Authority in the Central Government in respect of Mr. Yogendra Tripathi, both senior most serving officers of KPCL and were also on the Board of KECML, cannot be permitted to argue that these were merely administrative decisions and even if permission to prosecute the aforesaid officers has been denied, the Department can still proceed against the appellants based on the very same set of material/documents/evidence etc. that have been minutely scrutinized by different authorities at the highest level and they have independently arrived at an identical conclusion of refusing to grant sanction to prosecute senior functionaries of KPCL. Simply because the said senior functionaries of KPCL were public servants, does not detract from the fact that the respondent-CBI has described them as co-accused in a criminal conspiracy and attributed similar motives to them as the appellants herein. If they have been let off the hook and the respondent-CBI has not challenged the said decisions, there is no reason to proceed against the appellants herein on the basis of the very same set of facts and material gathered during the course of investigation. 13. EFFECT OF THE ABSENCE OF ANY STRATEGY IN THE MINING PLAN TO DISPOSE OFF THE COAL REJECTS 13.1. Coming next to the stand taken by the respondent-CBI that absence of any plan mentioned in the Mining Plan to deal with the rejects could not exonerate the appellants who werebound by the terms and conditions of the letter dated 10th November, 2003 issued by the MoC, we may note the assertion of the respondent- CBI that the Mining Plan of the coal blocks in question did not contain any plan for disposal of rejects, usable, tailings, middlings, etc., that would be generated on account of mining/ washing of coal, is contrary to the records.