91 [2014] 12 SCR 465 : (2014) 16 SCC 72 1538 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports are unable to march ahead in their profession. It is only after years of hardwork and slogging that some of the fortunate lawyers are able to make a name for themselves and achieve success in the profession. For the majority of the legal fraternity, everyday is a challenge. Despite the difficult times, the lawyer who sets up practice straight after enrolment, struggles to settle down … in the profession. Some of the lawyers remain struggling throughout their lives yet choose to remain in the profession. It is something like “riding a bicycle uphill with the wind against one”. (emphasis added) 86. Young law graduates who start litigating right after graduation earn anywhere between Rupees ten thousand to Rupees fifty thousand per month, depending upon the location of their practice and the chambers they join. The structure of the Indian legal setup is such that the struggle for getting acceptance in chambers and law firms is greater for those who belong to the marginalized sections, first- generation advocates, or law graduates without a degree from a National Law University. A recent report suggests that many law students from the Dalit community face English language barriers, reducing their opportunities of practicing before the High Courts and the Supreme Court where the court proceedings are in English.92 In a legal system that is predisposed against the marginalized, the pre-condition of paying exorbitant fees in the name of enrolment fee creates a further barrier for many. 87. In Neil Aurelio Nunes v. Union of India,93 a two-Judge Bench of this Court, explained the redundancy of the concept of merit and the struggles of a first-generation learner: “33. The crux of the above discussion is that the binary of merit and reservation has now become superfluous once this Court has recognised the principle of substantive equality as the mandate of Article 14 and as a facet of Articles 15(1) and 16(1). An open competitive exam may 92 Challenges for Dalits in South Asia’s Legal Community, Chapter III – Dalit Justice Defenders in India, American Bar Association (2021) 16 93 [2022] 11 SCR 585 : (2022) 4 SCC 1 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1539 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. ensure formal equality where everyone has an equal opportunity to participate. However, widespread inequalities in the availability of and access to educational facilities will result in the deprivation of certain classes of people who would be unable to effectively compete in such a system. Special provisions (like reservation) enable such disadvantaged classes to overcome the barriers they face in effectively competing with forward classes and thus ensuring substantive equality. The privileges that accrue to forward classes are not limited to having access to quality schooling and access to tutorials and coaching centres to prepare for a competitive examination but also include their social networks and cultural capital (communication skills, accent, books or academic accomplishments) that they inherit from their family.