30 [2014] 9 SCR 364 : (2014) 8 SCC 425 31 (2016) 12 SCC 608 346 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports This authority is to make an independent review of the evidence gathered and make a recommendation to the government within a time bound manner. 28.1 What flows from the above description of Section 45 is that if any Court takes cognizance without prior sanction of the Government, Centre or State, the same shall be in contravention of the Act and therefore bad in law. This sanction is not a function of the Government alone and it can only be granted after an independent body, albeit appointed by the Government, makes an independent review of the evidence. 28.2 The fact that sanction has been granted is not in dispute. What is disputed by the appellant is in which the manner the same has been granted. According to the case put up by him, the authority’s recommendation, and immediately thereafter the Government’s grant of sanction is evidence of non-application of mind and stereotypical or ‘cyclostyle’ s. 28.3 Although we have taken note of the facts leading up the present appeal, for immediate reference we may recall here that the NIA vide its letter dated 14th July 2020 recommended prosecution for further seven persons (A-13 to A-20); the Ministry vide letter dated 15th July 2020 forwarded the investigation report to the authority; the authority, the next day, i.e., 16th July 2020, recommended sanction for prosecution against the seven persons. 28.4 Rules 3 & 4 of the 2008 Rules, reproduced supra, grant the authority as also the Government a week’s time each to recommend and then grant sanction. On the face of it, the present grant of sanction is within the stipulated time. However, as is submitted by the appellant, is the fact that the recommendation, consideration and grant of sanction took place within three days enough to vitiate the prosecution to its entirety? 28.5 One week’s time, given to both the authorities is to enable them to independently evaluate, first the materials placed on record then recommend the grant of sanction; and second, to evaluate the material and the recommendation so made above, to finally ink the of sanction. If the time so granted [2024] 10 S.C.R. 347 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. is thoroughly under-utilised or if either of the two authorities overshoot the time, as stipulated in the rules, what is the fate of the sanction which was underway? We find there to be divergent views taken on this issue by the High Courts. It is a recognised principle of law that the law should apply equally to all persons which then implies that there should be uniformity, despite various jurisdictions being at play, in how the law is applied. The Law Commission of India in its 136th Report recognised that “the want of uniformity” is “an evil”. The problem has been recognised stating thus :- “1.2 Want of uniformity an evil.- It is needless to point out that want of uniformity in law not only impairs the quality or the substantive or procedural law but also causes serious inconvenience to citizens in general.