Clause 5(b) of Schedule II has to be read with the provisions of Schedule III, which has a title: “Activities or transactions which shall be treated neither as a supply of goods nor a supply of services”. Clause (5) of Schedule III reads thus: “5. Sale of land and, subject to clause (b) of paragraph 5 of Schedule II, sale of building.” 39. Analysis of the provisions of Section 7 read with Schedule II and III shows that: a. Any lease, tenancy, easement or licence to occupy land is a supply of services. Clause 2(a) is not qualified by the purpose of the use. But the sale of a land is not a supply of service; b. Any lease or letting out of buildings for business or commerce, wholly or partly, is a supply of services. Clause 2(b) will not apply if the lease or letting out of a building is for a residential purpose; c. Renting of an immovable property is a supply of service; [2024] 10 S.C.R. 835 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. d. Construction of a complex, building, civil structure or a part thereof, including a complex, building or civil structure intended for sale to a buyer, wholly or partly, is a supply of service. However, the construction of a complex, building or civil structure, referred to above, is excluded from the category of supply of service if the entire consideration for sale is received after issuance of the completion certificate, wherever required or its first occupation, whichever is earlier. Broadly speaking, if a building or a part thereof to which clause 5(b) is applicable is sold before it is ready for occupation, the construction thereof becomes a supply of service. Therefore, if a building is sold by accepting consideration before issuance of a completion certificate or before its first occupation, whichever is earlier, the construction thereof becomes a supply of service; 40. If there is a complex, building or civil structure constructed which is intended for sale to a buyer, wholly or partly, construction becomes a supply of service only if consideration for sale is received before the issuance of a completion certificate or after its first occupation, whichever is earlier. Thus, if the consideration for sale is paid after the competition certificate is issued or its first occupation, whichever is earlier, the sale transaction will not amount to the supply of service. However, no such distinction has been made in the case of lease, tenancy, or licence concerning land or letting of buildings. Even if the entire consideration for lease, tenancy or a licence to occupy land or a lease of a building is paid after the issuance of the completion certificate or its first occupation, whichever is earlier, it continues to be a supply of service. 41. It is also necessary to bear in mind the philosophy of the GST regime, which is discussed in the case of Mohit Minerals.14 This Court held that the philosophy of the GST is to incorporate a consumption and destination-based test.