Reconsideration of the same is not merely an issue of insurance coverage, rather it directly pertains to the livelihood of those operating transport vehicles of the LMV class, thereby giving rise to a fair consideration of their rights under Article 19(1)(g). It was submitted that if this Court upsets Mukund Dewangan (2017), which it should not, a transition period of 12-24 months be provided. 117. The above submissions will now require our consideration. It is true that in its PIL jurisdiction, this Court has passed s in a myriad of cases including elevating the right of road safety to a fundamental right. It has also taken over policy areas63 by appointing Commissioners to gather facts or to take expert advice in the form of reports. However, this Court should be conscious that this is neither a Public Interest Litigation jurisdiction nor is the Court testing the constitutional validity of any of the provisions. Moreover, no empirical 62 (2016) 7 SCC 194 63 See Ashok H Desai and S Muralidhar, ‘Public Interest Litigation: Potential and Problems’ in B.N Kirpal and others (eds), Supreme but not Infallible – Essays in Honour of the Supreme Court of India (Oxford University Press 2000) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 635 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. data has been produced before us to show that road accidents in India have increased as a direct result of drivers with LMV license, plying a transport vehicle of LMV class of vehicles whose gross weight is within 7500 Kg. Road safety is indeed an important objective of the MV Act but our reasoning must not be founded on unverified assumptions without any empirical data. The dangers of reasoning without empirical data64 and beyond the statutory scheme of the Act must be avoided. While we are mindful of issues of road safety, the task of crafting policy lies within the domain of the legislature. As a constitutional court, it is not our role to dictate policy decisions or rewrite laws. We must be mindful of the institutional limitation to address such concerns. 118. The complexities surrounding the question of whether the Court should examine not only the existing laws and definitions, but also the broader underlying issues of policy have been vividly captured in the following words from Salmond on Jurisprudence65: “Rules, which are originally designed to fit social needs, develop into concepts, which then proceed to take on a life of their own to the detriment of legal development. The resulting “jurisprudence of concepts” produces a slot-machine approach to law whereby new points posing questions of social policy are decided, not by reference to the underlying social situation, but by reference to the meaning and definition of the legal concepts involved. This formalistic a priori approach confines the law in a strait-jacket instead of permitting it to expand to meet the new needs and requirements of changing society. ……In such cases Courts should examine not only the existing laws and legal concepts, but also the broader underlying issues of policy.