The Franchisee shall use a format supplied by the Franchisor for such statements duly supported with requisite documentation. II. All the payments to be made by the Franchisee to the Franchisor shall be by way of Telegraphic Transfer / Demand Draft. III. Any and all statutory tax on the payment as above as per local laws, any other taxes, incidental taxes, incremental taxes, duties or any other charges whether statutory or otherwise in respect of the payments to the Franchisor shall be borne and paid by the Franchisee alone during the term of this agreement. IV. In case the payments under this agreement are not received by the due date the Franchisor shall be entitled to levy monthly compound interest @ 24% p.a. on such late payments notwithstanding the other remedies available under the laws of the land. xxx xxx xxx 84 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. RENEWAL Not less than one hundred eighty days before the expiry of this Agreement (whether or not it has previously been renewed under the provisions of this Clause) the Franchisee may apply to the Franchisor for renewal of this Agreement for further period(s). Provided that the Franchisee has complied fully with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Franchisor shall have option to renew this Agreement on the terms and conditions for such mutually agreed period. However in case the renewal documents and renewal fees are not received in time as stipulated by the Franchisor, the Franchisor has the absolute right to charge monthly compound interest @ 24% p.a. on the late renewal fees from the due date of such payment, notwithstanding the right to terminate the renewal of this agreement. 13. FORCE MAJEURE Neither party to this agreement shall be liable for any failure or delay to perform any of its obligations under this agreement if the performance is prevented, hindered or delayed by a Force Majeure Event which is beyond reasonable control of either party and in such a case its obligations shall be suspended for so long as the Force Majeure event continues. Each party shall promptly inform the other in writing of the existence of a Force Majeure Event and shall consult together to find a mutually acceptable solution. “Force Majeure Even” means any event due to any cause beyond reasonable control of parties to this agreement viz. unavailability of any communication systems, breach or virus in the processes, fire, storm, earthquake, Flood. Explosion, Act of God, Civil commotion, strikes, or industrial action of any kind, riots, rebellion, war wreck, epidemic failure, statutory laws, regulations or other Government action, computer hacking, unauthorized access to computer data, etc. The affected party shall promptly upon the occurrence of any such cause so inform the other party in writing and thereafter such party shall use reasonable endeavors to [2024] 3 S.C.R. 85 M/S Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/S Aptech Ltd. comply with the terms of this Agreement as fully and as promptly as possible. xxx xxx xxx 17.