The Investigating Officer, therefore, had a clear window till 5:44 p.m. on 4th October, 2023 for producing the appellant before the Magistrate concerned and to seek his police custody remand, if so required. There is no dispute that Shri Arshdeep Khurana, learned Advocate, engaged on behalf of the appellant had presented himself at the police station on 3rd October, 2023 after the appellant was arrested and the mobile number of the Advocate was available with the Investigating Officer. Inspite thereof, the appellant was presented before the learned Remand Judge at his residence sometime before 6:00 a.m. on 4th October, 2023. A remand Advocate, namely, Shri Umakant Kataria was kept present in the Court purportedly to provide legal assistance to the appellant as required under Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India. Apparently, this entire exercise was done in a clandestine manner and was nothing but a blatant attempt to circumvent the due process of law; to confine the accused to police custody without informing him the grounds on which he has been arrested; deprive the accused of the opportunity to avail the services of the legal practitioner of his choice so as to oppose the prayer for police custody remand, seek bail and also to mislead the Court. The accused having engaged an Advocate to defend himself, there was no rhyme or reason as to why, information about the proposed remand application was not sent in advance to the Advocate engaged by the appellant. 35. It is apparent that the appellant had objected to the appearance of the remand counsel before the learned Remand Judge and this is the reason, the Investigating Officer undertook a charade of informing of the Advocate engaged by the appellant on mobile. The learned Remand Judge recorded the presence of Shri Arshdeep Khurana, Advocate, mentioning that he had been informed and heard on the remand application through telephone call. The initial information about the accused appellant being presented before the learned Remand Judge was sent by the arresting officer to the appellant’s [2024] 6 S.C.R. 693 Prabir Purkayastha v. State (NCT of Delhi) relative Shri Rishab Bailey at around 6:46 a.m. and he, in turn, informed the Advocate Shri Arshdeep Khurana around 7:00 a.m. These facts are manifested from perusal of the call logs presented for the perusal of the Court. Thus, by the time, the Advocate engaged by the accused appellant had been informed, the of remand had already been passed. Unquestionably, till that time, the grounds of arrest had not been conveyed to the appellant in writing. 36. The learned ASG had argued that the grounds of arrest were set out in the remand application which was transmitted through WhatsApp to Advocate Shri Arshdeep Khurana. However, the fact remains that the remand application was transmitted to the Advocate Shri Arshdeep Khurana after the remand had been granted by the learned Remand Judge which was at 6:00 a.m. as per the recording made in the remand (reproduced supra). The contention of the learned ASG that there is variance in time of passing of the remand as per the pleadings made on behalf of the accused appellant before the High Court of Delhi does not impress us in view of the time recorded in the remand .