However, there is no right to remission post-conviction as held in V.Sriharan. That it is only upon conviction that the need for the accused to remain in prison becomes a concern of the society. That all theories of punishment, including those of retributivism and utilitarianism, emphasize the impact on society as being of primary importance. Reliance was placed on T.K. Gopal vs. State of Karnataka, (2000) 6 SCC 168 (“T.K. Gopal”), Narinder Singh vs. State of Punjab, (2014) 6 SCC 466 (“Narinder Singh”), Shailesh Jasvantbhai vs. State of Gujarat, (2006) 2 SCC 359 (“Shailesh Jasvantbhai”) and Ahmed Hussain Vali Mohammed Saiyed vs. State of Gujarat, (2009) 7 SCC 254 (“Mohammed Saiyed”). 12. Sri. S.V. Raju, learned Additional Solicitor General of India, appearing on behalf of the State of Gujarat and Union of India, at the outset submitted that the writ petitions filed by persons other than the victim are not maintainable. That the said persons are strangers and 804 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports have no locus-standi to challenge the remission s passed by the State of Gujarat. The said petitioners are in no way connected with the proceedings which convicted the respondents herein nor the proceedings which culminated in the grant of remission to the convicts. Reliance was placed on the decisions of this Court in Rajiv Ranjan; Gulzar Ahmed Azmi; Simranjit Singh and Ashok Kumar to contend that no third party/stranger’s interference in criminal matters is permissible in law in the garb of filing a PIL. 12.1. Referring to Writ Petition (Crl.) No.319 of 2022, it was contended that nowhere has the petitioner therein, namely, Subhasini Ali pleaded as to how her fundamental rights had been abridged and as to how she was aggrieved by the action of the State Government. That the petitioner therein was nothing but an interloper and a busybody and not a ‘person aggrieved’ as per the dicta of this Court in M. V. Dabholkarand Jasbhai Motibhai. Thus, the PIL filed by such a person is nothing but an abuse of the PIL jurisdiction of this Court and against the principles laid down in Tehseen and Ashok Kumar. Therefore, learned ASG sought for dismissal of all the PILs challenging the impugned s of remission on the ground of maintainability. 12.2. It was next contended that there was no illegality in the s granting remission to respondent Nos.3 to 13, dated 10.08.2022. That this Court in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.135 of 2022 vide dated 13.05.2022 had held that the policy which would be applicable for deciding the remission application was the one which was in vogue at the time of conviction i.e., the premature release policy of 1992 and that for the purposes of Section 432 of the CrPC, the ‘appropriate government’ for considering the remission application is that State in which the offence was committed and not the State in which the trial was conducted and therefore, had directed the State of Gujarat to consider the application of respondent No.3, Radheshyam Bhagwandas Shah.