174A .Non-appearance in response to a proclamation under section 82 of Act 2 of 1974.— Whoever fails to appear at the specified place and the specified time as required by a proclamation published under sub-section (1) of section 82 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine or with both, and where a declaration has been made under sub-section (4) of that section pronouncing him as a proclaimed offender, he shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine. 18. Taking note of the aforesaid facts with respect to the issuance of summons, warrants and subsequently the proclamation, a conjoint reading of Sections 19, 20 and 21, IPC containing the terms “Judge”, “Court of Justice” and “Public Servant” and Sections 174 and 174A, IPC can make them liable even to face further proceedings. Same is [2024] 3 S.C.R. 433 Srikant Upadhyay & Ors. v. State of Bihar & Anr. the position in case of non-attendance in obedience to proclamation under Section 82, Cr. PC. 19. Bearing in mind the aforesaid provisions and position, we will refer to certain relevant decisions. In Savitaben Govindbhai Patel & Ors. v. State of Gujarat5, the High Court of Gujarat observed thus: - “9. Filing of an Anticipatory Bail Application by the petitioners-accused through their advocate cannot be said to be an appearance of the petitioners-accused in a competent Court, so far as proceeding initiated under Section 82/83 of the Code is concerned; otherwise each absconding accused would try to create shelter by filing an Anticipatory Bail Application to avoid obligation to appear before the court and raises the proceeding under Section 83 of the Code claiming that he cannot be termed as an absconder in the eye of law. Physical appearance before the Court is most important, if relevant scheme of Sections 82 and 83, is read closely.” (underline supplied) 20. We are in full agreement with the view taken by the Gujarat High Court that filing of an anticipatory bail through an advocate would not and could not be treated as appearance before a court by a person against whom such proceedings, as mentioned above are instituted. The meaning of the term “absconded” has been dealt by us hereinbefore. We found that its etymological and original sense is that the accused is hiding himself. What is required as proof for absconding is the evidence to the effect that the person concerned was knowing that he was wanted and also about pendency of warrant of arrest. A detailed discussion is not warranted in this case to understand that the appellants were actually absconding. It is not in dispute that they were served with the “summons”. The fact that bailable warrants were issued against them on 12.04.2022 is also not disputed, as the appellants themselves have produced the whereunder bailable warrants were issued against them. We have already referred to Section 70 (2), Cr.