A company vis-à-vis its authorised signatory stands on a completely different footing as compared to account holders of a joint account. In the former, it is only the company which holds an account with the banker, whereas in the latter, each joint account holder can be said to hold an account with the banker. Thus, while in the case of a cheque drawn on the account of the company the authorised signatory cannot be held to be the drawer, in the case of a cheque drawn upon a joint account, each account holder affixing his signature to the cheque may be said to have drawn such a cheque. The position of law on this issue has been settled by this Court in the case of Aparna A. Shah v. Sheth Developers (P) Ltd. reported in (2013) 8 SCC 71, wherein it was observed thus: “28. We also hold that under Section 138 of the NI Act, in case of issuance of cheque from joint accounts, a joint account-holder cannot be prosecuted unless the cheque has been signed by each and every person who is a joint account-holder. The said principle is an exception to Section 141 of the NI Act which would have no application in the case on hand. The proceedings filed under Section 138 cannot be used as arm-twisting tactics to recover the amount allegedly due from the appellant. It cannot be said that the complainant has no remedy against the appellant but certainly not under Section 138. The culpability attached to the dishonour of a cheque can, in no case “except in case of Section 141 of the NI Act” be extended to those on whose behalf the cheque is issued. This Court reiterates that it is only the drawer of the cheque who can be made an accused in any proceeding under Section 138 of the Act. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 48. The expression “on an account maintained by him” has been construed by a learned Single Judge of the Kerala High Court in the case of P.N. Salim v. P.J. Thomas & Another reported in 2004 SCC Online Ker 269 to also include those cases where the cheque 1982 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports was issued by the drawer after the closure of the account maintained by him with the bank. The High Court said so having regard to the underlying object behind the enactment of Section 138. A similar view was taken by the Gujarat High Court in the case of Hashmikant M. Seth v. State of Gujarat & Anr. reported in 2004 SCC Online Guj 300. We are in agreement with both the High Courts on the understanding of the expression “on an account maintained by him”. 49. We are in seisin of the fact that in the case at hand, the accused had allegedly borrowed the amount from the complainant on the pretext that he was in need of financial help regarding some infrastructure development project he was undertaking. Nothing was brought on record during the course of the trial which would suggest that there was some sort of an understanding between the complainant and the accused that the debt of the accused would be discharged by the Shilabati Hospital Pvt.