He submitted that while voting in favour of the Resolution Plan, the appellants opted to take an approach of forgoing the benefit of their security. 38. The learned senior counsel dealt with the submission of the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 7298 of 2022 that the Resolution Plan was approved by the CoC with pay outs to be made to secured Financial Creditors and there was no separate clause of secured creditors at the stage of 2058 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports approval by the CoC. He submitted that the said argument is suggestio falsi. He submitted that the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 7298 of 2022 exercised its commercial wisdom and was conscious of the fact that it was forgoing its security as the Financial Creditor and this would tantamount to forgoing security even as a Secured Creditor. It was submitted that if the appellants’ right to revise the agreed Resolution Plan was recognised, it would lead to another classification of the secured and unsecured Financial Creditors. The appellants voted and approved the Resolution Plan based on the pari passu distribution to the Financial Creditors, which extinguished its security. In fact, the CoC, in its commercial wisdom, made a conscious decision not to distinguish between the secured and the unsecured Financial Creditors of the Corporate Debtor with the objective of reviving the Corporate Debtor. The learned counsel for the respondents submitted that the appeals, therefore, are required to be dismissed. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 39. The entire controversy revolves around the DoH. Before we deal with DoH, it is necessary to consider the relevant clauses of MSTA. MASTER SECURITY TRUSTEE AGREEMENT (MSTA) 40. The DoH has been executed by the Security Trustee acting on behalf of the Appellants, by the authority vested in it by MSTA. Therefore, before coming to the DoH, we must consider the MSTA executed on 4th March 2011 by and between the RCom entities described therein as “Original Obligors”, “Original Lenders” and the Security Trustee. The MSTA defines “Original Lenders” as collectively the persons listed in Schedule I. The appellants are the Original Lenders. Under the agreement, an “Acceding Lender” is defined as a person who accedes to the MSTA by way of the lender’s deed of accession. “Secured Lenders” are defined as collectively the Original Lenders and each acceding lender or syndicate of the lenders. Therefore, all the Original Lenders are described as Secured Lenders, and each acceding lender becomes a Secured Lender. 41. Clause 2.1 of the MSTA provides that each Original Obligor appoints the Security Trustee who acts as a trustee for the benefit of the secured parties and their permitted successors, etc. “Secured Parties” are defined to include the Security Trustee, Secured Lenders and any [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2059 China Development Bank v. Doha Bank Q.P.S.C. & Ors. other persons named as Secured Parties. Therefore, the Security Trustee is appointed by each original Obligor, the RCom entities, to act for the benefit of the Secured Parties, the appellants. 42. Clause 2.2 of the MSTA is relevant.