Thus, it would apply to the lands reserved in the development plan for construction of new roads or for road widening and also to the lands which were within the road-line as fixed under the Act of 1888 on which a road had not yet been constructed. The said provision was not applicable to any other amenity. It was further observed that a part of FSI could be used on [2024] 9 S.C.R. 839 Kukreja Construction Company & Others v. State of Maharashtra & Others the plot remaining after such surrender and the balance FSI was to be permitted to be utilised as TDR by issuing DRC. Such TDR was to be governed by Regulation 34 as that is the provision for grant of TDR. Thereafter, the road and land would stand transferred in the city survey record in the name of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation and vest in the Corporation. 4.1 Reference was then made to Regulation 34 and Appendix-VII, which deals with TDR. The concept of TDR is that FSI available in respect of one plot of land could be permitted to be utilised on another plot of land. Para 6 of Appendix-VII dealt with a case where the owner or lessee developed or constructed the amenity on the surrendered land. In such a case, it was relatable to clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 126 of the MRTP Act. The said Act defines “amenity” under sub-section (2) of Section 2 of the MRTP Act, as also in clause (7) of Regulation 3 of the DCR. The High Court observed that Regulation 33(1) gave effect to clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 126 of the MRTP Act. That Para 5 of Appendix-VII pertains to the extent of TDR to be granted against the surrender of a reserved land. Para 5 of Appendix-VII is significant inasmuch as it deals with a case where the owner or lessee develops or constructs an amenity on the surrendered plot at his own cost subject to such stipulation as may be prescribed by the Municipal Commissioner. That the expression ‘amenity’ would include a road and the construction or development of the road would have to be at the cost of the owner. In such an event, under Para 6 of Appendix-VII, the grant of additional FSI in the form DRC is equivalent to the area of construction/development done by the owner as per the stipulations prescribed by the Commissioner. This is like a compensation granted for construction of an amenity as provided in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 126 of the Act. 4.2 The High Court again considered the argument of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation made before this Court to the effect that the value of the amenity developed or constructed by the owner for which an additional TDR was sought must be commensurate to the value of the amenity and not the area of the amenity, which argument had been repelled by this Court in Godrej & Boyce I.