229 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. examining the definition of relative, the learned Single Judge drew some inferences additionally based on the qualifying marks and the marks awarded in the interview. 64. It will be of interest to notice that in B.N. Nagarajan and Ors. Vs. State of Mysore and Ors., [1966] 3 SCR 682, a similar inference drawn only on the basis of the low qualifying marks was not favourably looked at by this Court. This Court held:- “… For example, it was alleged in para 15 that one Shri D.C. Channe Gowda who is the son-in-law of the Second Member of the Public Service Commission, Shri Appajappa, was an ordinary B. E. Graduate with only 49.8% marks. But even if he had only 49.8% of the marks, this is not conclusive to show that he should not have been selected because the whole object of interviewing candidates is to judge their eligibility or suitability apart from the standard displayed by them in the written examination. We are unable to hold that on these facts any mala fides or collateral object has been proved.” 65. What is also of concern is that the resolution of recusal, even though specifically argued before the learned Single Judge, has been brushed aside only because of the inferences drawn based on the marks. There was gross violation of the principles of natural justice at the original stage and on facts it is held that the violation did not get cured at the revisional stage. 66. Neither the learned Single Judge nor the Division Bench have examined the legal effect of the resolution dated 01.08.1998 providing for recusal. Learned counsel for the appellants has placed reliance on the in Javid Rasool Bhatt (supra) which also distinguishes the in A.K. Kraipak (supra). Learned Counsel relies on the following paragraph in Javid Rasool Bhatt (supra). “14. Great reliance was placed by the learned counsel on A.K. Kraipak v. Union of India on the question of natural justice. We do not think that the case is of any assistance to the petitioners. It was a case where one of the persons, who sat as member of the Selection Board, was himself one of the persons to be considered for selection. He participated in the deliberations of the Selection Board when the 230 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports claims of his rivals were considered. He participated in the decisions relating to the s of preference and seniority. He participated at every stage in the deliberations of the Selection Board and at every stage there was a conflict between his interest and duty. The Court had no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that there was a reasonable likelihood of bias and therefore, there was a violation of the principles of natural justice. In the case before us, the principal of the Medical College, Srinagar, dissociated himself from the written test and did not participate in the proceedings when his daughter was interviewed.