This ruling serves as a cautionary reminder that granting the right to administer educational institutions without the prior establishment by minorities could result in unwanted constitutional outcomes. The concerns expressed by 1982 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the Court could materialize, potentially resulting in a widespread “takeover” of institutions by groups claiming minority status through creative interpretations to seek protection under Article 29 and 30. 146. After delving in to the finer details of the vexed constitutional question and the meaning of the term “establish”, it would serve a salutary purpose if one analyses the approach adopted by this Court as and when any institution approached it. In the case of Rev. Father Proost v. State of Bihar, (1969) 2 SCR 73, with a bench consisting of five Judges, the Court acknowledges that the institution in question was established by the Catholic minority before extending the safeguards provided under Article 30. The relevant portion of the is as under: “2. St. Xavier’s College was established by the Jesuits of Ranchi. It was affiliated to Patna University in 1944. The management of the College vests in a Governing Body consisting of 11 members. They are: “(i) The Superior Regular of Ranchi Jesuit Mission — President exofficio. (ii-v) Four Counsellors to the Superior Regular to be nominated by the Jesuit Mission authorities. (vi) The Principal of the College — Vice-President and Secretary ex-officio. (vii) One representative of the teaching staff of the College elected by the members of the staff. (viii) One representative of the Patna University. (ix-xi) Three persons to represent Hindu, Muslim and Aboriginal interests.” The terms of service of religious staff are determined by the Jesuit Mission Authorities, but those of the members of the lay staff including their appointment are determined by the Governing Body. All appointments to the teaching staff, both religious and lay are reported to the Syndicate of the Patna University. The object of founding the College inter alia is “to give Catholic youth a full course of moral and liberal education, by imparting a thorough religious [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1983 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. instruction and by maintaining a Catholic atmosphere in the institution”. The college is, however, open to all non-catholic students. All non-catholic students receive a course of moral science. 2. The College was thus founded by a Christian minority and the petitioners claim they have a right to administer it a constitutional right guaranteed to minorities by Article 30. xxx 12. We are, therefore, quite clear that St. Xavier’s College was founded by a Catholic Minority Community based on religion and that this educational institution has the protection of Article 30(1) the Constitution. For the same reason it is exempted under Section 48-B of the Act. The petition will therefore be allowed with this declaration but in the circumstances of the case we make no about costs.” 147. In Right Rev. Bishop S.K. Patro v. State of Bihar, (1969) 1 SCC 863 [bench of five Judges], a challenge was laid to an of the Deputy Director of Education which imposed an obligation on the school to constitute a managing committee to control, administer and manage its affairs.