Second, the interviewer or evaluator may unknowingly place the candidate in a non-eligible category while imagining that he has been placed in an eligible category. Thus a change in the eligibility cut off, after evaluation is done, denies the evaluator an opportunity to modulate the marks for placing the candidate in a category to which he/she, in the view of the evaluator, is entitled to be placed. (d) If eligibility cut-off marks is to be prescribed, it should be done before the test or the interview so that both the examinee and the examiner are aware as to how many marks would qualify a candidate for further consideration. (e) Recruitment to public services must not only be fair but must appear to be so. A change in the selection criteria mid-way would create an impression that the State is not acting fairly and the change is to favour certain individuals. It thus violates transparency in decision making process, which is fundamental to rule out arbitrariness, and fosters nepotism. (f) Discretion is antithesis to the Rule of law which is the hallmark of our Constitution. Rule of law suffers when rules of the game are left to be altered at the discretion of the employer. (g) K. Manjusree (supra) is not in conflict with Subash Chander Marwaha (supra). Subash Chander Marwaha proceeds on the principle that existence of vacancies does not confer a right to a candidate placed in the select list to be appointed. K. Manjusree on the other hand deals with a situation where a candidate is denied placement in the select list only because after the interviews were over, minimum marks for the interviews, not prescribed earlier, were prescribed. The two decisions, therefore, operate in different fields. 44 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports SUBMISSIONS PROPOUNDING CHANGE IS PERMISSIBLE 11. Submissions propounding that change in the selection procedure or criteria is permissible even in the midst of the recruitment process are summarised below: (a) In absence of service rules, or the advertisement, prescribing or proscribing a cut off, employer has discretion to fix cut-off as may be considered necessary to appoint a candidate suitable to the post. (b) Even if no cut-off is stipulated for eligibility qua placement in the merit list, the employer may choose to appoint only such of those from the merit list who are higher than a particular cut-off and such cut-off may be fixed later. This is so, because no selected candidate has an indefeasible right to be appointed. (c) Considering the nature of the post, cut-off even if not prescribed by the Rules or the advertisement can be prescribed to appoint a person suitable to the post. Fixation of such cut-off would not be deemed arbitrary, as efficiency in service is the paramount consideration for the employer. (d) A change in the selection criteria which does not bear on the merit list but only affects appointment based thereupon, would not fall foul of either Article 16 or Article 14 of the Constitution if such a change is in the larger interest of efficiency in the service.