45. Section 103 of the Evidence Act, 1872 states that the burden of proof as to any particular fact lies on that person who wishes the Court to believe in its existence, unless it is provided by any law that the proof of that fact shall lie on any particular person. This Section enlarges the scope of the general rule in Section 101 that the burden of proof lies on the person who asserts the affirmative of the issue. Further, Section 104 of the said Act states that the burden of proving any fact necessary to be proved in to enable any person to give evidence of any other fact is on the person who wishes to give such evidence. The import of this Section is that the person who is legally entitled to give evidence has the burden to render such evidence. In other words, it is incumbent on each party to discharge the burden of proof, which rests upon him. In the context of insurance contracts, the burden is on the insurer to prove the allegation of non-disclosure of a material fact and that the non-disclosure was fraudulent. Thus, the burden of proving the fact, which excludes the liability of the insurer to pay compensation, lies on the insurer alone and no one else. 46. Section 106 of the Evidence Act, 1872 states that when any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him. This Section applies only to parties to the suit or proceeding. It cannot apply when the fact is such as to be capable of being known also by persons other than the parties. (Source: Sarkar, Law of Evidence, 20th Edition, Volume-2, LexisNexis) 47. In light of the aforesaid discussion on burden of proof, it has to be analysed if the respondent in the present case has adequately discharged his burden of proof about the fact of suppression of previous life insurance policies of the insured. 48. The respondent insurance company has produced no documentary evidence whatsoever before the District Forum to prove its allegation 754 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that the insured had taken multiple insurance policies from different companies and had suppressed the same. The District Forum had therefore concluded that there was no documentary evidence to show that the deceased-life insured had taken various insurance policies except an averment and on that basis the repudiation was held to be wrong. Before the State Commission, the respondent had provided a tabulation of the 15 different policies taken by the insured-deceased, amounting to Rs.71,27,702/-. The same has been extracted above. However, the said tabulation was not supported by any other documentary evidence, like the policy documents of these other policies, or pleadings in courts, or such other corroborative evidence. The respondent sought to mark a bunch of documents before the State Commission, which related to the policy papers of the insured with another insurer, i.e., Kotak Life Insurance. However, the respondent was not granted permission by the State Commission, as the said documents were neither original, nor certified, nor authenticated.