1106 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports provisions in the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987, analyzed the term ‘abet’ and gave it a reasonable construction to avoid the vice of vagueness. It was observed that vague laws offend important values and reinforce the need for laws to give a person of ordinary intelligence a reasonable opportunity to know what is prohibited. 260. Nisha Priya Bhatia (supra), was a case where a challenge to Rule 135 of the Research and Analysis Wing (Recruitment, Cadre and Services) Rules, 1975 was laid. This Court observed that such a challenge on the ground of vagueness could only be sustained if the Rule does not provide a person of ordinary intelligence with a reasonable opportunity to know the scope of the sphere in which the Rule would operate. This position was further developed, in line with the perspective of the persons upon which the provision operates, by observing that this standard is to be applied from the point of view of a member working in the organization as an intelligence officer, more particularly, a Class I intelligence officer. 261. Furthermore, this standard was also seen to have been applied in the Federation of Obstetrics & Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI) v. Union of India,177 wherein the constitutional validity of Sections 23(1) and 23(2) of the Pre-conception and Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act, 1994 was being challenged. While holding against such a challenge, it was observed by this Court that the provisions are not vague and that a responsible doctor is expected to know what they are undertaking and what their responsibilities are. In this light, the standard of a ‘person of ordinary intelligence’ was also seen to be employed and the Court went on to observe that a person of ordinary intelligence can comprehend the provisions of the Act and they can have fair notice of what is prohibited and what omission they should make. A nuanced understanding of the term ‘ordinary intelligence’ can be gained from this Court’s ruling in Seksaria Cotton Mills Ltd. v. State of Bombay,178 where, albeit in a different context, while interpreting the meaning of the word ‘possession’, it was observed as follows: 177 Federation of Obstetrics & Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI) v. Union of India (2019) 6 SCC 283. 178 Seksaria Cotton Mills Ltd. v. State of Bombay (1953) 1 SCC 561, para 21. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1107 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 "21. But we need not go into all this. Here is an which is to affect the business of hundreds of persons, many of whom are small petty merchants and traders, the sort of men who would not have lawyers constantly at their elbow; and even if they did, the more learned their advisers were in the law the more puzzled they would be as to what advice to give, for it is not till one is learned in the law that subtleties of thought and bewilderment arise at the meaning of plain English words which any ordinary man of average intelligence, not versed in the law, would have no difficulty in understanding [...]” [Emphasis supplied] 262.