It is thus well settled that the rule of law has been described as a safeguard against the arbitrary use of the State power. It ensures that the actions of the Government and its authorities are governed by established legal principles, rather than arbitrary discretion. Whenever the citizens in the form of mobs have broken the law to vandalize or to declare threats, the Court has cast an obligation on the State to prevent such threats or assaults. This obligation underscores the State’s responsibility to maintain law and and protect citizens from unlawful actions that undermine the rule of law itself. 30. It is not necessary to state that failure to uphold these obligations can erode public confidence in the justice system, leading to an environment where the rule of law is compromised by lawlessness. Ensuring the preservation of the principle of rule of law and the protection of the civil rights and liberties of citizens is essential for protecting the constitutional democracy. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 757 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures 31. The concept of the rule of law is not an abstract principle but is reflected in the substantive content of various legal domains. In this regard, it would be apt to refer to the following articulation of the rule of law: “The rule of law provides a framework and value system in which institutions, principles, and rules are implemented to ‘reign (sic) in the arbitrary exercise of state power and to prevent the abuse of power, to ensure predictability and stability, to make sure that individuals know that their lives, their liberty, their property will not be taken away from them arbitrarily and abusively’. It is from this core of understanding that constitutional law, criminal law, criminal procedure, due process, equal protection, international law, the laws of war, and human rights law find their moral, ethical, philosophical, and political justification in controlling the actions of executive power”.19 (emphasis added) 32. It has been emphasized that the rule of law provides a framework and value system to ‘rein in the arbitrary exercise of state power and to prevent the abuse of power, to ensure predictability and stability, to make sure that individuals know that their lives, their liberty, their property will not be taken away from them arbitrarily and abusively’. 33. It can thus be said that the processes enshrined in constitutional law, criminal law and procedure are facets of the rule of law and thus serve to regulate the exercise of executive power. III. SEPARATION OF POWERS 34. Another important aspect that needs to be addressed in the present matter is with regard to the doctrine of separation of powers, as envisaged in our Constitution. Our Constitution has earmarked separate areas for exercise of powers and for discharge of duties to the three organs of the democracy, viz., the Executive, the Legislature, and the Judiciary. The Legislature is empowered to enact the laws within the framework of the Constitution; the Executive is entrusted 19 Arthur H. Garrison, “The Rule of Law and the Rise of Control of Executive Power”, 18(2) Texas Review of Law & Politics 303-355 (2014).