The submission was that the words ‘research’ and ‘technical’ have been mentioned in the same Entry. Even if the scientists were directly engaged in research, the respondents are working on the technical side. As the added qualification of Ph.D., made their assistance in research better, the relief claimed by them was rightly allowed by the impugned . 4.1 It was further submitted that Study Leave Regulations, 1991 which were applicable to the scientists were made applicable to the technical personnel, in terms of which they were entitled to get study leave for a period of 3 years for undertaking Ph.D. program. This establishes that they were being equated with the scientists and the study leave granted for undertaking 512 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports program was to enable them to assist the scientists in a better way. Hence, the benefit of two advance increments, which are admissible to the scientists, was rightly awarded to the respondents. 4.2 He further referred to a Circular7 dated 01.05.1995 in terms of which the names of the technical staff who have obtained Ph.D. qualification will also be permitted to be included in the research projects/papers/reports, in addition to other scientists. It was further argued that when the technical personnel acquires a Ph.D. qualification, they become eligible for lateral entry to the scientists cadre. Hence, the qualification has relation with the scientist cadre. 4.3 The submission is that there is no error in the s passed by the High Court as well as the Tribunal. Grant of advance increments merely encouraged the respondents and the other technical personnel to improve their qualifications and contribute more efficiently to the research. 5. Heard Learned Counsel for the parties and perused the relevant referred record. 6. The root cause of the litigation is the circular dated 27.02.1999 vide which the pay scales of the scientists working with the appellants were revised after acceptance of the recommendations by the Fifth Central Pay Commission. The relevant clause is extracted below: “(ii) Incentives for Ph.D./M.Phil (a) Four and two advance increments will be admissible to those who hold Ph.D. and M.Phil degrees, respectively, at the time of recruitment as Scientists. (b) One increment will be admissible to those scientists with M.Phil degree who acquire Ph.D. within two years of recruitment. 7 No. 25-4/95-Per V of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 513 Indian Council of Agricultural Research Through the Director General and Anr. v. Rajinder Singh and Ors. (c) A Scientist with Ph.D. will be eligible for two advance increments when he moves into the Selection Grade as Sr. Scientists. (d) A Scientist will be eligible for two advance increments as and when he acquires a Ph.D. degree in his service career.” (emphasis supplied) 7. The argument raised by the appellants is that it constituted two services, namely Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and Technical Service (TS) on 01.10.1975. Both the services are governed by their independent sets of rules having different cadres and different promotional avenues.