In this view, it was submitted, the appellant could not be held liable for any misdeed, much less, any criminal act. 1170 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. Learned senior counsel submitted that the Revisional Court was right that cognizance, as far as the appellant is concerned, was totally illegal as no offence was made out against the appellant. It was further contended that even on the jurisdictional issue, the Sale Deed in question was executed at Dehradun, Uttarakhand and the land is also situated in Dehradun. It was submitted that even the consideration was paid in Dehradun. It was contended that the informant also filed Original Suit No. 27 of 2011 in the Court of the learned Additional District Judge, Vikas Nagar, Dehradun for setting aside the Sale Deed executed in favour of the appellant by the PoA holder and for rendition of accounts, which was dismissed and it was found that the PoA-holder/agent was duly authorized thereunder to sell the property after receiving consideration amount on behalf of the land-owners/principals, who were also not entitled to rendition of accounts. Thus, it was submitted that in a civil proceeding wherein the right of the PoA-holder to sell the property in question had been upheld and the appellant having bought the property from such PoA holder of the land covered under the PoA, the present FIR itself is misuse and abuse of the process of law, as far as the appellant is concerned. Further, he submitted, that the cancellation of the PoA was only on 09.01.2011, i.e., after almost 10½ years after the execution of the sale deed on 24.08.2000. 10. Moreover, it was contended that the issue being purely of civil nature i.e., there being a dispute as to whether the PoA-holder has paid to the land -owners/principals money received for the land sold, at best, it may give rise to a cause of action to the principals on the civil side against the PoA-holder, but the appellant could not be dragged into any such controversy. 11. Learned senior counsel submitted that at the time of the sale, the PoA was valid and Clauses 3 and 11 read with 5 gave full authority to the PoA-holder to sell the property, get the Sale Deed registered and receive consideration. He submitted that Clause 15, on which the complainant has relied, was not applicable. Further, neither in the FIR nor in the taking cognizance or even in the Legal Notice(s), is there any reference to the appellant, and the chargesheet merely states that the seller/PoA-holder did not have the right to sell. It was contended that while granting anticipatory bail to the appellant, the [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1171 Bharat Sher Singh Kalsia v. State of Bihar & Anr. High Court by dated 20.02.2014 in Criminal Miscellaneous No. 44830 of 2013, which was heard and decided with Criminal Miscellaneous No. 45146 of 2013 filed by the PoA-holder, the said PoA-holder had taken the stand that he was ready to give/return the sale proceed amounts to the informant, without admitting to the case of the informant and subject to such condition, he was also granted anticipatory bail.