The learned Judge observed that it will be impossible to protect the group identity of minorities and prevent the assimilation of identities in the absence of a provision guaranteeing substantive equality.38 52. Justice Mathew referred to the Advisory opinion of the Permanent Court of International Justice on Minority Schools in Albania to draw on the purpose of providing additional guarantees for minorities.39 In this , a crucial principle regarding equality and differential treatment for minority groups was articulated. The Permanent Court of International Justice observed that true equality might necessitate differential treatment to establish equilibrium between different situations: “Whereas equality in fact may involve the necessity of differential treatment in to attain a result which establishes an equilibrium between different situations. It is easy to imagine cases in which equality of treatment of the majority and of the minority whose situation and requirements are different, would result in inequality. The 35 (1974) 1 SCC 717 36 Ibid [8,9] 37 Ibid [77] 38 Ibid [131-133]; “132.The problem of the minorities is not really a problem of the establishment of equality because if taken literally, such equality would mean absolute identical treatment of both the minorities and the major ities. This would result only in equality in law but inequality in fact. The distinction need not be elaborated for it is obvious that “equality in law precludes discrimination of any kind; whereas equality in fact may involve the necessity of differential treatment in to attain a result which establishes an equilibrium between different situations.” 39 Minority Schools in Albania, Advisory Opinion, PCIJ Series A/B no 64, ICGJ 314 (PCIJ 1935), 6th April 1935, League of Nations; Permanent Court of International Justice. 1710 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports equality between the members of the majority and of the minority must be effective, genuine equality…” 53. This perspective underscores the imperative to enable minorities to maintain their distinctive characteristics and fulfil their specific needs. The case in question involved the abolition of all private schools, a measure challenged primarily by the minority. The Court emphasized that the rationale for the protection of minorities aimed at preserving their unique attributes. To achieve this objective, it deemed two aspects crucial. Firstly, it stressed the importance of ensuring that members of minority groups enjoy complete equality with other nationals of the state. Secondly, it emphasized the necessity of providing minority groups with appropriate means for preserving their racial peculiarities, traditions and national characteristics. 54. Distinct and diverse languages and religions have inherent value. It is also indisputable that cultures are often entangled with language and religion. The Constitution recognises that people who practise such religions or speak such languages who find themselves in the minority must not be at a disadvantage because of their numbers. 55. That being said, the purpose of Article 30 is not solely to enable religious minorities to impart religious instruction. Article 30 extends to secular education as well. That minorities may wish to impart secular and religious instruction side by side may be one aspect of the matter.