It was further stated on behalf of the Respondents that they shall not evict the Plaintiff from the property in question except in accordance with law. In this view of the matter, although we do not consider it expedient to interfere in the findings recorded in the Trial Court, yet in view of the statements made at Bar, the Vice-Chairman, Lucknow Development Authority has to consideration application of the Plaintiff for conversion of leasehold into Freehold rights in respect of the Garden Lease in question and pass appropriate expeditiously and it goes without saying that the Respondents entitled to evict the Plaintiff-Appellant, as stated by them only in accordance with law. Subject to these observations, the Appeal is dismissed. No as to costs.” (emphasis added) 13. Thus, only the statements of the parties were recorded, and it was observed that the authority would have to consider the application made by the alleged lessee for the conversion of leasehold rights into freehold rights and to pass appropriate s expeditiously. It is important to note that the High Court specifically recorded that it did not interfere with the findings recorded by the Trial Court. Subject to the direction to consider the application made by the alleged lessee to the authority for conversion in accordance with the law, the appeal preferred by the alleged lessee was dismissed. There was no binding passed by the High Court giving a mandate 32 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the authority or to the State Government to grant the application which the alleged lessee may make for conversion. On the contrary, the High Court upheld the decree passed by the Trial Court, which held that the alleged lessee was disentitled to the benefit of G.Os. issued in 1996 and 1998. 14. The dated 26th November 2001 does not refer to any G.O. under which conversion was permitted. The conversion was allowed against payment of the consideration, which was less than 10% of the price offered in a public auction, 16 years back. Therefore, we agree with the High Court that the was illegal. There is another aspect of the matter. When the aforesaid and the of conversion were passed, the Writ Petition filed by the school was pending. The alleged lessee’s sons were parties to the Writ Petition. After hearing all the parties, on 18th July 1996, an interim was passed in the Writ Petition directing maintenance of the status quo and restraining the State Government and the authority from executing a sale deed in favour of the alleged lessee’s sons. It was the duty of the State Government and the authority who were parties to the appeal preferred by the alleged lessee to point out to the Court that a Writ Petition filed by the school arising out of the auction of the plot was pending. The said fact was suppressed from the High Court by all the parties to the appeal. When the Writ Petition was pending, the propriety demanded that before directing conversion in favour of the alleged lessee, the State Government should have applied to the High Court, to seek permission to do so, in the pending Writ Petition.