It was nothing else but cheating by showing a fake decree of divorce. It was for this reason only that the respondent no.1 wanted to get the pregnancy aborted. The appellant felt cheated. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 543 Aniruddha Khanwalkar v. Sharmila Das & Others When he told that he would take action against the respondents, he was threatened with criminal cases of various matrimonial offences, which he claimed to have been filed. 12. Written complaint was filed by the appellant to the Superintendent of Police of Shivpuri, Madhya Pradesh on 07.07.2018 and to the Station in-Charge, Physical Shivpuri on 08.07.2018. However, no action was taken. It was thereafter, that the complaint was filed in the court before the Magistrate on 20.07.2018. The Trial Court after recording the preliminary evidence summoned the respondent no.1 to face trial under Sections 494 and 420 read with Section 120-B, IPC and the respondent nos.2 and 3 to face trial under Section 420 read with Section 120-B, IPC. 12.1 The aforesaid was challenged by the respondents before the Additional Sessions Judge. The Sessions Court held that no offence punishable under Section 420 read with Section 120-B, IPC was made out as the factum of earlier marriage of the respondent no.1 was clearly disclosed to the appellant. The Sessions Judge failed to appreciate the fact that certain events had taken place thereafter, namely, apprising the appellant about the decree of divorce having been passed and showing the forged copy thereof to him on mobile. The Learned Sessions Court has considered the revision against the summoning as if after trial the findings of conviction or acquittal was to be recorded. It was a preliminary stage of summoning. For summoning of an accused, prima facie case is to be made out on the basis of allegations in the complaint and the pre-summoning evidence led by the complainant. 13. In a challenge by the appellant to the aforesaid in the quashing petition, the High Court dismissed the petition without recording any reasons. 14. Considering the material on record, in our opinion the approach of the Learned Sessions Court and the High Court in setting aside the summoning against the accused persons i.e. respondent nos.1, 2 and 3 under Section 420 read with Section 120-B IPC is not legally sustainable. 15. For the reasons mentioned above from the facts as pleaded in complaint and the evidence led by the appellant, prima facie case 544 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was made out for issuing process against the respondents to face trial for the offence punishable under Section 420 read with Section 120-B, IPC, for which they were summoned. 16. The appeal is accordingly allowed. The impugned s passed by the High Court and the Sessions Court are set-aside and that of the Magistrate is restored. It is made clear that nothing said above shall be taken as final opinion on merits of the controversy. The Trial Court shall decide the case on its own merits on the basis of the evidence led by the parties.