Digital Supreme Court Reports 2(f) ‘reviewing authority’ means authority or authorities supervising the performance of the reporting authority as may be specifically empowered in this behalf by the Government; 2(a) ‘accepting authority’ means such authority or authorities supervising the performance of the reviewing authority as may be specifically empowered in this behalf by the Government.’ Rule 2(e) above was thereafter amended, vide Notification No. 22012/4/87-AIS-III dated 08.12.1987, and from that date it read thus: - ‘2(e) ‘reporting authority’ means such authority or authorities supervising the performance of the member of the Service reported upon as may be specifically empowered in this behalf by the Government.’ 6. The 1970 Rules continued to govern the field till the advent of the 2007 Rules. Rules 2(j), 2(k) and 2(a) of the 2007 Rules define ‘Reporting Authority’, ‘Reviewing Authority’ and ‘Accepting Authority’ respectively. These Rules read as under: - ‘2(j) ‘reporting authority’ means such authority or authorities supervising the performance of the member of the Service reported upon as may be specifically empowered in this behalf by the Government. 2(k) ‘reviewing authority’ means such authority or authorities supervising the performance of the reporting authority as may be specifically empowered in this behalf by the Government. 2(a) ‘accepting authority’ means the authority which supervises the performance of the reviewing authority as may be specifically empowered in this behalf by the Government.’ 7. Hitherto, the Police Act, 1861, was applicable in the State of Assam and the Assam Police Manual originated from it. However, upon the Act of 2007 being brought into force, the Police Act, 1861, was repealed in so far as its application to the State of Assam was concerned. The question presently is whether Rule 63(iii) of the Manual, which dates back to a point of time when the Police Act, 1861, was in force, [2024] 1 S.C.R. 479 The State of Assam and Others v. Binod Kumar and Others can be said to be still valid and lawful in the framework of the Act of 2007 and the 2007 Rules relating to preparation of ACRs/APARs of IPS Officers in the rank of SPs. 8. As per Rule 63(iii) of the Manual, the ACR/APAR of a SP should be initiated by the Deputy Commissioner concerned and the same would be reviewed by the Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of the Range and then sent to the Commissioner of the Division. The Commissioner would then send the same with his opinion to the Inspector General of Police for acceptance who, in turn, would refer the report to the Deputy Inspector General of Police (Special Branch) for his remarks on the SP’s performance in subjects pertaining to that Branch. 9. It is the contention of the appellants that a government servant has no right, much less a legal right, to insist that his/her ACR/APAR ought to be initiated by a particular ‘Reporting Authority’. It is argued that there is no inconsistency in Rule 63(iii) when compared with the scheme of the Act of 2007 and the 1970 Rules/2007 Rules.