The sensitivity and discomfort of the High Court is evident when it held: “29. …The Court had to watch the episodes with the aid of earphones, in the chamber, as the profanity of language used was of the extent that it could not have been heard without shocking or alarming the people around and keeping in mind the decorum of language which is maintained by a common prudent man whether in professional or public domain or even with family members at home…” 39. Application of wrong standard: The last issue is that of the standard or perspective used by the High Court to determine obscenity. It is well- settled that the standard for determination cannot be an adolescent’s or child’s mind, or a hypersensitive person who is susceptible to such influences.80 However, the High Court has incorrectly used the standard of “impressionable minds” to gauge the effect of the material and has therefore erred in applying the test for obscenity correctly.81 40. The High Court has made several remarks on the need to maintain linguistic purity, civility, and morality by retaining the purity of language and deprecating the representation of expletives-filled language as the “new normal”. The real test is to examine if the language is in anyway obscene under Section 67 of the IT Act. The approach adopted by the High Court, as explained earlier, is based on irrelevant considerations. 80 Chandrakant Kalyandas (supra), para 12; Samaresh Bose (supra), para 35; Ajay Goswami (supra); Aveek Sarkar (supra), para 20 81 Impugned , paras 35, 36 and 74 1178 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 41. Similarly, the metric to assess obscenity and legality of any content cannot be that it must be appropriate to play in the courtroom while maintaining the court’s decorum and integrity. Such an approach unduly curtails the freedom of expression that can be exercised and compels the maker of the content to meet the requirements of judicial propriety, formality, and official language. Here again, the High Court committed a serious error in decision-making. 42. The High Court has also expressed concern and anxiety about the free availability of the web-series on the internet to the youth and that it was not classified as being restricted to those above the age of 18 years. While such anxiety is not misplaced, the availability of content that contains profanities and swear words cannot be regulated by criminalising it as obscene. Apart from being a non-sequitur, it is a disproportionate and excessive measure that violates freedom of speech, expression, and artistic creativity. 43. For the reasons stated above, we are of the opinion that the High Court was not correct in its conclusion that the web-series has obscene content and that therefore the provisions of Section 67 of the IT Act are attracted. B. Whether the material is ‘sexually explicit’ for the purpose of Section 67A: 44. Section 67A of the IT Act criminalises the publication and transmission of sexually explicit content. The provision is as follows: “67A.