Alcoholic or “intoxicating liquors” must be understood as these are, not what these are capable of or able to become. Consequently, in paragraph 86 it was concluded as follows: “86. The position with regard to the control of alcohol industry has undergone material and significant change after the amendment of 1956 to the IDR Act. After the amendment, the State is left with only the following powers to legislate in respect of alcohol: (a) It may pass any legislation in the nature of prohibition of potable liquor referable to Entry 6 of List II and regulating powers. 2082 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) It may lay down regulations to ensure that non-potable alcohol is not diverted and misused as a substitute for potable alcohol. (c) The State may charge excise duty on potable alcohol and sales tax under Entry 52 of List II. However, sales tax cannot be charged on industrial alcohol in the present case, because under the Ethyl Alcohol (Price Control) s, sales tax cannot be charged by the State on industrial alcohol. (d) However, in case State is rendering any service, as distinct from its claim of so-called grant of privilege, it may charge fees based on quid pro quo. See in this connection, the observations of Indian Mica case [(1971) 2 SCC 236 : 1971 Supp SCR 319 : AIR 1971 SC 1182].” 9.1.14 Oza, J. gave a concurring separate opinion wherein he considered the question relating to validity of the levies made by the States on alcohol which is utilised by the industries for manufacturing the products where alcohol is a raw material. Some of these industries themselves (i) manufacture alcohol as they have their own distilleries and from their distilleries through pipelines it goes to their industrial units where this is used as a raw material (ii) whereas some are industries which purchase alcohol or denatured spirit on being allotted by the Government. 9.1.15 On a comparison of the language of Entry 84 – List I and Entry 51 – List II, it was observed by Oza, J. that the powers of taxation on alcoholic liquors have been based on the way in which they are used, as admittedly alcoholic liquors is a very wide term and may include variety of types of alcoholic liquors but the Constitution- makers distributed them into two heads: (a) for human consumption (b) other than for human consumption [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2083 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons 9.1.16 Alcoholic liquors which are for human consumption were put in Entry 51 - List II authorising the State Legislature to levy tax on them whereas alcoholic liquors other than for human consumption have been left to the Central Legislature under Entry 84 – List I for levy of duty of excise. This scheme of the Entries in two Lists clearly indicates the line of demarcation for purposes of taxation of alcoholic liquors. What has been excluded in Entry 84 has specifically been put within the authority of the State for purposes of taxation.