[2024] 12 S.C.R. 1645 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. 46. In such circumstances referred to above more particularly the dubious actions of the respondents and the subsequent development that have taken place after the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals, the petitioner is here before this Court with the present contempt petitions. B. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES i. Submissions of the Successful Auction Purchaser/the petitioner. 47. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi and Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that this Court in its decision rendered in the Main Appeals had looked into all the issues at hand regarding the auction and the subsequent transfer, and thereafter had taken a conscious decision to uphold the auction conducted in favour of the petitioner and directed the Bank to issue the Sale Certificate and handover possession of the Secured Asset. However, despite such categorical directions of this Court, till date neither the physical possession nor the original title deeds to the Secured Asset has been handed over by the respondents herein to the petitioner. 48. It was submitted that the petitioner herein as per the directions of this Court had paid an additional amount over and above the bid submitted by it, to the tune of Rs. 24 crore approx. to match the difference between the sale consideration and the amount towards redemption of the mortgage, which the petitioner duly complied with. In such circumstances, the petitioner placing reliance on para 98 of the decision in the Main Appeals, submitted that once the entire bid price is paid and there is no stay granted by any forum known to law, the secured creditor is duty bound to issue a valid sale certificate and handover the physical possession of the secured asset. 49. It was further submitted that the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee have not only refused to hand over the possession and original title deeds to the Secured Asset in complete defiance of the decision in the Main Appeals but have also resorted to frivolous and malicious proceedings before various forums to undermine and circumvent the decision of this Court. It was highlighted that inasmuch as three different proceedings have been instituted by the respondents for seeking prayers which are in teeth of the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals. The details are as under: - 1646 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports i. Securitization Application No. 46 of 2022 along with I.A. Nos. 3199 of 2023 & 3220 of 2023 before the DRT-I, Mumbai. ii. Securitization Application No. 53 of 2024 along with I.A. No. 456 of 2024 before the DRAT, Mumbai iii. Special Civil Suit No. 5 of 2024 before the Civil Court, Belapur. 50. It was submitted that the above acts of abject refusal to comply with the directions passed in the Main Appeals and the act of initiation of proceedings in different forums with prayers contrary to the decision of this Court by the respondents, constitutes contempt in itself.