20. No doubt, in Union of India vs. K.A. Najeeb,3 relied upon by the learned counsels for the respondents, it has been observed that a Constitutional court is not strictly bound by the prohibitory provisions of grant of bail in 1967 Act, and can exercise its constitutional jurisdiction to release the accused on bail who has been incarcerated for a long period of time relying upon Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the said observations may not be applicable to the facts of the present case. In the said case, this Court did not interfere with the passed by the High Court granting bail to the accused in the said case, on the ground that the said accused had already spent 5 years and 5 months in custody, and the trial was likely to take long time. So far as the respondents in the instant appeals are concerned, they are in custody hardly for one and half years, apart from the fact that all the respondents are shown to have been involved in previous cases. There are about 8 to 9 previous cases shown in the chargesheet against the respondents except accused no.1, 4 and 6 who are shown to have been involved in two cases. Considering the nature and gravity of the alleged offences and 3 (2021) 3 SCC 713 1036 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports considering their criminal antecedents, in our opinion High Court should not have taken a lenient view, more particularly when there was sufficient material to show their prima facie involvement in the alleged offences under the UAPA. 21. Similarly, the decision in Vernon vs. State of Maharashtra and Another,4 relied upon by the learned counsels for the respondents also would be of hardly any help in as much in the said case this Court after considering allegations made against the accused and long incarnation of five years, did not think it proper to continue further detention of the appellants-accused in the said case. In Shoma Kanti Sen vs. State of Maharashtra and Another,5 relied upon by the learned counsels for the respondents, this Court had deemed it proper to release the accused involved in the offences under the UAPA on bail, having considered the facts of the case and observing that Section 43(d)(5) of UAPA was not applicable. 22. In the instant case, we are satisfied from the chargesheet as also the other material/documents relied upon by the appellant that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations against the respondents are prima facie true and that the mandate contained in the proviso to Section 43(D)(5) would be applicable for not releasing the respondents on bail. Having regard to the seriousness and gravity of the alleged offences, previous criminal history of the respondents as mentioned in the charge-sheet, the period of custody undergone by the respondents being hardly one and half years, the severity of punishment prescribed for the alleged offences and prima facie material collected during the course of investigation, the impugned passed by the High Court cannot be sustained.