When a contribution is made to an electoral trust, a receipt recording the following information shall, inter alia, be provided: (i) Name and address of the contributor; (ii) Permanent account number of the contributor or the passport number if the contributor is not a resident of India; (iii) Amount contributed; (iv) The mode of contribution including the name and branch of the bank and the date of receipt of such contribution; and (v) PAN of the electoral trust; c. Contributions to the electoral trust can only be made through cheque, bank draft and electronic transfer. Contributions made in cash shall not be accepted by the Electoral Trust; d. The Electoral Trust shall spend five percent of the total contributions received in a year subject to a limit of Rupees five [2024] 2 S.C.R. 515 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. hundred thousand in the first year of incorporation and Rupees three hundred thousand in the second year. '*' The remaining money (that is, ninety five percent of the total contributions received in that financial year along with any surplus from the previous year) shall be distributed to political parties registered under Section 29A of the RP Act;'*° e. The political party to which the trust donated money shall provide a receipt indicating the name of the political party, the PAN and the amount of contribution received from the trust;'** f. |The trust shall also maintain a list of persons from whom contributions have been received and to whom they have been distributed;'** and g. The trust shall furnish a certified copy of the list of contributors and list of political parties to whom contributions have been made to the Commissioner of Income Tax along with the audit report. '45 122. In summary, an Electoral Trust is formed only for collecting political contributions from donors. An electoral trust can contribute to more than one party. To illustrate, if ten individuals and one company have contributed to an Electoral Trust and the donations are contributed to three political parties equally or unequally, the information about which of the individuals contributed to which of the political parties will not be disclosed. In this manner, the purpose of curbing black money in electoral financing will be met. At the same time, there would be no fear of consequences from political opponents because the information as to which political party were made is not disclosed. 123. On 6 June 2014, the ECI circulated Guidelines for submission of contribution reports of Electoral Trusts mandating in the interest of transparency that all Electoral Trusts shall submit an Annual Report containing details of contributions received and disbursed by them to political parties. Pursuant to the Guidelines, Electoral Trusts submit 141 IT Rules 1962, Rule 17CA(8)(i) 142 IT Rules 1962, Rule 17CA(7) and Rules 17CA(8)(ii) 143 IT Rules 1962, Rule 17CA(9) 144 IT Rules 1962, Rule 17CA(11)(ii) 145 IT Rules 1962, Rule 17CA(14) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 516 Digital Supreme Court Reports Annual Reports to the ECI every year.