In other words, all the accused- respondents have remained in custody for less than three years for such a serious offence of a double murder for which they have been charged. 46 FIR No. 95 of 2023 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 595 Ajwar v. Waseem and Another 34. Learned Counsel for the appellants and the State of UP have also informed this Court that in the cross-FIR filed by Smt. Saeeda Begum (w/o Niyaz Ahmad mother of Waseem) at the instance of the accused persons, a closure was filed by the police. Vide dated 04th September, 2023, the Magistrate issued notice to the complainant in the cross-FIR. A protest petition has been filed by the complainant herein which is pending arguments. In the meantime, the appellant herein moved an application in the captioned case stating that though three affidavits (of Usman Ali, Alenbi and Farhana) were annexed with the protest petition to support the cross-complaint, on being examined, all three persons have denied having sworn the said affidavits. Accordingly, the appellant has filed an application under Section 340 Cr.P.C against the complainant in the cross-FIR which has been registered vide dated 15th January, 2024 and is due to come up for arguments. 35. All the aforesaid factors when examined collectively, leave no manner of doubt that the respondents do not deserve the concession of bail. As a result, all the four impugned s are quashed and set aside. The respondents are directed to surrender within two weeks from the date of passing of this . It is, however, clarified that the observations made above are limited to examining the infirmities in the impugned s and shall not be treated as an opinion on the merits of the matter which is still pending trial. It is also clarified that in the event of any new circumstances emerging, the respondents shall be entitled to apply for bail at a later stage. 36. The appeals arising out of the petitions for special leave to appeal are disposed of on the above terms. Result of the case: Appeals disposed of. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain