The disclosure requirement therefore is now at par with PMLA. 29. We do not see any valid grounds raised for this Court to interfere by directing SEBI to revoke its amendments to regulations which were made in the exercise of its legislative power. A regulation may be subject to judicial review based on it being ultra vires the parent legislation or the Constitution. None of these grounds have been pressed before the Court. Therefore, we find that the prayer seeking directions to SEBI to revoke its amendments to the FPI Regulations and LODR Regulations must fail. 30. SEBI has completed twenty-two out of the twenty-four investigations into the Adani group. It submits that the remaining two are pending due to inputs being awaited from foreign regulators. We also record the assurance given by the Solicitor General on behalf of SEBI that the investigations would be concluded expeditiously. SEBI cannot keep the investigation open-ended and indeterminate in time. Hence, SEBI shall complete the pending investigations preferably within three months. D. The plea to transfer the investigation from SEBI to another agency or to an SIT i. The power to transfer an investigation is exercised in extraordinary situations 194 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 31. The petitioners seek the transfer of the investigation from SEBI to the CBI or an SIT. The question that falls for decision is whether a case has been established by the petitioners for the court to issue such a direction. 32. This Court does have the power under Article 32 and Article 142 of the Constitution to transfer an investigation from the authorized agency to the CBI or constitute an SIT. However, such powers must be exercised sparingly and in extraordinary circumstances. Unless the authority statutorily entrusted with the power to investigate portrays a glaring, willful and deliberate inaction in carrying out the investigation the court will ordinarily not supplant the authority which has been vested with the power to investigate. Such powers must not be exercised by the court in the absence of cogent justification indicative of a likely failure of justice in the absence of the exercise of the power to transfer. The petitioner must place on record strong evidence indicating that the investigating agency has portrayed inadequacy in the investigation or prima facie appears to be biased. 33. Recently, in Himanshu Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh12, this Court, speaking through one of us (JB Pardiwala, J) relying on a judgement of a three judge Bench of this Court in K.V. Rajendran v. Superintendent of Police CBCID South Zone, Chennai13 reiterated the principle that the power to transfer an investigation to investigating agencies such as the CBI must be invoked only in rare and exceptional cases. Further, no person can insist that the offence be investigated by a specific agency since the plea can only be that the offence be investigated properly. The Court held as follows: “49. Elaborating on this principle, this Court further observed: “17. … the Court could exercise its constitutional powers for transferring an investigation from the State investigating agency to any other independent investigating agency like CBI only in rare and exceptional cases.