Thus, the submission was that the Courts at Buxar would not have any jurisdiction in the present matter. 16. Learned senior counsel summed up his arguments by contending that all points raised before us had been taken before the High Court but have not been dealt with in the Impugned . sions of Sections 41, 42 and 43 of the Evidence Act and submitted that under the Evidence Act to what extent s given in the previous proceedings are relevant is provided and therefore it would be against the law if it is held that as soon as the and decree is passed in a civil suit the criminal proceedings are required to be dropped if the suit is decided against the plaintiff who is the complainant in the criminal proceedings. 16. In our view, the submission of learned Additional Solicitor-General requires to be accepted. Sections 40 to 43 of the Evidence Act provide which s of courts of justice are relevant and to what extent. Section 40 provides for previous , or a decree which by law prevents any court while taking cognizance of a suit or holding a trial, to be a relevant fact when the question is whether such court ought to take cognizance of such suit or to hold such trial. Section 40 is as under: “40. Previous s relevant to bar a second suit or trial.—The existence of any , or decree which by law prevents any court from taking cognizance of a suit or holding a trial, is a relevant fact when the question is whether such court ought to take cognizance of such suit or to hold such trial.” xxx 30. What emerges from the aforesaid discussion is — (1) the previous which is final can be relied upon as provided under Sections 40 to 43 of the Evidence Act; (2) in civil suits between the same parties, principle of res judicata may apply; (3) in a criminal case, Section 300 CrPC makes provision that once a person is convicted or acquitted, he may not be tried again for the same offence if the conditions mentioned therein are satisfied; (4) if the criminal case and the civil proceedings are for the same cause, of the civil court would be relevant if conditions of any of Sections 40 to 43 are satisfied, but it cannot be said that the same would be conclusive except as provided in Section 41. Section 41 provides which would be conclusive proof of what is stated therein. 31. Further, the , or decree passed in a previous civil proceeding, if relevant, as provided under Sections 40 and 42 or other provisions of the Evidence Act then in each case, the court has to decide to what extent it is binding or conclusive with regard to the matter(s) decided therein. Take for illustration, in a case of alleged trespass by A on B’s property, B filed a suit for declaration of its title and to recover possession from A and suit is decreed.