After hearing the parties at length, this Court vide its dated 01.07.2023 reserved the matter for and further directed the parties to file their written submissions. 119. Pursuant to the above, the petitioner herein on 04.09.2023 at 15:40 PM filed its written submissions wherein it inter-alia submitted that since the auction was already completed and the Bank had confirmed the sale of the Secured Asset to the petitioner, a vested right in the Secured Asset had accrued in its favour. It further submitted that of the manner in which the Borrower and the Bank during the pendency of the Main Appeals, had precipitated the matter by hastily entering into private arrangements to overtake the proceedings and undermine the issue involved, prayed that this Court not only set- 1676 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports aside the High Court’s impugned but also inter-alia the issuance of sale certificate of the Secured Asset and the handing over of its original title deeds along with reversal of all steps taken by the Bank and the Borrower pursuant to the High Court’s . The relevant portion of the petitioner’s written submissions are reproduced hereunder: - “5.6 Knowing that the Supreme Court may consider the legality of what was being attempted, the Borrowers and the Bank have precipitated matters with the intention of letting events overtake this Hon’ble Court’s scrutiny. Not only has the Bank accepted payment of Rs. 129 crore but it has also hastily proceeded to sign and register the mortgage cancellation documents and issue a no-dues certificate. 5.7 No regard has been shown for this Hon’ble Court considering the matter. One can understand that the Borrowers would pay the Rs. 129 crores by 31.08.2023. However, the haste with which steps have been taken thereafter is for everyone to see. The petitioner has obviously refused refund of its money, pending the decision of this Hon’ble Court. 5.8 However, considering the illegality which the Impugned has permitted and that steps have been taken to implement the Impugned during the pendency of this SLP, the Petitioner respectfully submits that to do complete justice, this Hon’ble Court must not only set aside the Impugned but must also that: i) All steps taken pursuant to the Impugned be reversed; ii) The registered documents executed pursuant to the Impugned be cancelled; iii) The borrowers be ed to handover the title documents of the secured asset back to the Bank; iv) The Bank be ed to pay to the Borrowers, a sum of Rs. 129 crores; [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1677 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. v) The Bank be permitted to cancel its no-dues certificate issued to the Borrowers and also be permitted to take recourse to whatever remedies it has in law to recover the remained of its outstandings from the Borrowers; vi) The Bank be ed to issue in the Petitioner’s favour, a sale certificate; have the same registered and do and carry out all other acts necessary under the SARFAESI Act and the Security Interest Rules.