G 188 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Given that there is some similarity in the issues here involved and in the case of I.R.Coelho vs. State of Tamil Nadu (1999 (7) SCC 580) which already stands referred to a larger Bench, preferably of nine learned Judges, we are of the view that these matters should be heard by a Bench of nine learned Judges immediately following the hearing in the case of I.R.Coelho. Given the importance of the matter and the fact that constitutional issues are involved in I.R.Coelho as also in this case, we direct that parties shall file skeleton arguments within eight weeks. The papers shall be placed before the Hon’ble the Chief Justice for appropriate directions.” The aforesaid s of reference provide the canvas in respect of which the issues have to be considered and answered. Therefore, the facts narrated by the learned Chief Justice will not have any relevance to the merits of the dispute vis-à-vis the provisions of the Act under challenge. 2.2 The learned Chief Justice has framed and considered two broad issues in his proposed , which are extracted hereinunder: “a. Whether Article 31C (as upheld in Kesavananda Bharati) survives in the Constitution after the amendment to the provision by the forty-second amendment was struck down by this Court in Minerva Mills? b. Whether the interpretation of Article 39(b) adopted by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy and followed in Sanjeev Coke must be reconsidered. Whether the phrase ‘material resources of the community’ in Article 39(b) can be interpreted to include resources that are owned privately and not by the State?” Re: First issue: 3. I respectfullyconcur with the opinion expressed by the learned Chief Justice on the first issue. I am in complete accord with the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 189 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. reasoning that, in the absence of any indication that Parliament intended a “repeal without substitution,” the original text of Article 31C as it existed before the Constitution (Forty-Second) Amendment Act, 1976 must be reinstated following the invalidation of the said amendment. In Minerva Mills Ltd. vs. Union of India, AIR 1980 SC 1789 (“Minerva Mills”),when the amendment was struck down for deviating from constitutional principles, the logical consequence that must follow the declaration of invalidity of the amendment is to revert to those original principles which the amendment deviated from. This is by giving effect to Article 31C, to the extent it was upheld in H.H. Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru vs. State of Kerala, AIR 1973 SC 1461 (“Kesavananda Bharati”).This represents a return to the Constitution’s original text, aligning with the basic structure of the Constitution. Consequently, invalidating Section 4 of the Forty- Second Amendment should automatically result in the restoration of the unamended Article 31C. The Constitution of India: A living Tree: 4. Before dealing with the second issue, I would like to preface the same with the living tree doctrine of our Constitution. 4.1 Emile Durkheim, the French sociologist who formally established the academic discipline of Sociology and is commonly cited as one of the principal architects of modern Social Science, likened society to a living organism.