The colonial regime in India followed a pattern at variance to that prevailing under English law on land ownership and mineral rights. Initially, the colonial state asserted that the soil belonged to the sovereign.306 Acting on the view that it was the proprietor of the soil, the colonial state, under Lord Cornwallis as Governor-General, 305 Megarry and Wade (supra). [“Although prima facie a tenant in fee simple is entitled to all mines and minerals under the land, this is subject to some exceptions. Thus at common law, as modified by statute, the Crown is entitled to all gold and silver mines; and under the Petroleum Act 1998 petroleum existing in its natural condition in strata is vested in the Crown. Licences for extraction (including fracking) can be granted under the Petroleum Act 1998. Under the Coal Act 1938 all interests in coal (except interests arising under a coal mining lease) were vested in the Coal Commission in return for compensation. These interests (including coal-mining leases) were vested subsequently in the National Coal Board, then in the British Coal Corporation, and finally, (following the privatization of coal industry) in the Coal Authority. That body has extensive powers to license coal-mining operations.”] 306 S Sundararaja Iyengar, Land Tenures in the Madras Presidency (1921) 25 1706 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports confirmed proprietary rights to soil, including mineral rights, to the zamindars by way of a permanent settlement in territories under British control in India. For instance, the Madras Permanent Settlement Regulation XXV of 1802 vested “the proprietary rights of the soil” in the zamindars and in their heirs and successors.307 The regulations also allowed the zamindars to alienate or dispose of their proprietary rights in their zamindaris.308 Colonial courts recognized that the zamindars were presumed to be the owners of mineral rights in the absence of evidence that they had parted with them.309 Similarly, in the case of inam lands, it was held that the right of the inamdars to the sub-soil minerals was to be inferred from the express words of the grants.310 253. In 1813, the Court of Directors of the East India Company prohibited the government from introducing permanent settlements any further and ed introduction of the ryotwari system in all unsettled lands in the provinces.311 Thereafter, the colonial state introduced the ryotwari system of land settlement in India. Under it the ryots were treated as proprietors of land with attendant rights and liabilities such as payment of assessment directly to government.312 The ryots 307 Section 2, Regulation XXV of 1802. [It read: 2. Assessment on all lands liable to revenue. Proprietary right vested in zamindars – In conformity to these principles, an assessment shall be fixed on all lands liable to pay revenue to the Government; and, in consequence of such assessment, the proprietary right of the soil shall become vested in the zamindars or other proprietors of land, and in their heirs and lawful successors for ever.”] 308 Section 8, Regulation XXV of 1802. [It read: 8.