We observe that the need for dedicated personnel with a focused mandate to tackle child marriage is crucial to ensure that resources are utilized effectively and that the objectives of the PCMA are met. 76. Additionally, the level at which CMPOs are designated—whether at the district, Block, or Gram Panchayat level—is also a critical concern. For instance, states like Karnataka have appointed 58,522 officers across thirty one districts, and Maharashtra has appointed 25,562 officers across thirty six districts, extending appointments down to the Gram Panchayat level. Andhra Pradesh has appointed 16,590 officers from the village or ward level up to the district level, including District Magistrates at the district level. However, Uttar Pradesh has designated only one CMPO per district, with 75 CMPOs for seventy-five districts. Although high numbers of appointments may suggest extensive coverage, this alone does not ensure effectiveness unless there are exclusive officers dedicated solely to CMPO duties, free from additional responsibilities. For example, at the Gram Panchayat level, Panchayat Secretaries, Village Revenue Officers, and Patwaris are often given CMPO duties in addition to 107 ‘SDM’ [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1565 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. their primary roles, which dilutes their ability to focus solely on child marriage prevention. 77. CMPOs often lack adequate training and are ill-equipped to engage sensitively with children. A study analysing child marriage cases filed nationwide between 2008 and 2017 revealed that CMPOs initiated only seven percent of these cases, highlighting a significant gap in proactive enforcement.108 In some instances, CMPOs redirect complaints to other designated officers under different laws, such as protection officers under the Domestic Violence Act 2005109 or the JJ Act110, who then refer the complaints back to the CMPOs. This back-and-forth highlights a need for improved clarity and streamlined coordination in handling child marriage cases effectively. 78. We accordingly hold that, given the significant obligations expected to be discharged by a dedicated CMPO, no officer with other responsibilities shall be appointed as the CMPO. States or UTs shall appoint exclusive CMPOs in each district in addition to any CMPOs already serving in a dual capacity, and they shall equip these officers with adequate resources for the effective discharge of their functions. If a State or UT concludes that instances of child marriage have decreased to the extent that appointing exclusive CMPOs is no longer necessary, it may file an application before this Court, seeking leave to appoint a CMPO who also holds other duties at the District level. B. The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act 2012 79. The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act 2012111 was enacted by Parliament to safeguard the right of all children to safety, security and protection from sexual abuse and exploitation. It is a self-contained comprehensive legislation for the protection of children from sexual assault, sexual harassment and pornography.112 108 Social and Policy Research Foundation. ‘Child and Early Marriage in India, Issue Brief’ (2021) referred in India Child Protection, Towards Justice: Ending Child Marriages (2024), 21.