The said clause of the draft bill was enacted with certain modifications and became Section 438 of the CrPC. 17. The Law Commission, in paragraph 31 of its 48th Report (1972), made the following comments on the aforesaid clause: “The Bill introduces a provision for the grant of anticipatory bail. This is substantially in accordance with the recommendation made by the previous Commission. We agree that this would be a useful addition, though we must add that it is in very exceptional cases that such a power should be exercised. We are further of the view that in to ensure that the provision is not put to abuse at the instance of unscrupulous petitioners, the final should be made only after notice to the Public Prosecutor. The initial should only be an interim one. Further, the relevant section should make it clear that the direction can be issued only for reasons to be recorded, and if the court is satisfied that such a direction is necessary in the interests of justice. It will also be convenient to provide that notice of the interim as well as of the final s will be given to the Superintendent of Police forthwith.” (Emphasis supplied) 1112 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 18. It is apparent on a plain reading of the Statement of Objects and Reasons accompanying the Bill for introducing Section 438 in the CrPC that the legislature felt that it was imperative to evolve a device by which an alleged accused is not compelled to face ignominy and disgrace at the instance of influential people who try to implicate their rivals in false cases. The purpose behind incorporating Section 438 in CrPC was to recognise the importance of personal liberty and freedom in a free and democratic country. A careful reading of this section reveals that the legislature was keen to ensure respect for the personal liberty by pressing in service the age-old principle that an individual is presumed to be innocent till he is found guilty by the court. [See: Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra and Others reported in (2011) 1 SCC 694] 19. Discussing in the context of anticipatory bail, this Court, in Siddharam (supra), discussed the relevance and importance of personal liberty as under: “36. All human beings are born with some unalienable rights like life, liberty and pursuit of happiness. The importance of these natural rights can be found in the fact that these are fundamental for their proper existence and no other right can be enjoyed without the presence of right to life and liberty. Life bereft of liberty would be without honour and dignity and it would lose all significance and meaning and the life itself would not be worth living. That is why “liberty” is called the very quintessence of a civilised existence. 37. Origin of “liberty” can be traced in the ancient Greek civilisation. The Greeks distinguished between the liberty of the group and the liberty of the individual. In 431 BC, an Athenian statesman described that the concept of liberty was the outcome of two notions, firstly, protection of group from attack and secondly, the ambition of the group to realise itself as fully as possible through the self-realisation of the individual by way of human reason.