2. The AC submits that the State of Uttar Pradesh has also filed a report which runs into more than 300 pages; likewise stands the position for the States of Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh – all their reports/responses are voluminous. Mr. Agrawal submits that these three States (supra) may file additional affidavits in terms of the dated 23rd April, 2024, for which purpose some time be granted. 3. It is also submitted that further affidavits have been received from the States of Telangana, Assam, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. He requests for time to file a comprehensive report after going through the said affidavits. (II) STATEWISE STUTUS REPORTS (A) STATE OF BIHAR 4. Onto what engages us today, the AC draws the attention of this Court to the State of Bihar, where overcrowding in jails has been flagged, especially concerning the (a) District Jails at (i) Aurangabad, (ii) Darbhanga, (iii) Gopalganj, (iv) Khagaria, (v) Lakhisarai, (vi) Madhepura, (vii) Biharsharif, (viii) Navadah, (ix) Saharsa, (x) Chapra, (xi) Sitamarhi, (xii) Siwan, (xiii) Supaul, (xiv) Hajipur; (b) Adarsh Central Jail, Beur, and (c) Central Jail, Purnea. 5. The Note indicates a measure of slackness pertaining to approvals being granted for works to commence. In some jails, the capacity enhancement is likely to be completed by the end of the present Financial Year i.e. by/before March, 2025, whereas in other jails, suitable land is still being identified. 1 hereinafter referred to as the ‘AC’ 2 hereinafter referred to as the ‘Note’ 1042 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. This Court is not satisfied with the steps taken by the concerned authorities of the State of Bihar to indicate their seriousness towards addressing issues which are urgent in nature and cannot be casually dealt with. For instance, apropos improvement in living conditions for the prisoners in Central Jail, Gaya, it transpires that that approval has been given for making adequate availability of drainage facility, construction of additional toilets, construction of kitchen, in the current Financial Year followed by construction over the next two years. 7. For the Sub-Jail, Sherghati, approval has been given for construction of 15 additional toilets and the work is being done by the Building Construction Department. 8. The AC has submitted that in terms of the recommendations made by the Committee constituted by this Court, in 13 Central/D istrict Jails, insofar as women prisoners are concerned, the State Government has indicated various steps taken in the District Jails at Aurangabad, Ara, Katihar, Lakhisarai, and the Central Jail at Gaya. 9. Again, we would note that though some recommendations made by the Committee have been accepted/processed, the State Government is yet in the process of granting approvals for construction of kitchen, increasing the height of the parameter wall as also for construction/maintenance of clean toilets, separate women prisoners’ hospital, expansion of women prison-wards and barracks and construction of new prisoner cells. We find no valid reason for the delays in the approvals. Needless to state, the approval, being the starting point for any project/development to proceed, it must be dealt with on priority.