The court by default would refer the matter when contentions relating to non-arbitrability are plainly arguable; when consideration in summary proceedings would be insufficient and inconclusive; when facts are contested; when the party opposing arbitration adopts delaying tactics or impairs conduct of arbitration proceedings. This is not the stage for the court to enter into a mini trial or elaborate review so as to usurp the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal but to affirm and uphold integrity and efficacy of arbitration as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism.” (Emphasis supplied) 888 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 85. As is clear from the aforesaid extract, Vidya Drolia (supra) held that although the arbitral tribunal is the preferred first authority to determine the questions pertaining to non-arbitrability, yet the referral court may exercise its limited jurisdiction to refuse reference to arbitration in cases which are ex-facie frivolous and where it is certain that the disputes are non-arbitrable. 86. The decision of this Court in Vidya Drolia (supra) was subsequently relied upon by a two-Judge Bench of this Court in DLF Home Developers Ltd. v. Rajapura Homes (P) Ltd. reported in (2021) 16 SCC 743 wherein it was held that the prima facie review as laid down in Vidya Drolia (supra), in exceptional cases, warrants interference by the court to protect the wastage of public money. “21. The jurisdiction of this Court under Section 11 is primarily to find out whether there exists a written agreement between the parties for resolution of disputes through arbitration and whether the aggrieved party has made out a prima facie arbitrable case. The limited jurisdiction, however, does not denude this Court of its judicial function to look beyond the bare existence of an arbitration clause to cut the deadwood. A three-Judge Bench in Vidya Drolia [Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn. (2021) 2 SCC 1, paras 236, 237, 244.3, 244.4, 244.5, 244.5.1-244.5.3 : (2021) 1 SCC (Civ) 549], has eloquently clarified that this Court, with a view to prevent wastage of public and private resources, may conduct “prima facie review” at the stage of reference to weed out any frivolous or vexatious claims.” 87. In BSNL v. Nortel Networks (India) (P) Ltd., reported in (2021) 5 SCC 738, this Court explained the scope of primary examination regarding the aspect of non-arbitrability in the context of time-barred claims as laid down in Vidya Drolia (supra) thus: “45. In a recent delivered by a three-Judge Bench in Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn. [Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn. (2021) 2 SCC 1 : (2021) 1 SCC (Civ) 549], on the scope of power under Sections 8 and 11, it has been held that the Court must undertake a primary first review to weed out “manifestly ex facie non-existent and invalid arbitration agreements, or [2024] 7 S.C.R. 889 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning non-arbitrable disputes”. The prima facie review at the reference stage is to cut the deadwood, where dismissal is barefaced and pellucid, and when on the facts and law, the litigation must stop at the first stage.