211 Naresh Chandra Agrawal v. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and Others the rule-making power is conferred by Sub-section (1) of that section and the function of Sub-section (2) is merely illustrative and the rules which are referred to in Sub-section (2) are authorised by and made under Sub-section (1). The pro-visions of Sub-section (2) are not restrictive of Sub-section (1) as expressly stated in the words ‘without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power’ with which Sub-section (2) begins and which words are similar to the words of Sub-section (2) of Section 2 of the Defence of India Act which the Privy Council was considering.....” (emphasis supplied) 30. While examining the “generality versus enumeration” principle, this Court, in PTC India Ltd. v. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission, (2010) 4 SCC 603, referred with approval to its earlier Judgement in Hindustan Zinc Ltd. vs Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board (1991) 3 SCC 299, wherein the scope of Sections 49(1) & (2) of the Electricity Supply Act, 1948 fell for consideration. Under Section 49(1), a general power was given to the Board to supply electricity to any person not being a licensee, upon such terms and conditions as the Board thinks fit and the Board may, for the purposes of such supply, frame uniform tariff under Section 49(2). The Board was required to fix uniform tariff after taking into account certain enumerated factors. In this context, this Court, in Hindustan Zinc Ltd., held that the power of fixation of tariff in the Board ordinarily had to be done in the light of specified factors; however, such enumerated factors in Section 49(2) did not prevent the Board from fixing uniform tariff on factors other than those enumerated in Section 49(2), as long as they were relevant and in consonance with the Act. This Court then referred, with approval, to its in Shri Sitaram Sugar Co. Ltd. vs Union of India (1990) 3 SCC 223, wherein it was held that the enumerated factors/topics in a provision did not mean that the authority cannot take any other matter into consideration which may be relevant; and the words in the enumerated provision are not a fetter; they are not words of limitation, but are words for general guidance. 31. In Afzal Ullah vs. The State of Uttar Pradesh reported in 1963 SCC Online SC 76, it was argued that the impugned bye-laws were invalid, because they were outside the authority conferred on the delegate to make bye-laws by Section 298(2) of the Act, and it was also 212 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports contended that the bye-laws were invalid for the additional reason that they were inconsistent with Section 241 of the Act. Rejecting the said contentions, this Court observed as follows: “Even if the said clauses did not justify the impugned bye- law, there can be little doubt that the said bye-laws would be justified by the general power conferred on the Boards by s. 298(1). It is well-settled that the specific provisions such as are contained in the several clauses of s. 298(2) are merely illustrative and they cannot be read as restrictive of the generality of powers prescribed by s. 298(1) vide Emperor v. Sibnath Banerji & Ors MANU/PR/0024/1945.