A narrow interpretation must only be adopted when either (a) the scope of the Entry is limited by the use of language devices; or (b) a wide interpretation creates an overlap between entries within the same list or different lists. For example, Entry 25 of List II provides States the competence over “gas and gas-works”. This Court in Calcutta Gas Company (supra) did not interpret the Entry to only include the product of ‘gas and gas works’ but rather interpreted it to include the industry. This is the construction which is in consonance with settled principles of interpretation. 58. Entry 8 in itself indicates that the intent is to ensure that it is read as broadly as possible. The Entry itself covers the ‘production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale’ of intoxicating liquors. Thus, it is clear that the Entry seeks to regulate everything from the stage of the raw materials to the consumption of ‘intoxicating liquor’. Entry 8 of List II includes both the industry and the product of ‘intoxicating liquor’. b. Scope of Entry 52 of List I: the absence of “to the extent to which” 59. Entry 24 of List II deals with ‘Industries’. The entry is subject to entries 7 and 52 of List I. Entry 7 of List I deals with industries which are declared by Parliament by law to be necessary for the purpose of defence or for the prosecution of war. Entry 52 of List I 105 See Tika Ramji v. State of UP, AIR 1956 SC 676 1996 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports deals with industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament to be expedient in the public interest. The State Legislature will have the competence to enact laws with respect to ‘industries’. However, Parliament has the power to deal with such industries which are necessary to be in the control of the Union for: (a) public interest; (b) defence; and (c) prosecution of war. Thus, the State Legislature will have the competence to enact laws with respect to all industries, unless Parliament has taken control of the industry under Entries 52 or 7 of List I. 60. A comparison may be drawn to Entry 54 of List I and Entry 23 of List II to cull out the scope of Entry 52 of List I. Entry 23 of List II deals with the “regulation of mines and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union.” Entry 54 of List I deals with the “regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in public interest.” The expression ‘to the extent to which’ is absent in Entry 52 of List I. In Mineral Area Development Authority v. M/s Steel Authority of India,106 a nine-Judge Bench of this Court dealt with the scope of Entry 52 of List I and in particular, the purport of the expression “to the extent to which”.