4. For the foregoing discussion, we allow this appeal, set aside the impugned and direct the Magistrate to proceed with the case in accordance with law, without in any way being influenced by any of the observations made by the High Court in the impugned .” (Emphasis supplied) 182. This Court in Prakash Nath Khanna v. CIT reported in (2004) 9 SCC 686 examined the scope of Section 278E of the Act, 1961. It held that where there is a statutory presumption as regards the existence of a culpable mental state on the part of the accused in respect of any offence alleged, any defence in respect of the absence of such mental state can only be pleaded in the trial. It further held 266 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that in such scenario, it will not be open for the High Court to delve into the aspect of the absence of such mental state in a quashing proceeding. The relevant observations read as under: - “23. There is a statutory presumption prescribed in Section 278-E. The court has to presume the existence of culpable mental state, and absence of such mental state can be pleaded by an accused as a defence in respect to the act charged as an offence in the prosecution. Therefore, the factual aspects highlighted by the appellants were rightly not dealt with by the High Court. This is a matter for trial. It is certainly open to the appellants to plead absence of culpable mental state when the matter is taken up for trial.” (Emphasis supplied) 183. In another decision of this Court in R. Kalyani v. Janak C. Mehta & Ors. reported in (2009) 1 SCC 516 although the issue therein did not pertain to the applicability of any statutory presumption, yet the observations made therein are significant. This Court held that the High Court in a quashing petition in exercise of its inherent jurisdiction cannot go into the aspect of either the existence or absence of any mens rea or actus reus for a particular offence to pass an in favour of the accused. The relevant observations read as under: - “15. Propositions of law which emerge from the said decisions are: (1) The High Court ordinarily would not exercise its inherent jurisdiction to quash a criminal proceeding and, in particular, a first information report unless the allegations contained therein, even if given face value and taken to be correct in their entirety, disclosed no cognizable offence. (2) For the said purpose the Court, save and except in very exceptional circumstances, would not look to any document relied upon by the defence. (3) Such a power should be exercised very sparingly. If the allegations made in the FIR disclose commission of an offence, the Court shall not go beyond the same and pass an in favour of the accused to hold absence of any mens rea or actus reus. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 267 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors.