21. A. Barak assigns three reasons as to why in a Constitution some expressions have to be broad based and in general terms; of which two are important. The first is because the constitutional text expresses a general agreement of the Constituent Assembly (as was the case in India). “In to reach agreement, nations generally must confine themselves to opaque and open-ended terms, reflecting their ability to reach consensus only at a high level of abstraction”.47 The second is that the constitutional text is designed to regulate human behaviour of future generations, therefore, by necessity the language which has to be adopted should be flexible enough to include new viewpoints, positions and modes of behaviour which cannot be predicted at the time when the Constitution is being written. “Otherwise, the constitutional text would be obsolete the day it is 46 cOnstituent asseMBly deBates, vOl. vii, Pgs. 518-19. 47 aharOn Barak, PurPOsive interPretatiOn in law (Universal Law Publishing Co., 2007), Pg. 372. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 289 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. enacted. At the same time, a constitutional text must be definitive enough to bind the branches of government and prevent them from behaving in the future, in a way that is contrary to the viewpoints, positions, and social behavior that the text seeks to preserve. The language of a constitutional text must be both rigid and flexible. “Air valves” or open-ended terms that can be interpreted in a number of ways serve this purpose. Constitutions define human rights in open-textured terms, using “majestic generalities”.48 Dr. Ambedkar understood these concepts well and therefore as we have seen “material resources of the community” was not elaborated. In my opinion, the purpose was not to restrict the meaning of “material resources”, by restricting the phrase only to a few given names (as Sri K.T. Shah had proposed) but to leave it to the legislature to include any material resource which would subserve common good. The choice of the words “material resources” and not “natural resources”, is also significant. 22. Again, the words ‘ownership’ and ‘control’ have to be interpreted both conjunctively and disjunctively depending on the purpose and wisdom of the legislatures. At times, both ownership and control of material resources are required for public purpose while at some other instances it would not be necessary to acquire the ownership but only control of these resources. Shri Tushar Mehta, the learned Solicitor General of India, laid particular emphasis on this aspect. It will depend from fact to fact, situation to situation, and that should always be left to the wisdom of the legislative bodies, as the learned Attorney General Sri R. Venkataramani and Sri Gopal Sankarnarayanan, Senior Advocate (representing State of West Bengal) would also argue. 23. The first clear opinion by the Supreme Court on privately owned resources being a part of the “material resources of the community”, though by a minority of three judges, is in Ranganatha Reddy. The State of Karnataka had challenged before this Court, the of the Karnataka High Court, which had set aside a government scheme and also the provisions in the Karnataka Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Act, 1976 (hereinafter referred to as “Karnataka Act”) 48 aharOn Barak, PurPOsive interPretatiOn in law (Universal Law Publishing Co., 2007), Pgs.