PW-16 was the mother-in-law of deceased Shama. She would depose that she was taken to the police station and was kept there for two days and simultaneously herself and deceased Shama were beaten by the police. PW-20 is a Police Officer who was on duty in the said police station between 05.11.1995 and 19.12.1995. He deposed that on 16.12.1995 at about 3 p.m. he visited the Detective Branch room of the Police Station and found Shama @ Kalya in the presence of accused numbers 1 to 6. It is to be noted that he would also depose that he found there an old woman and a girl aged about 16 years. He also deposed that a compounder by name Soni (PW-3) was called to the police station and he dressed the injuries of Shama. PW-20 would further depose that on 19.12.1995 he was shifted to [2024] 9 S.C.R. 733 Manik & Ors. v. The State of Maharashtra other duties. PW-21 was a lady police constable. She would depose that she was called to the Detective Branch Room and was asked to remain present when search was being conducted. According to her, she found Shama @ Kalya limping when they went to Balaghat to search his house. PW-22 is another Police Officer by name Sumanbai Bharatram Madavi. She deposed that on 20.12.1995 she was deputed to duty there and she found two female suspects sitting in the front room of the police station. She also deposed that inside the room, she found a male suspect, said to be the husband of one of the ladies, sitting there. In view of the nature of the oral testimonies of the aforesaid witnesses and the concurrency in the appreciation of their evidence on the custody and torture of Shama from the detective branch room of Gondia Police Station, I do not find any reason whatsoever requiring a further consideration in regard to the confirmation of conviction for custodial torture. But at the same time, I may hasten to add that the sustainability of conviction and sentencing for some of the offences would depend on the sustainability of the conviction under Section 304 – Part II read with Section 34, IPC. I may also hasten to add that though I decline to interfere with the finding that Shama was subjected to torture while being in custody I shall not be understood of having given imprimatur to the finding that veins of legs of Shama were cut and that ultimately caused his death as according to me, this question is intrinsically intertwined with the challenge against the conviction under Section 304 – Part II, read with Section 34, IPC. One aspect with respect to the acquittal (or conviction) for the offence under Section 201 read with Section 34, IPC also requires consideration, which I will deal with a little later. 13. While considering the question of sustainability of the conviction under Section 304-II read with Section 34, IPC, in view of the position obtained in this case, I am of the considered view that the observation of this Court in Noor Aga v. State of Punjab and Anr.,2 as also the principles enunciated by this Court in the decisions in V. Venkata Subbarao v. State3 and in Vishnu Dutt Sharma v. Daya Sapra4 cannot go in oblivion.