[Para 39] 4. The reference in Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya of the correctness of the decision in Azeez Basha was valid – The reference was within the parameters laid down in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community. [Para 160(a)] 1664 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Held [per Surya Kant, J. ]: 1.1. The two-judge bench in Anjuman, after expressing doubt about the correctness of Azeez Basha and its principles, referred the matter for reconsideration to a larger bench – Additionally, the bench in Anjuman specifically stated that the larger bench reviewing Azeez Basha — A decision by a five-judge bench—Should consist of seven judges – The decision further directed that the matter be placed before the Hon’ble Chief Justice for appropriate directions – Such a reference is not consistent with the established norms of judicial propriety. [Paras 90, 91] 1.2. The principles enunciated in Dawoodi Bohra re-enforce the provisions of the Supreme Court Rules referred to earlier, and also reiterate the well-established principles based upon doctrines of predictability, consistency, finality and the principle of stare decisis – The two-judge bench in Anjuman, ought to have understood and applied the law, consistent with these principles – The two-judge bench in Anjuman being of lesser strength than the five-judge bench in Azeez Basha, lacked the authority to explicitly question the correctness of Azeez Basha and refer the matter to a seven-judge bench. [Para 93] 1.3. In Anjuman, the bench not only referred the matter but also specified the numerical strength of the bench to which it should be referred, with a further direction that the matter be placed before the Chief Justice for the limited purpose of notifying the composition of the seven-judge bench – This effectively impaired the Chief Justice’s authority as the master of the roster – Allowing such a practice would enable benches of lesser strength, such as a two-judge bench, to undermine the decisions of larger benches, potentially even an eleven-judge bench – This would also place the Chief Justice in an untenable position, who would be bound by a judicial while acting in an administrative role, leading to procedural complications and embarrassment. [Para 94] 2. There is no substantial difference between ‘doubting’ or ‘disagreeing’ with a judgement – That being so, the reference by a two-judge bench in Anjuman doubting the correctness of the five-judge bench in Azeez Basha and referring it to a [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1665 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. seven-judge bench suffers from multiple illegalities, including judicial impropriety. [Para 192(c)] 3. In view of the dictum of the Constitution Bench in Dawoodi Bohra, a two-judge bench has no authority whatsoever to doubt or disagree with a judgement of the larger bench, and directly refer the matter to a bench having a numerically greater strength than the matter so doubted – The reference by the two judge bench in Anjuman is nothing but a challenge to the authority of the Chief Justice of India being the master of the roster and in derogation of the special powers enjoyed upon under Article 145 of the Constitution read with VII Rule 2 of the Supreme Court Rules, 1966 (as was applicable) – Consequently, the said reference is not maintainable – However, the subsequent reference dated 12.02.2019, in which the then Hon’ble Chief Justice of India was the presiding judge, is maintainable.