Simply because a refund under CFA, 1870 is statutorily prescribed, to be given when a dispute is settled by way of a Lok Adalat, does by no stretch of the imagination mean by the exact situation be adopted to the settlement of a dispute by [2024] 12 S.C.R. 891 Sanjeevkumar Harakchand Kankariya v. Union of India & Ors. mediation. This argument has to be necessarily rejected. No error can be found, in this regard with the reasoning of the High Court. CONCLUSION 21. The inescapable conclusion per the above discussion, holding that Entry 11A List III cannot govern the refund of court fees when a matter is settled by methods of alternate dispute resolution, in the face of Entry 3 List II simply by the use of the words “administration of justice” in the former and, that reference to CFA, 1870 in respect of refund of court fees when the matter is settled by way of an Award of Lok Adalat does not mean that the same shall be extended to the settlement of dispute by mediation for the simple reason that Lok Adalat and mediation are two distinct methods and cannot be equated, we hold that this appeal lacks merit and is liable to be dismissed. ed accordingly. 22. As extracted supra, the High Court in the impugned had made a suggestion to the State legislature that the differences in the court fees in Lok Adalat, vis-à-vis, the forms of ADR should be done away with the view to promote the adaptation of such methods of dispute resolution among the public. It has been brought to our attention that the State legislature has indeed carried out such an amendment to the MCFA, 1959 and Section 16A has been introduced therein by way of Maharashtra Act No.X of 2018, the relevant extract of which reads under : MAHARASHTRA ACT No. X OF 2018. (First published, after having received the assent of the Governor in the “Maharashtra Government Gazette”, on the 16th January 2018.) An Act further to amend the Maharashtra Court-fees Act. WHEREAS it is expedient further to amend the Maharashtra Court-fees Act, for the purposes hereinafter appearing; it is hereby enacted in the Sixty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows :— 1…. 2. After section 16 of the Maharashtra Court-fees Act (hereinafter referred to as “principal Act”), the following section shall be inserted, namely :— 892 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “16A. Where the court refers the parties to the suit to any one of the modes of settlement of dispute referred to in section 89 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 and suit is disposed of by the court by adaptation of any of the modes prescribed under the said section, the plaintiff shall be entitled to a certificate from the court authorising him to receive back from the collector, the full amount of the fee paid in respect of such plaint.’’.” 23. The effect of the above being that for the time when the amendment to the MCFA, 1959 granting partial or complete refund, as the case may be, in accordance with Section 43 as amended, the persons whose matters were settled by way of ADR would not be entitled to 100% refund.