We are disinclined to accept this submission as Section 7A(1) specifically notes that the registration of OCI Card by the Central Government is ‘subject to such conditions, restrictions and manner as may be prescribed’. Therefore, the Act clearly allows for supplementary procedures, such as an interview as specified in the Visa Manual as well as the Checklist. In the absence of any challenge to the visa manual or the checklist, and ignoring the procedure in place, the High Court in the impugned erred in granting the relief of dispensing with the requirement of physical/ virtual presence of the spouse. This was done on the basis that there are other modes by which the concerned authority can satisfy themselves on the genuineness of the application. 16. If the above procedure dispensing with the presence of the spouse for considering the respondent’s application is permitted to be adopted, it will firstly be a departure from the notified procedure. Moreover, the entire burden of verification would completely shift to the authorities. For the OCI card, it is for the applicant to satisfy the authorities in the manner prescribed, on the genuineness of her 828 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports application. In any case, the Division Bench was unjustified in holding that mandating the physical presence of the husband is arbitrary. In the absence of any challenge to the provisions of the Citizenship Act 1955, the Visa Manual, administrative instructions, or the checklist, such observations of the High Court were unmerited. In this regard, the prayer in the writ petition may be noted as under: “a. issue, a Writ of Mandamus or any other appropriate Writ directing the Respondent not to insist for the presence of husband of the Petitioner, for granting Overseas Citizen of India and/or b. Issue a Writ of Mandamus or any other appropriate Writ directing the Respondent to issue the Overseas Citizenship’. of India card to the Petitioner: and/or Any other relief that the Hon’ble Court may deem fit in the facts and circumstances of the instant case.” 17. Having considered the process for verifying the genuineness, we are of the view that the direction issued in the impugned to dispense with the presence of the applicant’s spouse, has no legal basis. Moreover, apart from the physical/virtual presence of the spouse other conditions are also to be satisfied by an applicant as is provided under the Citizenship Act 1955, the checklist and the Visa Manual for which even a declaration by the husband may be necessary. 18. In consequence of our above discussion, the impugned s dated 22.07.2021 and 25.03.2022 of the learned Single Judge and the learned Division Bench of the High Court dispensing with the physical presence of the respondent’s spouse during the process of interview for consideration of her application for OCI Card are found to be unsustainable and are set aside. 19. The Counsel for the Respondent attempted to make the submission that this is a peculiar case where the marriage is subsisting and the wife has been abandoned.