By virtue of the aforementioned sections, the Act thus clearly envisages mechanisms and procedures for disqualifying individuals from voting and removing the names of people from the electoral roll. 340. These deliberations and instances further strengthen the assertion that the aspect of exclusion from the right to vote cannot be invoked merely by alleging the violation of Article 326. In absence of any such right guaranteed under Article 326, and in light of there being such provision under the Representation of People Acts of 1950 and 1951, the question of exclusion of individuals from the right to vote needs to be viewed from the lens of the aforementioned two statutes.218 341. This leads us to the contention raised by the Petitioners that the inclusion of individuals in the electoral rolls by virtue of Section 6A has resulted in a violation of Article 326. To summarise our foregoing analysis, Article 326 bestows upon individuals the right to vote and the right to be included in electoral rolls unless disqualified by the legislature or other constitutional provisions. However, the crucial question that arises is the nature of the right conferred by Article 326—particularly, whether it allows the Petitioners to seek an en masse removal of an entire block of people based upon generalised assertions surrounding their impact on another group of citizens and their voting rights. 342. We cannot answer this in the affirmative, not only because allowing such a plea would militate against the spirit of Article 326 and the centuries-old struggle for enfranchisement that it embodies, but also because the language of Article 326 unambiguously devolves the power to set out the mechanism for excluding people from the voter list to the legislature. If there is an inclusion of ineligible migrants in the voter list, persons aggrieved are free to invoke the existing 218 Lakshmi Charan Sen v. A.K.M. Hassam Uzzaman (1985) 4 SCC 689, para 22. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1133 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 provisions under the Representation of the People Acts of 1950 and 1951, to seek the removal of such individual voters from the voter list. Upon receipt of such an application, if the electoral Registration Officer, after due consideration, determined that an error existed in the inclusion of these individuals, the officer would have rectified the situation by amending, transposing, or deleting the relevant entries as per the prevailing legal provisions. We are unable to persuade ourselves to read an additional ground for disqualification and removal of voters directly into Article 326. 343. Additionally, the Petitioners’ arguments on this count demonstrate a fundamental misreading of Article 326. They fail to note that once deemed citizens by operation of Section 6A, the erstwhile-immigrants would enjoy equal rights as any other Indian citizen, including the right to vote, irrespective of the mode or time of acquisition of citizenship. Such constitutional rights cannot be summarily revoked or infringed upon. 344. We are, therefore, not inclined to accept the Petitioners’ contention that the influx of immigrants in the State of Assam has affected the right of the Assamese people to vote.