However, another 5-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of The State of Punjab & Ors. vs. Davinder Singh & Ors.2 has doubted the view in E.V. Chinnaiah (supra) and referred the matter to a larger Bench. That is how these matters came up for consideration before us. II. ARTICLE 341, ARTICLE 342 AND THE PRESIDENTIAL FOR SCHEDULED CASTES AND SCHEDULED TRIBES 8. For appreciating the rival submissions before us, it is to be noted that while on one hand the struggle for gaining freedom for India was going on; on the other hand, on account of social discrimination prevailing since centuries, a quest for social reforms was also going on. 9. In the beginning, a nomenclature often used by Christian Missionaries was ‘depressed classes’ to describe the poor and downtrodden section of the society. A wide array of untouchable castes, aboriginal tribes, and other backward communities were all lumped together under that label. In 1909, leaders like Gopal Krishna Gokhale and Annie Besant also referred to low caste or marginalized communities in India as the ‘depressed classes’. Besant compared the ‘depressed classes’ in India to the ‘submerged tenth’ in England, i.e., unskilled labourers, 1 (2005) 1 SCC 394 2 (2020) 8 SCC 1 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1447 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. scavengers, sweepers, casual dock labourers, etc., constituting 10% of the population of that country. However, by 1918, the term ‘depressed classes’ began to be used for only low-caste Hindus who suffered from the stigma of untouchability. The word ‘class’ in ‘depressed class’ was really a synonym for caste.3 10. It would be apposite to start with the Census Report of 1891. It refers to the manner of enumeration of castes including castes, tribes and sub-divisions. It also refers to the scheme of classification based on occupation divided into 60 categories. Then the said report regroups these 60 categories into 21 groups. The said report refers to Rajputs and Jats as tribes, larger than castes. Class VII deals with “Leather Workers and Lower Village Menials” and it includes the following groups: "40. Leather workers 41. Watchmen and Village Menials 42. Scavengers” 11. Thereafter comes the Indian Statutory Commission Report, 1930. The heading of Chapter 4 of Part I is “Caste and the Depressed Classes”. The report specifically states that a Caste has been described as “the foundation of the Indian social fabric”. It further states that every Hindu necessarily belongs to the caste of his parents, and in that caste he inevitably remains. It states that no accumulation of wealth and no exercise of talents can alter his caste status; and marriage outside his caste is prohibited or severely discouraged. It further states that in some cases, the application of the rule of caste seems almost to prescribe the means of livelihood of its members; indeed, many castes partake of the nature of occupational guilds. It states that the caste system, which may have originated in the preservation of ceremonial purity in social relations and in rules designed to limit admixture of blood, has during ages developed into an institution which assigns to each individual his duty and his position in orthodox Hinduism.