30. Notably, the State Government vide its Letter dated 20.09.1994, had specifically clarified that the period of ad-hoc service rendered by the respondents/Assistant Professors shall not be counted for giving benefit of senior pay-scale under the CAS. We have already elaborated supra10 that the CAS is essentially a policy, and as such, the respondents cannot claim, nor would they have any vested right for claiming that the clauses therein be interpreted in a particular manner. Such an interpretative exercise would have to be left, in the domain of the appellant, subject to the State Government’s directives unless patently perverse or arbitrary. The High Court, hence, was not justified in counting of the ad-hoc service rendered by the respondents for reckoning the period of computation as required for applying the CAS. 31. However, it is directed that there shall not be any recoveries made from the respondents. The respondents shall be entitled to the notional benefit of the pay and emoluments for purposes of calculating their retiral/service conditions and for post-retiral benefits, but without grant of any benefit under the CAS. It is clarified that if the respondents are entitled to benefits under CAS after reckoning eight years of service from the date(s) of their regular appointment or to benefits under any other Scheme/Policy, the State Government or the appellant shall not deny such an advantage to them by virtue of this alone. 32. Accordingly, for reasons aforesaid, the appeal11 succeeds. The s, as passed by the learned Single Judge and affirmed by the Division Bench, are hereby quashed and set aside. 33. Parties are left to bear their own costs. Pending applications are disposed of in light of the appeals being finally adjudicated on merits. Result of the case: Appeals allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan 10 In our discussion re the Civil Appeals arising from SLP (C) Nos. 22278/2011 and 22813/2011. 11 Civil Appeal arising out of SLP(C) No. 30963/2018.