The accused denied those allegations and claimed to be innocent. Total four (04) witnesses were examined in defence. After hearing the arguments advanced by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor and the defence counsel, and upon appreciating the evidence available on record, the learned trial Court vide dated 26th July, 2003 proceeded to convict the accused appellant-Kirpal Singh and sentenced him as noted hereinabove. However, by the very same , the co-accused Kulwinder Singh was acquitted of the charges. The accused appellant-Kirpal Singh preferred Criminal Appeal No.662-DB of 2003 challenging his conviction and sentence, whereas the State preferred Criminal Appeal No.535-DBA of 2004 and the complainant preferred Criminal Revision No.2259-DB of 2003 challenging the acquittal of Kulwinder Singh before the High Court of Punjab and Haryana. 11. The learned Division Bench of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana proceeded to dismiss both the appeals, one filed by the State, and the other by the accused-appellant as well as the revision filed by the complainant by a common and dated 28.02.2008, which is assailed in this appeal filed at the instance of the accused appellant-Kirpal Singh. Submissions on behalf of the appellant: - 12. Shri Vineet Jhanji, learned counsel appearing for the accused appellant vehemently contended that the findings recorded in the impugned are perverse and self-contradictory and hence, the same are liable to be set aside. He advanced the following pertinent submissions seeking acquittal of accused appellant: (i) The evidence of Sharan Kaur (PW-5), the first informant, being the wife of the deceased and Daljit Singh @ Goldy(PW-6), son of the deceased, is highly self-contradictory, vacillating and unconvincing. (ii) That the prosecution witnesses have tried to improve upon the story put forth in the FIR at every stage of the proceedings and hence, their evidence deserves to be discarded. The trial Court as well as the High Court have found that the witnesses, Sharan Kaur (PW-5) and Daljit Singh @ Goldy(PW-6) are not wholly reliable witnesses and their allegations qua the co-accused- Kulwinder Singh have been found to be unacceptable, thereby 714 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports recording his acquittal. Thus, the accused-appellant (Kirpal Singh) also deserves the same treatment. (iii) That the motive attributed to the accused appellant by Sharan Kaur (PW-5) is absolutely cooked up and unbelievable. Her bald allegation that the accused bore jealousy on account of the booming halwai business of Balwinder Singh (deceased), is just a figment of imagination and has not been corroborated by any independent source. Rather the prosecution did not even lead any evidence to show that the accused appellant is involved in halwai business. (iv) The accused appellant was admittedly closely related to the deceased, but this fact was concealed in the FIR as well as in the testimony of the material prosecution witnesses. (v) That the story put forth by Sharan Kaur (PW-5) in her evidence is totally unworthy of reliance because even as per her own assertion, the accused appellant was bearing a grudge against the deceased.