12. In this context, we may say that we are not oblivious of the position of law laid down by this Court in Dalbir Singh & Ors. v. State of Punjab.7 In the said decision this Court held that decision on question of sentence could never be regarded as precedent. Bearing in mind 7 1979] 3 SCR 1059 : (1979) 3 SCC 745 790 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the said decision, we will proceed to consider the question based on the rule of proportionality in providing punishment followed by this Court. In this context, it is to be noted that under the impugned common the High Court after restoring conviction for the offence under Section 494 I.P.C., sentenced accused Nos.1 and 2 to undergo imprisonment till the rising of the court and to pay a fine of Rs.20,000/- each with default sentence to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of three months. It was also ed that out of the total fine amount paid, a sum of Rs. 20,000/- shall be paid to the appellant as compensation. 13. We will consider the requirement or otherwise of enhancement of the corporeal sentence imposed on accused Nos.1 and 2 based on the settled principle of sentencing being followed by this Court that it is the solemn duty of the Court to strike a proper balance awarding sentence proportionate to the gravity of the offence committed by the accused concerned upon his conviction for serious offence(s). For considering the said question, it is only appropriate to look into the question whether the offence under Section 494 I.P.C., is regarded as a serious offence. The appellant herein contended that a reading of Section 494 I.P.C., would reveal that the said offence, if proved to have been committed, the offender deserves no leniency as it is a serious offence. To buttress the said contention, the learned senior counsel relied on the decision of this Court in Gopal Lal v. State of Rajasthan,8 wherein this Court held that where the offence of bigamy is proved, the Court could not take a lenient view. 14. A reading of Sections 494 and 495 I.P.C., would reveal that the legislature viewed the offence of bigamy as a serious offence. Though no minimum sentence is prescribed under Section 494 I.P.C., the maximum sentence of imprisonment prescribed thereunder for a conviction thereunder is seven years of imprisonment of either description. It is also to be noted that the said offence is compoundable only by the husband or wife of the person so marrying with the permission of the Court. The same offence under Section 494 I.P.C., with concealment of former marriage from person with whom subsequent marriage is contracted would visit the offender 8 [1979] 2 SCR 1171 : (1979) 2 SCC 170 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 791 Baba Natarajan Prasad v. M. Revathi with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years and with fine. This offence, which is an aggravated form of bigamy, is non-compoundable.