179 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Significantly, this does not mean that the state cannot distribute such resources, sometimes even to private entities, rather while distributing such resources, the state is bound to act in consonance with the principles of public trust so as to ensure that no action is taken which is detrimental to public interest.158 225. The Constitution Bench of this Court in Special Reference No. 1, adverted to above, had occasion to observe that the Public Trust Doctrine has expanded beyond resources like air, sea, water and forests, to include other resources such as spectrum which also have a community or public element. The Constitution Bench of this Court, relying on Article 39(b), held that no part of such resources can be dissipated as a matter of largess, charity, donation or endowment, for private exploitation. The considerations may be in the nature ofthe state earning revenue or to “best sub-serve the common good”. The idea, this Court held, is that one set of private citizens cannot prosper at the cost of another set of private citizens, because such resources are owned by the community as a whole. e. The provision may include the ‘vesting’ of private resources in the state 226. Mr Zal Andhyarujina and Mr Sameer Parekh, learned counsel for the appellants contend that the wide-net cast by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy and followed in Sanjeev Coke is not the correct position of the law. However, they both conceded, as we have held above, that in certain cases, privately owned resources may be covered by Article 39(b). On the other hand, other counsel such as Ms Uttara Babbar, learned senior counsel contend that a privately owned resource can never fall within the ambit of Article 39(b). They ground this understanding in the requirement of the provision that the state must secure the “distribution” of the concerned resources, rather than the phrase “material resources of the community”. They argue that the mere vesting of a private resource in the state does not constitute “distribution” and thus, it cannot fall within the net of Article 39(b). In other words, they urged that the acquisition of privately owned resources by the state is a prerequisite to the applicability of Article 39(b) and only the process of distribution which follows the acquisition is covered by the provision. 158 Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India (2012) 3 SCC 1 [74-78] : 2012 INSC 68 180 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 227. We cannot subscribe to such a narrow interpretation of the word ‘distribution’ On the limited question of whether the acquisition of private resources falls within the ambit of the term ‘distribution’, we agree with the principles enunciated in previous decisions of this Court. The term has a wide connotation. The distribution may be piecemeal or the resource may be kept in the control of a governmental agency or a regulated private agency, so long as the benefits percolate through to the people as a common good.