24. In Jai Jai Ram Manohar Lal v. National Building Material Supply, Gurgaon reported in (1969) 1 SCC 869, this Court held that the power to grant amendment to pleadings is intended to serve the needs of justice and is not governed by any such narrow or technical limitations. 1902 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 25. In Pandit Ishwardas v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. reported in (1979) 4 SCC 163, this Court observed: “4. We are unable to see any substance in any of the submissions. The learned counsel appeared to argue on the assumption that a new plea could not be permitted at the appellate stage unless all the material necessary to decide the plea was already before the court. There is no basis for this assumption. 5. There is no impediment or bar against an appellate court permitting amendment of pleadings so as to enable a party to raise a new plea. All that is necessary is that the appellate court should observe the well-known principles subject to which amendments of pleadings are usually granted. Naturally one of the circumstances which will be taken into consideration before an amendment is granted is the delay in making the application seeking such amendment and, if made at the appellate stage, the reason why it was not sought in the trial court. If the necessary material on which the plea arising from the amendment may be decided is already there, the amendment may be more readily granted than otherwise. But, there is no prohibition against an appellate court permitting an amendment at the appellate stage merely because the necessary material is not already before the court.” 26. In Sampath Kumar v. Ayyakannu & Anr. reported in (2002) 7 SCC 559, it has been held as follows: “An amendment once incorporated relates back to the date of the suit. However, the doctrine of relation back in the context of amendment of pleadings is not one of universal application and in appropriate cases the Court is competent while permitting an amendment to direct that the amendment permitted by it shall not relate back to the date of the suit and to the extent permitted by it shall be deemed to have been brought before the Court on the date of which the application seeking the amendment was filed.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1903 Mallavva and Anr. v. Kalsammanavara Kalamma (Since Dead) by Legal Heirs & Ors. 27. In Siddalingamma & Anr. v. Mamtha Shenoy reported in (2001) 8 SCC 561, this Court held as follows: “… On the doctrine of relation back, which generally governs amendment of pleadings unless for reasons the court excludes the applicability of the doctrine in a given case, the petition for eviction as amended would be deemed to have been filed originally as such and the evidence shall have to be appreciated in the light of the averments made in the amended petition. The High Court though set aside the of the trial court but it is writ large from the framing of the of the High Court, especially the portions which we have extracted from the of the High Court and reproduced in earlier part of this , that the learned Single Judge of the High Court also was not seriously doubting the genuineness of the landlady’s requirement on the material available on record but was not feeling happy with the contents of the eviction petition as originally filed and an overzealous attempt on the part of the landlady in projecting her sister’s sons and grandchildren as her own.