If any convict employed in an essential jail service has not enough work to occupy his whole time, he should be placed upon some other work for the remainder of his time. ● 1117. Selection of cooks - The cooks shall be of the A class except at the Presidency Jail where well-behaved ‘B’ class prisoners may be employed as such. Any prisoner in a jail who is of so high a caste that he cannot eat food cooked by the existing cooks shall be appointed a cook and be made to cook for the full complement of men. Individual convicted prisoners shall under no circumstances be allowed to cook for themselves exception being made in the cases of Hindu widows who, if they desire it, may be allowed, at the discretion of the 590 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Superintendent, to cook for themselves if it does not interfere with their work and discipline. Madhya Pradesh Jail Manual, 1987 ● 36. Latrine Parade - While the latrine parade is being carried out, the mehtars attached to each latrine shall be present, and shall call the attention of the convict overseer to any prisoner who does not cover up his dejecta with dry earth. The mehtars shall empty the contents of the small receptacle into large iron drums and replace the receptacles in the latrine after having cleaning them. ● 411. Habitual and non-habitual criminals - 411. All convicted criminal prisoners shall be classified and placed in one or other of the following categories, namely:- (a) Habitual Criminals. (b) Non-habitual Criminals. Note.-For Convenience of reference, prisoner falling in the first of the above categories are referred to as “habitual’’, and those falling in the second category are described as “non-habitual” or “casuals”. The following persons shall be liable to be classified habitual criminals-(i) Any person convicted of an offence whose previous conviction, or convictions under Chapters XII, XVI, XVII or XVIII of the lndian Penal Code taken by themselves or with the facts of present case show that he habitually commits in offence or offences punishable under any or all of those Chapters; (ii) Any person committed to or detained in prison under section 123 (read with section 109 or section 110) of the Code or Criminal Procedure; (iii) Any person convicted of any of the offences specified in (i) above when it appears from the facts of the case. Even although no previous conviction has been proved that he is by habit member of a gang of dacoits, or of thieves or a dealer in slaves or in stolen property. (iv) Any member of denotified tribe subject to the discretion of the State Government concerned. (v) Any person convicted by a Court or tribunal acting outside India under the general or special authority of the Government of India of an offence which should have rendered him liable [2024] 10 S.C.R. 591 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. to be classified as a habitual criminal if he had been convicted in a court established in India.