Digital Supreme Court Reports territorial forest divisions as well as larger units to achieve conservation goals at the largest spatial scale possible in practical terms. 2. Landscape level conservation of species must be seen as maintaining or enhancing genetic exchanges between metapopulations and significantly improving the prospects of their long term persistence. Therefore, the plans must address species loss in the short-term and the reasons for such depletions in the long run. xxx xxx xxx 6. Further, conservation of wildlife can not be seen isolated from the whole development of the region or landscape. Local governance systems, local land use patterns and land use systems, ecosystem-interfaces and socio- economic circumstances are mutually intertwined at the landscape level. Therefore, a mosaic approach to landscape planning needs to be developed in partnership with other agencies and stakeholders.” [emphasis supplied] 67. It is thus amply clear that the National Wild Life Action Plan also recognizes the necessity of wildlife conservation beyond the protected areas. It states that the landscape allows ecosystem level conservation actions at the existing internal smaller nested spatial scales of management/administration such as protected areas and territorial forest divisions as well as larger units to achieve conservation goals at the largest spatial scale possible in practical terms. It further states that the conservation of wildlife cannot be seen to be isolated from the whole development of the region or landscape. It states that the local governance systems, local land use patterns and land use systems, ecosystem-interfaces and socio-economic circumstances are mutually intertwined at the landscape level. It emphasizes that a mosaic approach to landscape planning needs to be developed in partnership with other agencies and stakeholders. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 241 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal V. CONSIDERATION 68. This Court had an occasion to consider an issue with regard to environmental justice in the case of T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and others2, wherein this Court held thus : “17. Environmental justice could be achieved only if we drift away from the principle of anthropocentric to ecocentric. Many of our principles like sustainable development, polluter-pays principle, intergenerational equity have their roots in anthropocentric principles. Anthropocentrism is always human interest focussed and that non-human has only instrumental value to humans. In other words, humans take precedence and human responsibilities to non-human based benefits to humans. Ecocentrism is nature-centred where humans are part of nature and non-humans have intrinsic value. In other words, human interest does not take automatic precedence and humans have obligations to non-humans independently of human interest. Ecocentrism is therefore life-centred, nature-centred where nature includes both humans and non-humans. The National Wildlife Action Plan 2002-2012 and the Centrally Sponsored Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitats Scheme, 2009 are centred on the principle of ecocentrism.” [emphasis supplied] 69. It could thus be seen that this Court has held that, to achieve environmental justice, the approach of anthropocentrism i.e. human interest focused and that non-human has only instrumental value to humans will have to be avoided.