This is the plain meaning of the stipulation. This position is reinforced from the contemporaneous instructions issued by the competent authority of the appellant about the manner in which the unearned increase should be charged and from whom such charges should be recovered. That can be discerned from the instructions dated 6-9-1988. 15. Indeed, the said instructions advert to the category of persons from whom no unearned increase should be charged, despite being a case of transfer of the property as mentioned in Clause 1 thereof. The Division Bench of the High Court has relied upon the category mentioned in Clause 1(b). The same reads thus: “1. No unearned increase to be charged: (a)*** (b) In case of conversion of partnership firm into private limited company comprising original partners as Directors/ Subscribers/Shareholders.” From the plain language of this clause, we fail to fathom how the said clause will be of any avail to the respondents. For, we are not dealing with a case of conversion of a partnership firm into a private limited company as such. The fact that the instructions extricate the category of transfers referred to in Clause 1 of the instructions from 438 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the liability of paying an unearned increase despite being a case of transfer, cannot be the basis to exclude the other category of transfers/persons not specifically covered by Clause 1, such as the case of present respondents. That is a policy matter. The respondents were fully aware about the existence of such a policy. That policy has not been challenged in the writ petition. Concededly, the reliefs claimed in the writ petition were limited to quashing of the demand letter dated 5-8-2010 and notice dated 31-1-2011, demanding unearned increase; and to direct the appellant to convert the said property from leasehold to freehold in favour of Respondent 2, without charging any unearned increase. The reliefs are founded on the assertion that the transfer was not to any outsider, much less for any consideration. 16. In the first place, it is not open to the respondents to contend that the arrangement and demerger scheme does not result in transfer of the subject plot from the original lessee (Respondent 1) to Respondent 2. Inasmuch as, Clause (2) of the passed by the Company Judge approving the scheme of demerger, as reproduced above, makes it amply clear that all property, assets, rights and powers in respect of the specified properties, including the subject plot, shall stand transferred to and vest in Respondent 2. Once it is a case of transfer, it must abide by the stipulation in Clause 6(a) of the lease deed of taking previous consent in writing of the lessor (appellant) and to fulfil such terms and conditions as may be imposed, including to pay any unearned increase amount. We find force in the argument of the appellant that the fact situation of the present case would, in fact, be governed by Clause 2(d) of the instructions which reads thus: “2.