I, p. 87]. Every legislative body must be presumed to favour the true, the good and above all the public interest and public good and whether it says so or not is of absolutely no consequence. …Government exists and its only title to exist is its claim to advance the public good and serve the public interest….” 45.3 On similar lines, in Central Inland Water Transport Corpn. v. Brojo Nath Ganguly49 (2-Judge Bench) this Court observed: “92. …Public policy, however, is not the policy of a particular government. It connotes some matter which concerns the public good and the public interest. The concept of what is for the public good or in the public interest or what would be injurious or harmful to the public good or the public interest has varied from time to time…” (Emphasis supplied) 45.4 In Premium Granites v. State of T.N50 (2-Judge Bench), it was observed: “54. It is not the domain of the court to embark upon unchartered ocean of public policy in an exercise to consider as to whether a particular public policy is wise or a better public policy can be evolved. Such exercise must be left to the discretion of the executive and legislative authorities as the case may be. The court is called upon to consider the validity of a public policy only when a challenge is made that such policy decision infringes fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of India or any other statutory right…” 45.5 In the well-known, Narmada Bachao Andolan v. Union of India,51 (3-Judge Bench), this Court held: 49 [1986] 2 SCR 278 : (1986) 3 SCC 156 50 [1994] 1 SCR 579 : (1994) 2 SCC 691 51 [2000] Supp. 4 SCR 94 : (2000) 10 SCC 664 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1951 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. “229. It is now well settled that the courts, in the exercise of their jurisdiction, will not transgress into the field of policy decision. Whether to have an infrastructural project or not and what is the type of project to be undertaken and how it has to be executed, are part of policy-making process and the courts are ill-equipped to adjudicate on a policy decision so undertaken. The court, no doubt, has a duty to see that in the undertaking of a decision, no law is violated and people’s fundamental rights are not transgressed upon except to the extent permissible under the Constitution. x x x 233. …The courts must, therefore, act within their judicially permissible limitations to uphold the rule of law and harness their power in public interest. It is precisely for this reason that it has been consistently held by this Court that in matters of policy the court will not interfere. When there is a valid law requiring the Government to act in a particular manner the court ought not to, without striking down the law, give any direction which is not in accordance with law. In other words the court itself is not above the law.” (Emphasis supplied) 45.6 Therefore, on this ground, interference by this Court would only be justified if it can be proven that the effect of such a decision standing would be detrimental to the public, against its interest and would ultimately impact the enjoyment of fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution, to a degree which would be impermissible.