He wrote: “I want my country to be a first-class country in everything. The moment we encourage the second-rate, we are lost. The only real way to help a backward group is to give opportunities of good education, this includes technical education which is becoming more and more important. Everything else is a provision of some kind of crutches which do not add to the strength or health of the body.” In the same letter he went on to speak about two very important decisions, “one is, universal free elementary education that is the base; and the second is scholarship on a very wide scale at every grade of education to the bright boys and girls”. He went on to express if reservation on communal and caste basis continues, India will remain second rate or third rate. He said “This way lies not only folly, but disaster. Let us help the backward groups by all means, but never at the cost of efficiency.” 24 (1971) 1 SCC 38 25 [1981] 2 SCR 185 : (1981) 1 SCC 246 1670 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports CONCLUSION 77. Our predecessors, not only the Judges but also the former Prime Minister have appeared to be against providing reservation to any class or caste of persons on purely caste basis and wanted to take the country forward on merit basis. Despite the views so expressed, the Constitutional amendments envisaged to promote the depressed and the backward classes of persons to bring them to the level of the privileged class enjoying the status of an urban elite. Thus, the reservation policy was rightly applied and since its implementation faced difficulties as some in the backward classes have marched ahead, it has become imperative to uplift the backward of the backwards, for which purpose sub-classification has become the of the day. 78. I had the privilege of going through the erudite s of the Chief Justice and my esteemed brother Justice Gavai. 79. The Chief Justice in his opinion has dwelled upon the legal aspects to answer the core issue whether sub-classification of the scheduled castes is constitutionally permissible for the purposes of reservation. He has clearly opined that this Court in Indra Sawhney (Supra) never intended to limit the application of sub-classification to the other backward classes only. If any class is not integrated it can be further classified and such sub-classification of a class would not be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution, so long persons in a class are not similarly situated. There is no violation of Article 341(2) of the Constitution in sub-classification within the scheduled caste as by such sub-classification no caste is being included or excluded from the list of scheduled castes. 80. His Lordship Justice Gavai in his opinion quoted an example where a member of a backward class becomes an IAS or an IPS or any other officer of the All India Service and improves upon his status in the society but even then his children get full benefits of reservation.