[Para 24] LPG Distributorship – Cancellation of Candidature of an applicant – Challenge to – Defence – Reference to pleadings: Held: The specific words ‘mouza’ and ‘village’ are not mentioned in the Advertisement and they cannot be defined by reference to the definitions of the same in the West Bengal Panchayat Act, 1973 – An of cancellation of the candidature of an applicant, which is the subject matter of challenge in a court of law, has to be defended with reference to the Advertisement and the pleadings and not with reference to what was in contemplation of the authority issuing the Advertisement – A court cannot be swayed by the version of a party, which is not its pleaded case, and it should confine its decision to the points of assail/defence raised in the pleadings. [Para 25] LPG Distributorship – Clause/Qualification in the Advertisement cannot be modified/rewritten by the Court: 826 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Held: It is not open to a writ court, much less an appeal court, to direct the modification of any clause/qualification in the Advertisement to suit the interest of any particular candidate or the issuing authority – Any such direction would amount to re-writing the clause/qualification mentioned in the Advertisement, which would be plainly impermissible. [Para 26] List of Acts Constitution of India; West Bengal Panchayat Act, 1973. List of Keywords Advertisement; Interpretation of clauses; LPG distributorship; Candidature; Location; Unified Guidelines for Selection of LPG Distributorships; Binding nature; Defence; Reference to pleadings; Modification/rewriting of clause impermissible. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.4420 of 2024 From the and dated 28.03.2019 of the High Court at Calcutta in MAT No.255 of 2019 Appearances for Parties Sudipta Kumar Bose, Bharat Sood, P. S. Sudheer, Rishi Maheshwari, Ms. Anne Mathew, Ms. Miranda Solaman, Advs. for the Appellant. Parijat Sinha, Ms. Divyam Dhyani, Ms. Reshmi Rea Sinha, Ms. Pallak Bhagat, Zoheb Hossain, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Dipankar Datta, J. THE APPEAL 1. An intra-court appellate and 1 (“impugned ”, hereafter) of an Hon’ble Division Bench of the High Court at Calcutta (“High Court”, hereafter), reversing the and 2 (“”, 1 dated 28th March, 2019 2 dated 25th January, 2019 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 827 Tapas Kumar Das v. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited & Ors. hereafter) of a learned Single Judge, is called in question in the instant civil appeal. Vide the impugned , the Division Bench of the High Court allowed the writ appeal3 carried by Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (“HPCL”, hereafter) from the and set aside the same. The Single Judge had, while allowing a writ petition4 of Mr. Tapas Kumar Das (“appellant”, hereafter), directed HPCL to proceed with his candidature for LPG5 distributorship. BRIEF RESUME OF FACTS 2. The facts, giving rise to this appeal, lie in a narrow compass. 3. HPCL, Indian Oil Corporation Limited (“IOCL”, hereafter) and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited issued a joint advertisement for LPG distributorships at several locations in the 31st August, 2017 editions of the Bangla dailies Bartaman and Anandabazar Patrika (“the Advertisement”, hereafter).