It all depends upon the circumstances that may unfold in a given case and there cannot be a straight-jacket formula prescribed in this regard. In that sense, the interpretation of the word ‘forthwith’ would depend upon the terrain in which it travels and would take its colour depending upon the prevailing circumstances which can be variable. 24. Therefore, in deciding whether the police officer has properly discharged his obligation under Section 102(3) Cr.P.C., the Magistrate would have to, firstly, examine whether the seizure 28 Bidya Deb Barma v. District Magistrate,1968 SCC OnLine SC 82 424 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was reported forthwith. In doing so, it ought to have regard to the interpretation of the expression, ‘forthwith’ as discussed above. If it finds that the report was not sent forthwith, then it must examine whether there is any explanation offered in support of the delay. If the Magistrate finds that the delay has been properly explained, it would leave the matter at that. However, if it finds that there is no reasonable explanation for the delay or that the official has acted with deliberate disregard/ wanton negligence, then it may direct for appropriate departmental action to be initiated against such erring official. We once again reiterate that the act of seizure would not get vitiated by virtue of such delay, as discussed in detail herein above. 25. Having clarified the applicable legal position above, we now proceed to consider the facts in instant case. 26. The Respondents-accused is said to have placed an for purchase of forty-seven Kerala Model Gold Chains from the Appellant-first informant, who worked as a deliveryman in a company called ‘PR Gold’. In consideration for the supply of gold chains, the Respondents had agreed to provide gold bars of equivalent value. The allegations in the complaint suggest that the exchange took place on 20.12.2022. Shortly thereafter, the Appellant learns that gold bars handed over to him were fake. On this basis, the Appellant approached the police and lodged the first information report. On registration of the first information report, the police initiated investigation and during such investigation, it was noticed that certain monies to the tune of Rs.19,83,036/- were deposited in the bank accounts of Accused 1 and 3. On 09.01.2023, the investigating officer wrote to the bank and ed for freezing of their bank accounts. The of freezing was reported to the Magistrate on 27.01.2023. The Respondents had unsuccessfully approached29 the jurisdictional Magistrate for taking custody of the seized bank accounts. The Respondents then approached the High Court by filing an original petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and sought for de-freezing of the bank accounts. The High Court vide the impugned has allowed the application of the Respondents-accused for de-freezing of the bank accounts, and therefore set at naught the 29 Application under Section 457 – Cr. M.C 2032 of 2023 was filed. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 425 Shento Varghese v. Julfikar Husen & Ors. seizure on the sole ground that the of seizure was not forthwith reported to the Magistrate.