20. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in Election Commission of India v. Ashok Kumar,6 has recognized the wide ambit of the powers given to the Election Commission for the superintendence, direction, and control of the Election process. “…13. Article 324 of the Constitution contemplates constitution of the Election Commission in which shall vest the superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of the electoral rolls for, and the conduct of, all elections to Parliament and to the legislature of every State and of elections to the offices of President and Vice-President held under the Constitution. The words “superintendence, direction and control” have a wide connotation so as to include therein such powers which though not specifically provided but are necessary to be exercised for effectively accomplishing the task of holding the elections to their completion…” 6 [2000] Supp. 3 SCR 34 : (2000) 8 SCC 216 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 631 Central Information Commission v. D.D.A. & Anr. 21. Similarly, in Union of India Vs. Association for Democratic Reforms,7 this Court has held that Article 324 allows the Election Commission to operate in areas of laws which are not explicitly mentioned in the legislation. *** “26. The aforesaid decision of the Constitution Bench unreservedly lays down that in democracy the little man — voter — has overwhelming importance on the point and the little-large Indian (voter) should not be hijacked from the course of free and fair elections by subtle perversion of discretion of casting votes. In a continual participative operation of periodical election, the voter does a social audit of his candidate and for such audit he must be well informed about the past of his candidate. Further, Article 324 operates in areas left unoccupied by legislation and the words “superintendence, direction and control” as well as “conduct of all elections” are the broadest terms. The silence of statute has no exclusionary effect except where it flows from necessary implication. Therefore, in our view, it would be difficult to accept the contention raised by Mr Salve, learned Solicitor-General and Mr Ashwani Kumar, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the intervenor that if there is no provision in the Act or the Rules, the High Court ought not to have issued such directions to the Election Commission. It is settled that the power of the Commission is plenary in character in exercise thereof. In statutory provisions or rules, it is known that every contingency could not be foreseen or anticipated with precision, therefore, the Commission can cope with a situation where the field is unoccupied by issuing necessary s.” 22. Therefore, the use of the words “superintendence, direction and management” in Sections 12(4) and 15(4) of the RTI Act clearly provides the CIC an ambit of power wide enough to frame its own Regulations and to delegate its power to a committee formed by it. The Central Information Commission, utilizing these broad powers, 7 [2002] 3 SCR 696 : (2002) 5 SCC 294 632 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports has enacted ‘The Central Information Commission (Management) Regulations, 2007.’ While the RTI Act does not explicitly grant CIC the authority to frame Regulations, the overarching powers granted under Section 12(4) of the RTI Act inherently include the ability to manage the Commission’s affairs effectively.