In Subash Chander Marwaha (supra) against 15 vacancies in Haryana Civil Service (Judicial Branch) a select list of 40 candidates, who obtained minimum 45% or more marks in the competitive examination, was prepared. The State Government, however, which was the appointing authority, made only 7 appointments from amongst top seven in the select list. Candidates who were ranked 8, 9 and 13 filed writ petitions in the High Court for a direction to the State Government to fill up the remaining vacancies as per the of merit in the select list. State Government contested the petitions by claiming that in its view, to maintain high standards of competence in judicial service, candidates getting less than 55% marks in the examination were not suitable to be appointed as subordinate judges. The High Court allowed the writ petition by taking a view that the State Government was not entitled to impose a new standard of 55% of marks for selection as that was against the rule which provided for a minimum of 45% only. 25. After taking note of the relevant extant rules (i.e., Rules 8 and 10)27 this Court allowed State’s appeal with the following observations: "10. … The mere fact that a candidate’s name appears in the list will not entitle him to a mandamus that he be 27 Rule 8. -No candidate shall be considered to have qualified unless he obtains 45% marks in the aggregate of all the papers and at least 33% marks in the language paper, that is, Hindi (in Devnagri script). Rule 10.- (i) The result of the examination will be published in the Punjab Government Gazette; (ii) Candidates will be selected for appointment strictly in the in which they have been placed by the Punjab Public Service Commission in the list of those who have qualified under Rule 8;….” 54 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports appointed. Indeed, if the State Government while making the selection for appointment had departed from the ranking given in the list, there would have been a legitimate grievance on the ground that the State Government had departed from the rules in this respect. The true effect of Rule 10 …… is that if and when the State Government propose to make appointments of Subordinate Judges the State Government (i) shall not make such appointments by travelling outside the list, and (ii) shall make the selection for appointments strictly in the the candidates have been placed in the list published in the Government Gazette. In the present case neither of these two requirements is infringed by the Government. They have appointed the first seven persons in the list as Subordinate Judges. Apart from these constraints on the power to make the appointments, Rule 10 does not impose any other constraint. There is no constraint that the Government shall make an appointment of a Subordinate Judge either because there are vacancies or because a list of candidates has been prepared and is in existence. 11. It must be remembered that the petition is for a mandamus.