This is intended to ensure that the books of account and other records are properly maintained and faithfully reflect the true income of the taxpayer. …” (emphasis supplied) 3.6 The relevant portion of the Memorandum explaining the provisions in Finance Bill, 1984, which proposed to introduce Section 44AB, reads as under: “16. A proper audit for tax purposes would ensure that the books of account and other records are properly maintained and that they faithfully reflect the income of the tax payer and claims for deductions are correctly made by him. Such audit would also help in checking fraudulent practices. It can also facilitate the administration of tax laws by proper presentation of the accounts before the tax authorities and considerably saving the time of the assessing officers in carrying out routine verifications, like checking correctness of totals and verifying whether purchases and sales are properly vouched or not. The time of the assessing officers thus saved could be utilized for attending to more important investigational aspects of a case.” (emphasis supplied) 3.7 Finally, Clause No. 11 of the Finance Bill, 1984 (Bill No. 11 of 1984), was introduced in Parliament to give effect to the proposals of the Central Government. Resultantly, Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961 was inserted and came into force w.e.f. 01.04.1985, providing for compulsory audit. Section 44AB, as it stood then, provided that every person carrying on business, [2024] 6 S.C.R. 791 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others if his total sale, turnover or gross receipts exceed Rs.40 Lakhs and every person carrying on a profession, if his gross receipts exceed Rs.10 Lakhs, in any previous year, is required to get his accounts of such previous year audited by an Accountant and obtain before the specified date, a report of the audit in the prescribed form duly signed and verified. Explanation (i) to the Section 44AB clarified that the word ‘accountant’ shall have the meaning as in the Explanation to sub-section (2) of Section 288. The present position is that a tax audit, under Section 44AB, can be undertaken only by a Chartered Accountant. For immediate reference, Section 44AB when it was introduced is extracted as under: “44AB. Audit of accounts of certain persons carrying on business or profession.—Every person,— (a) carrying on business shall, if his total sales, turnover or gross receipts, as the case may be, in business exceed or exceeds forty lakh rupees in any previous year or years relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1985 or any subsequent assessment year; or (b) carrying on profession shall, if his gross receipts in profession exceed ten lakh rupees in any previous year or years relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1985 or any subsequent assessment year, get his accounts of such previous year or years audited by an accountant before the specified date and obtain before that date the report of such audit in the prescribed form duly signed and verified by such accountant and setting forth such particulars as may be prescribed: Provided that in a case where such person is required by or under any other law to get his accounts audited by an accountant, it shall be sufficient compliance with the provisions of this section if such person gets 792 [2024] 6 S.C.R.