Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. (iii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.9, it has been disclosed that bail applications under Section 440 of CrPC have not been received in relation to prisoners, therefore needful be done. (iv) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) To circulate the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). (b) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 4.1 High Court of Gauhati -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of directions contained in para 100.2 and 100.3, there is a contrary stand that conditions in relation to Sections 41 and 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar have been complied with, yet [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1081 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. bail has been granted, therefore the High Court is directed to inform about clear instances of the same. Specific emphasis shall be laid on the reports of district Barpeta, Biswanath and Dimahasao as per the affidavit filed. (ii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.7, details as to the number of Special Courts created and the need for creation of more Special Courts shall be provided. (iii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.8 and 100.9, the High Court should inform this Court as to the steps taken for a list of identified prisoners who are unable to comply with bail conditions and why sureties are not being produced in many cases though bail stands granted and what steps have been taken to alleviate this situation. (iv) In terms of direction contained in para 100.9, it has been disclosed that bail applications under Section 440 of CrPC have not been received in relation to prisoners, therefore needful be done. (v) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of judicial academy, because it seems that there is no amendment to the curriculum of the State Judicial Academy. 5. State of Bihar -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers.