No.3, the New India Insurance Company.” 5. The first-respondent viz., the opposite party No.3 too, raised the objection of lack of territorial jurisdiction to adjudicate the claim petition and over and above in the written statement respondent No.1 herein stated thus, as can be seen from paragraph 4 of the award of the Tribunal:- “that the sole cause of accident is rash and negligent driving of the motor vehicle bearing registration No. UA06(A)-9229, which was also involved in the accident, that in case of involvement of two motor vehicles in the alleged accident, the tribunal has to determine the composite/contributory negligence of each driver thereof and its effects; that the answering party has not been given any information as provided under Section 158 (6) of the Motor Vehicle Act and the petition is bad for non-joinder of the party.” 6. It is based on such pleadings that the Tribunal had framed seven issues as hereunder:- "1. Whether on 07.03.2006 at around 7.30 when deceased Rohit Batra on his Motorcycle No.UA06A9229 was going from Dineshpur to Gadarpur then near Village Varkheda, PS Gadarpur, District Udham Singh Nagar, Tractor No. UP2A-2213, being driven recklessly and negligently by the driver hit his motorcycle from behind, due to which the deceased suffered serious injuries and his death was caused due to such injuries, as has been stated in the claim petition? 2. Whether the said accident was caused by the deceased himself driving his motorcycle No.UA6A 9229 recklessly and negligently, as has been stated by the Defendant No.1, 2 & 3 in their Written Statements? 3. Whether the said accident was caused due to contributory negligence of both the drivers as has been stated by Defendant No.3 in his written statement? [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1209 Balveer Batra v. The New India Assurance Company & Anr. 4. Whether the claim is effective due to not making insurance company of the motorcycle No.UA06A-9229, which is a necessary party, a party in the case? 5. Whether this Tribunal does not have the territorial jurisdiction to entertain the claim as has been stated by the Defendant No.1, 2 & 3 in their written statement? 6. Whether the tractor in question at the time of accident was insured with the defendant No.3, insurance company and whether it was being run in accordance with the terms and condition of the insurance policy? 7. Whether the claimants are entitled to any compensation and if yes, then how much and who is liable to be paid?” 7. After framing issues as above, the Tribunal firstly considered issue No.5, pertaining to the territorial jurisdiction, assigning the reason that the rest of the issues are dependent on the decision on issue No.5. Nonetheless, the indisputable position is that by that time four years, since filing of the claim petition, had lapsed and in the meanwhile both sides had also examined witnesses. While being examined as PW-1, the appellant deposed that at the time of accident in question he was a resident of Haldwani, District Nainital, and the accident had occurred within the limits of the adjoining district of Udham Singh Nagar.