However, given the fact that Section 15 penalizes three distinct and varying degrees of intention and having regard to the mutually exclusive nature of each of the three offences provided thereunder, the mere storage or possession of a child pornographic material cannot become the foundational facts or basis for attracting all three of the said offences all the same. 176. As discussed by us in the foregoing parts of this , while on a plain reading Section 15 sub-section(s) (1), (2) and (3) it might appear that all require the same actus reus i.e., the storage or possession of the child pornographic material, however, such an interpretation is flawed as a closer examination of each of the sub-section would reveal that there exists a very fine but pertinent distinction in the actus reus which is required to constitute an offence under Section 15 sub-section(s) (1), (2) or (3) of the POCSO. 177. Thus, for the purpose of Section 15 sub-section (1), the necessary foundational facts which the prosecution would first have to establish before it can be allowed to validly raise the statutory presumption of culpable mental state would simpliciter be the storage or possession of any child pornographic material and that the person accused had failed to delete, destroy or report the same. Once, the aforesaid is clearly established by the prosecution, a presumption would be raised in terms of Section 30 of the POCSO that the person accused had the knowledge of the child pornographic material that was found to be stored or possessed by him and that he had the intent to share or transmit the same due to which he failed to delete, destroy or report it. 178. Whereas when it comes to Section 15 sub-section (2), since the actus reus required to constitute an offence thereunder requires the storage or possession of any pornographic material involving a child along with any additional mater to show either the actual transmission, propagation, display or distribution of any such material or the facilitation of any of the abovementioned acts. Thus, in to invoke the statutory presumption of culpable mental state as contained in Section 30 of the POCSO, the prosecution would be required to first establish not just the storage or possession of any 264 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports child pornographic material, but also any other material to indicate any actual transmission, propagation, display or distribution of any such material or any form of an overt act such as preparation or setup done for the facilitation of the transmission, propagation, display or distribution of such material, whereafter, the statutory presumption would stand attracted, and it shall be presumed by the courts that the said act was done with the intent of transmitting, displaying, propagating or distributing such material and that the said act(s) had not been done for the purpose of either reporting or for use as evidence. We clarify that, though wherever any actual transmission, propagation, display or distribution of such material takes place, the offence under Section 15 sub-section (2) would be constituted, thereby seemingly not requiring any further to be proved.