Parochial considerations must yield to the larger interests of the nation in such matters.” However, till the above situation is achieved constitutional courts would have to adjudicate by way of judicial review. 37.2 One has to also appreciate the pragmatic solution-oriented approach coupled with the acknowledgment that the subject matter of this lis-taxation on minerals-which are natural resources, should be exploited for the development of the country as a whole. Therefore, it is only Union legislation [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1839 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. which can ensure the same successfully. The Report further states as under: “13.5.15 Exploitation of mineral resources will continue to increase. There is general agreement that minerals are national resources and they should be exploited and developed for the benefit of the country as a whole. Only Union legislation can ensure such regulation and development of minerals. The States have been given an unrestricted field in respect of ‘minor minerals’ which have little all-India implications. There is, however, need for periodic review of the First Schedule to the MMRD Act, in consultation with the States, say after every three years, as there is a possibility that a particular mineral, not included in the Schedule, may become a matter of national concern or vice versa. Any amendment of the Act should normally be preceded by consultation in the NEDC.” (emphasis supplied) 38. However, the controversy in this case would demonstrate how a State with substantial mineral reserves manages, regulates and taxes its resources without hurting the national interest and the development of the country in the context of mineral development. It is with the above background that the distribution of legislative powers between the Union and the States were thought of in a manner that would give an upper hand to Parliamentary supremacy, so to say, over the legislative power of the State. Therefore, the respective Entries in Lists I and II, namely, the Union List and the State List respectively, have been so drafted in to ensure that there is overall mineral development in the country as a whole, rather than particular States possessing the mineral wealth acting contrary to the overall welfare of the country and against the economic interest of the other States. 39. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I find that the learned Attorney General is right in contending that the MMDR Act, 1957 contemplates all manner of levies, charges, impost or demands that could be provided for having a nexus with mineral rights. Therefore, the Act itself has to be construed as a limitation on the power of the States to demand or impose levies to the extent to which is stated in the 1840 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Act. Although, Entry 50 – List II is a taxing Entry, it will be subject to the limitations enacted by the Parliament by law under Entry 54 – List I. The answer to the question raised by learned Solicitor General, whether the States can impose levies under Entry 50 – List II over and above the amount of royalty received by them under the MMDR Act, 1957, is in the negative.