At any rate, the summoning did not reflect application of mind to form the opinion regarding sufficient basis for proceeding against him. The learned counsel for the State, the first respondent, would submit that there occurred no legal error in the matter of exercise of power by the High Court and hence, the of the High Court did not suffer from any infirmity requiring interference. 8. There cannot be any doubt with respect to the power of the Magistrate to issue summons even after filing of a negative report by the police. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1229 Vikas Chandra v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. In other words, the Magistrate is not duty bound to accept the Final Report filed under Section 173 (2), Cr.PC. The power not to accept the Final Report and to issue summons to the accused is recognized by this Court in the decision in Union of India v. Prakash P. Hinduja & Anr.1. In this context, it is to be noted that this Court in the decision in Bhagwant Singh v. Commissioner of Police & Anr.2 held that when a Final Report under Section 173 (2), Cr.PC, is filed before the Magistrate, which happens to be a negative report, usually called a “closure report”, he gets the following four choices to be adopted, taking into account the position obtained in the case concerned: (1) to accept the report and drop the Court proceedings (2) to direct further investigation to be made by the police (3) to investigate himself or refer for the investigation to be made by another Magistrate under Section 159, Cr.PC, (4) to take cognizance of the offence under Section 200, Cr.PC, as a private complaint when the materials are sufficient in his opinion and if the complainant is prepared for that course. 9. Now, there can be no two views that “existence of power” and “exercise of power” are different and distinct. Having found that a Magistrate is jurisdictionally competent to take cognizance and issue summons despite the receipt of closure report following the prescribed procedure, we will have to consider the sustainability of the exercise of such power, in view of the legal and factual position obtained, in this case. In the decision in M/s Pepsi Foods Ltd. & Anr. v. Special Judicial Magistrate & Ors.3, this Court laid down the golden standard for summoning an accused after holding that summoning an accused is a serious matter involving interference with life and liberty of a person. Paragraph 28 therein is noteworthy and it reads thus: - “28. Summoning of an accused in a criminal case is a serious matter. Criminal law cannot be set into motion as a matter of course. it is not that the complainant has to bring only two witnesses to support his allegations in the complaint to have the criminal law set into motion. The 1 [2003] Supp. 1 SCR 307 : (2003) 6 SCC 195 2 [1985] 3 SCR 942 : (1985) 2 SCC 537 3 [1997] Supp.