As a counter blast to the same, the FIR No. 95 of 2021 dated 09.04.2021 came to be lodged after a period of more than 11 months from the date the First Informant left her matrimonial home and that too, only after the service of summons to her in the domestic violence case. No plausible explanation has been offered for such delay. ● The FIR was filed with an oblique motive & by way of vengeance towards the Appellant. The First Informant and Appellant were married for over 12 years. ● The allegations in the FIR are too vague and general in nature. There is no specific allegation/incident of harassment levelled against the Appellant in the FIR. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE FIRST INFORMANT/ RESPONDENT NO. 2 13. Mr. Parveen Kumar Aggarwal, the learned counsel appearing for the First Informant herein made the following submissions: ● The Appellant and his family continuously demanded for additional dowry after the marriage. They used to beat the First Informant and take away her entire salary. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 145 Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana & Anr. ● After filing of the divorce petition, the Appellant stopped paying anything towards her maintenance and also disconnected the basic facilities such as water connection etc., leaving her with no option but to leave the matrimonial home and return to her parents house at Hisar. ● The Appellant had an affair with another woman. Only with a view to save the marriage, she kept quiet and did not inform about it to the others. ● The domestic violence case filed against the First Informant is absolutely frivolous and vexatious. ● The Appellant failed to inform this Court that he had withdrawn the divorce proceedings instituted against the First Informant. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE 14. Mr. Chritarth Palli, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State (Respondent No. 1 herein) made the following submissions: ● The Police upon registration of the FIR, conducted a fair investigation. On completion of the investigation, the proceedings against 4 out of the 5 accused came to be dropped. However, having regard to the nature of the allegations levelled, the investigating officer thought fit to file chargesheet against the Appellant. ANALYSIS 15. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the criminal proceedings should be quashed? 16. The Appellant and the Respondent No. 2 got married in October 2008. The couple lived together for more than a decade and in the wedlock a child was born in March 2012. 17. We take notice of the fact that the Appellant filed a divorce petition in July 2019 on the ground of cruelty. The divorce petition was withdrawn as the Appellant was finding it difficult to take care of his child, while travelling all the way to Hisar on the dates fixed by the Court. The Appellant’s mother had to file a domestic violence case 146 [2024] 6 S.C.R.