The said period has nothing to do with the period of limitation for filing a petition under Section 8(2) of the Act. Insofar as a petition under Section 8(2) is concerned, the cause of action would arise when the other 102 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports party fails to comply with the notice invoking arbitration. Therefore, the period of limitation for filing a petition under Section 8(2) seeking appointment of an arbitrator cannot be confused with the period of limitation for making a claim. The decisions of this Court in Inder Singh Rekhi v. DDA [(1988) 2 SCC 338], Panchu Gopal Bose v. Port of Calcutta [(1993) 4 SCC 338] and Utkal Commercial Corpn. v. Central Coal Fields Ltd. [(1999) 2 SCC 571] also make this position clear.” (emphasis supplied) 56. The other way of ascertaining the relevant point in time when the limitation period for making a Section 11(6) application would begin is by making use of the Hohfeld’s analysis of jural relations. It is a settled position of law that the limitation period under Article 137 of the Limitation Act, 1963 will commence only after the right to apply has accrued in favour of the applicant. As per Hohfeld’s scheme of jural relations, conferring of a right on one entity must entail the vesting of a corresponding duty in another. When an application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 is made before this Court without exhausting the mechanism prescribed under the said sub-section, including that of invoking arbitration by issuance of a formal notice to the other party, this Court is not duty bound to appoint an arbitrator and can reject the application for being premature and non-compliant with the statutory mandate. However, once the procedure laid down under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 is exhausted by the applicant and the application passes all other tests of limited judicial scrutiny as have been evolved by this Court over the years, this Court becomes duty-bound to appoint an arbitrator and refer the matter to an arbitral tribunal. Thus, the “right to apply” of the Applicant can be said to have as its jural corelative the “duty to appoint” of this Court only after all the steps required to be completed before instituting a Section 11(6) application have been duly completed. Thus, the limitation period for filing a petition under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 can only commence once a valid notice invoking arbitration has been sent by the applicant to the other party, and there has been a failure or refusal on part of that other party in complying with the requirements mentioned in such notice. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 103 M/S Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/S Aptech Ltd. 57. This Court in Utkal Commercial Corporation v. Central Coal Fields Ltd. reported in (1999) 2 SCC 571 while determining a similar question in relation to the Arbitration Act, 1940 held thus: “6. Therefore, the time for the purposes of limitation begins to run from the date when the right to make an application under Section 8 accrues.