Some scholars tout this as a success as the economy grew at 3.6%, instead of the target of 2.1%. Soon thereafter, the Second Plan, launched in 1956, saw deficit financing as an acceptable tool for much needed rapid industrialization and self-reliance focusing on heavy industries and capital goods. Coupled with the Industrial Policy Resolution 1956, the Second Plan initiated the development of public sector and ushered in the licence Raj. The resolution, adopted by the Parliament in 1956, enumerated as a national objective the establishment of a socialist pattern of society and categorized industries into three groups: - Schedule A: Industries which were to be exclusively in the public sector. These were industries of basic and strategic importance; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 201 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. - Schedule B: Industries that were to be progressively stateowned and the State would generally set up new enterprises but in which private enterprise would be expected only to supplement the state effort; and - Schedule C: All the remaining industries, and their future development was, in general, left to the initiative and development of private sector. Though, it was left open to the State and the private sector was still subject to the licence Raj. This over-expansion State control enabled it to undertake large scale projects without either reliance on or negotiations with or even competition from the private sector. The construction of the Bhakra-Nangal Dam, Hirakund Dam etc. as well as steel plants in Rourkela, Bhillai and Durgapur were deified by the State as new “temples of a modern India”. 6.3 However, the substantial peril of curbing the invisible hand of the economy and enterprising spirit of the private sector was that the economic policy stuck reserved and restricted India to the earmarked industries and ignored new technologies, innovations and domains that, though transforming, were not in the horizons of bureaucracy. On the other hand, funds were also substantially reallocated away from agriculture, thereby, causing food shortages and a spike in inflation. Furthermore, the State was forced to import foodgrains which depleted foreign exchange reserves. 6.4 Under the leadership of Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, the Indian Government was convinced that in the domain of agriculture it needed to loosen its tight strings on centralized planning and price controls and instead focus on technological development. With India transforming into a food-sufficient and self-reliant entity after the Green Revolution and introduction of the Minimum Support Price regime, the role of the Planning Commission was trimmed. 6.5 In the second half of 1960s, the severe drought of 1965 increased food grain imports and consequently, exacerbated the balance of payments crisis. To counter the same, on June, 202 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 1966, the Indian Government devalued the Indian rupee by a sharp 57%, thereby accelerating inflation while it was actually aimed at boosting exports. 6.6 Monumentally, to expand the sources of credit and monitor the banking system as per the control of the Government’s planning and economic policy, the Government nationalized fourteen private banks on 20th July 1969.