Time for Response: The notice must provide a response period of no less than 45 days and no more than 60 days for the owner/ occupier to justify why the structure should not be demolished. Notice to Family Members: If the owner or occupier cannot be found, the notice may be served to a member of their immediate family, with additional time for response granted in such cases Mr. Mohd. A. Publication of notice of demolition in Nizammudin at least 10 days in advance in local Pasha & Ms. newspapers in addition to personal Rashmi Singh, service of notice on the owner of the Advs. property sought to be demolished; B. Personal hearing of owner of property; Mr. M.R. Service of Notice: Once the list is prepared, Shamshad, Sr. the officer must serve written notice at least Adv. 60 days before the proposed demolition. The notice must contain: a. Reason for Proposed Demolition: A brief explanation of why the demolition is proposed. b. Personal Service of Notice (Dasti): The notice must be served in-person with two neighborhood witnesses, as well as by registered post (acknowledgment due), in line with procedures laid down by High Courts and the Supreme Court for service of notices or summons. c. Online Upload: The notice must be uploaded on the Municipal authority’s website. 738 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports S.No. TOPIC/ ISSUE COUNSEL’S/ SUMMARY OF SUGGESTIONS PARTY NAME d. Vernacular Language: The notice must be provided in the vernacular language(s) prevalent in the area where the property is located. e. Affidavit of Compliance: The officer must swear an affidavit 10 days before the demolition, confirming compliance with all notice-serving procedures, and submit it to the Divisional Commissioner or equivalent officer. f. Notice to Owner in Custody: If the owner is in custody, the notice must be served via the concerned Judicial Magistrate at least 60 days before the proposed demolition. Explanation: The 60-day period begins from the date of delivery of the notice to the affected persons. 2. CONSIDERATION Mr. C.U. Singh, 1. Review of Owner’s Reply: Authorities OF THE REPLY Sr. Adv. and shall consider the reply and supporting TO SHOW Ms. Fauzia material provided by the owner. CAUSE Shakil, Adv. 2. Request for Additional Information: If additional explanations/material are needed, the authority will inform the owner in writing. The owner will have 4 weeks to furnish the requested information. 3. Personal Hearing: The authority will issue an intimation to the owner specifying the date and time for a personal hearing. The personal hearing for the occupier will not replace the need for a hearing with the owner or authorized representative. Ms. Nitya The person(s) in response to the notice shall Ramakrishnan, have the following rights: Sr. Adv. 1. The concerned person in receipt of the above-mentioned Notice shall have the right to engage an Advocate/Counsel and may also be allowed to appear in- person. 2. To present evidence that the construction is legal. 3. The opportunity to compound the offence, that is, to make modifications to comply with the regulations.