The JUR cursorily observed in paragraph 84 that the findings recorded by the different Benches of the High Court are clearly erroneous and not sustainable. When a catena of s were delivered by the various Benches of the High court relying on the of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bhagat Ram, the least that was expected in the JUR was a reasoning as to how the findings of the various Benches of the High Court including in Gurjant Singh, relying on the of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bhagat Ram, are erroneous. 65. In our considered view, the non-consideration of the reasoning given by the Full Bench of the High Court in Jai Singh II, which findings were given by relying on the of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bhagat Ram, and not showing as to how the findings therein were erroneous in law, would also amount to an error, apparent on the face of the record. VII. CONSIDERATION OF THE OF THE FULL BENCH OF THE HIGH COURT IN JAI SINGH II WITH REGARD TO DOCTRINE OF STARE DECISIS 66. Thirdly, the Full Bench of the High Court in Jai Singh II in the alternative held that, a consistent view has been taken in more than 100 s by the Punjab & Haryana High Court and applying the doctrine of stare decisis, such a view cannot be upset. While holding so, the Full Bench of the High Court has relied on various s of this Court as well as the various High Courts. However, in the JUR, there is not even a reference to the reasoning given by the Full Bench of the High Court with regard to the applicability of the doctrine of stare decisis. There are catena of s of this Court explaining the doctrine of stare decisis and its application. However, we do not propose to go into them since the scope in [2024] 6 S.C.R. 933 Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. review jurisdiction is limited. We do not wish to go into the question as to whether the doctrine of stare decisis would be applicable in the facts of the present case or not. However, the least that the JUR was expected was to consider the reasoning given by the Full Bench of the High Court and to consider as to how the said reasoning was not sustainable in law. However, the JUR does not even refer to the said discussion in its . 67. In our considered view, the non-consideration of the reasoning given by the Full Bench of the High Court in Jai Singh II, that on account of more than 100 decisions rendered by various Benches of the High Court, the doctrine of stare decisis is applicable, would also be an error apparent on the face of the record. VIII. CONCLUSION 68. In that view of the matter, we are of the considered view that the JUR needs to be recalled on the aforesaid grounds mentioned by us.