…The inherent powers of the Court are in addition to the powers specifically conferred on the Court by the Code. They are complementary to those powers and therefore it must be held that the Court is free to exercise them for the purposes mentioned in Section 151 of the Code when the exercise of those powers is not in any way in conflict with what has been expressly provided in the Code or against the intentions of the Legislature. It is also well 46 (1971) 3 SCC 844 47 [1961] 1 SCR 884 : (1961) 1 SCR 884 998 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports recognized that the inherent power is not to be exercised in a manner which will be contrary to or different from the procedure expressly provided in the Code.” (emphasis supplied) 98. Another three-Judge Bench of this Court in My Palace Mutually Aided Co-operative Society v. B. Mahesh & others 48 held thus: “27. In exercising powers under Section 151 of the CPC, it cannot be said that the civil courts can exercise substantive jurisdiction to unsettle already decided issues. A Court having jurisdiction over the relevant subject matter has the power to decide and may come either to a right or a wrong conclusion. Even if a wrong conclusion is arrived at or an incorrect decree is passed by the jurisdictional court, the same is binding on the parties until it is set aside by an appellate court or through other remedies provided in law. 28. Section 151 of the CPC can only be applicable if there is no alternate remedy available in accordance with the existing provisions of law. Such inherent power cannot override statutory prohibitions or create remedies which are not contemplated under the Code. Section 151 cannot be invoked as an alternative to filing fresh suits, appeals, revisions, or reviews. A party cannot find solace in Section 151 to allege and rectify historic wrongs and bypass procedural safeguards inbuilt in the CPC.” (emphasis supplied) 99. An alternative remedy, carved out by Rule 1 of XLVII, already exists which the review petitioners have pursued. Recourse to section 151, CPC, therefore, would not be available, the object of which is to supplement and not replace the remedies provided under the CPC. 100. Moving on further, we find that the attempt of the review petitioners has been to draw inspiration from the ground “any other sufficient reason” appearing in Rule 1. There have been decisions of this Court which have construed the words “any other sufficient reason” expansively, like Netaji Cricket Club (supra) and Jagmohan Singh 48 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1063 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 999 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others (supra), whereas there are decisions, including Moran Mar Basselios Catholics (supra), Raja Shatrunji (supra), Kamlesh Verma (supra) and S. Madhusudhan Reddy (supra), that have followed Chhajju Ram (supra) explaining that the ground “any other sufficient reason” means “a reason sufficient on grounds at least analogous to those specified immediately previously”.