12. Today, when the matter was taken up, the respondent/contemnor has been produced in custody by Mr. Devidas Sadashiv Pokale, Sub-Inspector of Mumbai Police, accompanied with Mr. Sumer Singh (D-5896) Sub-Inspector and Mr. Akash Yadav (2426/DAP) Head Constable, both of Delhi Police posted at Tihar Jail. On appearance of contemnor, no doubt he appears to be a senior citizen, however, to gain sympathy of the Court started shedding tears. He showcased difficulty in standing, however, the Court offered him a chair and a glass of water. On being asked why he has not yet complied the s, it was submitted by him that he is a poor person with large 422 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports family to support, and apologised for his conduct and later sought pardon. In the same breath he said that the Curative Petitions filed by him are still pending, and until those are decided, time may be granted. Then, he pleaded that, he has no other place to shift his large family and requested to grant him at least one month time to vacate the suit premises. His newly engaged counsel also argued in same line to grant time to hand over the possession of the subject property. 13. From the above facts, on the cost of repetition, it is necessary to observe that while dismissing the Special Leave Petitions on 6.6.2023 being meritless, nine months’ time to vacate and handover the peaceful possession of the suit property was allowed. The contemnor was required to furnish an undertaking in this regard, which was not initially submitted by him. The contemnor continued to litigate and filed Review Petitions, which were also dismissed on 7.2.2024. Thereafter, he had chosen to file applications seeking extension of time of nine months to vacate the suit premises. On dismissal of said applications on 4.3.2024, the contemnor has not vacated the suit premises though he was required to do so on or before 6.3.2024. Even after filing of Contempt Petition and appearance of the advocate in the matter on his behalf, peaceful possession was not delivered to the landlord. On an endeavour made by this Court to call him for delivery of peaceful possession as directed by this Court on 6.6.2023, he deliberately did not appear despite specific direction issued at least three times for his personal appearance in the Court. On service of bailable warrant for his presence, he did not appear on the date so fixed. On issuance of the non-bailable warrants of arrest, he and his family members mislead the police official on account of which the said non-bailable warrants could not be executed, as reflects and extracted above in the dated 02.09.2024. However, when the second was passed by this Court issuing fresh non-bailable warrants, he was produced in the court. The contemnor was unable to explain his conduct, as noticed above and made a request that time to vacate the premises may be extended till decision of the Curative Petition. 14. It is needless to observe that the Curative Petition is to be decided in Chamber and the said recourse is not permissible as a matter of right to the contemnor.