This controversy, however, need not detain us for long, because even assuming that there was no consultation at all, whether the petitioner is entitled to get any relief in this petition on that score is to be examined. The consultation or non-consultation is a matter between the Public Service Commission and the Government and that too at the stage of framing rules. Therefore, individual candidates are not very much concerned with that. Their rights are not dependent upon or decided upon the consultation or non-consultation with either the High Court or with the Public Service Commission. Therefore, non-consultation with the Public Service Commission will not give any cause of action to the petitioner or any one of the members of the petitioner’s Association to maintain this writ petition.” 95. Similarly, reliance by the petitioners counsel on the of the Madras High Court in N. Devasahayam v. State of Madras45 as regards the mandatory nature of the Consultation which is argued to have been endorsed by the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bal Mukund (supra), is found to be misplaced. In Bal Mukund (supra), the Court endorsed the finding in N. Devasahayam (supra), but the would also show that there is no authoritative finding on the ‘mandatory’ or ‘directory’ nature of Article 234. 96. Likewise, the of the Supreme Court in AC Thalwal v High Court of HP46 would also be of no assistance for the petitioners as in that case, the Ex-Servicemen (Reservation of Vacancies in the Himachal Pradesh Judicial Service) Rules, 1981 was declared ultra vires the Constitution and hence void in the context of non-consultation with the High Court but not with the Public Service Commission under Article 234 of the Constitution of India. As discussed earlier, the Court 45 AIR 1958 Mad 53 46 [2000] Supp. 2 SCR 428 : (2000) 7 SCC 1 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 591 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. noted that “the status which the High Court as an institution enjoys in the constitutional scheme and the expertise and the experience which it possesses of judicial services, justify a place of primacy being assigned to the High Court in the process of consultation.” It is undoubtedly mandatory to consult the High Court for framing Rules and any Rule enacted by the State Government without such consultation is considered ultra vires. The rationale is to safeguard the judicial service from executive influence which is rooted in the constitutional objective of establishing an independent judiciary. 97. In Gujarat, when the Public Service Commission did not wish to be consulted under the proviso to Article 320(3) of the Constitution of India, in the absence of such consultation, it cannot be held that the Gujarat Rules, 2005 suffers from any legal or constitutional invalidity particularly when the Rules were framed with due consultation with the High Court. VII. CONCLUSION AND DIRECTIONS 98. Before reaching our final conclusion in these matters, reference to Malik Mazhar v. U.P Public Service Commission47 would be in where the Supreme Court emphasised the importance of having a prescribed time-schedule for conducting the judicial service examinations.