16. On the aspect of delay of 12 years and 158 days in filing the restoration application before the High Court, the learned Attorney General has no explanation worth to offer. Submissions on behalf of the respondent 17. Mr. Sudhanshu Chaudhari, the learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent, on the other hand, vehemently opposed the present appeal and submitted that no error not to speak of any error of law [2024] 4 S.C.R. 81 Union of India & Anr. v. Jahangir Byramji Jeejeebhoy (D) Through His LR could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned . 18. He submitted that no sufficient case worth the name has been assigned by the appellants for the purpose of getting such a long and inordinate delay of more than 12 years condoned for filing the restoration application. 19. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being no merit worth the name in the present appeal, the same may be dismissed. Analysis 20. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned ? 21. When this matter was heard for the first time by this Bench, we brought to the notice of the learned Attorney General something very relevant as observed by the High Court in para 18 of its impugned . Para 18 of the impugned reads thus: “18. During the course of hearing, I suggested Mr. Singh that in case the defendants are ready and willing to handover possession of the suit property to the respondents, the Court will consider restoring the Petition to its original position. The respondents in turn will give undertaking to the effect that in case the defendants succeed in the Petition, before approaching the Apex Court, they will handover possession of the suit property to the defendants. Upon taking instructions, Mr. Singh submitted that defendants are not ready and willing to handover possession of the suit property. In view of the aforesaid discussion, no case is made out for condoning the delay.” 22. Thus, it appears that the High Court made a reasonable suggestion to the appellants that if the possession of the suit property is handed over to the respondent, then probably the Court may consider restoring the Petition No. 2307 of 1993 which came to be dismissed for default on 10.10.2006. The High Court noted as above that the learned counsel appearing for the appellants declined to hand over the possession of the suit property to the respondent herein. We 82 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports reiterated the very same suggestion before the learned Attorney General that if the appellants are ready and willing to hand over the suit property to the respondent, then, despite there being a long and inordinate delay, we may consider condoning the same and remanding the matter back to the High Court so that the High Court may be in a position to hear the matter on its own merits.