It would extend this chapter to an unreasonable length if we were to set out in detail all the changes which a revision of the three Lists has involved. We are less willing to do so, because we recognise that the revised Lists themselves will require further expert scrutiny before they are finally submitted to Parliament as part of the legislative proposals of His Majesty’s Government. We think, however, that if the revised Lists are compared with the Lists in the White Paper, such changes as have been made, in addition to those already mentioned will, for the most part, be found to speak for themselves.” (emphasis supplied) 183 Government of India Act 1935; Entry 45 of list I 184 Government of India Act 1935; Entry 31 of list II 185 Constitution of India 1950; Entry 84 of List I 186 Constitution of India 1950; Entry 8 of List II 187 Joint Committee on Indian Constitutional Reform (Volume I Part I) 148-149. 2022 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 102. While the revisions are not accompanied by any reasons, it is clear that the intention of the Joint Committee was to differentiate between the product covered by the regulatory entry and the taxing entry. It is also clear that the Committee was aware of the possibility of alcohol not being understood as just a final ‘consumable product’ but also as a raw material in the production of other products. The Report of the Joint Committee specifically conferred the States, competence over “toilet and medicinal preparations containing alcohol, Indian help, opium or other drugs and narcotics.”188 While the taxing entry recognised the distinction between liquor that is used as a beverage and is a product in itself by using the words ‘potable alcoholic liquors’, and other products that contain alcohol, the regulatory entry does not create that distinction. The regulatory entry only refers to ‘liquor’, which is a much larger all-encompassing phrase. 103. We are unable to trace the discussions that led to a further revision in the 1935 Act, where the expression ‘potable liquor’ was substituted with ‘alcoholic liquor for human consumption’, and ‘liquor’ was substituted with the expression ‘intoxicating liquor’. However, it is clear that the use of the phrases as they appear in the relevant entries of the 1935 Act and the Constitution of India was a matter well-thought of. 104. Another point that needs to be noted based upon a study of the evolution of legislative entries is that until the 1935 Act, the regulatory entry covered narcotic drugs and opium along with ‘alcoholic liquor’/‘liquor’/‘intoxicating liquor’. There are two possible interpretations of the expression “intoxicating liquor”, as it appeared in the 1935 Act, on an application of the principle of noscitur a sociss, that is, the principle by which the meaning of an ambiguous expression may be ascertained by reference to the meaning of the words associated with it.189 It could be interpreted to mean liquor that has an intoxicating effect upon consumption since narcotic drugs and opium also produce intoxication.