observed that the purpose of the enactment was to set a ceiling on vacant urban land, to take over the excess and to distribute it on a certain basis of priority. “Common good” was the guiding factor for distribution and that public purpose, national development and social justice were the cornerstone of the policy of distribution. This is different from compulsory taking from some private owners to favour by transfer other private owners. Sanjeev Coke: 16. In Sanjeev Coke, the Constitution Bench of this Court considered the validity of the nationalisation of coking oven plants of the appellants therein. In the said case, the validity of Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 was entitled to protection of Article 31C of the Constitution. In the said case, the observations of Bhagwati, J. in Minerva Mills were relied upon in extenso to give a complete approval of the same with “full concurrence”. 16.1 One of the arguments raised in the said case was that the word “distribute” in Article 39(b), if given its proper emphasis would inevitably follow that material resources belong to the community as a whole, that is to say, to the State or the public, before they could be distributed as best to subserve the common good. Since those material resources which belong to the State only could be distributed by the State, it was argued that material resources had first to be acquired by the State before they could be distributed. A law providing for acquisition was not a law for distribution. This Court did not appreciate the said submission by Sri Sen. This is also the argument of Sri Zal Andhyarujina. 16.2 This Court observed that when Article 39(b) refers to material resources of the community, it does not refer only to resources owned by the community as a whole but it refers also to resources owned by individual member of the community. Resources of the community do not mean public resources only but include private resources as well. 248 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16.3 It was further observed that the word “distribute” to be used in Article 39(b) cannot be construed in the limited sense, that is, in the sense only of retail distribution to individuals. It is used in a wider sense so as to take in all manner and method of distribution such as distribution between regions, distribution between industries, distribution between classes and distribution between public, private and joint sectors. The word “distribute” in Article 39(b) takes within its stride the transformation of wealth from private ownership into public ownership and is not confined to that which is already publicowned. In this regard, reliance was also placed on the observations of Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy referred to above. 16.4 The next question considered was, whether, nationalisation can have nexus with distribution. It was observed that “socially conscious economists will find little difficulty in treating nationalisation of transport as a distributive process for the good of the community”. Therefore, the observations in this case talked about the fact that nationalisation of transport is a part of distributive process for the good of the community.