[2024] 10 S.C.R. 445 : 2024 INSC 751 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another (Civil Appeal No. 10999 of 2024) 03 October 2024 [B.R. Gavai* and K.V. Viswanathan, JJ.] Issue for Consideration The High Court dismissed the writ petition filed by the appellants inter-alia seeking a writ in the nature of certiorari praying for quashing “The Khalsa University (Repeal) Act, 2017” dated 17th July 2017. The issues which arises for consideration are: Whether an enactment for giving out a differential treatment to a single entity is valid in law or not; whether the Impugned Act is liable to be struck down on the ground of manifest arbitrariness. Headnotes† Khalsa University (Repeal) Act, 2017 – Whether an enactment for giving out a differential treatment to a single entity is valid in law or not: Held: It is a settled position of law that though a legislation affecting a single entity or a single undertaking or a single person would be permissible in law, it must be on the basis of reasonable classification having nexus with the object to be achieved – There should be a reasonable differentia on the basis of which a person, entity or undertaking is sought to be singled out from the rest of the group – Further, if a legislation affecting a single person, entity or undertaking is being enacted, there should be special circumstances requiring such an enactment – Such special circumstances should be gathered from the material taken into consideration by the competent legislature and shall include the Parliamentary/Legislative Debates – Also, wherever this Court has upheld the legislation affecting the single entity, institution or undertaking, it found that it was done in emergent and extreme circumstances preceded by enquiries, parliamentary debates, etc. – It was done when the legislature took into consideration the relevant material and found it expedient to do so – In the instant * Author 446 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports case, the impugned Act is a single entity legislation repealing the 2016 Act by which the Khalsa University was established – The Khalsa University has specifically averred that it has been singled out by the State Government amongst 16 Universities – It has also been averred that there is absolutely no reason or justification whereby the Khalsa University could be ed to be shut down in such a discriminatory manner – The reply filed by the respondent no.1 does not deal with the submissions made by the appellants on the ground of discrimination – No material is placed on record as to what was the compelling and emergent situation so as to enact a law which could affect the Khalsa University (appellant No.1) – No material is placed on record to show that there were any discussions prior to the Impugned Act being passed or as to what material was placed and taken into consideration by the competent legislature – Since the Khalsa University had specifically pleaded a ground regarding discrimination, it was incumbent upon the respondents to have dealt with the said challenge – Therefore, the Impugned Act singled out the Khalsa University (appellant No.1) amongst 16 private Universities in the State and no reasonable classification has been pointed out to discriminate the Khalsa University (appellant No.1) against the other private Universities – The Impugned Act therefore would be discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.