Digital Supreme Court Reports enquiry. In the case of Sholapur Mill, a complete enquiry had been made and the revelations which were made as a result of such enquiry were startling.” [emphasis supplied] 29. It can thus be seen that Fazl Ali, J. found that before the Act was passed, the matter was placed before the Standing Committee of the Industrial Advisory Council where a large number of leading industrialists of the country were present. It was ultimately realized that, that was a case where the Government could rightly and properly intervene. It was further found that when the matter was discussed on the floor of the House, it emerged that there were about 35 weaving and spinning mills which were closed for one reason or the other. Some of them were closed for want of cotton, some due to overstock, some for want of capital and some on account of mismanagement. However, while singling out the Sholapur Mill, the Parliament had taken into consideration various factors. One of them was that the undertaking was related to an industry which was of national importance. It was found that the Sholapur Mill was one of the largest mills in Asia and employed 13,000 workers. Another factor was that it was an economic unit and was working in two shifts before it was closed down. It was further found that prior to 1947, the highest dividend paid by the Company was Rs. 525/- per share and the lowest was Rs. 100/-. It was further noticed that only when the management was taken over by the Managing Agents, Sholapur Mill started showing losses. It was further found that the Managing Agents had acquired the control over the majority of the shares of the Sholapur Mill and a large number of shareholders who were dissatisfied with the management had been rendered powerless. It was further found that, by reason of the preponderance of their strength, the managing Agents made it impossible for a Controller under the Essential Supplies Act to function. In the totality of the circumstances, the Court found that a situation of an extraordinary character had arisen which fully justified the Sholapur Mill being treated as a class by itself. It was further found that though the other companies were also open to the charge of mismanagement, however, the criterion made applicable by the Government to Sholapur Mill for singling out could not be said to be arbitrary or unreasonable. It could further be noticed that 4 reasons were given by the Government for singling out the Sholapur Mill. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 461 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another 30. It will also be pertinent to note the observations made by Mukherjea, J. (who again formed a part of the majority) in the said , which read thus: “It must be admitted that the guarantee against the denial of equal protection of the laws does not mean that identically the same rules of law should be made applicable to all persons within the territory of India in spite of differences of circumstances and conditions.