He stated that he gave the history of assault. He stated that on 10th October 2012, the statement of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) was recorded in his presence and at that time, he was conscious and oriented. 13. PW-16 is Dr. Tushar Madhavrao Kalekar. He stated that, on 4th October 2012, when he was on duty, Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW- 12) was referred to his department from the surgery department for the purpose of CT Scan of the brain. He admitted that, initially the patient was treated in casualty section and then referred to the surgery department. He further admitted that, as per the first noting dated 762 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4th October 2012 at 09:55 PM, the case paper Exhibit 93-A indicated that the appellant was conscious and oriented. He further admitted that the doctor who at the first instance examined the patient is an important person who can opine about the nature of injuries. 14. Therefore, a million-dollar question that would arise is if Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) was conscious and oriented at the time of admission in the hospital, then why was his statement not immediately recorded. Another question that would arise is if Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) had asked the neighbourers, who had come to his flat, to call for the doctor, then he naturally would have informed about the incident to the neighbourers. However, not a single neighbourer is examined to corroborate the version of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW- 12). On the contrary, his evidence would show that he had admitted that he came to know from the police on 4th October 2012 that in the afternoon of 4th October 2012, the appellant, on account of his desire to marry Gouri Londhe (PW-2), he had fought with his wife Archana and mother Shobha and killed them with a hammer and had smothered by a pillow to death his daughter Kimaya. He also stated that the appellant came and assaulted him with the hammer so as to prevent him from telling it to the neighbourers. If that be so, if the neighbourers arrived immediately on the scene of occurrence, then the question would be, what prevented Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) from informing about the incident to the neighbourers. Even if his testimony is taken at its face value, it only suggests that he heard the noises of shouts and cries, then he immediately came out and saw Shobha and Kimaya crying. He only stated that he asked them as to why they were crying outside the house. He did not state that the wife of the appellant told him that there was a fight between the appellant and his wife. From the evidence, it is also not clear as to whether the appellant was present in the house or not. 15. In this respect, it will be relevant to refer to the testimony of Bajirao Dadoba Mohite (PW-14), Investigating Officer (IO). His testimony would reveal that, on the basis of suspicion, the appellant was arrested on 5th October 2012 at 09:05 PM.