exercising its discretionary power under Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules 2016. C. Submissions 30. Mr Kapil Sibal and Mr Shyam Divan, Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant broadly advanced the following submissions: a. NCLAT should have refrained from exercising its discretionary power under Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules to sanction the settlement when there is a prescribed procedure for withdrawal and settlement under Section 12A of the IBC read with Regulation 30A of the CIRP Regulations 2016; b. The powers conferred on the NCLAT under Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules are discretionary and should not be exercised mechanically in cases where the withdrawal of the application would prejudice other stakeholders and may result in numerous other creditors filing insolvency actions against the Corporate Debtors on account of their unpaid dues; c. NCLAT failed to deal with the objections raised by the appellant about the source of the funds and the conduct of the first respondent and his brother, Mr Riju Raveendran. Facts such as – the purported fraudulent transfer of USD 533 million to a hedge fund in the United States; the s of the US Court restraining the brothers from transferring or dissipating the amount; the contempt proceedings against Mr Riju Raveendran; the ongoing investigation by the Enforcement Directorate against the first respondent and the Corporate Debtor; attempts by the Corporate Debtor to dissipate assets – were not adequately dealt with in the Impugned Judgement; d. There are clear indications that the Corporate Debtor cannot service its outstanding debts to its financial creditors. There has been a 99% drop in the valuation of the Corporate Debtor, defaults in paying employees’ salaries, the exit of key managerial persons, failure to file financial statements, and oppression and mismanagement petitions by the shareholders against the promoters, all of which indicate that insolvency proceedings are inevitable; e. Setting aside the CIRP merely because one of the creditors has recovered its dues by way of a settlement agreement, runs 1822 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports contrary to the settled position that the IBC cannot be used as a recovery mechanism. Upon initiation of insolvency, third-party rights are created in all creditors of the corporate debtor; and f. Riju Raveendran failed to provide the details of the source of funds by way of an affidavit. His undertaking was accompanied by an affidavit of a third party who claims to be a power of attorney holder of Riju Raveendran. The declaration in the undertaking is ambiguous and the figures mentioned do not add up so as to enable him to make payments under the settlement agreement. 31. Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Mr Neeraj Kishan Kaul, Senior Counsel for the first respondent advanced the following submissions: a. The inherent powers of the NCLAT, under Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules, include the power to pass s permitting the withdrawal of the CIRP. In several judgements, after Section 12A was inserted in the IBC, the NCLAT has invoked Rule 11 to permit the withdrawal of CIRP; b.