187 allotted to them under the second varied Town Planning Scheme No. 6, Paldi, was of lesser area, accepted the same without any protest and without agitating a right to a larger area in the light of the initial allotment of Plot No. 463, and their conduct in depositing ₹24,350/- thereafter, implying receipt of the compensation amount for the shortfall area of 974 sq. mts. @ ₹25/- per sq. mt., foreclosed their right, if any, to either challenge the allotment of a plot of lesser area or to seek more compensation. In this regard, we may also note that Section 52 deals, not only with the allotment of plots, but also the amount to be paid as compensation. Section 52(3)(x) states that the Town Planning Officer shall estimate, with reference to the claims made before him after notice has been given by him in the prescribed manner and form, the compensation to be paid to the owner of any property or right injuriously effected by the making of the Town Planning Scheme in accordance with the provisions of Section 82. Further, Section 54 provides an appellate remedy to the person aggrieved by any decision of the Town Planning Officer under Section 52(3)(x). In effect, the quantification of compensation @ ₹25/- per sq. mt. for the shortfall area of 974 sq. mts., which is relatable to the power of the Town Planning Officer under Section 52(3)(x), was a decision which was amenable to appellate review under Section 54. However, it is an admitted fact that the plaintiffs did not avail such remedy. 40. We may also note that the plaintiffs’ main prayer in their suit was for quantified compensation, which they had calculated on the strength of the area of Final Plot No. 463 which could not be allotted to them, i.e., 3890 sq. yds., but their prayer, in the alternative, was for allotment of an extent of land of 974 sq. yds., which was the shortfall in area when they were allotted Final Plot No. 187 in the second varied scheme. In effect, the value of 3890 sq. yds. in Final Plot No. 463 in the original Town Planning Scheme was equated by them to an extent of 974 sq. yds. in any Town Planning Scheme in the western zone of Ahmedabad. Significantly, no evidence was led as to the values of the two final plots, viz., Final Plot No. 463, admeasuring 3890 sq. yds., and Final Plot No. 187, admeasuring 2724 sq. yds. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 623 Mrugendra Indravadan Mehta and Others v. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation The monetary value of these two plots would depend upon their situation, development, proximity and access to the main road or highway, etc., and cannot be surmised or estimated without relevant material being produced. It cannot even be assessed as to whether they were of equal monetary value. Therefore, the prayer of the plaintiffs for allotment of an extent of land equivalent to the shortfall area of Final Plot No. 463 may not have been logical as their values may not necessarily be commensurate or comparable.