Shree Dev had four sons viz. Munna Lal, Raju, Nitya Nand (appellant) and Uchchav alias Pappu. His uncle Laxmi Narain was issueless and was residing with Satya Narain. Laxmi Narain gifted all his property to the informant and his brothers i.e. to the sons of Satya Narain. This was not to the liking of the accused persons which resulted in litigation and enmity. 16.1. He further stated that on the fateful day at about 04:30 PM his father Satya Narain, uncle Laxmi Narain and himself after easing themselves at about 04:30 PM, had reached Ambhagarh Akhada, Har Ki Pauri. At the same time from the side of Dhimaro Ka Mohalla, Shri Kuldeep S/o Ram Prakash and Bhola Shankar S/o Siaram came. Informant and his uncle Laxmi Narain started a conversation with the above two persons and while talking with the two persons went ahead and reached the temple of Goverdhan Nath Ji. Father of PW-1 Satya Narain had got down from the stairs for bathing in the Ganga at Har Ki Pauri. In the meanwhile, from the southern side of Tulsi Park, the accused persons came. While Shree Dev was armed with a danda, Munna Lal was armed with kanta. Raju and Uchchav were armed with knives. Appellant Nitya Nand was carrying a country-made pistol in his hand. As they confronted Satya Narain, Shree Dev exhorted the other accused persons to kill him. Thereafter, the accused persons caught hold of his father and started assaulting him with knives and kanta. As Satya Narain cried for help, Bhola Shankar, Kuldeep, Laxmi Narain and PW-1 rushed to help him. They had reached the Bharoji temple when appellant Nitya Nand fired a shot in the air from his country-made pistol to frighten PW-1 and the others. Taking advantage of the situation, the accused persons made good their escape from the crime scene through the south-western side. 16.2. As PW-1 went near his father, he found that his father had received multiple injuries inflicted by knives and kanta on his head, cheek, neck, back and ribs. His father Satya Narain had died on the spot with half of his body inside the water. While blood was splattered on the spot, sandal of his father [2024] 9 S.C.R. 45 Nitya Nand v. State of U.P. & Anr. was lying on the stairs with stick in the water. PW-1 stated that he had dictated a report of the incident on the spot to Kuldeep Kumar Tiwari S/o Ram Prakash who had scribed the same. After he had completed writing down what was dictated, scribe Kuldeep Kumar Tiwari read over the same to PW-1 and thereafter took his signature. PW-1 stated that he along with his uncle Laxmi Narain went to the police station in a tricycle (rickshaw) and handed over the report to the incharge of the police station who registered a case and handed over a copy of the same to PW-1. 17. In his cross-examination PW-1 stated that after hearing the cries of his father, he had rushed back to the spot.