The Corporation as well as the respondents are obliged and bound to comply with its mandatory conditions and requirements. Any action or conduct deviating from these conditions shall render such action illegal and invalid. Moreover, the respondents have availed the retiral benefits arising out of CPF and gratuity without any protest. 52. The respondents in all these appeals, before us, have made a claim for pensionary benefits under the Pension Scheme for the first time only after their retirement with an unreasonable delay of more than 8 years. It is not in dispute, in some appeals, that the respondents never opted for the Pension Scheme for their alleged want of knowledge for non-service of individual notices. In other appeals, although the respondents applied for the option of the Pension Scheme but indisputably never fulfilled the quintessential conditions envisaged by the Regulations which are statutory in nature.” 9. We are, therefore, of the opinion that, in the facts and circumstances of the case and in view of the law laid down by this Court in the referred to hereinabove, the impugned s passed by the learned Single Judge 1392 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports [Madugiri v. Rajasthan SRTC, WP (C) No. 5425 of 1993 (Civil Writ 5425/1993), dated 5-1-2006 (Raj)] and the Division Bench [Rajasthan SRTC v. Madugiri, Civil Special Appeal (Writ) No. 212 of 2006, decided on 11-10- 2006 (Raj)] of the High Court cannot be sustained in law.” 35. The common thread in the above referred s of this Court is that pension is a right and not a bounty. It is a constitutional right for which an employee is entitled on his superannuation. However, pension can be claimed only when it is permissible under the relevant rules or a scheme. If an employee is covered under the Provident Fund Scheme and is not holding a pensionable post, he cannot claim pension, nor the writ court can issue mandamus directing the employer to provide pension to an employee who is not covered under the rules. 36. The appellant(s) have relied upon three earlier s of the Allahabad High Court in the matter of Mirza Athar Beg (supra), S.M. Fazil (supra) and Shri Narain Pandey (supra), therefore, it would be appropriate to discuss about the status of the said employees. 37. Mirza Athar Beg was promoted on the post of Junior Clerk in the Roadways w.e.f 07.09.1958 in the office of Assistant General Manager at Charbagh Depot, Lucknow and his promotion was regularised on 16.04.1960. The Division Bench of the High Court noted the fact that it is not the case of the Corporation that the respondent Mirza Athar Beg was not a permanent employee of the Roadways. Thus, he was admittedly a permanent employee and, therefore, he was found to be falling in the category of pensionable post as per GO dated 28.10.1960. 38. S.M. Fazil was appointed as Assistant Traffic Inspector in the Roadways on 19.04.1949. He was promoted as Junior Station Incharge on 05.11.1956 and thereafter selected as Traffic Superintendent by the U.P.