The final payment of the bill(s) / invoice(s) was dependent on issuance of certificate(s) including one relating to successful completion of the performance guarantee test (PG Test). Further, the contract provided that if the performance guarantee is not undertaken by the purchaser (appellant(s) herein), it could be deemed that the supplier (claimant -R-1) had fulfilled its obligation of providing a guaranteed performance of the project under the contract. In these circumstances, when, despite request of the contractor /supplier, the employer/ purchaser failed to undertake the PG Test, the Arbitral Tribunal justifiably concluded that even though the supplier (claimant) had fulfilled its obligations under the contract, the purchaser (appellant(s) herein) had failed in fulfilling its obligation of making payment of the outstanding principal amount to the claimant, which had become due and payable under the contract. In our view, therefore, the claim being one for ‘compensation’ (which 97 Extracted in paragraph 88 (16) of this . 582 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports term includes a specified outstanding amount), based on breach of a contract, the limitation for the claim would fall within the ambit of Article 55 of the Schedule to the 1963 Act unless demonstrated that the claim is specially covered by any other Article of the Schedule. 100. In Geo Miller (supra)98 a three-Judge Bench of this Court held that in a commercial dispute, though mere failure to pay may not give rise to a cause of action, once the applicant has asserted their claim and the respondent fails to respond to such claim, such failure will be treated as a denial of the applicant’s claim giving rise to a dispute and, therefore, a cause of action for reference to arbitration would come into existence. It was also observed that it would not lie in the mouth of the claimant to plead that it waited to refer the dispute to arbitration because it was making representations and sending reminders to the respondent to settle the matter. 101. In Major (Retd.) Inder Singh Rekhi v. Delhi Development Authority,99 in the context of commencement of the period of limitation for making a reference application under Section 20 of the erstwhile Arbitration Act, 1940, it was held by this Court that to be entitled to have an of reference under Section 20, it is necessary that there should be an arbitration agreement and secondly, differences must arise to which the agreement applied. Once there is an assertion of claim by the appellant and silence as well as refusal in respect of the same by the respondent, a dispute would arise regarding non-payment of the alleged dues. The Court thereafter went on to observe: “4. ……. The High Court proceeded on the basis that the work was completed in 1980 and therefore, the appellant became entitled to the payment from that date, and the cause of action under article 137 arose from that date. But in to be entitled to ask for the reference under section 20 of the Act there must not only be an entitlement to money but there must be a difference, or dispute must arise.