[2024] 1 S.C.R. 1083 : 2024 INSC 63 Ajitsinh Chehuji Rathod v. State of Gujarat & Anr. (Criminal Appeal No. 478 of 2024) 29 January 2024 [B.R. Gavai and Sandeep Mehta*, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Appellant-accused convicted u/s.138, Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, had claimed mismatch of signatures on the cheque in question. His application for comparison of the signature as appearing on the cheque through the handwriting expert was rejected by trial court. High Court whether justified in dismissing the application filed by the appellant u/s.391, CrPC for taking additional evidence at appellate stage and seeking a direction to obtain the opinion of the handwriting expert. Headnotes Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 – ss.118, 138 – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.391 – Presumptions under the NI Act though rebuttable, operate in favour of the complainant – Accused to rebut such presumptions by leading evidence – Cheque dishonoured – Appellant convicted for offence punishable u/s.138 – Claiming mismatch of signatures, during the trial, the appellant had filed application seeking comparison of the signature as appearing on the cheque through the handwriting expert – Rejected by trial court – not challenged – At appellate stage, the appellant filed application u/s.391, CrPC for taking additional evidence and seeking a direction to obtain the opinion of the handwriting expert – Dismissed: Held: s.118 sub-clause (e) provides a clear presumption regarding indorsements made on the negotiable instrument being in in which they appear thereupon – Thus, the presumption of the indorsements on the cheque being genuine operates in favour of the holder in due course of the cheque in question which would be the complainant herein – If the accused intends to rebut such presumption, he would be required to lead evidence to this effect – Certified copy of a document issued by a Bank is itself * Author 1084 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports admissible under the Bankers’ Books Evidence Act, 1891 without any formal proof thereof – Hence, in an appropriate case, the certified copy of the specimen signature maintained by the Bank can be procured with a request to the Court to compare the same with the signature appearing on the cheque by exercising powers u/s.73, Evidence Act, 1872 – However, in the present case, despite having opportunity, the appellant did not put any question to the bank official examined in defence for establishing his plea of purported mismatch of signature on the cheque in question – Hence, the appellate Court was not required to come to the aid and assistance of the appellant for collecting defence evidence at his behest – Power to record additional evidence u/s.391, CrPC should only be exercised when the party making such request was prevented from presenting the evidence in the trial despite due diligence or the facts giving rise to such prayer came to light at a later stage during pendency of the appeal and non-recording of such evidence may lead to failure of justice – Furthermore, the appellant also did not challenge the trial court’s rejecting his application for comparison of the signature as appearing on the cheque through the handwriting expert and thus, had attained finality – Impugned s do not warrant interference.