It will be relevant to refer to the following observations of the Full Bench of the High Court: “The land reserved for common purposes under Section 18(c), which might become part and parcel of a scheme framed under Section 14, for the areas reserved for common purposes, vests with the Government or Gram Panchayat, as the case may be, and the proprietors are left with no right or interest in such lands meant for common purposes under the scheme. There is nothing at all mentioned either in the Act or the rules or the scheme, that came to be framed, that the proprietors will lose right only with regard to land which was actually put to any use and not the land which may be put to common use later in point of time. In none of the sections or Rules, which have been referred to by us in the earlier part of scheme envisages only such lands which have been utilized. That apart, in all the relevant sections and the rules, words mentioned are ‘reserved or assigned’. Reference in this connection may be made to sub-section (3) of Section 18 and Section 23-A. The provisions of the statute, as referred to above, would, thus, further fortify that reference is to land reserved or assigned for common use, whether utilized or not. *** *** *** 926 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The lands which, however, might have been contributed by the proprietors on pro-rata basis, but have not been reserved or earmarked for common purposes in a scheme, known as Bachat land, it is equally true, would not vest either with the State or the Gram Panchayat and instead continue to be owned by the proprietors of the village in the same proportion in which they contribute the land owned by them. The Bachat land, which is not used for common purposes under the scheme, in view of provisions contained in Section 22 of the Act of 1948, is recorded as Jumla Mustarka Malkan Wa Digar Haqdaran Hasab Rasad Arazi Khewat but the significant differences is that in the column of ownership proprietors are shown in possession in contrast to the land which vests with the Gram Panchayat which is shown as being used for some or the other common purposes as per the scheme. We might have gone into this issue in all its details but in as much as the point in issue is not res-integra and in fact stands clinched by string of judicial pronouncements of this Court as well as Hon’ble Supreme Court, there is no necessity at all to interpret the provisions of the Act and the rules any further on this issue. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in Bhagat Ram and ors. Vs. State of Punjab and ors. AIR 1967 Supreme Court 927, dealt with reservation of certain area in the consolidation scheme for income of the Panchayat. Brief facts of the case aforesaid would reveal that a scheme made in respect of consolidation of village Dolike Sunderpur was questioned on the ground that in as much as it makes reservation of land for income of the Gram Panchayat, it is hit by second proviso to Article 31-A of the Constitution of India.