The Plaintiff did not have any personal knowledge about the manner of his succession to the suit property. Even as per his own evidence, he is not the absolute owner of the suit property, being a co-owner. The documents relied on by him, more particularly the decision of the revenue authorities, do not establish both title and possession. A detailed discussion was made on the effect of Section 15 and 16 of the A.P. Forest Act, along with the documents marked on behalf of defendants. It took note of the fact that though a portion of the property was sold as per the evidence of the Plaintiff, there is no proof. 48. Immediately after the of the High Court dated 20.07.2018, a review was filed on behalf of the plaintiff on 18.11.2018. Shockingly, Defendant No. 1, who filed a common written statement along with the Defendant No. 2 and, thus, took a stand that the suit property is a forest land which becomes part of a reserved forest area, in line with the stand taken by the Defendant No. 3, who was impleaded pending the first appeal, constituted a committee on 12.07.2019 on an application said to have been filed by the Plaintiff in the year 2017, which was obviously pending the first appeal. 49. More surprisingly, the District Forest Officer did not appear before the Committee and based upon a report submitted, it was held that the suit property is required to be excluded in favour of the plaintiff. This was done despite the fact that the District Collector, who was a party to the suit, took a specific stand, and in view of the which attained finality, that the suit land is forest land, the District Collector has got no jurisdiction at all to deal with it in any manner especially in the light of Section 15 and 16 of the A.P. Forest Act. We do not wish to say anything more on this, though wisdom has dawned upon defendants again, as could be seen from the affidavit filed by the State before this Court reiterating the original stand. 50. The aforesaid decision was taken by the District Collector after the of the First Appellate Court. It was accordingly marked as a court exhibit in the review. Thereafter, it was taken up for hearing and disposed of on 19.03.2021. The Learned Judge who delivered an elaborate in the first appeal was transferred to Andhra Pradesh on establishment of the High Court at Amravati. The review came to be filed before another Learned Judge. The impugned 140 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was passed in the purported exercise of the power of review, by virtually reversing all the findings rendered in the appeal, while placing reliance upon evidence which on the face of it was inadmissible and, therefore, void from its inception, rendered by an authority which had absolutely no jurisdiction at all. 51. While doing so, the High Court in review jurisdiction once again reconsidered the evidence produced by the Defendants.