The adverse impact of lack of probity in discharge of public duties can result in varied defects, not only in the decision-making process but in the final decision as well. Every officer in the hierarchy of the State, by virtue of his being “public officer” or “public servant”, is accountable for his decisions to the public as well as to the State. This concept of dual responsibility should be applied with its rigours in the larger public interest and for proper governance.” 764 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 47. This Court held that the well-established precepts of public trust and public accountability are fully applicable to the functions which emerge from the public servants or even the persons holding public office. It has been held that the doctrine of “full faith and credit” applies to the acts done by the officers in the hierarchy of the State. They have to faithfully discharge their duties to elongate public purpose. 48. This Court referring to its earlier decision in the case of Centre for Public Interest Litigation and another v. Union of India and another25 held that the State actions causing loss are actionable under public law. The courts, which are the protectors of civil liberties of the citizens, would ensure protection against devastating results of State action. The principles of public accountability and transparency in State actions are applicable to cases of executive or statutory exercise of power, besides requiring that such actions also do not lack bona fides. The Court held that the public officers are answerable for both their inaction and irresponsible actions. For such actions or inactions, responsibility should be fixed on the erring officers so as to ensure the real public purpose of an answerable administration. 49. The Court held that the principles of public accountability are applicable to the government officials with all their rigour. Greater the power to decide, higher is the responsibility to be just and fair. It has been held that every officer in the hierarchy of the State, by virtue of his being “public officer” or “public servant”, is accountable for his decisions to the public as well as to the State. It has been held that the concept of dual responsibility should be applied with its rigours in the larger public interest and for proper governance. 50. This Court in the case of Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. and others v. Union of India and others26 had an occasion to consider the distinction between exercise of power in good faith and misuse in bad faith. While elaborating the principle of fraud on power, this Court observed thus: “119. Fraud on power voids the if it is not exercised bona fide for the end design. There is a distinction between exercise of power in good faith and misuse in bad faith. 25 [2003] Supp. 3 SCR 746 : (2005) 8 SCC 202 26 [1985] Supp. 3 SCR 382 : (1986) 1 SCC 133 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 765 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures The former arises when an authority misuses its power in breach of law, say, by taking into account bona fide, and with best of intentions, some extraneous matters or by ignoring relevant matters.