A decision was taken inter alia to cancel the appointment process under the Advertisement and to initiate approval for the amended Rules. 12. Once the decision dated 25.01.2023 was brought on record before the High Court, the State Govt. was permitted to implement its decisions dated 25.01.2023 and the Court concluded that nothing remained in the matter. Accordingly, CWJC No. 3411/2022 and all other analogous writs were disposed of in the following manner: “In the instant writ petitions, petitioners have prayed for the following relief/reliefs: i. For quashing of Rule 9(1)(ii) of Rules “Bihar Water Resources Department Subordinate Engineering (Civil) Cadre Recruitment (Amendment) Rules, 2017 contained in Notification no. 3950 dated 07.11.2017 prescribing technical qualification eligibility for selection/appointment to the technical post in the State of Bihar, as being inconsistent with other statutory provisions, in contravention of the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s and is violative of fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution of India. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1351 Shashi Bhushan Prasad Singh v. The State of Bihar and Others ii. For declaration of the aforesaid rules as being ultra vires to the Constitution of India so far amendment of Rule -9(1)(iii) is concerned. iii. For any other relief/reliefs to which the petitioner is found entitled to. 2. Matter is relating to selection and appointment to the post of Junior Engineer. In this regard, advertisement was issued on 08.03.2019. From time to time, matter was taken up for hearing and during the course of the hearing we have noticed certain errors in the relevant Rules governing the post of Junior Engineer. Ultimately, State Government has taken a decision to cancel the process of recruitment to the post of Junior Engineer with reference to advertisement issued on 08.03.2019 and proposed to issue a fresh or amendment of Rules while rectifying certain errors which have crept in the existing Rules. To that effect, supplementary counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of respondent No. 4 while enclosing decision dated 25.01.2023 vide Annexure – A to the supplementary counter affidavit. Perusal of the same, it is evident that certain errors which have crept in the Rules would be carried in amendment of relevant Rules etc. The proposed action of the State respondents reads as under: ‘4. After due deliberations on all aspects, it was resolved that: a. In view of the legal wrangle crept in presently, the Recruitment process emanating from the Advertisement No.01/2019 notified by the Bihar Technical Service Commission be cancelled. b. The Department which earlier send its requisition for appointment to the Commission shall withdraw their respective requisition from the Bihar Technical Service Commission and such Department would send their such requisition afresh only after framing of new Recruitment Rules. 1352 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c. Action be also initiated for cancellation of the Junior Engineer Recruitments Rules which are presently in vogue in various departments and thereafter, the amended Junior Engineer Recruitments Rules be framed. d. Steps be taken as to the approval of the Council of Ministers be accorded to the amended junior Engineer Recruitment Rules for the appointment of the Junior Engineer.’ 3.