The decision will be based on the discipline that the child has achieved and his behaviour.” 4. Brief facts relevant and essential for disposal of the instant appeal are noted hereinbelow. 5. The victim Ms. D, being the daughter of the first informant-Mr. G(PW- 1) aged 6 years went missing in the evening of 2nd July, 2016. Mr. G (PW-1) lodged a complaint at P.S. Kolathur, District Salem on 3rd July, 2016 at 7 ‘o clock in the morning alleging, inter alia that he had taken his daughter(victim) to a shop on the previous evening at 1232 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports around 6 o’ clock and from there, he asked the child to return home. However, when he reached his house half an hour later and made an inquiry from his wife, he was told that the child had not returned by then. A search was made in the locality but the child could not be traced out. Based on the said complaint, Crime No. 174 of 2016 was registered and investigation was undertaken by S. Viswanathan, Inspector of Police (PW-25). 6. The Investigating Officer (PW-25) recorded the statements of Mylaswamy (PW-10) and Irusappan (PW-11) who stated that they had seen the accused going into the compound of his house with the child victim being the daughter of the first informant-Mr. G (PW- 1). On this, the needle of suspicion pointed towards the accused- appellant who was apprehended from his house by the Investigating Officer (PW-25) while he was trying to run away. The accused was interrogated in presence of Mr. Arivazhagan, Village Administrative Officer (PW-15) and his assistant Muthappan. 7. It is alleged that the accused confessed to his guilt and his admission was recorded in memo (Ex. P-20) and acting in furtherance thereof, the dead body of Ms. D was found concealed in a wide-mouthed aluminium vessel lying in the prayer room of the house of the accused. The requisite spot inspection proceedings were undertaken and the dead body of the child victim was sent to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital for conducting post mortem. The post mortem report (Ex. P-7) and final opinion of Doctor (Ex. P-8) were received indicating that the death of the victim was homicidal in nature having being caused by asphyxiation due to compression of neck along with injuries to genitalia. Some incised wounds were also found on the body of the victim. Incriminating articles viz., clothes of the accused, a blade, etc. were recovered from the house of accused. 8. Right at the inception of investigation, the Investigating Officer(PW-25) had gathered information to the effect that the accused was a juvenile since his date of birth recorded in school documents is 30th May, 2000. Thus indisputably, the accused was a Child in Conflict with Law(in short ‘CICL’) as provided under Section 2(13) of the Juvenile Justice(Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereinafter being referred to as the ‘JJ Act’) and the proceedings were required to be conducted in accordance with the mandatory procedure prescribed [2024] 3 S.C.R.