Agencies of the central and state governments may specifically designate their godowns for storage purposes. The godowns should be selected keeping in view their security angle, juxtaposition to courts, etc. 3.3. Maintenance of godown and procedure for deposit of drugs Such godowns, as a matter of rule, shall be placed under the overall supervision and charge of a gazetted officer of the respective enforcement agency, who shall exercise utmost care, circumspection and personal supervision as far as possible. Each seizing officer shall deposit the drugs fully packed and sealed in the godown within 48 hours of such seizure, with a forwarding memo indicating NDPS Crime Number as per Crime and Prosecution (C & P Register) under the new law, name of the accused, reference of test memo, description of the drugs, total number of packages/containers etc. 3.8. Prescription of periodical reports and returns The heads of the respective enforcement agencies (both central and state governments) may prescribe such [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1421 Narcotics Control Bureau v. Kashif periodical reports and returns, as they may deem fit, to monitor the safe receipt, deposit, storage, accounting and disposal of seized drugs. 3.9. Pre-trial disposal of drugs Since the early disposal of drugs assumes utmost consideration and importance, the enforcement agencies may obtain s for pre-trial disposal of drugs and other articles (including conveyance, if any) by having recourse to the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 52A of the Act. SECTION IV – ACTION TO BE TAKEN BY POLICE AND OTHER EMPOWERED OFFICERS FOR PRE-TRIAL DISPOSAL 4. Follow-up action to be taken by police and empowered officers Application to magistrate for pre-trial disposal Where any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance has been seized and forwarded to the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station or to the officer empowered under Section 53, the officer, referred to in paragraph 3.3 of the shall prepare an inventory of such narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances containing such details relating to their description, quality, quantity, mode of packing, marks, numbers or such other identifying particulars of the narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances or the packing in which they are packed, country of origin and such other particular as may be considered relevant to the identity of the aforesaid drugs in any proceedings under the Act and make an application to any magistrate for the purpose of: (a) Certifying the correctness of the inventory so prepared; or (b) Taking, in the presence of such magistrate, photographs of such drugs or substances and certifying such photographs as true; or (c) Allowing to draw representative samples of such drugs or substances, in the presence of such magistrate, 1422 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports and certifying the correctness of any list of samples so drawn. 4.1. Magistrate to allow application Where an application is made under sub section (2) of Section 52A of the Act, the magistrate shall, as soon as may be, allow the application. 4.2. Courts to treat documents and list of samples certified by magistrate as “primary evidence.” Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1of 1872) or the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), every court trying an offence under this Act shall treat the inventory, the photographs, or narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances and any list of samples drawn under subsection (2) ibid and certified by the magistrate, as primary evidence in respect of such offence.