This was seen as the biggest victory for the leaders of the movement. Apart from the promises to accelerate the economic development of Assam, legislative and administrative safeguards were also promised by the Central Government to protect the cultural, social and linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people. Concerning those who had come to Assam post-1965, the then Home Minister clarified that though their right to vote would be suspended, they would not be harassed in any way and would continue to enjoy all other legal and constitutional rights.56 The date of the beginning of the Bangladesh War, that is, 25.03.1971, was accepted as the cut-off date for the deportation of foreigners.57 The Central Government also promised in the accord to erect a fence along the riverine and open part of the Indo-Bangladeshi b. This officially marked the end of the six-year-long anti-foreigner movement in Assam. 72. On the basis of the Assam Accord, the Government of India introduced Section 6A of the Citizenship Act, whereby it sought to codify the political settlement arrived at through a series of negotiations and provide clarity, inter-alia, on the status of citizenship of immigrants between 1950 to 1971. B. Salient featureS of the aSSam accorD 73. As a result of the student movement and the ensuing negotiations between the Central Government, State Government, AASU, and the 55 Assam Tribune, Jul. 28, 1985. 56 K.C. Khanna, Minefield of Uncertainties: The Assam Accord and After, times oF inDiA, (20 August 1985). 57 mAni shAnKAr AiyAr, rAJiv GAnDhi’s inDiA: A GolDen JuBilee retrospeCtive, nAtionhooD, ethniCity, plurAlism AnD ConFliCt resolution, (Atlantic Publishers 1998); Hiteswar Saikia acknowledged that, to him, ‘the Accord was good because, for the first time, those who came to Assam right from 1947 to 1971 after the Partition were recognised’ as citizens of India. 1166 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports All Assam Gana Sangram Parishad (“AAGSP”), a Memorandum of Settlement was arrived at on 15.08.1985, which is commonly known as the “Assam Accord”. Terms of the Assam Accord are reproduced below for ease of reference: - “MEMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT 1. Government have all along been most anxious to find a satisfactory solution to the problem of Foreigners in Assam. The All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and the All Assam Gana Sangram Parishad (AAGSP) have also expressed their Keenness to find such a solution. 2. The AASU through their Memorandum dated 2nd February, 1980 presented to the Late Prime Minister Smt. Indira Gandhi, conveyed their profound sense of apprehensions regarding the continuing influx of foreign nationals into Assam and the fear about adverse effects upon the political, social, cultural and economic life of the State. 3. Being fully alive to the genuine apprehensions of the people of Assam, the then Prime Minister initiated the dialogue with the AASU/AAGSP. Subsequently, talks were held at the Prime Minister’s and Home Ministers levels during the period 1980-83. Several rounds of informal talks were held during 1984. Formal discussions were resumed in March, 1985. 4. Keeping all aspects of the problem including constitutional and legal provision, international agreements, national commitments and humanitarian considerations, it has been decided to proceed as follows :- Foreigners Issue: 5.1 For purpose of detection and deletion of foreigners, 1-1-1966 shall be the base date and year.