Rathi Steels Limited and Others e) The Collector shall provide hearing of objections as per section 15 of the 2013 Act without insisting for any Social Impact Assessment Report and shall, thereafter, proceed to take necessary steps as per the procedure contemplated under section 21 onwards of Chapter-IV of 2013 Act, save and except where compliance of any provision has been expressly or impliedly dispensed with; f) The landowners may submit their objections within a period of four weeks from the date of pronouncement of this . Such objections shall not question the legality of the acquisition process and shall be limited only to clauses (a) and (b) of section 15(1) of the 2013 Act; g) The Collector shall publish a public notice on his website and in one English and one vernacular newspapers, within two weeks of expiry of the period of four weeks granted under direction (f) above; h) The Collector shall, thereafter, pass an award as early as possible but not exceeding six months, regardless of the maximum period of twelve months contemplated under section 25 of the 2013 Act. The market value of the land shall be assessed as on 01st January, 2014 and the compensation shall be awarded along with all other monetary benefits in accordance with the provisions of the 2013 Act except the claim like rehabilitation etc. ; i) The Collector shall consider all the parameters prescribed under section 28 of the 2013 Act for determining the compensation for the acquired land. Similarly, the Collector shall determine the market value of the building or assets attached with the land in accordance with section 29 and shall further award solatium in accordance with section 30 of the 2013 Act; j) In the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, since it is difficult to reverse the clock back, the compliance of Chapter (V) pertaining to “Rehabilitation and Resettlement Award” is hereby dispensed with; and k) The expropriated landowners shall be entitled to seek reference for enhancement of compensation in accordance with Chapter- VIII of the 2013 Act. 1008 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 122. Before we part, we must address a minor task that remains unfinished. Specifically, we are currently handling two sets of RPs. The first set pertains to landowners who continue to maintain their status as landowners from the date of Notification under section 4(1) of the 1894 Act. The second set includes landowners who, subsequent to the aforementioned Notification under section 4(1), have transferred their properties—the subject of acquisition—to purchasers (“subsequent purchasers”, hereafter) through methods such as executing sale deeds, deeds of assignment, or even via power of attorney. In addition to the allegations regarding fraud by landowners by suppressing subsequent sale transactions, the second set may also involve ownership title disputes, etc. 123. The cases falling under the second set are listed below: a) DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. TARUN KAPAHI [R.P. (C) No. 425/2023]; b) GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI v. NARENDER SHARMA [R.P. (C) No. 426/2023]; c) DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. M/S.