Further, Arvind Kejriwal was involved in the use of proceeds of crime generated in the Goa election campaign [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2403 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement of Aam Aadmi Party,45 in which he is the convenor and the ultimate decision maker. • C. Arvind, the then Secretary of Manish Sisodia, in his statement dated 07.12.2022, has stated that the policy was given to him in the form of a draft report of the Group of Ministers46 by Manish Sisodia at the residence of Arvind Kejriwal. Satyender Jain was also present at that time. The details mentioned in the draft document on wholesale profit margin of 12%, etc., had not been discussed earlier in the meetings of the GoM. He had prepared the policy on the basis of the draft which was submitted to the cabinet on 22.03.2021. • Statement of Butchi Babu dated 23.03.2023, the then Chartered Accountant of K. Kavitha, is referred. Butchi Babu had revealed that Vijay Nair who was working for Arvind Kejriwal and Manish Sisodia was in touch with Arun Pillai. Vijay Nair was involved in policy formulation, for ensuring that the policy favours K. Kavitha. This is corroborated by WhatsApp chats which were retrieved from the mobile phone of Butchi Babu, wherein certain terms of the excise policy, two days before it was finalised by the GoM, were found. • Association of Arvind Kejriwal with Vijay Nair is elaborated. Vijay Nair has been described as a broker/liaison/middleman on behalf of top leaders of AA Party, who wanted bribes/kickbacks from the stakeholders. Vijay Nair had threatened those opposing and not agreeing to his demands. Vijay Nair was staying in the official residence allotted to Kailash Gehlot, a cabinet minister and a close associate of Arvind Kejriwal. • Vijay Nair on behalf of Arvind Kejriwal and AA Party had received kickbacks to the tune of Rs.100 crores from the group/cartel who had been favoured. • The permanent members of the liquor group/cartel were Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy, Raghav Magunta, and K. Kavitha. The group/cartel was also represented by Abhishek Boinpally, Arun Pillai and Butchi Babu. 45 For short, “AA Party”. 46 For short, “GoM”. 2404 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports • P. Sarath Reddy in his statement dated 25.04.2023 under Section 50 of the PML Act had revealed having expressed his desire to meet top political leaders in Delhi, that is, Arvind Kejriwal and Manish Sisodia, through Arun Pillai. Arun Pillai had assured him and had coordinated with Vijay Nair. Later on he met Arvind Kejriwal in a brief meeting of 10 minutes or so in which Vijay Nair was also present. He was told by Arvind Kejriwal to trust Vijay Nair who was very smart and could handle big and small issues. Arvind Kejriwal spoke about the new liquor policy which would be a win-win for all. • On Arvind Kejriwal’s role of demanding kickbacks, reference is made to the statement of Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy dated 16.07.2023 recorded under Section 50 of the PML Act; and his statement dated 17.07.2023 recorded under Section 164 of the Code.