But here there is no evidence of that kind. Therefore, taking into account (a) the place where the accused appellants and the deceased were allegedly seen together; and (b) lack of proximity of the time and place when the three were seen together with the time and place when, and from where, the body of the deceased was recovered, we are of the considered view that the last seen circumstance as canvassed by the prosecution is not of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused-appellants. APPELLANT(S) LOOKING FOR THE DECEASED 28. PW-3 speaks of accused-appellants’ presence at his shop on 2.2.1997, at about 6.30 PM, as also of they being looking for the deceased. This circumstance has been considered incriminating by the courts below because it throws a possibility of accused being looking for the deceased with an intent to finish him off. In our view, this circumstance is not of a definite tendency in unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused, inasmuch as there may be multiple reasons for a person to look for another. Importantly, there is no evidence that the accused appellants were heard conspiring against the deceased or expressing their animosity towards him. Rather, this circumstance runs contrary to the last seen circumstance because if 1250 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the accused were in the company of the deceased, why would they be looking for the deceased. APPELLANTS WERE NOTICED IN THE NIGHT HOURS 29. PW-2 stated that on 2.2.1997 he noticed the appellants with Jagdish Punetha coming from the shop of Mohan Singh on 2.2.1997 between 6.30 PM and 7 PM. This circumstance is not an incriminating circumstance because from the statement of Mohan Singh (PW3) he was at his shop when the above three left his shop. However, PW-2 goes on to state that in the night hours of 2.2.1997 when he returned to his shop to fetch his purse, he noticed the accused- appellants walking on the path in front of Mohan Singh’s shop. This circumstance is taken as highly incriminating by the courts below because there was no reason for the appellants to be there at that odd hour of cold winter night. According to the courts below, this circumstance explains the presence of deceased’s body in front of Mohan Singh’s shop. 30. If we test the statement of PW-2 against the weight of other evidence on record, it does not inspire confidence, firstly, because from PW-9’s (the first investigating officer) statement it appears that PW-2 was present at the time of inquest, which was held on 3.2.1997, yet he chose not to disclose about what he saw till 9.2.1997. Interestingly, statement of PW-2 was recorded by PW-10 (i.e., the second investigating officer) on 9.2.1997 after the accused-appellants had already been arrested and even recovery of incriminating articles at their instance had allegedly been made. In what circumstances PW-2 withheld his statement that long and thereafter came to make a disclosure is not explained in the prosecution evidence.