In the said case, the Court was concerned only with Article 58 of the Limitation Act. The Court noted that while enacting Article 58 of the Limitation Act, the legislature had designedly made a departure from the language of Article 120 of the Limitation Act, 1908. The Court noted that the word “first” has been used between the words “sue” and “accrued”. The Court said that the same would mean that if a suit is based on multiple causes of action, the period of limitation would begin to run from the date when the right of sue first accrued. In other words, the Court held that successive violation of the right would not give rise to fresh cause and the suit would be liable to be dismissed if it was beyond the period of limitation counted from the day when the right to sue first accrued. 35. The decision in the case of Rajpal Singh v. Saroj (Deceased) through Legal Representatives & Anr. reported in (2022) 15 SCC 260, relied upon by the learned counsel appearing for the appellants is also of no avail. In the said case, this Court observed as under: “14. The submission on behalf of the original plaintiff (now represented through her heirs) that the prayer in the suit was also for recovery of the possession and therefore the said suit was filed within the period of twelve years and therefore the suit has been filed within the period of limitation, cannot be accepted. Relief for possession is a consequential prayer and the substantive prayer was of cancellation of the sale deed dated 19-4-1996 and [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1909 Mallavva and Anr. v. Kalsammanavara Kalamma (Since Dead) by Legal Heirs & Ors. therefore, the limitation period is required to be considered with respect to the substantive relief claimed and not the consequential relief. When a composite suit is filed for cancellation of the sale deed as well as for recovery of the possession, the limitation period is required to be considered with respect to the substantive relief of cancellation of the sale deed, which would be three years from the date of the knowledge of the sale deed sought to be cancelled. Therefore, the suit, which was filed by the original plaintiff for cancellation of the sale deed, can be said to be substantive therefore the same was clearly barred by limitation. Hence, the learned trial court ought to have dismissed the suit on the ground that the suit was barred by limitation. As such the learned first appellate court was justified and right in setting aside the and decree passed by the learned trial court and consequently dismissing the suit. The High Court has committed a grave error in quashing and setting aside a well-reasoned and a detailed and passed by the first appellate court dismissing the suit and consequently restoring the and decree passed by the trial court.” 36. Thus, it appears that two reliefs were prayed for. One for cancellation of the Sale Deed and the second for recovery of possession.