The model of sub-classification will be unconstitutional if it excludes some Scheduled Castes from the benefit. This, similar to the first variant of the preference model, would violate of Article 341(2), and would thus be unconstitutional. However, the second version of the exclusive model in which only a certain percentage of seats is exclusively allotted to the sub-classified castes would be constitutional. For example, if ten percent of the seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes are reserved for the more backward among Scheduled Castes, the other castes will have the chance to compete for the other ninety percent of the seats, thus, not excluding any of the castes. The sole test is whether the operation of the policy has the effect of eliminating the possibility of castes or groups competing for the seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes. 188. Article 341(2), as we have noted above, unambiguously prevents inclusion in and exclusion from the Scheduled Castes List by anyone except Parliament. Inclusion could be by way of extending the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1433 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. benefits meant for Scheduled Castes in the State, to a community that is not specifically mentioned in the State Scheduled Castes List (as was the case in Milind (supra)), by reading as a part of an enumerated entry or by reading it as a synonym of an enumerated entry. Such an exercise is not open to the States or for that matter to the Courts. Only Parliament is entrusted with the power to make inclusions to or exclusions from the Lists of Scheduled Castes and Tribes. The thrust of the prohibition, as Dr Ambedkar also indicated, is a proscription on the elimination of an entry or addition of an entry to the List. Such elimination or addition, it was apprehended could arise out of political calculations in the hope of short-term electoral gains. Therefore, only Parliament is invested with the exclusive power to make such variations to the List. Any legislative effort by the State that does not either include unspecified communities or exclude specified communities from the Scheduled Castes List applicable to that State does not fall foul of Article 341(2) of the Constitution. 189. The state has the power to follow either of the two permissible models discussed above while reserving seats through sub-classification. The decision of the State to choose from either of the two models will depend on multiple considerations such as the degree of backwardness of certain castes vis-à-vis the other castes and the total number of qualifying candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes (both the more backward castes of the Scheduled Castes and the others). 190. The course of action adopted by the State is subject to judicial review, when faced with a constitutional challenge. Where the action is challenged, the State will have to justify the basis of its action. The basis of the sub-classification and the model which has been followed will have to be justified on the basis of empirical data gathered by the State.