The appellants instituted proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Judicature at Bombay13 challenging the constitutionality of the provisions of Chapter VIII-A of the MHADA Act. The case of the appellants before the High Court was that the provisions of Chapter VIII-A are violative of Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution. It was urged that the provisions are arbitrary, deprive property owners of their rights for illusory amounts and the classification of the buildings had no rational nexus to their object. On the other hand, the respondents submitted that the provisions were not discriminatory or unreasonable. Further, the respondents argued that the MHADA Act gives effect to the principles laid down in Article 39(b) and in view of the immunity granted by Article 31C, the constitutionality of the Act cannot be challenged under Articles 14 and 19.14 14. On 13 December 1991, a Division Bench of the High Court dismissed the writ petitions and upheld the constitutionality of the provisions of Chapter VIII-A of the MHADA Act.15 Relying on the decision of this 13 “High Court” 14 Property Owners’ Association v. State of Maharashtra, 1991 SCC OnLine Bom 521, para 10. 15 Ibid. 38 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court in State of Maharashtra v Basantibai Khetan,16 the High Court held that the provisions of Chapter VIII-A are saved by Article 31C as they were enacted to give effect to the principles laid down in Article 39(b). In Basantibai Khetan, this Court held certain other provisions of the MHADA Act to be protected by Article 31C. The High Court held that the same principle applies to Chapter VIII-A as well. Further, the High Court also rejected the challenge to the constitutionality of the provisions on their merits and held that they do not violate Article 14. 15. Aggrieved by the judgement of the High Court, the appellants instituted Special Leave Petitions before this Court. These petitions have culminated in the underlying civil appeals. ii. The three reference s 16. The appeals have travelled through three separate reference s before being placed before this bench of nine judges. The batch of appeals was first placed before a bench of three judges of this Court. By an dated 1 May 1996,17 the three-Judge Bench recorded the submission of Mr Fali S Nariman, the learned counsel appearing for the appellants that Article 31C no longer survives in the Constitution after an amendment to the provision was invalidated by this Court in Minerva Mills v. Union of India.18 It was argued that since Article 31C no longer survived, it could not exclude an attack on the constitutional validity of the Act on the grounds of Articles 14 and 19. 17. A brief history of Article 31C and the layers of this contention are discussed in Part C of this judgement. However, at this stage, to understand the scope of the reference, it is sufficient to note that in Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala,19 this Court upheld the validity of Article 31C in part.