Moreover, the identification of the accused by PW-26 is very doubtful in the absence of the test identification parade. For all the reasons recorded above, the evidence of PW-26 will have to be kept out of consideration. 8. PW-26’s husband, who, according to her, was an eyewitness, was not examined by the Police. She admitted that her husband had accompanied her to the Police Station. She stated that she was not [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1431 Randeep Singh @ Rana & Anr. v. State of Haryana & Ors. aware whether the Police recorded her husband’s statement. In her cross-examination recorded on 13th May 2016, she admitted that her husband was present in the Court. Therefore, an adverse inference will have to be drawn against the prosecution for withholding evidence of an eyewitness. Then, what remains is the circumstantial evidence. CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE 9. We come to the evidence of PW-1. He was the Manager of the Bank of Baroda, Kala Amb branch. The prosecution relied upon the CCTV footage recorded on the camera installed by the Bank outside its premises. The prosecution contends that the white car and the accused were seen in the footage. PW-1 stated that based on the application made by the Police, he got a CD prepared from the CCTV footage of 8th July 2013 and produced the same before the Investigating Officer. In the cross-examination, he admitted that he had no personal knowledge about the contents of the CD and he had not personally seen the CCTV footage. He stated that he had not appended his signature on the parcel of the CD handed over to the Police. He accepted that even the stamp of the Bank was not put on the CD. 10. PW-24 claims to be a CCTV engineer. He stated that Balaji Digital Security Advisor, where he worked as an engineer, had a contract with the Bank. He claimed that he prepared a CD from the security system of the Bank of Baroda as per the request made by the Police. He accepted that he did not put his identification on the CD or make any markings on the CD. He admitted that editing could be made of the CCTV footage on the CD and that the CD could be tampered with. He also did not depose that he had seen the CCTV footage before downloading on the CD. Thus, neither PW-1 nor PW-24 had seen the CCTV footage downloaded on the CD. Moreover, the CD did not bear any marking or sign from either of the witnesses. Most importantly, the prosecution failed to produce the certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act concerning the CD. Therefore, the evidence in the form of the CD will have to be kept out of consideration as it is not admissible in evidence. 11. There is one more crucial aspect. Assuming that the CCTV footage was admissible, the learned trial Judge and the Judges of the High Court did not see the CCTV footage. Still, the Courts relied upon it.