On the reading of the “reasons to believe” the court must form the ‘secondary opinion’ on the validity of the exercise undertaken for compliance of Section 19(1) of the PML Act when the arrest was made. The “reasons to believe” that the person is guilty of an offence under the PML Act should be founded on the material in the form of documents and oral statements. 30. Referring to the legal position, this Court in Dr. Partap Singh and Another v. Director of Enforcement, Foreign Exchange Regulation Act and others27 has observed: “9. When an officer of the Enforcement Department proposes to act under Section 37 undoubtedly, he must have reason to believe that the documents useful for investigation or proceeding under the Act are secreted. The material on which the belief is grounded may be secret, may be obtained through Intelligence or occasionally may be conveyed orally by informants. It is not obligatory upon the officer to disclose his material on the mere allegation that there was no material before him on which his reason to believe can be grounded. The expression “reason to believe” is to be found in various statutes. We may take note of one such. Section 34 of Income Tax Act, 1922 inter alia 27 [1985] 3 SCR 969 : (1985) 3 SCC 72 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2389 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement provides that the Income Tax Officer must have “reason to believe” that the incomes, profits or gains chargeable to income tax have been underassessed, then alone he can take action under Section 34. In S. Narayanappa v. CIT the assessee challenged the action taken under Section 34 and amongst others it was contended on his behalf that the reasons which induced the Income Tax Officer to initiate proceedings under Section 34 were justiciable, and therefore, these reasons should have been communicated by the Income Tax Officer to the assessee before the assessment can be reopened. It was also submitted that the reasons must be sufficient for a prudent man to come to the conclusion that the income escaped assessment and that the Court can examine the sufficiency or adequacy of the reasons on which the Income Tax Officer has acted. Negativing all the limbs of the contention, this Court held that “if there are in fact some reasonable grounds for the Income Tax Officer to believe that there had been any non-disclosure as regards any fact, which could have a material bearing on the question of under-assessment, that would be sufficient to give jurisdiction to the Income Tax Officer to issue notice under Section 34.” The Court in terms held that whether these grounds are adequate or not is not a matter for the court to investigate. 10. The expression “reason to believe” is not synonymous with subjective satisfaction of the Officer. The belief must be held in good faith; it cannot merely be a pretence. In the same case, it was held that it is open to the court to examine the question whether the reasons for the belief have a rational connection or a relevant bearing to the formation of the belief and are not extraneous or irrelevant to the purpose of the section.