The word “royalty” means compensation paid to landlord by occupier of land for species of occupation allowed by contract between them. “Royalty” is a share of the product or profit (as of a mine, forest, etc.) reserved by the owner for permitting another to use his property.’ Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary of Words and Phrases (6th Edn., 2000, Vol. 3, p. 2341): ‘The word “royalties” signifies, in mining leases, that part of the reddendum which is variable, and depends upon the quantity of minerals gotten or the agreed payment to a patentee on every article made according to the patent. Rights or privileges for which remuneration is payable in the form of a royalty.’ Words and Phrases, Legally Defined (3rd Edn., 1990, Vol. 4, p. 112): ‘A royalty, in the sense in which the word is used in connection with mining leases, is a payment to the lessor proportionate to the amount of the demised mineral worked within a specified period.’ Wharton’s Law Lexicon (14th Edn., p. 893): ‘Royalty.—Payment to a patentee by agreement on every article made according to his patent; or to an author by a publisher on every copy of his book sold; or to the owner of minerals for the right of working the same on every ton or other weight raised.’ Mozley & Whiteley’s Law Dictionary (11th Edn., 1993, p. 243): ‘A pro rata payment to a grantor or lessor, on the working of the property leased, or otherwise on the profits of the grant or lease. The word is especially used in reference to mines, patents and copyrights.’ Prem’s Judicial Dictionary (1992, Vol. 2, p. 1458): ‘Royalties are payments which the Government may demand for the appropriation of minerals, timber or other property belonging to the Government. Two important features of royalty have to be noticed, they are, that the payment made for the privilege of removing the articles is in proportion to the quantity removed, and the basis of the payment is an agreement.’ Black’s Law Dictionary (7th Edn., p. 1330): ‘Royalty.—A share of the product or profit from real property, reserved by the grantor of a mineral lease, in exchange for the lessee’s right to mine or drill on the land. Mineral royalty.—A right to a share of income from mineral production.’ 60. In D.K. Trivedi & Sons v. State of Gujarat [D.K. Trivedi & Sons v. State of Gujarat, 1986 Supp SCC 20] a Bench of two learned Judges of this Court dealt with “rent”, “royalty” and “dead rent” and held as follows 1390 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports : (SCC pp. 53-54, paras 38-39) ‘38. Rent is an integral part of the concept of a lease. It is the consideration moving from the lessee to the lessor for demise of the property to him.… *** 39. In a mining lease the consideration usually moving from the lessee to the lessor is the rent for the area leased (often called surface rent), dead rent and royalty. Since the mining lease confers upon the lessee the right not merely to enjoy the property as under an ordinary lease but also to extract minerals from the land and to appropriate them for his own use or benefit, in addition to the usual rent for the area demised, the lessee is required to pay a certain amount in respect of the minerals extracted proportionate to the quantity so extracted.