148. Therefore, the application of sub-section (11), which pertains only to the empowerment of proper officers to issue show cause notices under Section 28, cannot be said to be limited only to new Section 28 but also to the provision as it stood prior to 08.04.2011. The legislative intent is that sub-section (11) was meant to apply to Section 28 without any restriction as to time. This is apparent from the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Validation Act. Therefore, the contention of the respondent that the phrase “…this section…” in sub-section (11) means only new Section 28, which was also accepted by the High Court of Delhi in Mangali Impex (supra), is erroneous. 149. Since, there is no overlap in the field of operation of Section 28(11) and Explanation 2, the interpretation of the non-obstante clause in Section 28(11) and the consequent harmonious construction of the two provisions in Mangali Impex (supra) is otiose. 150. Thus, we are in complete agreement with the view taken by the High Court of Bombay in the case of Sunil Gupta (supra) with respect to the first two questions raised by us in this case. The relevant portion of that is reproduced below: “25. As a result of the above discussion and finding that Explanation 2 has not been dealing with the case, which [2024] 12 S.C.R. 315 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. was specifically dealt with by sub- section (11) of section 28 of the Act, that we are of the opinion that the challenge in the writ petition is without any merit. The Explanation removes the doubts and states that even those cases which are governed by section 28 and whether initiated prior to the Finance Bill 2011 receiving the assent of the President shall continue to be governed by section 28, as it stood immediately before the date on which such assent is received. The reference to the Finance Bill therein denotes the Bill by the section itself was substituted by Act 8 of 2011 with effect from April 8, 2011. Prior to this Bill by which the section was substituted receiving the assent of the President of India, some cases were initiated and section 28 was resorted to by the authorities. Explanation 2 clarifies that they will proceed in terms of the unamended provision. The position dealt with by insertion of section 28 (11) is distinct and that is about competence of the officer. The officers namely those from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence having been entrusted and assigned the functions as noted above, they are deemed to have been possessing the authority, whether in terms of section 28 unamended or amended and substituted as above. In these circumstances, for these additional reasons as well, the challenge to this sub-section must fail.” [Emphasis supplied] 151. Further, the finding in Mangali Impex (supra) that Section 28(11) is overbroad and confers the powers of the proper officer to multiple sets of customs officers without any territorial or pecuniary jurisdictional limit which in turn may lead to “utter chaos and confusion” as highlighted in Sayed Ali (supra), is misconceived in our view.