32. It could thus be seen that this Court had granted liberty to the appellant to revive his prayer after filing of the charge-sheet. Now, relegating the appellant to again approach the trial court and thereafter the High Court and only thereafter this Court, in our view, would be making him play a game of “Snake and Ladder”. The trial court and the High Court have already taken a view and in our view relegating the appellant again to the trial court and the High Court would be an empty formality. In a matter pertaining to the life and liberty of a citizen which is one of the most sacrosanct rights guaranteed by the Constitution, a citizen cannot be made to run from pillar to post. 33. A careful reading of the second of this Court dated 4th June 2024 would show that this Court recorded that they did not propose to go into the arguments or dwell upon it in view of the liberty granted in the first of this Court. Thereafter, this Court noticed the assurance of the learned Solicitor General that the investigation would be concluded and final complaint/charge-sheet would be filed at any rate on or before 3rd July 2024. This Court further observed in its second that since the period of 6-8 months fixed by it in its first had not come to an end, it was inclined to dispose of this petition with liberty to the appellant to revive his prayer. It will be a travesty of justice to construe that the carefully couched preserving the right of the appellant to revive his prayer for grant of special leave against the High Court , to mean that he should be relegated all the way down to the trial court. The memorable adage, that procedure is a hand maiden and not a mistress of justice rings loudly in our ears. 34. In this respect, we may also gainfully refer to one of the recent pronouncements by a bench of this Court to which one of us (B.R. Gavai, J.) was a member in the case of Prabir Purkayastha v. State (NCT of Delhi),4 which reads thus: 4 [2024] 6 SCR 666 : 2024 SCC OnLine SC 934 : 2024 INSC 414 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1077 Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement “21. The Right to Life and Personal Liberty is the most sacrosanct fundamental right guaranteed under Articles 20, 21 and 22 of the Constitution of India. Any attempt to encroach upon this fundamental right has been frowned upon by this Court in a catena of decisions. In this regard, we may refer to following observations made by this Court in the case of Roy V.D. v. State of Kerala3:— “7. The life and liberty of an individual is so sacrosanct that it cannot be allowed to be interfered with except under the authority of law. It is a principle which has been recognised and applied in all civilised countries. In our Constitution Article 21 guarantees protection of life and personal liberty not only to citizens of India but also to aliens.”” 35.