It was sufficient if the assessing officer for reasons to be recorded by him in writing was of the opinion that any income chargeable to tax had escaped assessment for any assessment year, he could assess or reassess such income chargeable to tax which had escaped assessment and which came to his notice subsequently. Therefore, post 01.04.1989, the power to reopen an assessment became much wider. 28.3. It appears that a number of representations were received against the omission of the words “reason to believe” from Section 147 and their substitution by the word “opinion” of the assessing officer. It was pointed out by the representationists that the meaning of the expression “reason to believe” was explained in a number of s and was well settled. Omission of such an expression from Section 147 would give arbitrary powers to the assessing officer to reopen past assessments. To allay such apprehensions, Parliament enacted the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989 again amending Section 147 by re-introducing the expression “reason to believe”. Section 147 after the amendment carried out by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989 reads as under: 147. Income escaping assessment.—If the assessing officer has reason to believe that any income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year, he may, subject to the provisions of Sections 148 to 153, assess or reassess such income and also any other [2024] 1 S.C.R. 665 M/S Mangalam Publications, Kottayam v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kottayam income chargeable to tax which has escaped assessment and which comes to his notice subsequently in the course of the proceedings under this section, or recompute the loss or the depreciation allowance or any other allowance, as the case may be, for the assessment year concerned (hereafter in this section and in Sections 148 to 153 referred to as the relevant assessment year). 28.4. Thus, Section 147 as it stood at the relevant point of time provides that if the assessing officer has reason to believe that any income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year, he may assess or re-assess such income and such other income which has escaped assessment and which comes to his notice subsequently in the course of proceedings under Section 147. 29. Section 148 says that before making an assessment, re-assessment etc. under Section 147, the assessing officer is required to issue and serve a notice on the assessee calling upon the assessee to file a return of his income in the prescribed form etc., setting forth such particulars as may be called upon. 30. Such a notice is subject to the time limit prescribed under Section 149. Under sub-Section (1)(b), no notice under Section 148 shall be issued in a case where an assessment under sub-section (3) of Section 143 or Section 147 has been made for such assessment year if seven years but not more than 10 years have elapsed from the end of the relevant assessment year unless the income chargeable to tax which has escaped assessment amounts to or is likely to amount to Rs.