This amendment of 17.06.2010 was subsequent to the of this court in Godrej & Boyce I. However, there was no alteration to Regulation 34 and Paras 5 and 6 of Appendix-VII-A of the DCR. This amendment was in the form [2024] 9 S.C.R. 851 Kukreja Construction Company & Others v. State of Maharashtra & Others of delegated legislation and was only prospective in nature. But by the amendment of 16.11.2016, the entire Regulation 34 and Appendix-VII-A was amended. As a result of the amendment, if the land owner desired to obtain TDR for the land component, the owner was eligible to do so at the rate mentioned in Para 4.1 of amended Regulation. If the landowner also developed the amenity, the owner became eligible to receive compensatory TDR in terms of Para 4.2 of the amended Regulation. 8.9 According to learned senior counsel, this amendment is also prospective. It was further submitted that by the amendment of Regulation 34 of the DCR, the basis of the in Godrej & Boyce I was not removed. The intention of the amendment was to grant additional compensation to the landowner in view of the enforcement of Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 and not to remove the basis of the in Godrej & Boyce I. There was no intention to validate any action of the Corporation of curtailing amenity TDR to 25% or to validate Circulars based on which it was sought to be curtailed to 25%. Therefore, the of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I remains intact. 8.10 It was further submitted that the right to receive compensation for acquisition is a vested right and a constitutional right and the same cannot be taken away by an amendment to the statute. 8.11 It was next submitted that the attempt of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation to deny balance 75% TDR in view of the notification dated 16.11.2016 is unsustainable. This is because the writ petitioners’ right to receive the balance TDR is a vested right which arose under the old DCR and continues even after the amendment. Further, a person cannot be denied compensation by a subsequent legislation when the entitlement is recognized under a prior legislation. The High Court has rightly held that the DCR amended was prospective and not retrospective. Submissions on behalf of the Respondents: 9. Per contra, learned senior counsel Sri Nadkarni, appearing for the respondent – Mumbai Municipal Corporation submitted a chart giving details of each of the appellants/writ petitioners before the High Court. The relevant chart is extracted hereinbelow: 852 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports SR. NO./ PARTICULARS DATE OF WHETHER APPLICATION DELAY RELEVANT HANDING HANDED FOR REGULATION OVER OF OVER ADDITIONAL AMENITY AMENITY AMENITY FSI/ COMPLIES TDR AFTER WITH ALL GODRIJ CONDITIONS & BOYCE (06.02.2009) 1. KUKREJA 28.01.1994 --NO— In the 31.08.2009 6-15 years REGULATION CONSTRUCTION constructed (calculated 34 CO. & ORS. road the from the VS. STATE OF sewer lines date of were not laid MAHARASHTRA handing over down nor & ORS.