The power to include or exclude, amend or alter Presidential is expressly and exclusively conferred on and vested with Parliament and that too by making a law in that regard. The President had the benefit of consulting the States through Governors of States which had the means and machinery to find out and recommend as to whether a particular caste or tribe was to be included in the Presidential . If the said s are to be amended, it is Parliament that is in a better position to know having the means and 874 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports machinery unlike courts as to why a particular caste or tribe is to be included or excluded by law to be made by Parliament. Allowing the State Governments or courts or other authorities or Tribunals to hold inquiry as to whether a particular caste or tribe should be considered as one included in the schedule of the Presidential , when it is not so specifically included, may lead to problems. In to gain advantage of reservations for the purpose of Article 15(4) or 16(4) several persons have been coming forward claiming to be covered by Presidential s issued under Articles 341 and 342. This apart, when no other authority other than Parliament, that too by law alone can amend the Presidential s, neither the State Governments nor the courts nor Tribunals nor any authority can assume jurisdiction to hold inquiry and take evidence to declare that a caste or a tribe or part of or a group within a caste or tribe is included in Presidential s in one entry or the other although they are not expressly and specifically included. A court cannot alter or amend the said Presidential s for the very good reason that it has no power to do so within the meaning, content and scope of Articles 341 and 342. It is not possible to hold that either any inquiry is permissible or any evidence can be let in, in relation to a particular caste or tribe to say whether it is included within Presidential s when it is not so expressly included. (emphasis supplied) 8. Pursuant to the in the case of Milind (supra), the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs(Banking Division), Government of India in consultation with the Ministry of Welfare vide letter dated 12th March 1987, declared the State of Karnataka circulars which included the ‘Kotegara’ caste in the list of Scheduled Castes in the State of Karnataka to be non-est. The letter addressed to the Chairman & Managing Director of the concerned authorities is reproduced herein below:- “......Persons belonging to Kotegara, Kote-Kshatriya are not entitled to get benefits as scheduled castes in Karnataka. These communities have never been(sic) treated as [2024] 8 S.C.R. 875 K. Nirmala & Ors. v. Canara Bank & Anr. scheduled castes in Karnataka. The State Government have no power to make any amendment in the existing lists of lists, of SCs/STs can be done only through an Act of Parliament in view of Articles 341(2) and 342(2) of the constitution.