154. These five golden principles, if we may say so, constitute the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence.” 15. We are convinced that the circumstances presented in evidence in this case more than meets the ingredients that are required to be established. We find no reason to interfere with the concurrent conviction recorded by the trial Court and the High Court against the appellant for the offences under Section 302 (murder), 449 (house- trespass) and 309 (attempt to commit suicide) and we maintain the conviction. Discussion on Sentence: 16. Coming to the sentencing, while the trial Court imposed the sentence of death, the High Court has modified it to that of imprisonment for 30 years with no remission. Mr. Renjith B. Marar, learned counsel, made an impassioned plea as part of his alternative submission that imprisonment for 30 years without remission is excessive and disproportionate. Mr. Jayanth Muth Raj, learned senior counsel, left no stone unturned in contending that the appellant has got away lightly and that he is fortunate to have escaped the gallows. 17. The question before us is what should be the appropriate sentence and whether the High Court was justified in adopting the Swamy Shraddananda v. State of Karnataka, (2008) 13 SCC 767 line of cases and even it was justified whether the fixing of the quantum at 30 years without remission was the appropriate sentence, in the facts and circumstances of the case? 18. The trial court imposed the sentence of death as far as the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC was concerned. The trial court recorded that the appellant had committed the murder of four persons; that the appellant was blood-thirsty; that he had illicit love affair with deceased Latha, the wife of deceased Ramachandran; 932 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that she even became pregnant because of him and then fell out with the appellant; that there was an attempt to cause bodily injury earlier to Latha by throwing a koduval (curved sword) on 03.02.2005; that the nature of the injuries inflicted upon the deceased persons indicate that the murders were committed in an extremely brutal and dastardly manner; that they were premeditated and cold blooded murders; that the entire family was eliminated including an innocent child aged eleven years and a hapless 80 years old lady and that the collective conscience of the community was shocked. The trial court also noted that the accused attempted to commit suicide by cutting the vein in his left forearm but however discarded that circumstance and passed a sentence of death. 19. The High Court first recorded that there was no question of interfering with the sentence under Sections 449 and 309 IPC and the question was only whether the sentence of death ought to be confirmed or not. Thereafter, the High Court delved into the balance sheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances. The High Court, while recording the argument of the prosecution, noticed that there was prior planning; that four lives were snuffed out and the entire family was wiped out including a child and an aged woman; that the deceased were unarmed and defenceless and no provocation or resistance was offered by them; that the offence was committed after mischievously planning the operation and after gaining access to the closed house in the night by making a hole on the wall; that the incident reflected a dare devil attitude; that the nature of weapons used by the accused, namely, the knife and the iron bar is also taken as an aggravating circumstance; that the nature and number of injuries inflicted on deceased Latha (43 of which 38 were stab injuries) was also an aggravating circumstance and that there were prior instances of involvement by the accused in attempting to assault Latha.