The Constitution itself did not categorize AMU as either a minority institution or otherwise. Following the adoption of the Constitution in 1950, amendments were promptly enacted to the AMU Act in 1951 and again in 1965. These amendments were designed to align with constitutional provisions and to reflect the status of AMU as an “institution of national importance”. 120. Entry 63 grants exclusive legislative authority over the specified universities therein to Parliament, and to any other institution declared by Parliament by law to be an institution of national importance. 51 Lok Sabha Debates, Twelfth Session, Third Series Vol. XLV- No. 13, 2nd September 1965 1908 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports The scheme of Entry 63, which constitutionally designates AMU, BHU and Delhi University as institutions of national importance, is sufficient to indicate that AMU is not a minority institution. Absence of specific names of universities other than the ones in Entry 63 or anywhere else in the Constitution cements AMU’s distinctive status as an institution of national importance, with its national and non- minority character at the forefront. There could be other institutions of national importance, even institutions which have minority character, but such institutions being designated by ordinary laws would never reach the elevated status of AMU. 121. As clearly distinguishable from other entries in the three lists forming part of Schedule VII, which only provide the vast field of subjects pertaining to which laws could be enacted by the Centre/the States, it is essential to interpret Entry 63 of List I not merely as a field over which Parliament has the authority to make a law but also as a Constitutional provision of recognition of certain institutions as ‘institutions of national importance’. The language of the Entry explicitly designates these institutions with a unique status, thereby affirming their designation as universities of national importance. Thus, it would be inappropriate to construe this Entry solely as a legislative subject without acknowledging its broader implications. 122. In light of the above, an institution having secular traits which was designated as one of national importance by the framers of the Constitution and enshrined in the Constitution adopted in 1950, cannot be retroactively reclassified as a minority Muslim institution in 2024 without violating the secular principles that underpin our Constitution. Such a reclassification would fundamentally conflict with the secular ethos embedded in our Constitutional framework, which upholds the equal status of all institutions irrespective of religious affiliation. The original intent was to recognize these institutions for their national significance, and altering this status now would undermine the foundational values of secularism and equality that guide our Constitutional . 123. Moreover, universities of national importance, such as AMU, cannot be subordinated to the control of any minority community or particular group. Their national character necessitates that they remain under the jurisdiction of the Central Government to ensure that their operations and management align with their designated [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1909 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. national significance. This is crucial as the Central Government provides full funding for these institutions, which is vital for their continued existence.