It requires that both the parties should fill the same character as they fill in the plaintiff’s suit. The defendant may, at the first hearing of the suit, and not afterwards, unless permitted by the court, present the written statement containing particulars of debts sought to be set-off.21 For set-off in law, the obligations existing between the 17 Ministre du Revenu national c. Caisse Populaire du bon Conseil, 2009 SCC 29 (S.C.C.) (Supreme Court of Canada) 18 Jeffs v. Wood, [1723] 2 Eq Ca. Ab. 10. 19 Canadian Encyclopedic Digest, Release 3, “Personal Property” by Gloria Mintah, § 187, CD-ROM (Thomson Reuters Canada Limited, August 2009); See also Palmer, supra note 12, at 263. 20 VIII Rule 6. Particulars of set-off to be given in written statement.—(1) Where in a suit for the recovery of money the defendant claims to set-off against the plaintiff’s demand any ascertained sum of money legally recoverable by him from the plaintiff, not exceeding the pecuniary limits of the jurisdiction of the Court, and both parties fill the same character as they fill in the plaintiff’s suit, the defendant may, at the first hearing of the suit, but not afterwards unless permitted by the Court, present a written statement containing the particulars of the debt sought to be set-off. (2) Effect of set-off.—The written statement shall have the same effect as a plaint in a cross-suit so as to enable the Court to pronounce a final in respect both of the original claim and of the set-off, but this shall not affect the lien, upon the amount decreed, of any pleader in respect of the costs payable to him under the decree. (3) The rules relating to a written statement by a defendant apply to a written statement in answer to a claim of set-off. 21 For the purpose of the present decision, we need not examine the contours and conditions of VIII Rule 6 CPC. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 151 BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED AND ANOTHER v. VIJAYKUMAR V. IYER AND OTHERS two parties must be debts which are for liquidated sums or money demands which can be ascertained with certainty. Both the debts must be mutual cross-obligations, that is, cross-claims between the parties in the same right.22 9. A few s of this Court and the High Courts allow the defendant to claim equitable set-off in respect of an unascertained sum of money payable as damages. Equitable set-off can also be claimed in respect of an ascertained sum of money.23 However, the claim for an equitable set-off must have a connection between the plaintiff’s claim for the debt and the defendant’s claim to set-off, which would make it inequitable to drive the defendant to a separate suit.24 It has been accordingly held that the claim for set-off should arise out of the same transaction, or transactions which can be regarded as one transaction. Equitable set-off is allowed in common law, as distinguished from legal set-off, which is allowed by the court only for an ascertained sum of money and is a statutory right.