876 of 2014 13 In WP (C) No. 876 of 2014, the prayer included (a) challenging the constitutional validity of Rule 4A of the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules 2003 as ultra vires Section 6A of the Citizenship Act; (b) direction to complete fencing of the entire stretch of the B with Bangladesh; (c) to step up the process of identification, detection and deportation of foreigners in the State of Assam in accordance with the provisions of the Foreigners Act 1946 and constitute more Tribunals under the Foreigners (Tribunals) s 1964; and (d) direction to remove encroachers from protected tribal lands. In WP 562 of 2012, the prayer included a direction that the National Register of Citizens with respect to Assam. 1246 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c. What is the scope of the fundamental right contained in Article 29(1)? Is the fundamental right absolute in its terms? In particular, what is the meaning of the expression “culture” and the expression “conserve”? Whether Section 6A violates Article 29(1); d. Whether Section 6A violates Article 355? What is the true interpretation of Article 355 of the Constitution? Would an influx of illegal migrants into a State of India constitute “external aggression” and/or “internal disturbance”? Does the expression “State” occurring in this Article refer only to a territorial region or does it also include the people living in the State, which would include their culture and identity; e. Whether Section 6A violates Article 14 in that, it singles out Assam from other b States (which comprise a distinct class) and discriminates against it. Also whether there is no rational basis for having a separate cut-off date for regularizing illegal migrants who enter Assam as opposed to the rest of the country; f. Whether Section 6A violates Article 21 in that the lives and personal liberty of the citizens of Assam have been affected adversely by the massive influx of illegal migrants from Bangladesh; g. Whether delay is a factor that can be taken into account in moulding relief under a petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution; h. Whether, after a large number of migrants from East Pakistan have enjoyed rights as Citizens of India for over 40 years, any relief can be given in the petitions filed in the present cases; i. Whether section 6A violates the basic premise of the Constitution and the Citizenship Act in that it permits Citizens who have allegedly not lost their Citizenship of East Pakistan to become deemed Citizens of India, thereby conferring dual Citizenship to such persons; [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1247 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 j. Whether section 6A violates the fundamental basis of section 5(1) proviso and section 5(2) of the Citizenship Act (as it stood in 1985) in that it permits a class of migrants to become deemed Citizens of India without any reciprocity from Bangladesh and without taking the oath of allegiance to the Indian Constitution; k. Whether the Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act, 1950 being a special enactment qua immigrants into Assam, alone can apply to migrants from East Pakistan/Bangladesh to the exclusion of the general Foreigners Act and the Foreigners (Tribunals) , 1964 made thereunder; l. Whether Section 6A violates the Rule of Law in that it gives way to political expediency and not to Government according to law; and m. Whether Section 6A violates fundamental rights in that no mechanism is provided to determine which persons are ordinarily resident in Assam since the dates of their entry into Assam, thus granting deemed citizenship to such persons arbitrarily.” 10.