A Bench of four Hon’ble Judges of this Court held that when a document’s admissibility is questioned due to 11 1899 Act, hereafter 12 [1962] 2 SCR 333 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 327 G.M. Shahul Hameed v. Jayanthi R. Hegde improper stamping, it must be decided immediately when presented as evidence. The relevant paragraph is extracted hereunder: “4. *** Where a question as to the admissibility of a document is raised on the ground that it has not been stamped, or has not been properly stamped, it has to be decided then and there when the document is tendered in evidence. Once the court, rightly or wrongly, decides to admit the document in evidence, so far as the parties are concerned, the matter is closed. Section 35 is in the nature of a penal provision and has far-reaching effects. Parties to a litigation, where such a controversy is raised, have to be circumspect and the party challenging the admissibility of the document has to be alert to see that the document is not admitted in evidence by the court. The court has to judicially determine the matter as soon as the document is tendered in evidence and before it is marked as an exhibit in the case. The record in this case discloses the fact that the hundis were marked as Exts. P-1 and P-2 and bore the endorsement ‘admitted in evidence’ under the signature of the court. It is not, therefore, one of those cases where a document has been inadvertently admitted, without the court applying its mind to the question of its admissibility. Once a document has been marked as an exhibit in the case and the trial has proceeded all along on the footing that the document was an exhibit in the case and has been used by the parties in examination and cross- examination of their witnesses, Section 36 of the Stamp Act comes into operation. Once a document has been admitted in evidence, as aforesaid, it is not open either to the trial court itself or to a court of appeal or revision to go behind that . Such an is not one of those judicial s which are liable to be reviewed or revised by the same court or a court of superior jurisdiction.” (emphasis ours) 16. Once again, addressing a matter concerning section 36 of the 1899 Act, a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court in Ram Rattan v. Bajrang Lal13 held as follows: 13 [1978] 3 SCR 963 : (1978) 3 SCC 236 328 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “6. When the document was tendered in evidence by the plaintiff while in witness box, objection having been raised by the defendants that the document was inadmissible in evidence as it was not duly stamped and for want of registration, it was obligatory upon the learned trial Judge to apply his mind to the objection raised and to decide the objects in accordance with law. Tendency sometimes is to postpone the decision to avoid interruption in the process of recording evidence and, therefore, a very convenient device is resorted to, of marking the document in evidence subject to objection.