It was pointed out that an award based on no evidence, or which ignores vital evidence, would be perverse and thus patently illegal. It was also observed that a finding based on documents taken behind the back of the parties by the arbitrator would also qualify as a decision based on no evidence in as much as such decision is not based on evidence led by the parties, and therefore, would also have to be characterized as perverse.54 54 See Paragraph 41 of Ssyangyong (supra). [2024] 9 S.C.R. 545 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. 66. The tests laid down in Associate Builders (supra) to determine perversity were followed in Ssyanyong (supra) and later approved by a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Patel Engineering Limited v. North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Limited.55 67. In a recent three-Judge Bench decision of this Court in Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. v. Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt. Ltd.,56 the ground of patent illegality /perversity was delineated in the following terms: “40. In essence, the ground of patent illegality is available for setting aside a domestic award, if the decision of the arbitrator is found to be perverse, or so irrational that no reasonable person would have arrived at it; or the construction of the contract is such that no fair or reasonable person would take; Or, that the view of the arbitrator is not even a possible view. A finding based on no evidence at all or an award which ignores vital evidence in arriving at its decision would be perverse and liable to be set aside under the head of patent illegality. An award without reasons would suffer from patent illegality. The arbitrator commits a patent illegality by deciding a matter not within its jurisdiction or violating a fundamental principle of natural justice.” Scope of interference with an arbitral award 68. The aforesaid judicial precedents make it clear that while exercising power under Section 34 of the 1996 Act the Court does not sit in appeal over the arbitral award. Interference with an arbitral award is only on limited grounds as set out in Section 34 of the 1996 Act. A possible view by the arbitrator on facts is to be respected as the arbitrator is the ultimate master of the quantity and quality of evidence to be relied upon. It is only when an arbitral award could be categorized as perverse, that on an error of fact an arbitral award may be set aside. Further, a mere erroneous application of the law or wrong appreciation of evidence by itself is not a ground to set aside an award as is clear from the provisions of sub-section (2-A) of Section 34 of the 1996 Act. 55 [2020] 4 SCR 156 : (2020) 7 SCC 167 56 [2024] 4 SCR 473 : 2024 INSC 292 546 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 69. In Dyna Technologies (supra), a three-Judge Bench of this Court held that Courts need to be cognizant of the fact that arbitral awards are not to be interfered with in a casual and cavalier manner, unless the court concludes that the perversity of the award goes to the root of the matter and there is no possibility of an alternative interpretation that may sustain the arbitral award.