(b) that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good; (c) that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment;” 305. Mr Parasaran also urged that it should be borne in mind that excise duty is an indirect levy or tax which could be passed on. Innumerable persons bear the brunt. And it is passed on, ordinarily by prudent businessmen. […] The scope of Article 39(b) of the Constitution, as laid down by this Court in State of Karnataka v. Ranganatha Reddy, Sanjeev Coke Mfg. Co. v. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., State of T.N. v. L. Abu Kavur Bai,was highlighted. […] 306. On an evaluation of the rival pleas urged in the matter, I am of the view that the plea of the counsel for Union of India should prevail.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 125 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 124. On the other hand, Justice Sen disagreed with the view taken in the opinions authored by Justice Jeevan Reddy and Justice Paripoornan. He held that the provisions of Article 39 cannot curtail the interpretation of Article 265, and the Directive Principles do not permit the state to use unlawfully collected properties. He observed: “161. Article 39 of the Constitution has directed the State to formulate its policy towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good and that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment. These provisions do not in any way curtail the scope and effect of Article 265. Article 39 does not enjoin that unlawfully collected properties should be used by the State for the common good. Nor does it say that the operation of the economic system should be so moulded as to prevent concentration of wealth, by unlawful means. Article 39 cannot be a basis for retaining whatever has been gathered unlawfully by the Government for common good. Simply stated the Directive Principles of State Policy do not license the Government to rob Peter to pay Paul.” 125. The above observations in the opinions of Justice Paripoornan and Justice SC Sen only further indicate that the argument of the counsel was limited to whether Article 265 of the Constitution must be interpreted in light of the constitutional values found inter alia in the Preamble and Part IV, including Article 39(b).The observations in these two opinions in no way assist the respondents in establishing that the single sentence in the majority judgement about the inclusion of private property constituted the ratio decidendi of the . 126. In any event, the mere presence of an observation in multiple opinions of the court, be it concurring or dissenting opinions, does not automatically indicate that they form part of the ratio decidendi.