Digital Supreme Court Reports states that for the purposes of this sub-section, “enemy property vested in the Custodian” shall include and shall always be deemed to have been included all rights, titles, and interest in, or any benefit arising out of, such property vested in him under the Act. 15.1 Therefore, the moot question is, what is the nature and extent of rights, titles, and interest in or any benefit arising out of, such property which is vested in the Custodian? Does it mean vesting of the ownership of the rights, titles, and interest in, or any benefit arising out of such enemy property owned by the enemy which becomes vested in the Custodian in the sense that the Custodian becomes the owner of the property; thereby there is a divesting of the ownership or a transfer of ownership of such property from the ownership of the enemy to the Custodian. 15.2 We do not think that such an interpretation can be given for the simple reason that clause (c) of Section 2 clearly states that enemy property means any property for the time being belonging to or held or managed on behalf of an enemy, an enemy subject or an enemy firm being vested in the Custodian. Therefore, the provision of the Act recognises the ownership of the enemy vis-à-vis the enemy property and the enemy property belonging to or held or managed on behalf of an enemy, an enemy subject or an enemy firm being vested in the Custodian. What exactly is vested in the Custodian? The Explanations i.e. Explanation (2) of clause (c) of Section 2 as well as Explanation (2) to sub-section (3) of Section 5 of the Act, being identical state that all rights, titles, and interest in, or any benefit arising out of such enemy property vest in the Custodian. This means that only the rights etc. vis-à-vis enemy property vest in the Custodian. By that, the Custodian does not acquire ownership rights in the property. It continues to vest with the enemy. This is because ownership of immovable property can be transferred from one person to another i.e. transfer inter vivos can only transferred in accordance with the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act. 15.3 On a conspectus reading of the aforesaid provisions, what emerges is that under Section 3 of the Act, the Custodian of Enemy Property for India is appointed by the Central [2024] 2 S.C.R. 901 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others Government by issuance of a notification in the official gazette so also Deputy Custodians and Assistant Custodians of Enemy Property could be appointed for certain local areas as may be specified in the notification. Since the Act is in continuation of the Defence of India Rules, 1962 as well as Defence of India Rules, 1971, as the case may be, the Custodian of Enemy Property for India appointed under the aforesaid Rules shall be deemed to have been appointed under Section 3 of the Act.