Misc. Petition No.1348/2022 before the High Court of Rajasthan at Jaipur under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short the ‘Cr.P.C.’), seeking quashment of the said FIR and all further proceedings thereon. As per the impugned dated 04.02.2022 the High Court, despite the opposition by 646 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the learned public prosecutor, allowed the said petition and quashed the subject FIR and all further proceedings in pursuance thereof. The impugned would reveal that based on the fact that the 3rd respondent has settled the dispute amicably with the 4th respondent and relying on the decision of this Court in Gian Singh v. State of Punjab,1 the High Court quashed the FIR and all further proceedings therefrom. The High Court held thus:- “…The offence alleged in this matter is non compoundable, however Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Gian Singh Vs. State of Punjab [(2012) 10 SCC 303] has propounded that if it is convinced that offences are entirely personal in nature and do not affect the public peace or tranquillity and where it feels that quashing of such proceedings on account of compromise would bring about peace and would secure ends of justice, the High Court should not hesitate to quash the same by exercising the inherent powers vested in it. It is observed that in such cases, the prosecution becomes the lame prosecution and pursuing such a lame prosecution would be a waste of time and energy. That will also unsettle the compromise and obstruct restoration of peace. This court is aptly guided by the principles propounded by Hon’ble the Supreme Court and feels that whether dispute is essentially inter se between the parties, either they are relatives, neighbours or having business relationship and which does not affect the society at large, then in such cases, with a view to maintain harmonious relationships between the two sides & for restitution of relationship. and with a view to end-up the dispute in between them permanently, the High Court should exercise its inherent power to quash the FIR and all other subsequent proceedings initiated thereto.” 4. The appellants state that they are ordinary men residing in the very same Tehsil and District to which the 4th respondent belongs. They moved this Court challenging the quashing the subject FIR and all further proceedings therefrom under Article 32 of the Constitution of India contending that the FIR registered against the 3rd respondent 1 [2012] 8 SCR 753 : (2012) 10 SCC 303 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 647 Ramji Lal Bairwa & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors. carried serious allegation of commission of acts involving offence(s) under various sections of the IPC, and POCSO Act; that they are not purely private in nature; that they are offences against the society, that the quashment of the subject FIR was solely based on compromise between the third respondent accused and the fourth respondent, the father of the minor victim and that the first respondent State did not choose to challenge the said dated 04.02.2022 though it was so quashed ignoring the opposition of the public prosecutor.