[Paras 30, 31, 51-55] FIR – Registration by police officials merely based on source information – Effect: Held: Police officials could not register the FIR merely on the basis of such source information without even verifying the fact as to whether any such incident had actually occurred – Very fact that the said FIR was registered by referring to an incident without making any verification from the aggrieved persons clearly shows that the Investigating Agency right from inception had started plotting that the case should proceed in a particular direction – This is a very suspicious circumstance which creates a grave doubt on the conduct of the Investigating Agency. [Para 34] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – ss. 451, 452 and 457 – Disposal of property – Action of the Investigating Officer in returning the mudammal currency notes to the complainant without any of the Court – Effect: Held: Disposal of the case property could only have been done by taking recourse to the procedure contained u/ss. 451, 452 and 457 as the case may be – Investigation Officer had no authority to release [2024] 7 S.C.R. 335 Gaurav Maini v. The State of Haryana the currency notes without an of the Court and his action to the contrary tantamounts to grave misconduct – Trial court causally brushed aside the plea regarding the non-production of the currency notes in the Court observing that the recovered currency notes were released on superdari by the Magistrate – However, the trial court went on to note that the currency notes were never seen after the recovery and were not produced in the Court when the prosecution witnesses were examined – No for final disposal of the currency notes was passed by the trial court u/s. 452 which is a mandatory requirement – Sheer indifference exhibited by the courts below is shocking, to say the least – Thus, the entire process of recovery of the currency notes is clearly flawed, marked by procedural errors – Courts below erred by not pulling up the prosecution for flagrant disregard of legal procedures and failure to document key details which undermines the prosecution’s case. [Para 42] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 311 – Evidence Act, 1872 – s. 165 – Power to summon material witness, or examine person present – Power to put questions or production – Ambit of: Held: Conjoint reading of s. 311 CrPC and s. 165 of the Evidence Act makes it clear that the trial court is under an obligation not to act as a mere spectator and should proactively participate in the trial proceedings, so as to ensure that neither any extraneous material is permitted to be brought on record nor any relevant fact is left out – It is the duty of the trial court to ensure that all such evidence which is essential for the just decision of the case is brought on record irrespective of the fact that the party concerned omits to do so – On facts, grandfather of the kidnapped boy was the first person who came into contact of the police officials and he admittedly disclosed about the incident to Investigating Officer, thus, the grandfather would have been the most vital witness to unfurl the truth of the matter, however, for the reasons best known to the prosecution, he was not examined as a witness in the case – Trial court should have remained vigilant and it was absolutely essential for the Court to have exercised powers u/s.