The trial Judge merely states, in paras 7-8, that the court has “gone through the record available as on date” and noticed certain precedents 9 Donson, F.J.L. 2000. Legal Intimidation: A SLAPP in the Face of Democracy. London, New York: Free Association Books. 1002 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports where an ad-interim injunction was granted. Without even cursorily dwelling on the merits of the plaint, the ad-interim injunction granted by the trial Judge amounts to unreasoned censorship which cannot be countenanced. 12. Undoubtedly, the grant of an interim injunction is an exercise of discretionary power and the appellate court (in this case, the High Court) will usually not interfere with the grant of interim relief. However, in a line of precedent, this Court has held that appellate courts must interfere with the grant of interim relief if the discretion has been exercised “arbitrarily, capriciously, perversely, or where the court has ignored settled principles of law regulating the grant or refusal of interlocutory injunctions.”10 The grant of an ex parte interim injunction by way of an unreasoned , definitely falls within the above formulation, necessitating interference by the High Court. This being a case of an injunction granted in defamation proceedings against a media platform, the impact of the injunction on the constitutionally protected right of free speech further warranted intervention. 13. In view of the above, the High Court ought to have, in our view, also at least prima facie assessed whether the test for the grant of an injunction was duly established after an evaluation of facts. The same error which has been committed by the trial Judge has been perpetuated by the Single Judge of the High Court. Merely recording that a prima facie case exists, that the balance of convenience is in favour of the grant of injunction and that an irreparable injury would be caused, would not amount to an application of mind to the facts of the case. The three-fold test cannot merely be recorded as a mantra without looking into the facts on the basis of which an injunction has been sought. In the absence of such a consideration either by the trial Judge or by the High Court, we have no option but to set aside both the s of the trial Judge dated 1 March 2024 and of the Single Judge of the High Court dated 14 March 2024. We do so accordingly. 14. Since the proceedings are now listed before the trial Judge on 26 March 2024, we direct that it would be open to the respondents to 10 Ramdev Food Products Pvt. Ltd. v. Arvindbhai Rambhai Patel, [2006] Suppl. 5 SCR 521 : (2006) 8 SCC 726, para 128; Shyam Sel & Power Ltd. v. Shyam Steel Industries Ltd., [2022] 3 SCR 1173 : (2023) 1 SCC 634, para 37. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1003 Bloomberg Television Production Services India Private Limited & Ors. v. Zee Entertainment Enterprises Limited renew their application for injunction, on which the trial Judge shall pass fresh s after hearing the parties and bearing in mind the observations which are contained in the above segment of the and .