42/- per sq. ft. The Rest of the with regard to the statutory benefits and interest is maintained. We are conscious that the amount of Rs. 42 per sq. ft. awarded by us is above the amount claimed. 90. In the affidavit-in-chief of the appellant, there is a poignant averment to the following effect “…. But as I could not be able to arrange for the Court fee, I have claimed the price of the land @ Rs. 30/- per sq. ft. which comes to Rs.19,35,000/-. The Land Acquisition Officer paid Rs. 56,585/- towards the value of the land and hence I am claiming [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2285 Kazi Akiloddin v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Rs.18,78,450/- towards the balance market value of the land along with all other benefits, interest and solatium and also give other benefits given to landless persons. I have no land on my own now.” 91. We are supported in this course of action by the earlier s of this Court in Bhag Singh and Others vs. Union Territory of Chandigarh through the Land Acquisition Collector, Chandigarh (1985) 3 SCC 737 where Chief Justice Bhagwati held while tempering law with justice:- “3… The learned Single Judge and the Division Bench should not have, in our opinion, adopted a technical approach and denied the benefit of enhanced compensation to the appellants merely because they had not initially paid the proper amount of court fee. It must be remembered that this was not a dispute between two private citizens where it would be quite just and legitimate to confine the claimant to the claim made by him and not to award him any higher amount than that claimed though even in such a case there may be situations where an amount higher than that claimed can be awarded to the claimant as for instance where an amount is claimed as due at the foot of an account. Here was a claim made by the appellants against the State Government for compensation for acquisition of their land and under the law, the State was bound to pay to the appellants compensation on the basis of the market value of the land acquired and if according to the s of the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench, the market value of the land acquired was higher than that awarded by the Land Acquisition Collector or the Additional District Judge, there is no reason why the appellants should have been denied the benefit of payment of the market value so determined. To deny this benefit to the appellants would tantamount to permitting the State Government to acquire the land of the appellants on payment of less than the true market value. There may be cases where, as for instance, under agrarian reform legislation, the holder of land may, legitimately, as a matter of social justice, with a view to eliminating concentration of land in the hands of a few and bringing about its equitable distribution, be deprived of land which is not being personally cultivated by 2286 [2024] 7 S.C.R.