It is submitted that neither of the grounds is available in the present case. Insofar as the argument with regard to XXVI Rules 9 and 10 of the SC Rules are concerned, Shri Sibal submitted that there is sufficient compliance with regard to the said provisions. 21. With regard to the allegations regarding suppression, Shri Sibal submitted that, out of so many instances listed in the plaint, only one or two cases are registered under the directions of the High Court. It is therefore submitted that there is no material suppression as alleged. Shri Sibal therefore pressed for rejection of the preliminary objections raised by the learned Solicitor General. IV. LEGAL FRAMEWORK: a. Supreme Court Rules, 2013 22. For appreciating the rival submissions, it will be relevant to refer to XXVI Rule 6 of the SC Rules, which reads thus: “ XXVI Plaints ………… 6. The plaint shall be rejected:- (a) where it does not disclose a cause of action; (b) where the suit appears from the statement in the plaint to be barred by any law.” 23. It can thus be seen that a plaint is liable to be rejected where it does not disclose a cause of action or where the suit appears from the statement in the plaint to be barred by any law. 24. As such, it could be seen that the provisions in XXVI Rule 6 (a) and (b) are analogous to the provisions in clauses (a) and (d) of VII Rule 11 of the CPC. 690 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 25. It is a settled position of law that, for considering objections under VII Rule 11 (a) and (d) of the CPC, what needs to be looked into is only the averments made in the plaint. It is well settled that if the averments made in the plaint are germane then the pleas taken by the defendant in the written statement would be wholly irrelevant at this stage. Reference in this respect could be made to the s of this Court in the cases of Saleem Bhai and Others v. State of Maharashtra and Others,14 Sopan Sukhdeo Sable and Others v. Assistant Charity Commissioner and Others,15 Bhau Ram v. Janak Singh and Others16 and Chhotanben and Another v. Kirtibhai Jalkrushnabhai Thakkar and Others.17 26. In view of the word ‘shall’ used in the provisions, a duty is cast on the court to examine as to whether the plaint is hit by any of the infirmities provided in the six clauses of VII Rule 11 of the CPC. A duty is cast on the court to reject the plaint even without the intervention of the defendant. Reference in this respect could be made to the of this Court in the case of Sopan Sukhdeo Sable (supra). 27. It is further settled that the averments made in the plaint have to be read as a whole and not in isolation. Reference in this respect could be made to the of this Court in the case of Kirtibhai Jalkrushnabhai Thakkar (supra).