With respect to High Courts, we do not want to carry any such impression. But we do feel that there is less transparency and objectivity in the selection process.” 29. Since most of the High Courts were selecting candidates based only on the viva voce test without conducting the written test, the absence of transparency and objectivity in the interview process was noticed. The Commission therefore opined that accepting the viva voce as the sole selection mode could lead to arbitrariness. However, this [2024] 6 S.C.R. 555 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. by itself does not lend any clarity on how prescribing minimum cut- off marks for viva voce together with the written test, could possibly lead to arbitrariness in selection. In to reduce subjectivity, the Shetty Commission in its subsequent recommendation, delineated the methodology for conducting viva voce as under: “10.97. ….We would, therefore, like to recommend the following procedure to reduce degrees of subjectivity and arbitrariness: (i) There shall be written examination followed by viva- voce. (ii) Written Examination must carry 200 marks on the subject/subjects prescribed by the High Court. The paper should be of a duration of minimum two hours. (iii) The cut off marks in the Written Examination should be 60% or corresponding grade for general candidates and 50% or corresponding grade for SC/ ST candidates. Those who have secured the marks above the cut off marks shall be called for viva-voce Test. (iv) The viva-voce Test should be in a thorough and Scientific Manner and it should be taken anything between 25 and 30 minutes for each candidate. The viva-voce shall carry 50 marks. There shall be no cut off marks in viva-voce test. (v) The merit list will be prepared on the basis of marks/ grades obtained both in the Written Examination and viva-voce.” 30. At this point, the fundamental fallacy in the argument of the writ petitioners, as is pointed out by Mr. Gautam Narayan, the learned counsel for the High Court of Patna becomes distinctly discernible. If the above procedure recommended by the Shetty Commission is to be implemented stricto sensu, the cut-off marks even for the written examination can never be, below 60%. Therefore, if the recruitment process of the Patna High Court is to be tested on the recommended threshold marks of Shetty Commission i.e. 150 marks out of 250 marks for shortlisting general category candidates in the written exam, none of the writ petitioners would qualify for the viva- 556 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports voce segment since they never secured the minimum 60% in the written marks aggregate. In the present case, the minimum cut-off as per the amended Rules was 55% and this was further lowered to 50% as per proviso to Clause 10 of Bihar Rules, 1951. The writ petitioners should not therefore be permitted to argue for selective implementation of the Shetty Commission recommendation, for doing away with the cut-off marks in the viva voce segment.