vs. Harikrishna & Anr.7 ISSUES 12. Having noticed the rival submissions, in our view, following issues fall for our consideration: - (i) Whether, as a mere dealer of M/s Hindustan Motors, the appellant could be considered owner of the vehicle and as such liable, jointly and severally with M/s Hindustan Motors, to pay the compensation as directed by the Tribunal/ High Court? (ii) Whether clauses 3(b) and 4 of the Dealership Agreement absolved M/s Hindustan Motors of its liability to pay compensation as an owner? (iii) Whether M/s Hindustan Motors, even without preferring an appeal against the award of the Tribunal, could question its liability under the award by relying on the provisions of 41 Rule 33 of the CPC? 6 [1993] 2 SCR 425 : (1993) 2 SCC 639 7 [1974] 1 SCR 442 : (1973) 2 SCC 665 24 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Issue No. (i) 13. Before we delve into the afore-stated issues, we must have a look at the concept of ‘ownership’ of a vehicle as obtaining under the M.V. Act for fixing liability in respect of compensation. Section 166 8 of the M.V. Act enumerates the persons who may file an application for compensation before the Claims Tribunal whereas Section 168(1)9 of the M.V. Act speaks about the award of the Tribunal. Interestingly, Section 166, though specifies the persons who may file an application for compensation, omits to specify person(s) against whom the application is to be filed. However, sub-section (1) of Section 168 by providing that the Claims Tribunal shall specify the amount which shall be paid by the insurer or owner or driver of the vehicle involved in the accident, gives sufficient indication on whom the liability for compensation would fall. 8 Section 166. Application for compensation. – (1) An application for compensation arising out of an accident of the nature specified in sub-section (1) of section 165 may be made – (a) by the person who has sustained the injury; or (b) by the owner of the property; or (c) where death has resulted from the accident, by all or any of the legal representatives of the deceased; or (d) by any agent duly authorized by the person injured or all or any of the legal representatives of the deceased, as the case may be, Provided that where all the legal representatives of the deceased have not joined in any such application for compensation, the application shall be made on behalf of or for the benefit of all the legal representatives of the deceased and the legal representatives who have not so joined, shall be impleaded as respondents to the application. Provided further that where a person accepts compensation under section 164 in accordance with the procedure provided under section 149, his claims petition before the claims tribunal shall lapse. (2) Every application under sub-section (1) shall be made, at the option of the claimant, either to the claims tribunal having jurisdiction over the area in which the accident occurred, or to the claims tribunal within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the claimant resides or carries on business or within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the defendant resides, and shall be in such form and contains such particulars as may be prescribed.