There have been therefore numerous transfers 228 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of officers of the Indian Customs and Central Excise Service Class I from their posts in the Collectorates to the subsequently created posts in the Directorates. Equally frequently these officers have been transferred back to the posts in the Collectorates. The important fact to be noted is that only one set of personnel originally recruited for the Customs and Central Excise Collectorates has been used to fill the posts not only in the Collectorates but also in the Directorates. The reason is obvious. The Central Board of Excise and Customs in 1963 and prior to that the Central Board of Revenue functioning as a part of the Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance of the Government of India administered and controlled the work of the Collectorates of Customs and Central Excise as well as of the Directorates of Inspection and Revenue Intelligence. These three units form one whole working under the Board and the Ministry. This position is reflected in the following documents:— (1) The Central Civil Services [Revised Pay Rules, 1960 (Annexure R xiv)] have a Schedule in which the various posts which could be manned by the Central Civil Services are shown with the emoluments attached to those posts. In this Schedule section 10 forms the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue).…” [emphasis supplied] 30. Having adverted to Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Act, 1962, he submitted that the officers of DRI would fall under Section 3 as “class of officers” and under Section 4 as “officers of customs” and that the Board is empowered to assign and fix powers and assign duties to such DRI officers similar to other classes of officers and officers of customs. 31. In the aforesaid context, he submitted that having failed to advert to these three sections and the various notifications referred to above, this Court erred in placing sole reliance on Section 6 of the Act, 1962 to conclude that DRI officers are not officers of customs as they belong to a different department and require specific entrustment under Section 6 of the Act, 1962 by the Central Government before [2024] 12 S.C.R. 229 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. the powers of a proper officer under Section 2(34) of the Act, 1962 can be assigned to them. Section 6 is reproduced below: “(6) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, entrust either conditionally or unconditionally to any officer of the Central or the State Government or a local authority any functions of the Board or any officer of customs under this Act.” 32. He submitted that the question of entrustment would arise only in relation to an officer of Central or State Government or Local Authority who does not fall within the class of officers of customs under Section 3 appointed under Section 4 of the Act, 1962. Some instances of the Central Government entrusting such functions of customs officers under Section 6 are M.F.