[Paras 100, 101] Constitution of India – Art. 32 – Writ petition – Maintainability – Principle of estoppel – Applicability – Matter pertaining to constitutionality of the Rules stipulating minimum qualifying marks in the viva voce test as a part of the selection criteria for appointment to the District Judiciary in the States of Bihar and Gujarat – Plea of the various High Courts that after having participated in the recruitment process, the writ petitioners having not succeeded, cannot turn around and challenge the recruitment process or the vires of the Recruitment Rules; that all candidates knew about the prescription of minimum marks for viva voce, well before the selection process commenced and the principle of estoppel would operate against the unsuccessful challengers whereas the writ petitioners pleaded that the principle of estoppel not applicable since glaring illegalities in the selection process; and that the estoppel is not applicable when the arbitrariness affects fundamental rights u/Art. 14 and 16: Held: Principle of estoppel cannot override the law – In matters like this, to non-suit the writ petitioners at the threshold would hardly be reasonable when the alleged deficiencies in the process could be gauged only by participation in the selection process. [Paras 19-20] Constitution of India – Art. 32 – Principle of res judicata – Instant matter as regards constitutionality of the Rules stipulating minimum qualifying marks in the viva voce test as [2024] 6 S.C.R. 535 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. a part of the selection criteria for appointment to the District Judiciary in the States of Bihar and Gujarat respectively – Validity of r. 8(3) of the Gujarat Rules, 2005 (as amended) was earlier challenged before the Supreme Court, and this Court transferred the said writ petition to the Gujarat High Court wherein the High Court upheld the validity of the amendment prescribing 40% cutoff marks for interview, and Special Leave Petition thereagainst was dismissed – Principle of res judicata, if attracted: Held: Principle of res judicata cannot however be applied stricto sensu – It was not the same writ petitioner who has approached this Court under Art. 32 – Court here is confronted with a different set of facts, another set of litigants who have raised additional contentions – Thus, the submission that the writ petition should not be dismissed on the ground of res-judicata, is reasonable – In any case, the dismissal of Special Leave Petition has no consequence on the question of law. [Para 23] Judiciary – Selection of judicial officers – *All India Judges (2002) matter which accepted certain recommendations of the Shetty Commission while modifying or rejecting a few others – Explained. [Paras 33, 34, 36, 37, 49] Judiciary – Selection of judicial officers – Recommendations of the Shetty Commission – Genesis – Explanation of. [Paras 25-32] Judiciary – Selection of judicial officers – Recommendations of the Shetty Commission – Implementation of: Held: On facts, minimum cut-off as per the amended Rules was 55% and this was further lowered to 50% as per proviso to Clause 10 of Bihar Rules, 1951 – There cannot be selective implementation of the Shetty Commission recommendation, for doing away with the cut-off marks in the viva voce segment – Candidates cannot be allowed to “approbate and reprobate” in the same breath – It would be impermissible to seek dilution of the Shetty Commission recommended criteria, only for the viva voce segment– Shetty Commission recommended that the degree of subjectivity and arbitrariness should be reduced and the selection should be transparent.