Thus, without any evidence of malice, arbitrariness, breach of law, or a genuine threat to invasion of rights, the writ petitions could have been dismissed as not maintainable. But, considering the seriousness of the concerns that the Court suo motu had expressed to which responses were received from the official of the ECI as well as its senior counsel, the necessity was felt to issue the twin directions in the greater public interest and to sub-serve the demands of justice. 29. Finally, I wish to touch upon one other issue of importance. 30. It is pertinent to reiterate that the doctrine of res judicata is applicable to writ petitions under Article 32 and Article 226 as well. The inclusion of the term “public right” in Explanation VI of Section 11 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 aims to avoid redundant legal disputes concerning public rights. Given this clarification, there is no room for debate regarding the application of Section 11 to matters of public interest litigation presented through writ petitions. 31. In Daryao and others v. State of U.P. and others12, a Constitution Bench of this Court emphasized that the rule of res judicata is founded on significant public policy considerations rather than being a mere technicality. It was clarified that petitioners seeking to challenge a decision must present new grounds distinct from those previously raised in to escape the bar of res judicata. The Bench articulated this as follows: “31. […] We are satisfied that a change in the form of attack against the impugned statute would make no difference to the true legal position that the writ petition in the High Court and the present writ petition are directed against the same statute and the grounds raised by the petitioner in that behalf are substantially the same.” 32. Another Constitution Bench of this Court in Direct Recruit Class II Engineering Officers’ Association. v. State of Maharashtra and others13 followed the aforesaid dictum to hold that the principles 12 [1962] 1 SCR 574 : AIR 1961 SC 1457 13 [1990] 2 SCR 900 : (1990) 2 SCC 715 460 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of res judicata are not foreign to writ petitions. A reference may be made to the following paragraph: 35. […] It is well established that the principles of res judicata are applicable to writ petitions. The relief prayed for on behalf of the petitioner in the present case is the same as he would have, in the event of his success, obtained in the earlier writ petition before the High Court. The petitioner in reply contended that since the special leave petition before this Court was dismissed in limine without giving any reason, the cannot be relied upon for a plea of res judicata. The answer is that it is not the of this Court dismissing the special leave petition which is being relied upon; the plea of res judicata has been pressed on the basis of the High Court’s which became final after the dismissal of the special leave petition.