585 The VVF Ltd. Employees Union v. M/S. VVF India Limited & Anr. The following adjustments are proposed so as to rationalize the transition from the present basic wage structure to the revised scale proposed as above: A. The present basic of employees I staff as in annexure I & II should brought up to the level of minimum of wage scales wherever they are below. B. Those whose present wages of basic do not fit in any stages of their respective revised wage scales and fall in between two stages, they should be stepped up to earnest highest stages in the scales. C. On doing so (a) and (b) above every employee / staff should be granted additional increment in their respective wage scales as indicated below:- i) Those who have put service up to 5 years -1 increment ii) Those who have put service more than -2 5 years but less than 10 years increment iii) Those who have put service more than -3 10 years but less than 15 years increment (iv) Those who have put service more than -4 15 years but less than 20 years increment (v) Those who have put service more than -5 20 years but less than 25 years increment vi) Those who have put service more than 25 -6” years increment "29. To arrive at the proposed revision, the existing fixed dearness allowance of Rs.225/- for daily rated unskilled (USK), Semi skilled (SSK) and skilled workmen (SK) as also monthly rated Highly Skilled workmen (HSK), 1st class boiler attendants, watchmen, head watchman, drivers, peons (i.e. all employees other than supervisors and officers) can be appropriately raised by Rs.1000/- per month so as to make it Rs.1225/- per month. Fixed dearness allowance for monthly rated junior supervisors, supervisors and senior supervisors and officers 586 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports may not be increased. So far as variable dearness allowance is concerned, no increase may be in till 2011. Increase, if any, deserves to be considered from 2011 onwards, which demand, anyway, is the subject matter of a separate reference (for the period 2011-2014).” So far as the employer’s writ petition is concerned the same was dismissed. The High Court held that there was no serious anomaly in the demands of the union allowed by the Tribunal. 6. The union, in its writ petition, argued that the Tribunal had failed to consider the plea of the workmen for parity with similarly situated units in the vicinity as well as its claim for overtime allowances. The test applied by the High Court as regards comparison with the similar units would appear from paragraph 26 of the impugned , which reads:- “26 In Justification, what was submitted was that this, along with the applicable allowances (as revised), would bring the Mumbai workmen on par with their counterparts in the Taloja unit. To assess this submission, I called upon both parties to submit their respective charts of Mumbai and Taloja salaries for all classes of workers and the impact of revision in pay scales proposed by the union.