The law must be enforced with all the vigour, and the Executive Branch of the State Government cannot show laxity in implementing the s of conviction passed by the competent Courts. The very purpose of passing s of sentence cannot be allowed to be defeated. We cannot ignore the effect of the laxity shown by law enforcement agencies on society. Therefore, we propose to issue directions to ensure that there are no administrative delays in dealing with the mercy petitions or issuing warrants for execution of death sentence. 608 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports DIRECTIONS TO CURB THE DELAYS 38. The first direction which we propose to issue is regarding the nature of documents which ought to be immediately forwarded with the mercy petitions. The second direction we propose is that the State Government must set up a dedicated cell in either the Home Department or Prison Department to ensure prompt and expeditious processing of the mercy petitions. We also propose to direct the State Government to issue executive s to ensure prompt processing of the mercy petitions. 39. Now, we come to the role of the Sessions Court. There cannot be any dispute that unless a warrant is issued for the execution of the death sentence under Section 413 or Section 414 of the CrPC, the death sentence cannot be executed. On this aspect, we must refer to a decision of this Court in the case of Shabnam v. Union of India9 and, in particular, paragraph 21. This Court held that the procedure laid down by the High Court of Allahabad in its decision in the case of People’s Union for Democratic Rights (PUDR) v. Union of India & Ors.10 is in consonance with Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Therefore, while executing the death sentence, it is mandatory to follow the procedure laid down by the Allahabad High Court in the decision mentioned above. The decision of the Allahabad High Court can be summarised as follows: i. The principles of natural justice must be drawn into the provisions of Sections 413 and 414 of the CrPC, and sufficient notice ought to be given to the convict before issuance of a warrant for the execution of the death sentence by the Sessions Court, which would enable the convict to consult an advocate and represent him in the proceedings; ii. The warrant for the execution of the death sentence must specify the exact date and time of the execution and not a range of dates within which the death sentence will be executed, which places the convict in a state of uncertainty. A reasonable time must be provided between the date of the 9 [2015] 8 SCR 289 : (2015) 6 SCC 702 10 2015 SCC OnLine All 143 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 609 State of Maharashtra & Ors. v. Pradeep Yashwant Kokade & Anr. of issue of the execution warrant and the date fixed for actual execution so that the convict gets an opportunity to adopt a remedy against the warrant and to have a final meeting with the family members; iii.