It is a settled law that the concurrent findings of the facts must not ordinarily be interfered with unless there exists a prima facie perversity or absurdity in light of the observation in paragraph number 26 in the decision delivered in Balak Ram v. State of Uttar Pradesh (1975) 3 SCC 219. 20. It is further submitted by the learned Counsel for the Respondent No. 02 that there has been substantial compliance of the statutory requirements under Section 42 of the NDPS Act 1985 as Mrs Chaube recorded the secret information in writing and conveyed the same to her superior officer namely, Mr Tomar prior to the raid conducted as against Accused No. 04 and Accused No. 01. It is contended that the search undertaken at the residence of Accused No. 04 whereby Accused No. 01 was also present, was in continuation of the action taken on the basis of the said secret information. For this, the learned Counsel has brought to our attention the testimonies of Mrs Chaube (PW-02) and Mr Tomar (PW-03). Alternatively, even assuming that the said latter part of the raid/search at the house of the Accused No. 01 and Accused No. 04 was not in continuation of the action taken towards Accused No. 04 as per the secret information, there has still been appropriate compliance of Section 42 of the NDPS Act 1985 for the reason that the same was based on the personal [2024] 4 S.C.R. 457 Smt. Najmunisha v. The State of Gujarat knowledge of Mr Tomar, who is a Gazetted Officer. It is further contended that the provision of Section 42(2) of the NDPS Act is to be read disjunctively and henceforth there is no requirement to take down the information in writing where it emanates from the personal knowledge of the superior officer. To further this argument, the learned Counsel has distinguished the facts of the present case from the ratio in decisions in State of Punjab v. Balbir Singh (1994) 3 SCC 299 and Karnail Singh (supra) as they refer only to the process to be followed upon receipt of information from any person and not to “personal knowledge” of the officer. 21. Furthermore, it is submitted that there has been a substantial compliance of Section 42(1) of the NDPS Act 1985 as during the action being taken against the Accused No. 04 and his absconding therefrom, an emergent situation arose which necessitated the search in his house – which was nearby to the place where auto rickshaw was abandoned. There was a grave possibility that if the Accused No. 04 was at his house then he might run away and/or if there was any further amount of contraband at his residence, he would have appropriated that as well. Thence, the raiding party had their hands tied down to necessarily carry out the said search at the house of Accused No. 04 in light of the ratio in Karnail Singh (supra) not necessitating literal compliance rather substantial compliance contingent on the facts of each case.