The categoric stand in the compliance affidavit filed by the State(reproduced supra) fortifies the claim of the applicant that these plots are falling under the urban area. 20. In this background, the applicant is justified in claiming that its proprietary rights guaranteed under Article 300A of the Constitution of India cannot be infringed merely on account of the pending writ appeal before the Madhya Pradesh High Court. 21. Resultantly, we are of the firm opinion that the permission sought by the applicant for raising construction of health/eco-resort cannot be opposed only on account of pendency of the writ appeal before the Madhya Pradesh High Court. However, it can be said without a cavil of doubt that activities, if any, on the Plot Nos. 14/3 and 14/4 purchased by the applicant from Dennis Torry would have to be carried out strictly in accordance with the ESZ notification dated 9th [2024] 6 S.C.R. 739 T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. August, 2017, issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. Nonetheless, the applicant would be at liberty to satisfy the authorities that the plots in question are beyond the Eco-Sensitive Zone. 22. Furthermore, since the writ appeal pending before the Madhya Pradesh High Court arises out of the s passed in relation to the title rights of Dennis Torry, from whom the applicant purchased the plots in question, the activities, if any, undertaken by the applicant on the said plot of land would also remain subject to the outcome of the said writ appeal. 23. We, therefore, direct that the application filed by the applicant for raising construction on plot Nos. 14/3 and 14/4 shall be decided objectively by the CEC/Competent Authority of the local body keeping in view the location of the land with reference to the notified boundaries of the ESZ. 24. While deciding the application filed by the applicant, the authorities shall also bear in mind the fact that it is the pertinent case presented before this Court that a large number of resorts of Madhya Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation and Special Area Development Authority(SADA) are existing on areas abutting the land owned by the applicant. 25. The application/s shall be decided within a period of two months from today. Needless to say, that in the event of any adverse s being passed, the applicant shall be at liberty to challenge the same as per law. 26. The applications are disposed of in above terms. No as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Applications disposed of.