If restrictions by way of a permit system had been imposed, it was feared that there would have been difficulties experienced which it would not have been easy to get over, and after further discussions with the Government of Assam, it was settled in consultation with them that [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1257 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 Bangladesh (East Pakistan) prevented the Indian Government from replicating the permit system that was applied for movement in the Western b. The proviso to Article 7 which dealt with persons who remigrated to India did not apply to those who came from East Pakistan because the permit system was not implemented there. 28. On 1 January 1952, the Influx from Pakistan (Control) Act was repealed41 putting an end to the permit system governing the travel between West Pakistan and India. In October 1952, the India-Pakistan Passport and Visa Scheme regulated the travel between India and Pakistan. The scheme proposed a specific passport system between India and Pakistan.42 b. Section 6A of the Citizenship Act 1955 does not conflict with Articles 6 and 7 of the Constitution 29. It is in the above background that the argument of the petitioners that Section 6A is unconstitutional for prescribing a cut-off date different from the date in Articles 6 and 7 has to be decided. Two issues arise for the consideration of this Court: (a) whether Section 6A prescribes a cut-off date different from that prescribed by Articles 6 and 7 for migrants from Bangladesh to Assam; and (b) if (a) is in the affirmative, whether Article 11 of the Constitution confers Parliament with the power to ‘alter’ the provisions in Part II of the Constitution conferring citizenship. 30. The following position emerges from our discussion of Articles 5, 6 and 7 in the preceding section: a. The Constitution only prescribes who would be citizens upon the commencement of the Constitution. This is evident from the language of Articles 5 and 6 which uses the phrase ‘at the commencement of the Constitution’ and the drafting history of the provision; instead of introducing a permit system which would control the entry of outsiders into Assam, we might take power to expel from Assam such foreign Nationals who entered that State and whose continuance was likely to cause disturbance to its economy.” 41 See the Influx from Pakistan (Control) Repealing Act 1952; the Statement of Objects and Reasons stated that it was agreed “with the Government of Pakistan that with effect from prescribed date, the permit system should be replaced by a system of passports.” 42 See paper Rights: The emergence of Documentary Identities in Post-Colonial India, 1950-67 (2016), History Faculty Publications.129 1258 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b. Article 6 covers a limited class of migrants from both Pakistan and Bangladesh to India (including Assam). The provision only covers those who migrated to India till 26 July 1949 (based on the six months residence requirement); c. The benefit of citizenship to the class covered by the proviso to Article 7 depended on the permit system prescribed by law.