The aforesaid was challenged by the complainant before the High Court by filing the Revision Petition invoking power under Section 397 read with Section 399 Cr.P.C. It is the passed in the aforesaid petition which is impugned before this Court. 10.2 Firstly, the issue is mentioning of Section 397 read with Section 399 Cr. P.C for filing revision petition before the High Court and about its maintainability on that account. Nothing hinges on that, as it was mere mentioning of a wrong section in the petition. The High Court otherwise has the power to deal with the subject-matter. Section 102 of the Act enables the High Court to exercise its revisional powers with reference to any or proceeding by the Board or the Children’s Court. Hence, on that account we do not find that the revision should have been dismissed. 10.3 Another argument raised by learned counsel for the appellant was that there being remedy of appeal available with the complainant against the dated 12.04.2024 vide which two members of the Board had directed inquiry into the offence allegedly committed by CCL by the Board. In our opinion, even though such a remedy may be available to the complainant which should normally be availed, but what is evident from the facts of the case is that there was an earlier passed by the Principal Magistrate on 05.04.2022, which was final regarding conduct of trial of the 804 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports CCL by the Children’s Court, still subsequently two members of the Board without the Principal Magistrate being there passed an on 12.04.2022 directing inquiry into the offence by the Board. In fact, the subsequent was totally non-est. Even if in such a situation the aforesaid was not challenged by availing the remedy of appeal, in our opinion the revision under Section 102 of the Act cannot be said to be not maintainable. 10.4 Firstly, there is no time limit provided for filing a revision therein, and secondly it could be on an application filed by any of the parties. The High Court can exercise its revisional powers for satisfying itself as to the legality or propriety of any such and may pass such in relation thereto as it thinks fit. Besides the legality of the dated 12.04.2022, the case in hand is such where even the propriety of the proceeding was also in question. The proceedings before the Board could not continue after the passing of the dated 05.04.2022, in terms of Section 7(4) of the Act. 10.5 Hence, non-availment of the remedy of appeal by the complainant in such a situation cannot be held to be fatal. We may also add here that even the appellant could have availed the remedy of appeal against the dated 05.04.2022, but he thought of continuing before the Board in a non-est proceeding. IV. ANOMALY IN SECTION 101 OF THE JUVENILE JUSTICE (CARE AND PROTECTION OF CHILDREN) ACT, 2015 (A) REGARDING THE TERMS USED AS ‘CHILDREN’S COURT’ AND ‘COURT OF SESSIONS’ 11.