He, therefore, submits that the and of conviction is not at all sustainable in law. 7. Shri Goburdhun in the alternative submits that the evidence of the prosecution witnesses itself would show that the incident was an outcome of a sudden and grave provocation in a quarrel that took place between the deceased and the appellant. It is, therefore, submitted that, in any event, the conviction under Section 302 IPC would not be sustainable and will have to be altered to a lesser offence. 8. Shri Siddharth Dharmadhikari, learned Standing Counsel for the State of Maharashtra, on the contrary, submits that insofar as the material aspect is concerned, the testimonies of all the three eyewitnesses are consistent. He submits that apart from the testimonies of the eyewitnesses, the circumstantial evidence also points towards the guilt of the appellant. He, therefore, submits that no interference would be warranted with the concurrent s and s passed by the trial court and the High Court. 9. Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5), states in his deposition that, on the date of the incident the deceased and his wife Sunita Bhosale (PW-6) had come to his residence. He had gone to answer the call of the nature. When he returned, Sunita Bhosale (PW-6) and his wife were standing [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1445 Sunny @ Santosh Dharmu Bhosale v. The State of Maharashtra at the door. They informed that the appellant had come and was abusing the deceased and that the deceased had gone after him. He then, went after them. When he went towards Khadkoba temple, he noticed that the deceased was lying on road near the house situated behind metal-sheet mansion and the appellant was assaulting him by means of bamboo stick. He states that Mangesh Bhosale (PW-3) and one Aniket Bhosale also came there. Seeing them, the appellant fled away. The deceased had become unconscious. The deceased was taken to the Government hospital where he was declared dead. 10. The evidence of Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) is sought to be corroborated by Mangesh Bhosale (PW-3). He stated that hearing the quarrelling noise on the rear side of his house he came out of the house and thereafter saw the appellant assaulting the deceased. However, the presence of this witness is itself doubtful, inasmuch as, Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) in his cross-examination admits that the house of Mangesh Bhosale (PW-3) is at a distance of 2000-2500 feet from the place of incident. 11. The prosecution case is, however, also supported by Sunita Bhosale (PW-6), the wife of the deceased. 12. Taking into consideration the evidence of Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) and Sunita Bhosale (PW-6), we do not find any error in the finding of the trial court and the High Court that it is the present appellant who assaulted the deceased due to which the death of the deceased has occurred. 13. The next question that arises for consideration is as to whether the conviction under Section 302 IPC would be sustainable or whether the appellant deserves to be convicted for a lesser offence.