The documents related to the information furnished online, based on which the auto evaluation takes place, will only be considered. If a Bidder uploads any other document, it will not be given any cognizance. A scanned copy of the following documents shall be submitted online by the Bidders in support of the £ Any approximate equivalent of a chartered accountant may provide the relevant certificates required under this RFB. Jurisdictions which do not have a license/ certification/ membership requirement for accountants to describe themselves or to practice as chartered accountants (or any approximate equivalent), any qualified accountant may provide the certificates required under this RFB. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 433 Banshidhar Construction Pvt. Ltd. v. Bharat Coking Coal Limited & Others information/declaration furnished by the Bidder at the time of submission of their Bids: Sl. Submission Scanned copy of documents (self-certified No. of and notarized/certified®) to be uploaded documents by Bidders in support of information/ related to declaration furnished online by the qualification Bidder against each qualification criteria criteria (CONFIRMATORY DOCUMENT) 1. Bidder’s Copy of the Bidder’s Covering Letter, Covering acceptance of the Bid conditions and making Letter and commitments on the Bidder’s letter head as acceptance per proforma (provided at Appendix I of RFB) of bid Note: In case the Bidder is a Consortium, conditions the above documents are to be signed by all the Members. 2. Financial i) Certificate having UDIN number specifying Capacity the Net Worth of the Bidder as at the close of the latest financial year among the 3 (three) financial years as chosen by the Bidder, from a chartered accountant based on the financial statements audited by statutory auditor∞ exhibiting the information submitted by the Bidder and confirming that the methodology adopted for calculating the Net Worth conforms to the provisions of the Bidding Documents; ii) Certificate having UDIN number specifying the average Total Income of the Bidder during the last 3 (three) financial years, as chosen by the Bidder, from a chartered accountant based on the financial statements audited by statutory auditor∞ exhibiting the information submitted by the Bidder online and also specifying the methodology adopted for calculating the average Total Income; ® For a power of attorney executed and issued overseas, the document will also have to be legalised by the Indian Embassy and notarised in the jurisdiction where the power of attorney is being issued. However, the power of attorney provided by Bidders/ Members from countries that have signed the Hague Convention, 1961 are not required to be legalised by the Indian Embassy if it carries a conforming Apostille certificate. ∞ In jurisdictions that do not have statutory auditors, the firm of auditors which audits the annual accounts of the Bidder may provide the certificates required under this RFB. 434 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports iii) Audited annual reports of the Bidder for the last 3 (three) financial years, as chosen by the Bidder, comprising of the audited balance sheets and profit and loss accounts of the Bidder. iv) A duly filled in Annex III (provided at Appendix I of RFB).