453 M/s Ultra-Tech Cement Ltd. v. Mast Ram & Ors. under the said Award. The High Court also failed to consider that by making the payment under the Award dated 08.06.2018, JAL had accepted its liability for claims arising out of the acquisition proceedings. d. The subject land was acquired for JAL. Accordingly, the LAC had issued a possession certificate dated 07.06.2019 in favour of JAL and handed over spot possession of the subject land to it under Section 16 of the 1894 Act. The subject land was duly mutated in the name of JAL vide Mutation No. 232 dated 12.11.2020. The High Court failed to take into consideration the fact that the subject land had not been transferred as an asset to the Appellant under the Scheme. To establish the same, the Appellant had placed on record and referred to a Chart of Comparison of Khasra Numbers under the Scheme and the Khasra Numbers which were transferred to JAL under the Award dated 08.06.2018 contending that none of the Khasra Numbers of the subject land or portions thereof overlap with the Khasra Numbers of the land/assets transferred under the Scheme. Therefore, since the Appellant was not enjoying the possession or benefit, if any, of the subject land, the liability of paying the compensation under the Supplementary Award could not have been fastened on it. e. As per the Scheme, the Appellant only purchased certain assets listed in the Schedule-I and Schedule-IA thereof on a “slump exchange basis” and did not take over JAL. Mr. Pahwa clarified that JAL is a surviving entity and the High Court had erred in understanding that JAL stood merged or transferred with the Appellant. f. Mr. Pahwa also brought our attention to the passed by this Court dated 16.12.2019 in Ultratech Cement Ltd. v. Tonnu Ram, SLP (C) (Diary) No. 42997 of 2019 wherein this Court clarified that the impugned of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh could not have been construed as permitting third party to pursue claim for recovery against the Appellant in disregard of the Scheme and the executing court would be duty-bound to examine the purport of the Scheme and pass s strictly in consonance therewith. 454 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The relevant observations made by this Court in Tonnu Ram (supra) are reproduced below: “…It cannot be construed as permitting third party to pursue claim for recovery against the petitioner in disregard of the scheme of arrangement propounded by the NCLT in respect of respondent No.4- M/s. Jaiprakash Industries. Despite this clear position, if any third party intends to pursue remedy against the petitioner, the Executing Court would be duty bound to examine the purport of the stated scheme propounded by the NCLT and pass s strictly in consonance therewith. It would be open to the petitioner to invite attention of the Executing Court or any other Forum about the relevant provisions in the scheme in support of the argument that the liability to pay the dues will remain that of respondent No.4- M/s.