It is also not providing that Part I will “only” apply where the place of arbitration is in India (emphasis supplied). Thus the legislature has not provided that Part I is not to apply to arbitrations which take place outside India. The use of the language is significant and important. The legislature is emphasising that the provisions of Part I would apply to arbitrations which take place in India, but not providing that the provisions of Part I will not apply to arbitrations which take place out of India. The wording of sub-section (2) of Section 2 suggests that the intention of the legislature was to make provisions of Part I compulsorily applicable to an arbitration, including an international commercial arbitration, which takes place in India. Parties cannot, by agreement, override or exclude the non-derogable provisions of Part I in such arbitrations. By omitting to provide that Part I will not apply to international commercial arbitrations which take place outside India the effect would be that Part I would also apply to international commercial arbitrations held out of India. But by not specifically providing that the provisions of Part I apply to international commercial arbitrations held out of India, the intention of the legislature appears to be to ally (sic allow) parties to provide by agreement that Part I or any provision therein will not apply. Thus in respect of arbitrations which take place outside India even the non-derogable provisions of Part I can be excluded. Such an agreement may be express or implied. 22. If read in this manner there would be no conflict between Section 1 and Section 2(2). The words “every arbitration” in sub-section (4) of Section 2 and the words “all arbitrations and to all proceedings 1180 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports relating thereto” in sub-section (5) of Section 2 are wide. Sub-sections (4) and (5) of Section 2 are not made subject to sub-section (2) of Section 2. It is significant that sub-section (5) is made subject to sub-section (4) but not to sub-section (2). To accept Mr Sen’s submission would necessitate adding words in sub-sections (4) and (5) of Section 2, which the legislature has purposely omitted to add viz. “subject to provision of sub-section (2)”. However read in the manner set out hereinabove there would also be no conflict between sub-section (2) of Section 2 and sub-sections (4) and/or (5) of Section 2.” (Emphasis supplied) Thus, this Court held that Part I of the Act, 1996 would apply to all arbitrations. Where such arbitration is held in India, the provisions of Part I would be compulsorily applicable, and parties may deviate only to the extent permitted by the derogable provisions of Part I. In cases of international commercial arbitrations held out of India the provisions of Part I would apply unless the parties by agreement, express or implied, exclude all or any of its provisions. In that case the laws or rules agreed upon by the parties would prevail. Any provision, in Part I, which is contrary to or excluded by that law or rules will not apply.