[2024] 6 S.C.R. 280 : 2024 INSC 432 Mahendra Kaur Arora v. HDFC Bank Ltd (Civil Appeals No. 6096-6097 of 2017) 08 May 2024 [Hima Kohli and Ahsanuddin Amanullah, JJ.] Issue for Consideration In a petition u/Article 227 of the Constitution of India, Single Judge upheld the passed by Appellate Rent Tribunal by which the decree passed in favour of the appellant-landlady by the Rent Tribunal was set aside and counter claim filed by the respondent- Bank seeking refund of the security amount was allowed. Appellant filed intra court appeal which was dismissed by the Division Bench of the High Court as not maintainable. Headnotes Lease Agreement – Respondent-Bank terminated the lease agreement by issuing three months’ notice in terms of clause 6 thereof – However, did not hand over the vacant possession of the premises to the appellant-landlady and continued occupying it – As per the appellant, the respondent also did not pay the use and occupation charges in respect of the subject premises, after adjusting the security deposit towards the rent payable for three months – Application filed by appellant seeking eviction and recovery of arrears of rent was decreed by Rent Tribunal, counter claim filed by the respondent was rejected – Appeal filed by respondent, allowed by Appellate Rent Tribunal – Appellant filed petition u/Article 227 of the Constitution of India before the High Court, dismissed by Single Judge – Appellant filed intra court appeal, dismissed by Division Bench of the High Court as not maintainable: Held: Language of Clause 6 of the Agreement made it abundantly clear that the respondent-Bank was liable to refund of the deposit amount contemporaneous to removing itself from the leased premises and handing over vacant possession thereof to the appellant and giving charge thereof to her, which procedure was not followed – Impugned passed by Single Judge not [2024] 6 S.C.R. 281 Mahendra Kaur Arora v. HDFC Bank Ltd sustainable – However, passed by the Division Bench of the High Court is maintained for the reason that no intra-court appeal could have been preferred by the appellant against an passed by the Single Judge on a petition filed u/Article 227, Constitution of India – passed by Rent Tribunal restored and the decree passed in favour of the appellant upheld. [Paras 10, 11] Constitution of India – Article 227 – passed in proceedings u/Article 227, maintainability of intra-court appeal: Held: No intra-court appeal can be preferred against an passed by Single Judge on a petition filed u/Article 227 of the Constitution of India. [Para 11] List of Acts Constitution of India. List of Keywords Lease Agreement; Rent Tribunal; Appellate Rent Tribunal; Non- payment of rent; Eviction; Recovery of arrears of rent; Use and occupation charges; Termination of lease agreement; Vacant possession not handed over; Security deposit; Refund of deposit amount; Counter claim; Intra court appeal. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal Nos. 6096-6097 of 2017 From the and dated 30.07.2015 in DBCSA No. 332 of 2012 and 09.01.2012 in SBCWP No.