In paragraph 30 of the plaint, it is averred that the action of the defendant is an act of constitutional overreach. In paragraph 32 and subsequent paragraphs of the plaint, it delineates the scope of Article 131 of the Constitution. b. Scheme of the DSPE Act: 52. After considering the averments in the plaint, we now propose to consider the contention of the learned Solicitor General with regard to Union of India having no superintendence or control over the CBI. For considering the same, it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the DSPE Act. 53. Section 2 of the DSPE Act reads thus: “2. Constitution and powers of special police establishment.—(1) Notwithstanding anything in the Police Act, 1861 (5 of 1861), the Central Government may constitute a special police force to be called the Delhi Special Police Establishment for the investigation in any Union Territory, of offences notified under Section 3. (2) Subject to any s which the Central Government may make in this behalf, members of the said police establishment shall have throughout any Union Territory, in relation to the investigation of such offences and arrest of persons concerned in such offences, all the powers, duties, privileges and liabilities which police officers of that Union Territory have in connection with the investigation of offences committed therein. (3) Any member of the said police establishment of or above the rank of Sub-Inspector may, subject to any s which the Central Government may make in this behalf, exercise in any Union Territory any of the powers of the officer in charge of a police station in the area in which he is for the time being and when so exercising such powers shall, subject to any such s as aforesaid, be deemed to be an officer in charge of a police station discharging the functions of such an officer within the limits of his station.” 718 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 54. A perusal of sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the DSPE Act clearly shows that it is the Central Government that is entitled to constitute a special police force to be called the DSPE for investigation of cases in any Union Territory of offences notified under Section 3 of the DSPE Act. Sub-section (2) thereof would show that, subject to any s which the Central Government may make in this behalf, members of the DSPE shall have, throughout any Union Territory, in relation to the investigation of such offences and arrest of persons concerned in such offences, all the powers, duties, privileges and liabilities which police officers of that Union Territory have in connection with the investigation of offences committed therein. Again, under sub-section (3) thereof, any member of the DSPE of or above the rank of Sub-Inspector may, subject to any s which the Central Government may make in this behalf, exercise, in any Union Territory, any of the powers of the officer in charge of a police station in the area in which he is for the time being and when so exercising such powers, he shall, subject to any such s as aforesaid, be deemed to be an officer in charge of a police station discharging the functions of such an officer within the limits of his station.