1205 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. 18. Section 2(g) of the Act 1986 defines the term “GOONDA”: “(g) “goonda” means a person, who either by himself or as a member of or leader of a gang, habitually commits, or attempts to commit or abets the commission of offences punishable under Chapter XVI or Chapter XVII or Chapter XXII of the Indian Penal Code;” 19. The Act 1986, has been enacted with a clear object to prevent crime and to protect the society from the anti-social elements and dangerous characters by placing them under detention for such a duration as would disable them from resorting to undesirable criminal activities. The provisions of the Act 1986 are intended to deal with habitual criminals, dangerous and desperate outlaws, who are so hardened and incorrigible that the ordinary provisions of the penal laws and the mortal/moral fear of punishment for crime are not sufficient deterrence for them. 20. The law is well settled that the power under any enactment relating to preventive detention has to be exercised with great care, caution & restraint. In to pass an of detention under the Act 1986 against any person, the Detaining Authority must be satisfied that he is a “GOONDA” within the meaning of Section 2(g) of the Act 1986, who either by himself or as a member of or a leader of a gang habitually commits or attempts to commit or abets the commission of offences punishable under Chapter XVI or Chapter XVII or Chapter XXII of the IPC as according to the explanation to Section 2(a) of the Act 1986, it is such a “GOONDA” who for the purpose of Section 2 of the Act 1986 shall be deemed to be a person “acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public ” and against whom an of detention may lawfully be made. 21. Further, sub-section (1) of Section 3 confers power on the State Government and a District Magistrate or a Commissioner of Police as the case may be under the direction of the State Government to detain a person on being satisfied that it is necessary to do so with a view to prevent him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of “public ”. 22. In the aforesaid context, we may refer to a decision of this Court in Pushkar Mukherjee v. State of West Bengal reported in (1969) 1 SCC 10: 1206 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “13. …Does the expression “public ” take in every kind of infraction of or only some categories thereof. It is manifest that every act of assault or injury to specific persons does not lead to public dis. When two people quarrel and fight and assault each other inside a house or in a street, it may be said that there is dis but not public dis. Such cases are dealt with under the powers vested in the executive authorities under the provisions of ordinary criminal law but the culprits cannot be detained on the ground that they were disturbing public .