Notably, the Court framed a question similar to the reference in Anjuman (supra) but held that the question is to be decided by a regular bench: “Q. 3. (a) What are the indicia for treating an educational institution as a minority educational institution? Would an institution be regarded as a minority educational institution because it was established by a person(s) belonging to a religious or linguistic minority or its being administered by a person(s) belonging to a religious or linguistic minority? This question need not be answered by this Bench, it will be dealt with by a regular Bench.” [Emphasis supplied] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1799 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 77. Soon thereafter, vide an dated 11.03.2003, a two-judge bench finally disposed of the petitions that remained pending in Anjuman (supra), with the broad directions that: “These matters are covered by the decision of a Constitution Bench of this Court in Writ Petition No. 317/1993-T.M.A. Pai Foundation & Ors. Etc. Vs. State of Karnataka & Ors. Etc. and connected batch decided on 3·1 11 October, 2002. All statutory enactments, s, schemes, regulations will have to be brought in conformity with the decision of the Constitution Bench of this court in T.M.A. Pai Foundation’s case decided on 31.10.2002. As and when any problem arises the same can be dealt with by an appropriate Forum in an appropriate proceeding. The Writ Petitions are disposed of according[ly].” 78. Hence, though Anjuman (supra) was disposed of, the correctness of Azeez Basha (supra) was left to be answered. Ultimately, the question of the minority status of AMU was raised again in the present batch of appeals in the 2019 Reference , which arose out of a challenge laid to different judgements rendered by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad,holding that in view of Azeez Basha (supra) AMU is not a minority institution. A three-judge bench of this Court therefore examined the trajectory of judicial decisions and noted that the correctness of Azeez Basha (supra) remains undecided. This Court also noted that apart from Azeez Basha (supra), two other aspects required an authoritative pronouncement: (i) The decision in Prof. Yashpal (supra), wherein this Court had held that a private university can only be established by a separate Act or by a compendious Act where the legislature specifically provides for the establishment of the said university; and (ii) The 2010 Amendment of the NCMEI Act, prior to which, the definition of minority educational institutions excluded a university. However, the 2010 Amendment thereafter deleted this exclusion. Accordingly, for an authoritative pronouncement of these issues, the case was referred to the present seven-judge bench of this Court. The relevant part of the 2019 Reference is extracted below: “8. The said facts would show that the correctness of the question arising from the decision of this Court in S. Azeez Basha (supra) has remained undetermined. 1800 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 9. That apart, the decision of this Court in Prof. Yashpal and another vs. State of Chhattisgarh and others2 and the amendment of the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Act, 2004 made in the year 2010 would also require an authoritative pronouncement on the aforesaid question formulated, as set out above, besides the correctness of the view expressed in the of this Court in S. Azeez Basha (supra) which has been extracted above.