We hold that the SRA is accountable for the performance of this duty. Accountability need not be superimposed by the text of a statute, it exists wherever power is granted to accomplish statutory purpose. In Vijay Rajmohan v. CBI,9 this Court held:- “34. Accountability in itself is an essential principle of administrative law. Judicial review of administrative action will be effective and meaningful by ensuring accountability of the officer or authority in charge. 9 [2022] 19 SCR 563 : (2023) 1 SCC 329 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1457 Yash Developers v. Harihar Krupa Co-Operative Housing Society Limited & Ors. 35. The principle of accountability is considered as a cornerstone of the human rights framework. It is a crucial feature that must govern the relationship between “duty bearers” in authority and “right holders” affected by their actions. Accountability of institutions is also one of the development goals adopted by the United Nations in 201510 and is also recognised as one of the six principles of the Citizens Charter Movement.11 36. Accountability has three essential constituent dimensions: (i) responsibility, (ii) answerability, and (iii) enforceability. Responsibility requires the identification of duties and performance obligations of individuals in authority and with authorities. Answerability requires reasoned decision-making so that those affected by their decisions, including the public, are aware of the same. Enforceability requires appropriate corrective and remedial action against lack of responsibility and accountability to be taken.12 Accountability has a corrective function, making it possible to address individual or collective grievances. It enables action against officials or institutions for dereliction of duty. It also has a preventive function that helps to identify the procedure or policy which has become non- functional and to improve upon it.” 14. For effective implementation of the principle of accountability of power under the Act, we identify the duties and performance obligations of the CEO. It is evident from the statutory scheme that the responsibility vests in the CEO, defined under Section 2 (b+a) read with Section 3A(2) of the Act. The CEO reports to the SRA, the duty of which is defined under Section 3B of the Act. One of the most important duties of the SRA is to ensure that the Slum Rehabilitation Scheme is implemented. 10 United Nations General Assembly Resolution 70/1 dated 25-9-2015. 11 Citizens Charter adopted by the Government in the “Conference of Chief Ministers of various States and Union Territories” held in May 1997 in New Delhi, available from https://goicharters.nic.in/public/website/ home. 12 See Office of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Who will be Accountable? Human Rights and the Post-2015 Development Agenda, available from http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/ Publications/WhoWillBeAccountable.pdf 1458 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14.1. The primary responsibility to implement Section 13 of the Act and allied provisions and to monitor compliances of schemes and agreements vests with the CEO. If the actions of CEO are based on the directions of the SRA, then the SRA must equally bear the responsibility. The CEO and/or the SRA must explain the delay in implementation, failing which, the consequences as determined by the court will follow.