It was voluntarily vested in AMU by MAO College and the Muslim University Association. The money of the Muslim University Foundation Committee was also voluntarily surrendered to the Government to facilitate the establishment of AMU through the AMU Act, 1920. Thus, at the time of coming into force of the Constitution, no right of the Muslim minority existed in property vested with AMU, and it cannot be said that the Amendments deprived the Muslim minority of the same. E. History of discordance with Azeez Basha 72. Having analysed Azeez Basha (supra), it is imperative to also take into account the decisions proffered by this Court in other relevant cases to holistically understand the background of the reference before this Court. Post the decision in Azeez Basha (supra) came the 1972 Amendment Act vide Act No. 34 of 1972 (1972 Amendment Act), introducing several significant changes. 73. Thereupon, the first discordant note was struck by a two-judge bench of this Court in Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya v. District Inspector of Schools.59 That was a case where this Court was considering the minority status of an institution established by a society registered under the Societies Registrations Act, 1860. The question raised therein pertained to whether such registration would be determinative against the minority status of this institution. In this regard, this Court broadly formulated the following two issues for adjudication: i. Whether Article 30(1) of the Constitution envisages an institution which is established by minorities alone without the participation for the factum of establishment from any other community? 59 Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya v. District Inspector of Schools, W.P. (C) No. 54-57 of 1981. 1798 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports ii. Whether soon after the establishment of the institution if it is registered as a society under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, its status as a minority institution changes in view of the broad principles laid down in Azeez Basha (supra)? 74. The Court then doubted the correctness of Azeez Basha (supra) and referred the case to the Chief Justice for placement before a seven-judge bench, as several jurists including Mr. Seervai had expressed their doubts on the correctness of the said decision. The bench considered it appropriate, in a way, to direct constituting of a larger bench to consider the entire aspect fully. 75. The issue pertaining to the correctness of such reference made by the two-judge bench, has been dealt with greater detail in paragraphs 83 to 99 of this judgement. Almost immediately thereafter, came the 1981 Amendment Act, through Act No. 62 of 1981 (1981 Amendment Act), which finalized the current framework of the AMU Act and reversed some of the changes introduced by the 1972 Amendment Act. 76. Almost two decades after the reference in Anjuman (supra), came the magnum opus decision of the eleven-judge bench of this Court in TMA Pai (supra).In this case, the Court was tasked with analysing the different facets of Article 30, including the extent of intervention permissible by the State and the meaning of the term ‘minority’.