“said” and “vote given” respectively – Words “anything” and “any” when read with their respective operative words mean that a member may claim immunity 466 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to say as they feel and vote in a direction that they desire on any matter before the House – These are absolutely outside the scope of interference by the courts – Words “in respect of” means ‘arising out of’ or ‘bearing a clear relation to’ and cannot be interpreted to mean anything which may have even a remote connection with the speech or vote given. [Paras 99, 102-103, 188.6] Constitution of India – Arts. 105 and 194 – Power, privileges and immunity in Parliament – Purpose and object: Held: Constitution envisions probity in public life – Purpose and object for which the Constitution stipulates powers, privileges and immunity in Parliament must be borne in mind – Privileges are essentially related to the House collectively and necessary for its functioning – Hence, the phrase “in respect of” in Art. 105 must have a meaning consistent with the purpose of privileges and immunities – Arts. 105 and 194 seek to create a fearless atmosphere in which debate, deliberations and exchange of ideas can take place within the Houses of Parliament and the state legislatures – Purpose is destroyed when a member is induced to vote or speak in a certain manner not because of their belief/ position on an issue but because of an act of bribery – Corruption and bribery of members of the legislature erode the foundation of Indian Parliamentary democracy – It is destructive of the aspirational and deliberative ideals of the Constitution and creates a polity which deprives citizens of a responsible, responsive and representative democracy. [Paras 104, 188.5, 188.8] Constitution of India – Arts. 105 and 194 – Parliamentary privileges – Courts and the House, if exercise parallel jurisdiction over allegations of bribery: Held: Issue of bribery is not one of exclusivity of jurisdiction by the House over its bribe-taking members – Purpose of a House acting against a contempt by a member for receiving a bribe serves a purpose distinct from a criminal prosecution – Jurisdiction which is exercised by a competent court to prosecute a criminal offence and the authority of the House to take action for a breach of discipline in relation to the acceptance of a bribe by a member of the legislature exist in distinct spheres – Scope, purpose and consequences of the court exercising jurisdiction in relation to a criminal offence and the authority of the House to discipline its members are different – Potential of misuse against individual members of the legislature is neither enhanced nor diminished by recognizing the jurisdiction of the court to prosecute a member of [2024] 3 S.C.R. 467 Sita Soren v. Union of India the legislature who is alleged to have indulged in an act of bribery. [Paras 188.9, 188.10] Constitution of India – Arts. 105 and 194 – Parliamentary privileges – Offence of bribery, stage at which it crystallizes: Held: Offence of a public servant being bribed is pegged to receiving or agreeing to receive the undue advantage and not the actual performance of the act for which the undue advantage is obtained – Delivery of results is irrelevant to the offence of bribery – To read Arts.