The sale deed of the collaterals was later on registered. However, the sale deed of the appellant no.1 remained pending for registration due to deficiency in stamp duty and was finally registered in 2011 after the deficiency was removed. 20.11. The registration of the sale deed of the appellant even after 26 years could not be said to be faulted on that ground alone. The said registration was never challenged either before superior authority of the registration department or before the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution. Till date there is no challenge to the said sale deed in favour of the appellant either on the ground of non-execution by respondent No.2 or on the ground of the registration being faulty before any forum whatsoever. 20.12. Reference to the deposition of appellant No.1 has been made to submit that the appellant No.1 nowhere stated that no sale consideration was paid but he only stated that he had not placed any documents on record to show that the sale consideration of Rs.40,000/- had been paid. 20.13. The arguments advanced on behalf of respondent No.1 that the appellant No.1 was a minor, as such the sale deed was void, also does not benefit the respondents inasmuch as on behalf of the brother of the appellant No.1, who was stated to be a minor in the sale deed, was duly represented by his mother, natural guardian. As such the sale would, in any case, be valid insofar as the brother of the appellant No.1 was concerned. 20.14. The collusion of respondent Nos.1 and 2 was writ large and more than apparent from the conduct of the respondent No.2; that he did not cross-examine the appellant no.1; he did not 2312 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports enter the witness box; he did not lead any evidence and; he did not file any appeal before the High Court. 20.15. Reliance was placed upon the of this Court in the case of Alka Bose vs. Parmatma Devi and others3 wherein this Court had observed that in India, an agreement of sale signed by the vendor alone and possession delivered to the purchaser and accepted by the purchaser has always been considered to be a valid contract. 20.16. Lastly, it was submitted that the respondent No.1, the subsequent purchaser was not a bona fide purchaser. The sale deed in favour of respondent No.1 has a clause that the property was being sold on as is where is basis which clearly reflects that respondent no.1 had knowledge of the sale deed in favour of appellant and about their possession. 20.17. On such submissions, learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the appeal deserves to be allowed, the impugned of the High Court deserves to be set aside and that of the first Appellate Court be maintained. 21. Mr. Ranjit Kumar, learned senior counsel appearing for respondent No.2 made detailed submissions which we shall note a little later. He, however, did not give any explanation whatsoever as to why the respondent No.2 did not cross-examine the appellant No.1, why the respondent No.2 did not enter the witness box in support of his pleadings stated in the written statement, why no evidence was led by him and why no second appeal was preferred by respondent No.2 against the of the first Appellate Court decreeing the suit.