It is right that the rule of law enshrined in our Constitution must and does reckon with the roaring current of change which shifts our social values and shrivels our feudal roots, invades our lives and fashions our destiny.” The learned Judge quoted Granville Austin, saying: “The Judiciary was to be the arm of the social revolution, upholding the quality that Indians had longed for in colonial days…. The courts were also idealised because, as guardians of the Constitution, they would be the expression of a new law created by Indians for Indians.” 119. Having made these observations, this Court went on to accept the submission of the counsel for the Union of India and held that the ‘philosophy and core values’ of our Constitution must be kept in mind while understanding the provisions of the Constitution, including Article 265. Before reaching this conclusion, the judgement stated in a single sentence that “the ‘material resources of the community’ are not confined to public resources” but include all resources, including privately owned resources. The observations were as follows: 122 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “86. That “the material resources of the community” are not confined to public resources but include all resources, natural and man-made, public and private owned” is repeatedly affirmed by this Court. (See Ranganatha Reddy, Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Co. v. Bharat Coking Coal and State of T.N. v. L. Abu Kavur Bai), We are of the considered opinion that Shri Parasaran is right in saying that the philosophy and the core values of our Constitution must be kept in mind while understanding and applying the provisions of Article 265 of the Constitution of India and Section 72 of the Contract Act (containing as it does an equitable principle) — for that matter, in construing any other provision of the Constitution and the laws. Accordingly, we hold that even looked at from the constitutional angle, the right to refund of tax paid under an unconstitutional provision of law is not an absolute or an unconditional right. Similar is the position even if Article 265 can be invoked — we have held, it cannot be — for claiming refund of taxes collected by misinterpretation or misapplication of a provision of law, rules, notifications or regulation.” 120. The above observations indicate that the relevance of Article 39(b) to the judgement was limited to the larger socio-economic values which it espouses. The ratio decidendi of the majority judgement was that the constitutional values contained in the Preamble and Part IV of the Constitution, including Article 39(b) must be considered while interpreting Article 265 and determining whether a refund of taxes is permissible to a person who has passed on the burden. The single-line observation on Article 39(b) encompassing privately owned property was not relevant to this holding. To hold that this observation constitutes the ratio decidendi of the would be to disregard the warning of Chief Justice Khare in Islamic Academy of Education that “by reading a line here and there from the , one cannot find out the entire ratio decidendi of the .”116 116 Islamic Academy of Education [2].