However, a different trend is clearly discernible in the later s.” x x x x x 68. The learned Judge then referred to some later decisions and (in para 14 at SCC p. 306 of the ) quoted a passage from the decision in Joginder Pal v. Naval Kishore Behal [(2002) 5 SCC 397], to the following effect: (Joginder Pal case [(2002) 5 SCC 397] , SCC p. 404, para 9) “14. … ‘9. … The courts have to adopt a reasonable and balanced approach while interpreting rent control legislations starting with an assumption that an equal treatment has been meted out to both the sections of the society. In spite of the overall balance tilting in favour of the tenants, while interpreting such of the provisions as to take care of the interest of the landlord 872 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the court should not hesitate in leaning in favour of the landlords. Such provisions are engrafted in rent control legislations to take care of those situations where the landlords too are weak and feeble and feel humble.’ ” (emphasis in original) x x x x x 79. Before concluding the decision one more question needs to be addressed: what would be the position if the tenant’s appeal/revision is allowed and the eviction decree is set aside? In that event, naturally, the status quo ante would be restored and the tenant would be entitled to get back all the amounts that he was made to pay in excess of the contractual rent. That being the position, the amount fixed by the court over and above the contractual monthly rent, ordinarily, should not be directed to be paid to the landlord during the pendency of the appeal/revision. The deposited amount, along with the accrued interest, should only be paid after the final disposal to either side depending upon the result of the case.” 17.3 It has been held that tenants shall be liable to pay a rent equivalent to mesne profit, from the date they are found not to be entitled to retain possession of the premises in question. In Achal Misra v. Ram Shanker Singh & Ors.8 this Court held - “23. From the material available on record it does not appear that any rate of rent was appointed at which rent would be payable by the respondents to the landlord. The respondents also do not seem to have taken any steps for fixation of rent of the premises in their occupation. They have been happy to have got the premises in a prime locality, occupying and enjoying the same for no payment. We make it clear 8 [2005] 3 SCR 439 : (2005) 5 SCC 531 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 873 Bijay Kumar Manish Kumar HUF v. Ashwin Bhanulal Desai that the respondents shall be liable to pay the rent equivalent to mesne profits with effect from the date with which they are found to have ceased to be entitled to retain possession of the premises as tenant and for such period the landlord’s entitlement cannot be held pegged to the standard rent.