It cannot be explained by reason(s) / grounds(s) not furnished to the detenu. The decision of the authority must be the natural culmination of the application of mind to the relevant and material facts available on the record, and (ix) To arrive at a proper satisfaction warranting an of preventive detention, the detaining authority must, first examine the material adduced against the prospective detenu to satisfy itself whether his conduct or antecedent(s) reflect that he has been acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public and, second, if the aforesaid satisfaction is arrived at, it must further consider whether it is likely that the said person would act in a manner prejudicial to the public in near future unless he is prevented from doing so by passing an of detention . For passing a detention based on subjective satisfaction, the answer of the aforesaid aspects and points must be against the prospective detenu. The absence [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1221 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. of application of mind to the pertinent and proximate material and vital matters would show lack of statutory satisfaction on the part of the detaining authority. iii. The Saga Continues 44. We are dealing with a litigation arising from an of preventive detention passed by the State of Telangana under the provisions of the Act 1986. 45. This is one more litigation going against the State of Telangana. We remind the State of Telangana of what has been observed by this Court in Mallada K. Sri Ram v. State of Telangana reported in (2023) 13 SCC 537 in para 17: “17. It is also relevant to note, that in the last five years, this Court has quashed over five detention s under the Telangana Act of 1986 for inter alia incorrectly applying the standard for maintenance of public and relying on stale materials while passing the s of detention. At least ten detention s under the Telangana Act of 1986 have been set aside by the High Court of Telangana in the last one year itself. These numbers evince a callous exercise of the exceptional power of preventive detention by the detaining authorities and the respondent-state. We direct the respondents to take stock of challenges to detention s pending before the Advisory Board, High Court and Supreme Court and evaluate the fairness of the detention against lawful standards.” 46. Again, in one of the recent pronouncements of this Court in Ameena Begum (supra), this Court referring to Mallada K. Sri Ram (supra) observed in para 65 as under: “65. Interference by this Court with s of detention, routinely issued under the Act, seems to continue unabated. Even after Mallada K. Sri Ram [Mallada K. Sri Ram v. State of Telangana, (2023) 13 SCC 537 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 424] , in another decision of fairly recent origin in Sk. Nazneen v. State of Telangana [Sk. Nazneen v. State of Telangana, (2023) 9 SCC 633] , this Court set aside the 1222 [2024] 3 S.C.R.