It was submitted that quashment of their appointment by the Collector without joining them and affording an opportunity is in violation of the Principle of Natural Justice. The appellants in the memo of revision had not denied their relationships with the members of the selection committee and only averred that “it is the wrong allegation that the appointments of the petitioners have been cancelled by the Collector, Chhatarpur on the charge of being relatives.” 6. The revisional authority (Commissioner Revenue) dismissed the revision vide dated 14.03.2000, in para (6) of the it was observed that the selection of the appellants is contrary to Section 40(C) of the Madhya Pradesh Panchayat Raj Avam Gram Swaraj Adhiniyam, 1993 (hereafter referred to as ‘Adhiniyam’). The plea of non-joinder and not affording an opportunity of hearing was not found appealing because the relationship of the appellants with the members of the selection committee, gave undue favour to them and the same was not denied. The revisional authority was of the opinion that in the facts and circumstances of the case, not joining the appellants did not prejudice them. Further, the violation of principle of bias attracts in this case which vitiates the selection. However, in absence of any prejudice, decision of the Collector is not required to be altered with. 7. Aggrieved by the of revisional authority, appellants filed a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India before the High [2024] 4 S.C.R. 161 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. Court. Learned Single Judge with intent to afford an opportunity allowed the appellants herein to inspect the records of selection through their counsel, as spelt out in paragraph 13 of the of Single Judge which is reproduced as under: - “13. During the course of hearing of this petition, as ed earlier the Chief Executive Officer of the Janpad Panchayat was present with the original records of selection. Shri M.L. Choubey, learned counsel for the petitioners, was granted permission to inspect the records he inspected the records on 29.07.2008. The records have been perused by this Court and is returned back to Shri Shailesh Mishra after perusal.” Later, learned Single Judge formulated following three questions: - (i) “The first question would be as to whether the appeal was maintainable before the Collector under Rule 3; (ii) The second question is as to what is the effect of cancellation of the appointment of the petitioners, ed without hearing them and without impleading them as parties; and, (iii) The third and final question would be as to whether the Collector and Commissioner were right in interfering with the selection of the petitioners for the reasons indicated by them in the impugned i.e… the presence of the relatives as members of the selection committee in which petitioners had participated” 8. Question No. (i) relating to maintainability of appeal was answered against the appellants. The said question is not of much relevance at this stage, thus, in my view it is not required to be dealt with in detail.