This Court by dated 08.09.2006, clarified that persons in possession of properties based on duly authenticated tenancy agreements before the appointment of the Custodian declaring the property as enemy property would not be covered by the in Amir Mohammad Khan. Accordingly, the respondent No.1 has continued to be in possession. b) Reliance was placed on the Amendment Act, 2017 as per which the enemy property vested in the Custodian will remain vested in the Custodian regardless of change in circumstances such as the death of the enemy; the extinction of the enemy status; the winding up of business or a change in nationality of the legal heir and successor. The Act further clarifies that “enemy property vested in the Custodian” includes all rights, titles, and interests in or benefits arising from such property. It includes the right of expropriation of the enemy property, in exercise of the police powers of the State. Also, the principles of acquisition or requisition and payment of compensation will not apply to such a legislation. c) that the property in question unequivocally belongs to the Central Government, specifically the Custodian; Enemy Property is thus ‘property of the Union.’ The assessee is merely a tenant of the Custodian of the Enemy Property and therefore, no taxes can be levied on this property. d) that Article 285 of the Constitution provides exemption from State taxation in respect of properties of the Union of India. He buttressed his submission by stating that how the property sought to be taxed is being used is irrelevant consideration 862 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports as far as the interpretation of Article 285 of the Constitution of India was concerned, vide NDMC vs. State of Punjab, (1997) 7 SCC 339 (“NDMC”). There is an absolute and emphatic ban on state taxation on the property of the Union and the use of such property is irrelevant. e) that apart from Article 285, Section 172 of the Act of 1959 specifically provides that the Corporation may impose taxes subject to the provisions of Article 285 of the Constitution. Likewise, Section 177 of the said Act provides exceptions in respect of the levy of tax amongst others to buildings and land vesting in the Union of India. However, Section 8(2)(vi) of the Act and/or Section 173 of the Act of 1959 cannot amount to “law” authorizing levy of property tax on Union property in terms of Article 285(1) of the Constitution. f) that property vested in the Union was expressly excluded from the scope of general tax on land and building. In this regard, it was submitted that the impugned was incorrect to the extent that it allows Union property to be taxed on the basis of an extended definition of ‘owner’, and is in conflict with the of this Court in NDMC and therefore, not good law. The property in question is indisputably ‘property of the Union’ as per Article 285 of the Constitution. g) that the declaration of a property as enemy property would be by exercise of police power of the State.