Thus construed, there can be no difficulty in stating that the amounts raised from allottees under real estate projects would, in fact, be subsumed within Section 5(8)(f) even 234 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports without adverting to the Explanation introduced by the Amendment Act.” (emphasis added) FINDINGS ON FACTUAL ASPECTS 13. In light of the interpretation put by this Court to the definition of financial debt, it is necessary to come back to the facts of the case. The relevant agreements for our consideration are in the form of letters dated 1st April 2014 and 1st April 2015. The corporate debtor addressed the letters to the first respondent. The relevant part of the agreement/letter dated 1st April 2014 reads thus: “.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. SACH MARKETING PVT LTD JHARKHAND Dear Sir, We are pleased to appoint you as our SALES PROMOTER for promotion of Beer at Ranchi (Jharkhand) on the following terms and conditions: 1. You will be allowed Rs.4,000/- per month for your promote work. 2. You will be working in close coordination with company’s Marketing Manager for the aforementioned area, who shall convey the instructions in writing to you. 3. The selling rates of our beer shall be decided by the company from time to time and you will not change them without prior confirmation from the company. Further, you shall not commit to any party about any rebate or any discount etc without prior authorization from us. 4. The appointment shall be w.e.f. 1st April, 2014 for a period of 12 months ending 31st March, 2015. 5. The settlement of commission as stated above in point no.1 shall be on quarterly basis. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 235 Global Credit Capital Limited & Anr. v. Sach Marketing Pvt. Ltd. & Anr 6. Notwithstanding anything provided above this appointment in terms hereof may be terminated by us during the term of appointment aforesaid by giving to you thirty days notice in writing in this behalf from the date of dispatch of notice. 7. You shall not be entitled upon termination of this agreement or appointment within the terms hereof to claim any damages or compensation from the company for such termination or consequent thereupon or otherwise relative thereto against the other. 8. Forthwith upon determination of this agreement appointment you shall cease all dealings on behalf of the company and shall deliver custody of all premises, stock, cash negotiable instruments, papers and documents and other items and things of the company coming into the custody of these presents. 9. The company reserve the right to appoint any, other party as Sales Promoter for, areas mentioned above. 10. You have to deposit minimum security of Rs.53,15,000/- with the Company which will carry interest @21% p.a. We will provide you interest on Rs.7,85,850/- @21% per annum. Please acknowledge receipt and as a token of your acceptance of above terms conditions. Please sign duplicate copy of this letter and return the same to us for our records.