103 Union of India and Ors. v. M/S. B.T. Patil and Sons Belgaum (Construction) Pvt. Ltd. dated 26.05.1995 fixing the rate of interest at fifteen percent for the purposes of Section 27A of the Customs Act. This was notified by the Central Government in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue in the Official Gazette of India dated 26.05.1995. 25. Likewise, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11BB of the Central Excise Act, the Central Board of Excise and Customs issued notification No.22/95-Central Excises (NT) dated 29.05.1995 fixing the rate of interest at fifteen percent per annum for the purposes of the said section. This was also notified by the Central Government in the Official Gazette of India on 29.05.1995. 26. Though it may not be necessary, still we may refer to the circulars dated 20.08.1998 and 05.12.2000 issued by the DGFT. Circular dated 20.08.1998 says that representations had been received from individual exporters as well as clarifications sought for by different regional licencing authorities with regard to availability of deemed export benefit for supply of goods and services to civil construction projects. Circular dated 20.08.1998 says that the issue as to whether supply of goods and services to civil construction projects would be entitled for deemed export benefit or not had been examined in detail, whereafter it was clarified that supply of goods under paragraph 10(2) (d) of the Exim Policy would be entitled to deemed export benefit. Therefore, if within the scope of a work of turn-key civil construction project, supply of goods is included then supply of such goods would be entitled to deemed export benefit. 26.1. It appears that representations were continued to be received by the DGFT regarding admissibility of duty drawback on supplies made to turn-key projects, considered as deemed export in terms of the Exim Policy. Circular dated 05.12.2000 mentions that the matter was deliberated upon by the Policy Review Committee. It was noted that it was not possible for a single contractor to manufacture himself all the items required for execution of such projects. Hence certain items, either imported or indigenous, had necessarily to be procured from other sources. It was, therefore, clarified that all such directly supplied items, whether imported or indigenous, and used in the projects, the condition ‘manufactured in India’, a pre-requisite for grant of deemed export benefit, was satisfied in view of the fact that such activities being undertaken at the project 104 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports site constituted ‘manufacture’ as per the definition provided in the Exim Policy. Accordingly, it was clarified that the duties, customs and central excise, suffered on such goods should be refunded through the duty drawback route. Referring to the previous circular dated 20.08.1998, it was further clarified that excise duty paid on supply of inputs, such as, cement, steel etc., would be refunded through the duty drawback route in the same manner as in any other case of excisable goods being supplied to any other project qualifying for deemed export benefit, subject to the project authority certifying the receipt and use of such inputs in the project.