It is clarified that the shareholding pattern of the Company as stated in Clause 4.1 shall be maintained at all times, save and except in the circumstances specified in Clause 4.2 below. It is agreed and understood by all the Parties to this Agreement that any Shares offered/ issued or subscribed by the Other Shareholder will be under lock -in period of 3 (Three) years from the date of its allotment. The Board shall prior to undertaking any such issue appoint any reputed investment banker/ Chartered accountant to carry out a valuation of the Company. The Board shall ensure that the capital shall be raised at valuation no lower than the valuation set forth in the report of such investment banker/ Chartered Accountant. xxx xxx xxx 5 RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SHARES AND PROVISIONS RELATING TO TRANSMISSION OF SHARES 5.1 Other Shareholder Share Sale Restriction. Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this Shareholder’s Agreement, the Other Shareholder agree that they shall not, whether collectively or individually, directly or indirectly, Transfer any part of their shareholding in the Company in whatever form, or any legal or beneficial interest therein, until the earlier of: (a) Gumpro ceasing to hold a minimum of two percent (2%) of its shareholding in the Company and (b) the completion of a Qualified Public 114 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Offering, except in compliance with this Shareholders’ Agreement, particularly Section 6. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing. The Other Shareholder shall not Transfer any part of their individual shareholding until the expiry of three (03) years from the date of issue of such shares. It has been clearly understood and agreed that the shares of the Other Shareholder are locked-in for a period of three years from the date of its issuance or conversion of it into equity shares. xxx xxx xxx 6. RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL AND RIGHT OF CO-SALE 6.1 General. Subject to the provisions of Section 5, the Other Shareholder (for this Section “Selling Shareholder”) hereby unconditionally and irrevocably grants to Gumpro a right (the “Right of First Refusal”) to purchase all or a portion of the Shares that such Selling Shareholder may propose to Transfer (“Sale Shares”).” 6. Mr. Anand Gupta, the Managing Director of respondent no.2 informed the petitioner, vide letter dated 22.09.2011, that 2,00,010 equity shares of respondent no.1 which belong to the petitioner were being held by respondent no.2 in its name. It was stated therein that this arrangement was made to provide comfort to the potential investors in respondent nos.1 and 2 respectively. It was further clarified that the abovementioned shares held by respondent no.2 would be governed by the Shareholders Agreement dated 25.07.2011 and that those shall not be pledged or sold at any time without the written consent of the petitioner. At the time of sale of respondent no.1, it was confirmed that the value of these shares net of taxes would be paid to the petitioner or his nominee. 7. Subsequently, the respondent no.1 along with its Dubai subsidiary company, ASAP Fluids DMCC (hereinafter referred to as the “Dubai subsidiary”) entered into a Service Agreement dated 18.10.2011 (hereinafter referred to as, the “Service Agreement”) with the petitioner.