[Para 192(i)] 4. The true import and meaning of the expressions ‘establish’ and ‘administer’, which comprise the very core of Article 30, are to be construed and understood strictly in accordance with the indicia in paragraphs 141 and 181. [Para 192(j)] 5. The question pertaining to whether AMU satisfies the abovementioned test of ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ so as to seek protection of Article 30 of the Constitution, and which will concomitantly entail a mixed question of facts and law, will be determined by a Regular Bench. [Para 192(k)] Held [per Dipankar Datta, J. ]: 1. While the majority opinion seems to have identified establishment as the sole indicium, Hon’ble Surya Kant and Hon’ble Satish Chandra Sharma, JJ – have laid equal stress on administration apart from establishment as the indicia – Inasmuch as the broad criteria which can be used to assess the status of an educational institution is concerned, I express my agreement with the indicia laid out by Their Lordships. [Para 54] 2. Certain broad indicia, which are universally applicable, may be applied prospectively to facilitate identification of minority institutions – However, any indicium or the indicia, as identified or formulated, for treating an institution as a minority institution may not be exhaustive so as to cater to all situations – Previous decisions of this Court have also determined the minority [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1657 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. character of educational institutions vis-à-vis Article 30, as per indicia tailored to the specific factual matrices – It could be well-nigh difficult, if not impossible, to fix indicia without regard to a whole lot of relevant facts and circumstances, which might have escaped notice or may not have been visualized – A flexible framework rather than a rigid one-size-fits-all model is always desirable and essential for accurately assessing minority institution status – Having regard to special features that each minority institution is most likely to have, a nuanced approach would be required to identify minority institutions by balancing the general guidelines with unique institutional circumstances – The indicia, which have been proposed, could partly inform classification of minority institutions but a tailored evaluation is all the more necessary to account for distinct characteristics which each such institution is associated with; more so, when AMU is unique in itself and its status is under consideration as a standalone institution. [Para 57] 3. It is no longer res integra that even institutions established prior to the Constitution would be eligible to seek the protection of Article 30(1), as was expressed by this Court in Re: The Kerala Education Bill, 1957. [Para 67] 4. The claim of the appellants cannot stand – AMU was neither established by any religious community, nor is it administered by a religious community which is regarded as a minority community; hence, AMU does not qualify as a minority institution – Protection under Article 30(1) of the Constitution is, thus, not available – This submission of the appellants has no historic, legal, factual, or logical basis.