(2) The fine imposed under sub-section (1) shall be just and reasonable and paid to the victim to meet the medical expenses and rehabilitation of such victim.] 30. The manner in which the appellant enticed the deceased child under the pretext of buying ice-cream in spite of being dissuaded by the aunt (PW-10) and without the consent of the lawful guardians also makes out an offence under Section 364 of IPC. The aggravated [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1089 Sambhubhai Raisangbhai Padhiyar v. State of Gujarat penetrative sexual assault clearly establishes offence under Section 377 of IPC and Sections 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act. The appellant has not rebutted the presumption by adducing proof to the contrary. 31. For the reasons stated above, we are satisfied that the circumstances enumerated hereinabove are fully established; that the circumstances so established are consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and are not explainable by any other hypothesis; that the circumstances are conclusive in nature and further that the chain of circumstance is so complete as to point to the conclusion that the appellant is guilty of the offences charged. In view of the same, we uphold the conviction as imposed by the Trial Court and confirmed by the High Court. Sentence: 32. The Trial Court has imposed the sentence of death and the High Court has confirmed the same. It is time for us to draw up a balance sheet of the aggravating and mitigating circumstances to decide whether the case falls in the category of rarest of rare case. We also need to examine whether the sentence of life imprisonment is foreclosed and the possibility of reformation is completely ruled out. 33. Without doubt, the crime committed by the appellant was diabolic in character. He enticed the innocent child by tempting him with ice-cream and brutally sodomized and murdered the four-year old. The appellant also mercilessly strangulated the deceased. The post- mortem report clearly indicated that death was due to asphyxia by throttling. 34. On the mitigating side, the appellant was 24 years of age when the incident happened; he had no criminal antecedents; the appellant hails from a low socio-economic household as the Mitigation Investigation Report filed by Ms. Komal of Project 39A, pursuant to the of this Court dated 05.10.2023 indicates. The mitigation report further indicates that experts have opined that the appellant is diagnosed with moderate intensity psychotic features and intellectual disability and that the appellant had in his early childhood contacted Tuberculosis Meningitis (TBM). The appellant, according to the report, maintains family ties with his 64-year-old mother who takes care of his 10 year old daughter. The appellant’s wife has deserted him. 1090 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 35. By an of 05.10.2023, we also called for the conduct and behaviour of the appellant from the Superintendent of Vadodara Central Jail as well as a report on his mental health. The report from the Superintendent of Vadoara Jail indicates, that the behaviour of the appellant in prison is completely normal and that his conduct in jail is good.