On 7th July 2023, this Court issued notice and granted a stay of the operation of the impugned . On 5th December 2023, this Court granted leave and continued the stay. However, this Court observed that it would be open for the husband to apply for custody before the appropriate Court. As of this date, the husband has not applied for custody by filing proceedings under the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890 (for short, “the GW Act”). The appellants made such an application under the GW Act, but it was withdrawn later. This is the statement made by the learned counsel for the appellants. Now, the question is whether the High Court was justified in disturbing the custody of the child, whose age was one year and five months at the time of passing the impugned . SUBMISSIONS 4. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants urged that by the impugned , without making any inquiry, the High Court has ed the child’s custody to be disturbed based only on the legal rights of the child’s father and grandparents. He submitted that in the facts of the case, the High Court ought not to have entertained a petition for Habeas Corpus. He submitted that even if the petition was to be entertained, it was the duty of the Court to see what was in the best interests of the minor and custody could not have been disturbed at such tender age without considering the question of the welfare of the minor child. 5. Learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents extensively relied upon decisions of this Court in the cases of Tejaswini Gaud & Ors. v. Shekhar Jagdish Prasad Tewari & Ors.,1 Swaminathan Kunchu Acharya v. The State of Gujarat 2 and Gautam Kumar Das v. NCT of Delhi & Others.3 Learned senior counsel would urge that the case of Gautam Kumar Das3 is identical on facts where the High Court had declined to entertain the petition for Habeas corpus 1 [2019] 7 SCR 335 : (2019) 7 SCC 45 2 [2022] 6 SCR 727 : (2022) 8 SCC 804 3 [2024] 8 SCR 451 : (2024) INSC 610 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 69 Somprabha Rana & Ors. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. by expressing a view that statutory remedy should be adopted for seeking custody. However, this Court interfered and granted the father custody of the minor child. He submitted that the father and his parents reside together and, therefore, are in a position to take the best possible care of the child. He submitted that the appellants have not allowed the father to see even the face of the child. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Nirmala v. Kulwant Singh and Others.4 CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 6. After having perused various decisions of this Court, the broad propositions of settled law on the point can be summarised as follows: a. Writ of Habeas corpus is a prerogative writ.