Only through such contestation can a fine and sustainable balance between development and the environment be arrived at. The Department-related Parliamentary Standing Committees and other legislative committees discharge important functions. In the context of the environment, these committees are mandated to scrutinise public issues from multiple perspectives, appreciate available evidence, consult experts and the members of the affected communities and thereafter render a principled and considered report. Open and transparent deliberation on expert knowledge increases accountability and acts as a safeguard against conflict of interest but not a closed door decision making process. 48.10 Consequently, I hold that the approval dated 18.10.2022 and consequent decision dated 25.10.2022 for environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 violate the precautionary principle inasmuch as there has been no determination made, as to, whether, transgenic mustard 2138 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports hybrid DMH-11 is a HT crop and if so, the nature of risk that would be caused by the said plant to the environment including other plants as well as to human beings and animals. The deliberations have not focussed inter alia, on the aspects of biosafety, risk assessment, soil health, micro-biology and socio-economic aspects etc. Moreover, the recommendations of the TEC and Parliamentary Standing Committees’ Reports on Agriculture and on Science and Technology, Environment and Forest have not been considered. Consequently, directions have been issued in the succeeding paragraphs. Conclusion: 49. In view of the aforesaid discussion and findings, I conclude as under: (i) the recommendations of GEAC dated 18.10.2022 as well as the decision taken by the respondent Union of India on 25.10.2022 with regard to approving environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 on the application made by the applicant, namely, CGMCP, University of Delhi (South Campus’) are vitiated and hence, they are liable to be quashed and are quashed. (ii) I further observe that the recommendation of the Expert Committee constituted by the GEAC in the year 2022 is of no consequence and not binding. 50. Consequently, I issue the following directions: (a) With regard to approving environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid in future on the application made by the applicant, namely, CGMCP, University of Delhi (South Campus) or by any other applicant: (i) there shall be a decision taken by GEAC, in the first instance, on whether, transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 is a HT crop or not, by having a wide and meaningful consultation on the report of TEC submitted to this Court with all stakeholders, including experts in the field of agriculture, biotechnology, health experts and other scientists/experts preferably within a period of four months from today. A report on this aspect must be submitted by GEAC to MoEF&CC. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2139 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (ii) MoEF&CC must publish an official report, with adequate publicity to the said report, on whether the GE mustard hybrid DMH-11 is indeed a HT crop or not, preferably within a period of one month from the date of receipt from GEAC.