Digital Supreme Court Reports depravity under IPC or offences of moral turpitude under special statutes, like the Prevention of Corruption Act or the offences committed by public servants while working in that capacity, the settlement between the offender and the victim can have no legal sanction at all. However, certain offences which overwhelmingly and predominantly bear civil flavour having arisen out of civil, mercantile, commercial, financial, partnership or such like transactions or the offences arising out of matrimony, particularly relating to dowry, etc. or the family dispute, where the wrong is basically to the victim and the offender and the victim have settled all disputes between them amicably, irrespective of the fact that such offences have not been made compoundable, the High Court may within the framework of its inherent power, quash the criminal proceeding or criminal complaint or FIR if it is satisfied that on the face of such settlement, there is hardly any likelihood of the offender being convicted and by not quashing the criminal proceedings, justice shall be casualty and ends of justice shall be defeated. The above list is illustrative and not exhaustive. Each case will depend on its own facts and no hard-and-fast category can be prescribed.” 15. In the State of Jharkhand vs. Md. Sufiyan8, the Jharkhand High Court directed the accused to deposit certain amount in court, as ad interim compensation to be paid to the victim as a condition for grant of anticipatory bail. It was a case for various crimes committed under IPC, POCSO Act and I.T. Act. The aforesaid direction of the High Court was deprecated by this Court. It was opined that the willingness of the accused to pay compensation to the victim cannot be a reason for grant of anticipatory bail. Para 6, thereof is extracted below: “6. The factors on which anticipatory bail could be granted are very well crystallized in a catena of s of this Court. Leave aside the discussion of such factors, not even a whisper as to on what grounds anticipatory bail was being allowed were considered by the High Court. 8 SLP (Crl) No. 1960 of 2022 decided on 16.01.2024 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 55 Shivani Tyagi v. State of U.P. & Anr. Merely because the accused is willing to pay some amount as an interim compensation cannot be a ground for grant of anticipatory bail.” 16. Similar view was expressed by this Court in Sahab Alam alias Guddu vs. State of Jharkhand and another9. Paras 2 and 8 thereof are extracted below: “2. We have a batch of petitions before us, arising from different nature of offences from dowry to Section 420 IPC to Section 376, IPC and POCSO Act. The common aspect in all these cases is that one particular learned Judge of the High Court has granted bail on condition on deposit of substantive sums of money without consideration of the requirements of bail dependent on the nature of offences. It is trite to say that bail cannot per se be granted if a person can afford to deposit the money or his capacity to pay.