The District Level Committee/or any other persons/s authorised in this behalf shall visit the installation engaged in activity involving genetically engineered organisms, hazardous microorganisms, formulate information chart, find out hazards and risks associated with each of these installations and coordinate activities with a view to meeting any emergency. They shall also prepare an off-site emergency plan. The District Level Committee shall regularly submits its report to the State Biotechnology Co-ordination Committee/Genetic Engineering Approval Committee. The District Level Committee shall comprise of:- (i) District Collector – Chairman (ii) Factory Inspector – Member (iii) A representative of the – Member Pollution Control Board (iv) Chief Medical Officer – Member (District Health Officer) (Convenor) [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2065 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (v) District Agricultural Officer – Member (vi) A representative of the – Member Public Health Engineering Department (vii) District Microbiologists/ – Member Pathologist (technical expert) (viii) Commissioner Municipal – Member Corporation The Committee may co-opt other members/experts as necessary.” 25.3 Rule 5 speaks of classification of micro-organisms or GE products, while Rule 7 deals with approval and prohibitions. The same read as under: “5. Classification of microorganisms or genetically engineered product - (1) For the purpose of these rules, microorganisms or genetically engineered organisms, products or cells shall be dealt with under two major heads; animal pathogens and plant pests and these shall be classified in the manner specified in the Schedule. (2) If any of the microorganism, genetically engineered organism or cell falls within the limits of more than one risk class as specified in the Schedule, it shall be deemed to belong exclusively to the last in number of such classes. x x x 7. Approval and Prohibitions, etc. :- (1) No person shall import, export, transport, manufacture, process, use or cell any hazardous microorganisms or genetically engineered organisms/substances or cells except with the approval of the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee. (2) Use of pathogenic microorganism or any genetically engineered organisms or cell for the purpose of 2066 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports research shall only be allowed in laboratories or inside laboratory areas notified by the Ministry of Environment and Forests for this purpose under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. (3) The Genetic Engineering Approval Committee shall give directions to the occupier to determine or take measures concerning the discharge of microorganisms/genetically engineered organisms or cells mentioned in the Schedule from the laboratories, hospitals and other areas including prohibition of such discharges and laying down measures to be taken to prevent such discharges. (4) Any person operating or using genetically engineered organisms/microorganisms mentioned in the schedule for scale up or pilot operations shall have to obtain licence issued by the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee for any such activity. The possessor shall have to apply for licence in prescribed proforma. (5) Certain experiments for the purpose of education within the field of gene technology or microorganism may be carried out outside the laboratories and laboratory areas mentioned in sub-rule (2) and will be looked after by the Institutional Biosafety Committee.” 25.4 Rule 8 deals with production, while Rule 11 deals with permission and approval for food stuffs.