Establishment of Special Courts.—(1) The Central Government may, for the purpose of providing speedy trial of offences punishable under this Act with imprisonment of [2024] 5 S.C.R. 11 Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India v. Satyanarayan Bankatlal Malu & Ors. two years or more, by notification, establish or designate as many Special Courts as may be necessary. Provided that all other offences shall be tried, as the case may be, by a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the First Class having jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act or under any previous company law. (2) A Special Court shall consist of a Single Judge who shall be appointed by the Central Government with the concurrence of the Chief Justice of the High Court within whose jurisdiction the judge to be appointed is working. (3) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Judge of a Special Court unless he is, immediately before such appointment, holding office of a Sessions Judge or an Additional Sessions Judge.” Section 435 (after the 2018 Amendment) “435. Establishment of Special Courts.—(1) The Central Government may, for the purpose of providing speedy trial of offences under this Act, except under section 452, by notification, establish or designate as many Special Courts as may be necessary. (2) A Special Court shall consist of— (a) a single judge holding office as Session Judge or Additional Session Judge, in case of offences punishable under this Act with imprisonment of two years or more; and (b) a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the First Class, in the case of other offences, who shall be appointed by the Central Government with the concurrence of the Chief Justice of the High Court within whose jurisdiction the judge to be appointed is working.” 21. It could thus be seen that as per Section 435(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, as it existed on the date on which the Code came into effect (i.e. after the 2015 Amendment), a person to be qualified for appointment as a Judge of a Special Court was required to hold office 12 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of a Sessions Judge or an Additional Sessions Judge immediately before his appointment as a Judge of a Special Court. 22. After Section 435 of the Companies Act, 2013 suffered an amendment in the year 2015 by the 2015 Amendment (Act No. 21 of 2015), with effect from 29th May, 2015, sub-section (1) thereof provided that the Central Government may, for the purpose of providing speedy trial of offences punishable under the said Act with imprisonment of two years or more, by notification, establish or designate as many Special Courts as may be necessary. It further provided that all other offences shall be tried either by a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the First Class having jurisdiction to try any offence under the said Act or under any previous company law; meaning thereby, the offences under the Companies Act punishable with imprisonment of two years or more were to be tried by Special Courts comprising of Sessions Judge or Additional Sessions Judge, whereas all other offences punishable with imprisonment of less than two years, were to be tried by the Courts of Metropolitan Magistrate or Judicial Magistrate First Class having jurisdiction to try such offences.