If such power was exercised arbitrarily, mala fide or in absolute disregard of the finer canons of the constitutionalism, the by-product cannot get the approval of law and in such cases, the judicial hand must be stretched to it.” (underlining by us) (b) In Joginder Singh vs. State of Punjab, (2001) 8 SCC 306 the facts were that the respondents-convicts therein were convicted for offences punishable under Sections 324, 325 and 326 read with Section 34 of the IPC and had been awarded a sentence of one year and six months which was challenged upto the High Court of Punjab and Haryana and was confirmed. On the dismissal of the Revision Petition by the High Court, the convicts surrendered before the Superintendent of the concerned jail and on the same day were released by the jail authorities on being granted the benefit of remission. It is of importance to note that during the period of trial ending with confirmation of conviction in the Revision Petition by the High Court, the convicts (earlier accused) were almost all at the time out on bail except for a period of about 2 months and 25 days when they were in jail, serving part of their sentence. The appellant before this Court, who was the complainant, unsuccessfully challenged the remission before the High Court and thereafter approached this Court by way of a Special Leave Petition. The primary ground of challenge before this Court was that the periods of remission permissible under successive notifications issued between 13.07.1988 and 29.07.1998 (period between date of conviction by the Chief Judicial Magistrate and the date on which the conviction and sentence was upheld by the High Court) were cumulatively allowed to the convicts. That is to say that the maximum period of remission permissible under each of the seven notifications issued between the said dates was to be cumulatively taken into account to grant a total remission of 17 and a half months. It was contended before this Court [2024] 1 S.C.R. 883 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others that the said approach was erroneous in construing successive policies of remission. It was further contended that while applying the period of remission granted by the Government under any remission notification, the period during which an accused person was out on bail cannot be taken into account. (i) This Court while allowing the appeal of the appellant therein-complainant held that the High Court fell in error in holding that the convicts were entitled to the benefit of the period of remission given by the various notifications cumulatively to be counted against the period during which they were out on bail. (c) In Satpal, the of the Governor granting remission to convicts therein, in the exercise of power conferred by Article 161 of the Constitution of India read with Section 132 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was assailed by the brother and widow of the deceased. The primary ground raised before this Court was that the power to grant remission was exercised without application of mind, and that the said power was exercised by the Governor having regard to extraneous considerations and even without the aid and advice of the Government, namely, the concerned Minister.