Amendments in 1972 and 1981 aimed to restore AMU to minorities. The 1981 amendment explicitly stated that AMU was “established by the Muslims of India” and aimed to [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1693 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. promote Muslim educational and cultural advancement. The 1981 amendment accommodated a democratic setup, focusing on the institution’s original purpose rather than numerical representation. 20. Mr Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel made the following submissions: a. The enactment of the Act of 1920 marked the formal recognition of the MAO “College” as the Aligarh Muslim University, reflecting a crucial legislative step in its evolution into a full-fledged University; b. Compliance with regulatory requirements, constitutionally grounded in Article 19(6), is crucial for university status. However, adherence to these regulations does not diminish the right guaranteed by Article 30 to minorities to establish institutions of their choice; c. Article 30 grants religious and linguistic minorities the autonomy to establish and administer institutions of their “choice”. Institutions covered by Article 30 have the flexibility to choose their administrative set-up, even if it includes individuals outside the minority community. This choice is solely vested in the institution; d. Assessing the numerical composition within the administration is inadequate to determine its minority status. Minority institutions have the prerogative to include non-minorities in their administration while maintaining their minority status. St. Stephen’s College, Delhi, despite having a Christian representation of less than 5 per cent, maintains its classification as a minority institution; e. The crucial factor for recognizing an educational institution as a Minority educational institution lies in its genesis, focusing on three key aspects: i. the purpose for which it was founded (educational advancement of the minority community); ii. the identity of the founders and major fund providers (being substantially from the concerned minority); and iii. the concept’s initiation by a member of the minority, 1694 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports f. Provisions within the AMU Act focus on governance structures, academic standards, and prevention of maladministration. These statutory measures primarily relate to the administration of the University and do not alter the constitutional fact of its establishment by a minority; g. “Establish” under Article 30 must be interpreted to mean ‘found’. The word does not cover the conversion process from a college to a university through the AMU Act; h. AMU was established with the objective of providing quality education specifically to Muslims. The exclusivity of such institutions in offering education tailored to the needs of minorities was not adequately considered by Azeez Basha (supra); i. The denial of reservation to institutions like AMU results in fewer degrees and job opportunities, exacerbating socio-economic disparities within minority groups; j. The founders of AMU satisfactorily fulfilled the five-step criteria laid down in TMA Pai (supra) to ascertain the right to administer. The criteria related to admission policies, fee structures, governance, faculty appointments and disciplinary action; k. The objective of establishing AMU was to obtain the status of an independent university and not demonstrate allegiance to colonial authorities; l. A minority institution can accede to some regulations to maintain a particular standard of education.