In this regard, we may helpfully refer to the observations of this Court in A.P. TRANSCO v. Sai Renewable Power (P) Ltd.,11 in the context of a similar provision in the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh Electricity Reforms Act 1998 (which was repealed by the Electricity Act 2003). A two-judge bench of this Court, speaking through Justice Swatanter Kumar, observed: “59. Section 12 of the Act vests the State Government with the power to issue policy directions on matters concerning electricity in the State including the overall planning and coordination. All policy directions shall be issued by the State Government consistent with the objects sought to be achieved by this Act and, accordingly, shall not adversely affect or interfere with the functions and powers of the Regulatory Commission including, but not limited to, determination of the structure of tariffs for supply of electricity to various classes of consumers. The State Government is further expected to consult the Regulatory Commission in regard to the proposed legislation or rules concerning any policy direction and shall duly take into account the recommendation by the Regulatory Commission on all such matters. Thus the scheme of these provisions is to grant supremacy to the Regulatory Commission and the State is not expected to take any policy decision or planning which would adversely affect the functioning of the Regulatory Commission or interfere with its functions. This provision also clearly implies that fixation of tariff is the function of the 11 [2010] 8 SCR 636 : (2011) 11 SCC 34 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 979 Kerala State Electricity Board Ltd. v. Jhabua Power Limited and Others Regulatory Commission and the State Government has a minimum role in that regard.” 17. That the state regulatory commissions are not ‘bound’ by the directions of the state government, or the Central Government is also evident from the text of Section 108. The provision reads: “In the discharge of its functions, the State Commission shall be guided by such directions in matters of policy …”. This indicates that the state commission shall only be ‘guided’ by the directions issued by the state government and is not automatically bound by them. This interpretation is strengthened by the divergence in the language used in other provisions of the Act, such as Section 11 of the Act which reads as follows: “Section 11. (Directions to generating companies): --- (1) Appropriate Government may specify that a generating company shall, in extraordinary circumstances operate and maintain any generating station in accordance with the directions of that Government. Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, the expression “extraordinary circumstances” means circumstances arising out of threat to security of the State, public or a natural calamity or such other circumstances arising in the public interest. …” 18. The above provision uses mandatory language and provides that the generating company “shall … operate and maintain any generating station in accordance with the directions of that Government” in extraordinary circumstances. This can be distinguished from the language in Section 108, which merely requires that the state commission “be guided by” the directions of the State Government.