The adverse effects of use of herbicide were also totally given a go by. 42.14 I also note that on granting permission for the environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11, there was no procedure envisaged for any study or research on the impact on non-target organisms and soil microbes to be conducted prior to the commercial cultivation of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11. I find that it was necessary to have requisite studies and research carried out on the experimental environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11, not only prior to the environmental release but, if permitted, subsequently before commercial cultivation of the said crop. I find this to be a serious lacuna under Rule 13(2) of the 1989 Rules. 2110 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 42.15 Further, any evidence of harmful effects or damage to the environment, nature and health owing to non-compliance of conditions stipulated by GEAC was also left open-ended. While recommending environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 parental lines bn 3.6 carrying barnase and bar genes, and modbs 2.99 containing barstar and bar genes, it is not clear whether the conditions imposed by GEAC were adequate and sufficient and in the interest of environment, particularly in light of the sub-committee’s recommendations to GEAC as the same were to be acted upon as the matter was seized by this Court and was being monitored. 42.16 Moreover, I find that GEAC’s proposal was simply accepted by the MoEF&CC and immediately notified without any further consideration at the level of the Ministry and without having any inter-departmental consultation with the Ministry of Health, MoA and DBT in the Ministry of Science and Technology. It appears that GEAC recommended what MoEF&CC wanted pursuant to Prof. Pental’s letter to the Hon’ble Minister himself in May, 2022. 42.17 Also, no consultation was held with the States wherein mustard is grown, although agriculture is a State subject under Entry 14 of List II of the Constitution. The other concerned stakeholders also ought to have been consulted before a decision was taken by the Union of India in terms of the recommendation of GEAC. The Union of India could not have unilaterally acted on such a serious matter without bringing to the notice of the States, particularly in the northern and northwestern States of the country where mustard is being grown. I also record that the States of Bihar, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, West Bengal and Karnataka had earlier expressed reservations against field testing and release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11. In my view, the States cannot be treated as satellites of the Union of India as they have constitutional identity and powers and responsibilities conferred under the Constitution of India and therefore, their views in the matter are of significance, vide S.R. Bommai vs. Union of India, (1994) 3 SCC 1, Para 99 (“S.R. Bommai”), reiterated in State (NCT of Delhi) vs. Union of India, (2018) 8 SCC 501. The consideration of [2024] 7 S.C.R.