32 [2004] 3 SCR 44 : (2004) 11 SCC 576 33 Wednesbury unreasonableness strikes at irrationality when a decision is so outrageous in its defiance of logic or of accepted standards that no sensible person who had applied his mind to the question to be decided would have arrived at it. See Council of Civil Services Union v. Minister of State for Civil Services, (1984) 3 All. ER 935. 2394 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports As there may only be a small number of cases where redaction is justified for good cause, this reason is not a good ground to deny the accused’s access to a copy of the “reasons to believe” in most cases. Where the non-disclosure of the “reasons to believe” with redaction is justified and claimed, the court must be informed. The file, including the documents, must be produced before the court. Thereupon, the court should examine the request and if they find justification, a portion of the “reasons to believe” and the document may be withheld. This requires consideration and decision by the court. DoE is not the sole judge. 38. Section 173(6) of the Code, permits the police officer not to furnish statements or make disclosures to the accused when it is inexpedient in public interest. In such an event, the police officer is to indicate the specific part of the statement and append a note requesting the magistrate to exclude that part from the copy given to the accused. He has to state the reasons for making such request. The same principle will apply. 39. We now turn to the scope and ambit of judicial review to be exercised by the court. Judicial review does not amount to a mini-trial or a merit review. The exercise is confined to ascertain whether the “reasons to believe” are based upon material which ‘establish’ that the arrestee is guilty of an offence under the PML Act. The exercise is to ensure that the DoE has acted in accordance with the law. The courts scrutinize the validity of the arrest in exercise of power of judicial review. If adequate and due care is taken by the DoE to ensure that the “reasons to believe” justify the arrest in terms of Section 19(1) of the PML Act, the exercise of power of judicial review would not be a cause of concern. Doubts will only arise when the reasons recorded by the authority are not clear and lucid, and therefore a deeper and in-depth scrutiny is required. Arrest, after all, cannot be made arbitrarily and on the whims and fancies of the authorities. It is to be made on the basis of the valid “reasons to believe”, meeting the parameters prescribed by the law. In fact, not to undertake judicial scrutiny when justified and necessary, would be an abdication and failure of constitutional and statutory duty placed on the court to ensure that the fundamental right to life and liberty is not violated. 40. At this stage, we must consider the arguments presented by the DoE, which rely on s regarding the scope of judicial interference in investigations, including the power of arrest.