21. Delegation of powers.—The Central Government may, by notification, direct that any of its powers or functions under this chapter, except power to make rule under Section 22, shall, in relation to such matters and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the notification, be exercised or discharged also by the Commissioner.” 62. In essence, the scheme of the 2002 Act, provides that no metro line will operate except with the previous sanction of the Central 502 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Government.32 Before granting the sanction, the Central Government has to obtain a report from the Commissioner that (inter alia) the latter has carefully inspected the metro railway, the general structure of civil works and that in their opinion, the metro railway can be opened for passengers without any danger to the public.33 The Central Government may sanction the opening of the line as such or subject to conditions it considers necessary for public safety.34 If the Commissioner is of the opinion that the use of the metro will “attend danger to the public using it”, they may send a report to the Central Government, which may in turn direct that the metro be closed or may be open for public carriage only subject to certain conditions.35 The powers of the Central Government may be delegated to the Commissioner.36 63. The structure and safety of the project, as certified by the CMRS, were thus relevant before the Tribunal, making the CMRS certificate a vital piece of evidence in deciding the issue. The CMRS certificate was relevant evidence about the safety of the structure. Considering the statutory scheme of the 2002 Act, especially Section 15, the Tribunal erred in deeming the sanction irrelevant to its central issue – which was the validity of the termination, which, according to the cure notice, was premised on safety. 64. Overall, the cure notice places great emphasis on the safety of the passengers, which, they claimed stood compromised by defects, justifying discontinuation of operations. This issue falls directly within the domain of the Commissioner under the scheme of the 2002 Act. 65. Rather than considering the vital evidence of the CMRS certificate towards safety and effective steps, the arbitral tribunal focussed on the conditions imposed by the Commissioner on speed and regarding inspections. While the Division Bench correctly noted that the certificate was relevant for the issue of the validity of termination, this Court held that safety was not in issue, even though DAMEPL insisted on discontinuing operations citing safety concerns. We respectfully 32 Section 14, Metro Railways (Operations and Maintenance) Act 2002. 33 Section 15, ibid. 34 Section 15(3), ibid. 35 Section 18, ibid. 36 Section 21, ibid. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 503 Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. v. Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt. Ltd. disagree with this Court’s re-assessment of the Division Bench’s interpretation. The cure notice was relevant for the reasons stated above. Moreover, the fact that DAMEPL premised it on safety could not have been overlooked by the Tribunal.