• The lands located in prime locations would only be allotted to government organisations for public purposes or for institutional use. • Government lands located in the proposed Outer Ring Road would not be allotted for housing sites for group of individuals or Cooperative Housing Societies. • The Cooperative Society or group concerned which would be allotted land by the Government, shall further allot individual housing sites/flats to its individual members. • Land would be allotted without any development, which had to be undertaken by the Cooperative Society or group. • Time limit fixed for the completion of development of land and infrastructure facilities (road, water supply, electricity etc.) was one year from the date of alienation of land, failing which the land would be repossessed by the government. • Cost and categorisation of sections of the society was prescribed in the following manner: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1377 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others “CATEGORISATION FOR PRICING: i) MLAs, MPs, Judges of Supreme Court and High Court, All India Services Officers. ii) Accredited Journalists from recognized and registered newspapers. iii) State Government Employees and Panchayat Raj Teachers working in the State of Andhra Pradesh. iv) Recognised National and International Sports persons and eminent persons in the field of Culture and Arts. v) Defence Employees, Central Government employees and employees of PSUs. vi) Widows of Kargil and other war heroes and extremist violence who are hailing from Andhra Pradesh. vii) Weaker Sections. viii) Institutions - Educational/Charitable/Religious etc., The land shall be allotted to the categories figuring at Sl. No. i to iv at the basic value of the land; for category v and viii at prevailing market value; for category vi on free of cost and for category vii as per the policy of the Government in vogue. The acquired land shall be alienated on cost basis, which means that the actual cost paid to the landowners shall be fixed as cost of land.” • The following conditions of allotment were laid down: o The Cooperative Society/group would ensure that its members were seeking allotment of land for the first time. o All the members were to file an affidavit stating that they had not received benefit of concessional allotment from the government earlier, nor were they a member of any Cooperative Society/group to which concessional allotment had been made earlier. 1378 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports o The members would also give an undertaking that they would not avail of such facility in the future. o Allotment process had to be completed within six months from the date of alienation of land. o The allottee/beneficiary would have to complete the development within a period of two years from the date of allotment by the Cooperative Society/group. o The beneficiary/allottee would not have any right to sell the property allotted for a period of 15 years. o The Cooperative Societies/groups were restricted from allotting open spaces in the layout or making changes in the layout without approval of the Competent Authority.