In M K Ranjitsinh & Ors. v. Union of India and Ors. (3-Judge Bench),42 the need for adopting a nuanced approach, balancing two environmental goals, i.e., fighting the climatic crisis as also protection of wildlife ecology was underscored in following words: “53… Unlike the conventional notion of sustainable development, which often pits economic growth against environmental conservation, the dilemma here involves a nuanced interplay between safeguarding biodiversity and mitigating the impact of climate change. It is not a binary choice between conservation and development but rather a dynamic interplay between protecting a critically endangered species and addressing the pressing global challenge of climate change.” Additional Guidelines 31. We must also, at this point, make references to the guidelines that have been brought by the Union of India, to supplement the existing framework: i. Guidelines for Environmental Risk Assessment of Genetically Engineered Plants, 2016 and Environmental Risk Assessment of Genetically Engineered Plants- A Guide 42 [2024] 3 SCR 1320 : 2024 SCC Online SC 570 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1935 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. for Stakeholders, 2016 - The objective of these Guidelines is to ensure safe development and use of plant resulting from modern biotechnology after assessment of any potential negative impacts through a comprehensive, transparent and science based framework of identification of harms using a conventional case to case approach. These guidelines profess to provide a practical elaboration of the risk assessment framework included in the Indian regulation and in Annex III of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety as also the Working Committee on Harmonisation of Regulatory Oversight in Biotechnology of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). They provide a detailed roadmap for Environmental Risk Assessment right from the approach to be adopted to problem formulation (development of risk hypothesis), to detailed instructions on data quality to informational requirement and description of the non-transgenic parental plants/donor organisms, characterization of genetic modification to cultivation practices to potential adverse non-target effects of GMOs on biodiversity to post release environmental monitoring. ii. Risk Analysis Framework 2016 - These guidelines provide the risk analysis method for the environmental release of GE plants and divides them into different stages which can be shown through a following chart: Application for Environmental Release of GE plant Risk Context Risk Assessment ksiR noitacinummoC Decision Stakeholders Risk Management 1936 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) Risk Context being the preparatory stage defines the scope and boundaries, sets the criteria against which risk will be evaluated and describes the structures and process for the analysis. Decisions on application for the environmental release of a GE plant require case-by-case assessment and details of the GE plant and the proposed activities, including any proposed controls, limits or containment measures, form the specific risk context. (b) This framework includes Risk Assessment, Risk Management and Risk Communication. Risk Assessment and Risk Management form an essential part of decision making in respect to the applications for environmental release of GE plants. (c) The chapter on Risk Assessment provides comprehensive methodology to identify and characterize risks to the health and safety of people or to the environment from the release of GE plants.