32. In the instant case, the Tribunal had returned a finding on issue no.3 that M/s. Hindustan Motors had provided no evidence to show that the vehicle manufactured and owned by it was sold by it to the dealer. Admittedly, its own employees /officers were in control of the vehicle at the time of accident and, therefore, M/s. Hindustan Motors was held jointly and severally liable for the compensation awarded. This part of the award operated against it and was backed by a finding of ownership. By not challenging the same, through an appeal or cross-objection, M/s Hindustan Motors has allowed it to attain finality. Therefore, in our view, M/s Hindustan Motors cannot be allowed to question the same now. Issue no. (iii) is decided in the aforesaid terms. CONCLUSION 33. In view of our conclusion that the appellant was neither the owner nor in control/ command of the vehicle at the time of accident, and the vehicle was being driven by an employee of M/s. Hindustan Motors, we are of the view that apart from the driver, M/s. Hindustan Motors alone was liable for the compensation awarded. Thus, the appellant should not have been burdened with liability to pay compensation. RELIEF 34. However, as vide dated 23.10.2018 the SLP was dismissed qua the claimant-respondents, we are unable to set aside the award to the extent it enables the claimant-respondents to recover the awarded compensation, jointly or severally, from the owner, dealer and driver 36 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the vehicle. But we make it clear that if the awarded amount, or any part thereof, has been paid, or is paid, by the appellant, the appellant shall be entitled to recover the same from M/s. Hindustan Motors along with interest at the rate of 6% p.a., with effect from the date of payment till the date of recovery. 35. The appeal is allowed to the extent above. 36. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey