1-6 who had illegally occupied the subject land and had constructed houses/structures on the same even after the deliverance of the Award dated 08.06.2018 and the Supplementary Award dated 02.05.2022. d. It was submitted that the substantial delay in the issuance of the Award by the LAC had frustrated the purpose of acquisition for JAL. Since the entire project has been under the custody and possession of the Appellant, it is the appropriate party to address the issue of the requirement of the subject land for the purpose of Mining Activities & Safety Zone. If the Appellant is not interested in the subject land, then the same should be returned to the original landowners (Respondent Nos. 1-6 herein) and the amount deposited as an award of Rs. 10,77,53,842/- in the year 2018 should be refunded to JAL. e. Mr. Kumar contended that according to the statement provided by the Appellant to the High Court, it can be reasonably concluded that the Appellant does not require the land in question, which was acquired for the purpose of Mining Activities and Safety Zone for the Cement project. Therefore, the Appellant may proceed to submit an application in this regard to the Government of Himachal Pradesh, as submitted before the High Court. f. The Counsel reiterated that JAL had sold out and handed over the entire cement project to the Appellant in the year 2017, which included the acquired private land and government land 458 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports diverted for this purpose. It was submitted that the subject land was required for an entity involved in cement production in the area, therefore, the responsibility for maintaining the Safety Zone of the cement project was with the Appellant. If the Appellant is not interested in the acquired subject land, then the same may be returned and the amount of Rs. 10,77,53,842/- deposited as award in the year 2018 be refunded to JAL. VI. ISSUES FOR DETERMINATION 20. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the following four questions fall for our consideration: - i. Whether the subject land and all other liabilities associated with it were transferred to the Appellant in terms of the Scheme? ii. Whether it was the Appellant or JAL who was legally obliged to pay the compensation amount determined under the Supplementary Award? iii. Whether the land in terms of Section 101 of the 2013 Act can be returned to the Respondent Nos. 1-6 at this stage under the scheme of the Act? In other words, what is the scope of Section 101? iv. Whether the State of Himachal Pradesh, being a welfare state, had the responsibility to ensure full payment of compensation amount determined under the Supplementary Award dated 02.05.2022? VII. ANALYSIS A. Scheme of Arrangement between the Appellant and JAL under Sections 391 to 394 respectively of the Companies Act, 1956 21. An analysis of the Scheme agreed between the Appellant and JAL as sanctioned by the NCLT, Mumbai and NCLT, Allahabad respectively is the key to determine who should pay the amount determined under the Supplementary Award dated 02.05.2022.