The seriousness of the offence committed by the bribe-takers does not warrant a narrow construction of the Constitution. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 483 Sita Soren v. Union of India Such a construction runs the risk of impairing the guarantee of an effective parliamentary democracy; 12.6. The immunity under Article 105(2) is operative only insofar as it pertains to what has been said or voted. Therefore, Ajit Singh, the MP who abstained from voting, was not protected by immunity and the prosecution against him would proceed; 12.7. With regard to whether the bribe-givers enjoy immunity, since the prosecution against Ajit Singh would proceed, the charge against the bribe-givers of conspiracy and agreeing with Ajit Singh to do an unlawful act would also proceed. Further, Article 105(2) does not provide that what is otherwise an offence is not an offence when it is committed by an MP. The provision merely provides that an MP shall not be answerable in a court of law for something that has a nexus to his speech or vote in Parliament. Those who have conspired with the MP in the commission of that offence have no such immunity. The bribe-givers can, therefore, be prosecuted and do not have the protection of Article 105(2). 13. On the other hand, SC Agarwal, J held that neither the alleged bribe- takers nor the alleged bribe-givers enjoyed the protection of Article 105(2). An MP does not enjoy immunity under Article 105(2) from being prosecuted for an offence involving the offer or acceptance of a bribe for speaking or giving his vote in parliament or any committee. In his opinion, Justice Agarwal held as follows: 13.1. The object of the immunity under Article 105(2) is to ensure the independence of legislators for the healthy functioning of parliamentary democracy. An interpretation of Article 105(2) which enables an MP to claim immunity from prosecution for an offence of bribery would place them above the law. This would be repugnant to the healthy functioning of parliamentary democracy and subversive of the rule of law; 13.2. The expression “in respect of” precedes the words “anything said or any vote given” in Article 105(2). The words “anything said or any vote given” can only mean speech that has been made or a vote that has already been given and does not extend to cases where the speech has not been made or the vote has not been cast. Therefore, interpreting the expression “in respect of” widely would result in a paradoxical situation. An 484 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports MP would be liable to be prosecuted for bribery if he accepted a bribe for not speaking or not giving his vote on a matter, but he would enjoy immunity if he accepted the bribe for speaking or giving his vote in a particular way and actually speaks or gives his vote in that manner. It is unlikely that the framers of the Constitution intended to make such a distinction; 13.3. The phrase “in respect of” must be interpreted to mean “arising out of”.