PW4 Raju Ali also categorically stated that there was no enmity between Appellant and the Deceased and he was also declared as a hostile witness by the prosecution. In his cross-examination, he has categorically stated that he has not given any statement incriminating the accused to the police. PW5 Mohd. Shakeel who was also allegedly present at the time of incident did not support the prosecution case and he was also declared hostile. PW6 Shamsher Ali also did not support the prosecution case and he has categorically stated that he has not given any statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. implicating the accused. He was also declared hostile. PW7 Chaman Babu, another eye witness, was also declared hostile. PW 8 Dr. Nitin Jaggi who carried out the post-mortem stated before the Court that the Deceased died on account of gunshot wound and supported the prosecution case to the extent that he has carried out the post-mortem. He has supported his opinion that the Deceased died on account of haemorrhage as a result of ante- mortem gun shot injuries. PW9 Head Constable Kshetrapal Singh who was a formal witness supported the prosecution case and proved the First Information Report which was lodged on 17.03.2016. PW10 Station Officer Lokendra Pal Singh also supported the prosecution case. PW11 Sub Inspector Yashpal Singh who was present along with PW-10 during the police custody remand of the Appellant has deposed that recovery of firearm and cartridge was made at the instance of the Appellant and has supported the prosecution case. PW12 constable Bhupendra Singh who is also an eye witness of the recovery of the fire arm in question and the cartridge has also supported the prosecution case. 10. The evidence on record reveals that all the eyewitnesses have turned hostile and the Trial Court on the basis of the evidence has arrived at the conclusion that the Appellant was guilty of the offences alleged under the FIR; and accordingly proceeded to convict the Appellant. 382 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Subsequently, the High Court affirmed the passed by the Trial Court. Aggrieved, the Appellant preferred the present petition. Vide an dated 03.12.2021, this Court issued notice and on a limited question in the matter i.e. as to whether the appellant could be held guilty of offence under Section 304 Part I or Part II of the IPC, as against under Section 302 of the IPC. 11. The undisputed facts of the case reveal that the incident took place on 17.03.2016 amidst the marriage ceremony of Nizamuddin’s daughter. Thereafter, the recovery of a weapon along with cartridge(s) from Appellant has been proved before the Trial Court. It is also undisputed fact that the Deceased died on account of a single bullet injury; and that there was no known prior enmity between the Deceased and Appellant. 12. The fulcrum of the dispute before this Court is whether the Appellant’s act of engaging in celebratory firing during a marriage ceremony could be construed to be an act so imminently dangerous so as to, in all probability, cause death or such bodily injury as was likely to cause death?