Paragraphs 2 and 3 of the said application read thus: “ .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2. That henceforthwith the plaintiff has got no manner of right, title, interest and possession over the suit properties of this suit any more he will lay any claim in any manner whatsoever over the suit properties of this suit in future. 3. That in view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances the plaintiff does not want to proceed further in this suit and wants to withdraw the same. .. .. . .. … .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . … ...” (emphasis added) [2024] 7 S.C.R. 133 Sardar Ravi Inder Singh & Anr. v. State of Jharkhand & Anr. On 27th November 2008, the Trial Court allowed the application and disposed of the suit as withdrawn. In the said , the Trial Court specifically recorded that the second respondent had signed the application. The second respondent never challenged the permitting withdrawal of the suit passed on 27th November 2008. 13. The second complaint bearing no.1248 of 2007 was filed by the second respondent, showing the appellants as accused nos.1 and 2 and Ashish and Kishan as accused nos.3 and 4, respectively, who were shown as accused nos.4 and 5 in the first complaint. By the detailed dated 14th September 2009, the learned Judicial Magistrate held that no prima facie case was made out in the complaint. He also noted that the suit for specific performance was pending. The allegations in the second complaint were again based on the same agreements for sale. It is alleged that the accused conspired to cheat the second respondent. 14. Now, we come to the prayer made for discharge by the appellants in the second complaint. The of the learned Judicial Magistrate dated 28th August 2012 does not refer to the subsequent development of the second respondent withdrawing the suit based on the application dated 11th November 2008. In the criminal revision application preferred against the said by the appellants, the subsequent events were pointed out regarding the settlement and withdrawal of the suit for specific performance. However, the High Court did not consider the said events by relying upon the law laid down by this Court in its decision in the case of State of Orissa v. Debendra Nath Padhi 1. The High Court held that the accused was not entitled to produce documents at the stage of the framing charge. As noted earlier, the special leave petition filed by the appellants against the said was withdrawn with the liberty to adopt appropriate remedies as available. 15. Under the liberty granted by this Court, a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India was preferred by the appellants, in which the first prayer was for quashing the first complaint on the ground that in view of the compromise in the suit, the continuation of the complaint was a complete abuse of the process of law.