We find it difficult to accept the plea made by the learned counsel for the petitioner to the effect that the said amendment be applied retrospectively to policies which were taken prior to 2014 so that the benefit of the amendment is given to those subscribers also. The reasons are not far to see. The whole object of Jeevan Adhar Policy is to benefit disabled persons by making provision by the subscriber post his demise. The concern and apprehension of a caregiver or subscriber of a policy for a disabled family member or other person for whose benefit the policy is taken after the demise of the caregiver is of utmost significance. It is only with that object that the caregiver or a subscriber would take such a policy so that he would not leave a disabled person in the lurch on his demise. If that is the object of the policy then we do not think the subscriber or the caregiver of the subscriber should be given the liberty to discontinue the policy during his lifetime on attaining 60 years of age. That would only go against the object with which the policy has been taken and against the interest of the beneficiary, namely, a disabled person. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 795 Ravi Agrawal v. Union of India & Another 8. In the circumstances, we do not think that the plea for retrospective operation of the amendment is in the interest of the disabled persons nor can this Court give a retrospective operation to the amendment. This is particularly having regard to the fact that an insurance contract is in a sense, a commercial contract, having certain terms and conditions and the sub-stratum of the contract cannot be removed by giving a retrospective operation to the amendment. The benefit under Section 80DD of the Act would have been availed by the subscribers at the time when they have subscribed to the policy. 9. It is also relevant to note that the passed by this Court on 10.02.2023 in Contempt Petition (C) No.408/2024 arising from W.P. (C) No.1107/2017 (the earlier writ petition), this Court disposed of the contempt petition for the reason that the Respondent-Union of India had amended Section 80DD of the Act via Budget 2022-2023 Finance Act and therefore, the grievance of the persons like the petitioner had stood addressed though with prospective effect. 10. We have also considered the Proclamation on the Full Participation and Equality of the People with Disabilities in the Asian and Pacific Region, 1992; and the subsequent enactments, namely, the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 which has been substituted by the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, as well as the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Optional Protocol 2006; and, the provisions of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956. 11. In view of the said observations, we are not inclined to take a different view of the matter and particularly having regard to the reasons assigned by us as aforesaid.