22. In the case at hand, the suit is not simply for the declaration of title rather it is for a further relief for recovery of possession. It is to be noted that when in a suit for declaration of title, a further relief is claimed in addition to mere declaration, the relief of declaration would only be an ancillary one and for the purposes of limitation, it would be governed by the relief that has been additionally claimed. The further relief claimed in the suit is for recovery of possession based upon title and as such its limitation would be 12 years in terms of Article 65 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act. 23. In C. Mohammad Yunus vs. Syed Unnissa And Ors2 it has been laid down that in a suit for declaration with a further relief, the limitation would be governed by the Article governing the suit for such further relief. In fact, a suit for a declaration of title to immovable property would not be barred so long as the right to such a property continues and subsists. When such right continues to subsist, the relief for declaration would be a continuing right and there would be no limitation for such a suit. The principle is that the suit for a declaration for a right cannot be held to be barred so long as Right to Property subsist. 24. Even otherwise, though the limitation for filing a suit for declaration of title is three years as per Article 58 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act but for recovery of possession based upon title, the limitation is 12 years from the date the possession of the defendant becomes adverse in terms of Article 65 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act. Therefore, suit for the relief of possession was not actually barred and as such the court of first instance could not have dismissed the entire suit as barred by time. 25. No other point was raised and argued before us. 2 [1962] 1 SCR 67 : AIR 1961 SC 808 960 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 26. Thus, in the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case, we do not find any error or illegality on part of the first appellate court and the High Court in decreeing the suit of the plaintiff-respondent. 27. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed as devoid of merit. 28. Pending application(s), if any, stands disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain