This is what was said: “This takes us to the non-negotiable minimum of nexus between the purpose of the acquisition and Article 39(b). Article 39(c) was feebly mentioned but Article 39(b) was forcefully pressed by the appellant. Better read Article 39(b) before discussing its full import: “39. (b) Certain principles of policy to be followed by the State— The State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.” The key word is “distribute” and the genius of the Article, if we may say so, cannot but be given full play as it fulfils the basic purpose of restructuring the economic . 53 (1977) 4 SCC 471, para 37. 296 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Each word in the article has a strategic role and the whole article a social mission. It embraces the entire material resources of the community. Its task is to distribute such resources. Its goal is so to undertake distribution as best to subserve the common good. It re-organizes by such distribution the ownership and control. 81. “Resources” is a sweeping expression and covers not only cash resources but even ability to borrow (credit resources). Its meaning given in Black’s Legal Dictionary is: “Money or any property that can be converted into supplies; means of raising money or supplies; capabilities of raising wealth or to supply necessary wants; available means or capability of any kind.” And material resources of the community in the context of re-ing the national economy embraces all the national wealth, not merely natural resources, all the private and public sources of meeting material needs, not merely public possessions. Every thing of value or use in the material world is material resource and the individual being a member of the community his resources are part of those of the community. To exclude ownership of private resources from the coils of Article 39(b) is to cipherise its very purpose of redistribution the socialist way. A directive to the State with a deliberate design to dismantle feudal and capitalist citadels of property must be interpreted in that spirit and hostility to such a purpose alone can be hospitable to the meaning which excludes private means of production or goods produced from the instruments of production”.54 In other words, the minority agreed with the majority in upholding the validity of the Karnataka Act, but went ahead justifying the acquisition under the Karnataka Act, as it was only following the mandate of the Constitution given in Article 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution of India which had its protection under Article 31-C of the Constitution of India. The minority upheld the Karnataka 54 (1977) 4 SCC 471, paras 80-81. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 297 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. law and the acquisition made therein, by justifying the law on the basis of Article 31-C and Article 39 (b) and (c) of the Constitution.