-For the purposes of this sub-clause,- [2024] 5 S.C.R. 225 Global Credit Capital Limited & Anr. v. Sach Marketing Pvt. Ltd. & Anr (i) any amount raised from an allottee under a real estate project shall be deemed to be an amount having the commercial effect of a borrowing; and (ii) the expressions, “allottee” and “real estate project” shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in clauses (d) and (zn) of section 2 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 (16 of 2016);] (g) any derivative transaction entered into in connection with protection against or benefit from fluctuation in any rate or price and for calculating the value of any derivative transaction, only the market value of such transaction shall be taken into account; (h) any counter-indemnity obligation in respect of a guarantee, indemnity, bond, documentary letter of credit or any other instrument issued by a bank or financial institution; (i) the amount of any liability in respect of any of the guarantee or indemnity for any of the items referred to in sub-clause (a) to (h) of this clause.” (emphasis added) The definition incorporates the expression “means and includes”. The first part of the definition, which starts with the word “means”, provides that there has to be a debt along with interest, if any, which is disbursed against the consideration for the time value of money. The word “and” appears after the word “money”. Before the words “and includes”, the legislature has not incorporated a comma. After the word “includes”, the legislature has incorporated categories (a) to (i) of financial debts. Hence, the cases covered by categories (a) to (i) must satisfy the test laid down by the earlier part of the sub-section (8). The test laid down therein is that there has to be a debt along with interest, if any, and it must be disbursed against the consideration for the time value of money. This Court had an occasion to deal with the definition of “financial debt” in its various 226 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports decisions. The first decision is in the case of Anuj Jain, Interim Resolution Professional for Jaypee Infratech Limited5. Paragraphs 46 to 50 read thus: “The essentials for financial debt and financial creditor 46. Applying the aforementioned fundamental principles to the definition occurring in Section 5(8) of the Code, we have not an iota of doubt that for a debt to become “financial debt” for the purpose of Part II of the Code, the basic elements are that it ought to be a disbursal against the consideration for time value of money. It may include any of the methods for raising money or incurring liability by the modes prescribed in clauses (a) to (f) of Section 5(8); it may also include any derivative transaction or counter-indemnity obligation as per clauses (g) and (h) of Section 5(8); and it may also be the amount of any liability in respect of any of the guarantee or indemnity for any of the items referred to in clauses (a) to (h).