Article 136 opens with a non obstante clause and conveys that even in the field covered by the preceding articles, jurisdiction conferred by Article 136 is available to be exercised in an appropriate case. It is untrammelled reservoir of power incapable of being confined to definitional bounds; the discretion being subjected only to one limitation i.e., wisdom and good sense of justice of the judges. No right of appeal is conferred upon any party; only a discretion is vested in the Supreme Court to interfere by granting leave to an applicant to enter in its appellate jurisdiction not open otherwise and as of right.” 17. In the decision in Durga Shankar Mehta v. Thakur Raghuraj Singh and others,12 this Court in paragraph 5 observed and held thus:- “5. …… The powers given by Article 136 of the Constitution however are in the nature of special or residuary powers which are exercisable outside the purview of ordinary law, in cases where the needs of justice demand interference by the Supreme Court of the land. The article itself is worded in the widest terms possible. It vests in the Supreme Court a plenary jurisdiction in the matter of entertaining and hearing appeals, by granting of special leave, against any kind of or made by a court or tribunal in any cause or matter and the powers could be exercised in spite of the specific provisions for the best of reasons did not choose to fetter or circumscribe the powers exercisable under this article in any way. ……” 18. In the said circumstances, the question whether there is any violation of fundamental right(s) under part III of the Constitution of India of the appellants herein need no consideration as it pales into insignificance. According to us, in the said circumstances, while considering the 12 [1955] 1 SCR 267 : (1954) 2 SCC 20 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 655 Ramji Lal Bairwa & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors. locus standi of the appellants herein to challenge the dated 04.02.2022 in S.B. CR. M.P. No.1348/2022, what is to be looked into is whether the parameters laid down in P.S.R. Sadhanantham’s case (supra) and such other relevant decisions are satisfied or not. 19. Now, we will refer to the decisions referred to by the learned amicus curiae, in regard to the locus standi of the appellants to challenge the dated 04.02.2022. We have already noted that this Court converted the petition filed under Article 32 by the appellants herein as Special Leave Petition under Article 136 of the Constitution of India and specifically listed to hear the parties on merits. In the aforesaid circumstances, the decision in Ramakant Rai v. Madan Rai and Ors.13 assumes relevance. That was a case where the acquittal of the convicts, who originally stood convicted by the Trial Court, in an appeal by the High Court was challenged before this Court by a third party to the criminal proceedings (father of the deceased) in a Special Leave Petition. Leave was granted, though he was not a party to the original criminal proceedings under Article 136 of the Constitution of India overruling the objection that a third party to a criminal proceeding could not invoke the power of this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India to appeal against an acquittal.