27. Dealing with the argument that the presence of the relatives did not influence the selection, it was held: “21. It is not in dispute that Smt. Pushpa Dwivedi and Shri Swami Singh were Members of the Selection Committee and they participated in the process of selection. However, the resolution and other documents only indicate that when relatives of Smt. Pushpa Dwivedi appeared for the interview, she left the interview board and the two marks available with her for allotment to the candidate were allotted by the Chief Executive Officer. Similarly, when relatives of Shri Swami Singh appeared for the interview, he is said to have left the proceedings and the two marks available with him were allotted by the Chief Executive Officer. On this ground, it was emphasized by Shri M.L. Choubey that the presence of relatives was of no consequence and it has not materially affected the process of selection. This aspect requires consideration. 22. As already indicated hereinabove under the statutory rules, out of l00 marks to be allotted 60% marks is based on the educational qualification. 25% marks is to be allotted by the Members of the Committee on the basis of experience and various other factors and thereafter 15% marks is to be allotted for oral interview. Records indicate that in the Selection Committee there were about 10 Members and out of these Members, two marks each were to be allotted by Smt. Pushpa Dwivedi, Shri Swami Singh, Smt. Rajrani Shukla - Member, Shri Bhurelal Khangar - Member, Shri Harshvardhan Singh, another Member. Thereafter, one mark each were to be allotted by Shri Ramdeo Patel, representative of MLA; Shri C.L. Maravi, Chief Executive Officer; Shri K.S. Chauhan - Block Education Officer; Ku. Meera Vishwakarma - Subject Expert; and, Shri A.P. Ahirwar, another Subject Expert. In this manner 15 marks were allotted. If the allotment made [2024] 4 S.C.R. 203 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. of marks under various category is taken note of and if it is compared with the marks allotted to some of the wait- listed candidates certain disparities can be apparently seen. Petitioner Smt. Shyama Dwivedi had obtained 50% in the Higher Secondary Certificate Examination. Accordingly, she has been allotted 30% marks for qualification. In the oral interview, she is allotted 11.10 marks. After adding the marks for experience she has received 58.10 marks. Compared to this is the case of Shri Yogendra Nigam, Shri Yogendra Soni, Shri Shivsharan, Shri Dinesh Kumar and Shri Satyendra Kumar. All these persons have received more than 75% marks in the Higher Secondary Certificate Examination and, therefore, they have received very high marks approximately between 46-47% for educational qualification, but by giving them only 3 marks in the interview their overall total percentage is kept around 50 and they are eliminated from the process of selection. In this manner, some benefit is granted to each of the petitioners. That apart, petitioner Smt. Vibha Dwivedi has received 57% marks in the Higher Secondary Certificate Examination; petitioners Devendra Awasthy and Krishnadutt Awasthi have received 55% and 69% marks; whereas petitioner Sumer Singh son of Shri Swami Singh has received 53% marks, accordingly their percentage for the qualifying examination is very less compared to other wait-listed candidates.