From the above, it is clear that the High Court declared the Act unconstitutional on several grounds, including a violation of Article 31(2)93 and on the ground of legislative competence. Significantly, as stated in point (4) of the above extract, the High Court also decided on the question of whether the legislation had a nexus with Articles 39(b) and (c) and was consequently protected by Article 31-C. In this regard, the High Court took the view that there was no substantial nexus between the purpose of the acquisition by the legislation and the principles laid down in Articles 39(b) and (c). 88. It was in the context of the above findings of the High Court that the appeal was heard by this Court. The majority judgement, authored by Justice Untwalia, upheld the constitutionality of the Act on the 93 Article 31(2) was part of the Constitution at the time. It has been subsequently omitted by Section 6 of the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978, w.e.f. 20.06.1979. [It read: “(2) No property, movable or immovable, including any interest in, or in any company owning, any commercial or industrial undertaking, shall be taken possession of or acquired for public purposes under any law authorising the taking of such possession or such acquisition, unless the law provides for compensation for the property taken possession of or acquired and either fixes the amount of the compensation, or specifies the principles on which, and the manner in which, the compensation is to be determined and given.”] 106 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ground that the legislation met the muster of Article 31(2). It was held that the provisions were for ‘public purpose’ and provided adequate compensation, as required by the provision. While arguments were made by the counsel on all the issues raised by the judgement of the High Court, the majority judgement eventually upheld the constitutionality of the Act only on the ground of Article 31(2). In fact, it appears that Justice Untwalia consciously refrained from making observations about whether the legislation had a nexus with Article 39(b) and the consequent protection under Article 31C. This is evidenced by the following observations of Justice Untwalia: “15. … For the purpose of deciding the point which falls for consideration in these appeals, it will suffice to say that still the overwhelming view of the majority of Judges in Kesavananda Bharati case is that the amount payable for the acquired property either fixed by the legislature or determined on the basis of the principles engrafted in the law of acquisition cannot be wholly arbitrary and illusory. When we say so we are not taking into account the effect of Article 31-C inserted in the Constitution by the 25th Amendment (leaving out the invalid part as declared by the majority). … 17. As already stated the High Court took the view that the amount payable under the Act for the property acquired would be such that it will be wholly arbitrary and illusory and leave the many operators in huge debts.