753 Rajendra S/o Ramdas Kolhe v. State of Maharashtra her husband and in-laws. It was also not recorded that Rekha was confined to the house on the day of the incident. She had also not stated before the police that Rekha’s husband and brother-in-law had set her on fire. 19.2. Similarly, in the statement of PW-4 recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., there was no mention that Rekha had informed him that her husband and brother-in-law had set her on fire. 19.3. There was also no mention in the statement of PW-7 before the police that he and Rajgire had entered the house of Rekha where they found her legs and hands were tied by a towel whereafter they had extinguished the fire and untied her. The said statement also did not contain that husband and brother-in-law of Rekha were present in the house while she was burning. It was also not recorded that the mother-in-law and father-in-law used to inform the husband that Rekha was not behaving properly. 19.4. In his cross-examination, PW-8 admitted that he did not mention in his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that when PW-8 and his wife had extinguished the fire, the husband and brother-in-law of Rekha were present near the door of the house. However, it was mentioned that when his wife was pouring water on the person of Rekha, her husband and brother-in-law were standing nearby. 19.5. The above improvements in evidence by the prosecution witnesses were brought on record during the cross- examination of PW-10, the investigating officer. Therefore, in addition to certain contradictions here and there, there is clear improvement in the version of the prosecution witnesses when they tendered evidence before the court. However, even in his cross-examination, PW-2 stated that PW-6 had recorded the statement of Rekha in detail in the hospital. This now brings us to the statement of Rekha made in the hospital which was recorded by PW-6 i.e. Ex. 59. While examining Ex.59, we will also analyze the evidence of PW-12 and PW-13. 20. In Ex.59, the deceased had stated that she was appointed as lady police constable in the police department on 12.12.1996. About three months prior to the date of the incident, she got transferred to the 754 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Ambajogai Police Station. She had married the appellant about two years ago. Appellant was employed in the army and posted at Jodhpur. About eight days prior to the date of the incident, he had come home on leave of fifteen days. She used to stay alongwith her in-laws in a quarter in the police colony at Ambajogai. After marriage, she was treated well for only about fifteen days. Thereafter, her mother-in-law and brother-in-law accused her of bad behaviour and suspected her character. She was subjected to verbal and physical abuse. The in- laws demanded that she should handover her salary to them. When she declined, they would harass and abuse her as to why she needed her salary. The brother-in-law would instigate her other in-laws and her husband(appellant) as and when he was at home on leave that she was behaving badly for which the appellant should leave her.