124. The guarantee to women in CEDAW was further tailored as a matter of child rights in 1989 with the adoption of the CRC.172 It was essential to establish a global framework dedicated to children because, despite previous human rights treaties, there remained gaps in protections for children who, due to their age and vulnerability, require special safeguards. The CRC acknowledges the unique needs of children for development,173 care, and protection from abuse, exploitation, and neglect.174 The international community recognized that children are often marginalized, and their rights overlooked, which made it critical to implement specific provisions tailored to them. 169 See Maja Eriksson, ‘Article 16’ in The Universal Declaration of Human Rights: A Commentary, ed. Aide Eide et al. (Oxford: Scandinavian University Press, 1992), 243. 170 UN General Assembly (1989). Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1249, p. 13. 171 CEDAW, Article 16 (2). 172 UN General Assembly (1989). Convention on the Rights of the Child, United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, p. 3. 173 CRC, Article 6(2); State Parties shall ensure to the maximum extent possible the survival and development of the child. 174 CRC, Article 19 (1); Requires States to take all appropriate measures to protect the child from all forms of abuse, neglect, or maltreatment while in the care of parents. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1583 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 125. Article 1 of the CRC defines a child as a person below the age of eighteen unless, under the law applicable to the child, a majority is attained earlier.175 In the context of child marriage, this provision sets a clear threshold for defining who is considered a child, ensuring that international standards focus on the protection of minors from early and forced marriages. Article 19(1) of the CRC requires State Parties to take all necessary legislative, administrative, social, and educational measures to protect children from all forms of physical or mental violence, injury, abuse, neglect, or exploitation, including sexual abuse, whether committed by parents, guardians, or others responsible for the child’s care.176 This article recognizes that children, due to their vulnerability, require comprehensive protection across various domains of life, especially from forms of violence that may occur within the family or caregiving environment. This is particularly relevant in cases of child marriage, where minors may face abuse or exploitation under the guise of familial or cultural practices. Article 19(2) further emphasizes the need for protective measures, including the creation of social programs, support services for children and caregivers, and judicial mechanisms to address and prevent maltreatment.177 This highlights the importance of establishing a robust framework for the identification, reporting, and follow-up of child abuse cases, offering practical measures for intervention and prevention. B. Regional framework 126. In addition to international conventions, three important regional conventions have addressed the issue of child marriage. Regional conventions reflect the targetter focus of a region to pivot their shared values and goals into obligatory and tangible outcomes.