The Judicial Officers shall be provided with the following telephone facilities: i. Residential Telephone (Landline) : (a) The landline telephone and broadband facility (by the same or different service providers) shall be provided at the residence of the Judicial Officers with the permitted user as follows : District Judges : Rs.1500/- per month Civil Judges : Rs.1000/- per month inclusive of rent, calls (local and STD both) and internet use. (b) At places where broadband facility is not available, the permissible user shall be : District Judges : Rs.1000/- per month Civil Judges : Rs.750/- per month inclusive of rent and calls (local and STD both). ii. Mobile Phone : (a) The provision of mobile phone (handset) with internet shall be as follows: District Judge : Rs.30,000/- Civil Judges (Jr. & Sr. Divisions) : Rs.20,000/- And the permissible user shall be : District Judges : Rs.2000/- per month [2024] 1 S.C.R. 369 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors Civil Judges : Rs.1500/- per month inclusive of internet data package. (b) At the request of the Judicial Officers, the mobile phone handset shall be replaced once in three years. (c) The Judicial Officers shall be given option to retain the old mobile phone handset at a price to be determined as per the guidelines prescribed by the Registry of High Court. (d) The existing facilities in so far as they are more beneficial by virtue of the issued by some of the State Governments/UTs shall be continued notwithstanding the above recommendations. iii. Office Telephone: Regarding telephone connection to the office, the present arrangement shall continue.” 79. The recommendation is reasonable and is accepted. 21. Transfer Grant 80. The summary of the recommendations of the SNJPC reads as follows: “1. On transfer, the composite transfer grant shall be equivalent to one month’s basic pay. 2. If the transfer is to a place at a distance of 20 kilometres or less or within the same city (if it involves actual change of residence), the transfer grant shall be 1/3 rd of the basic pay. 3. For the transportation of personal effects, the O.M. dated 13.07.2017 (annexed as Appendix I) issued by the Department of Expenditure; Government of India pursuant to the recommendations of VII CPC shall be applicable. 4. In case of transportation by road, the admissible amount shall be Rs.50/- per km. inclusive of labour charges for loading and unloading or the actual whichever is lower. The said amount shall be raised by 25% when the DA increases by 50%. 5. The recommendations will come into effect from 01.01.2016. 370 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. The Officers who have undergone transfer(s) after 01.01.2016 and their claims for transfer grant paid as per pre-revised pay scales, shall be paid the differential amount on the basis of revised pay w.e.f. 01.01.2016.” 81. The above recommendations are reasonable and are accordingly accepted. Institutionalization 82. We are of the considered view that a framework has to be set up under the auspices of every High Court for institutionalizing the implementation of the s of this Court with respect to the service conditions of the district judiciary and for implementing the recommendations of the SNJPC, as approved.