Denying a person of his liberty is a serious matter. The recommendations of the Police Commission merely reflect the constitutional concomitants of the fundamental right to personal liberty and freedom. A person is not liable to arrest merely on the suspicion of complicity in an offence. There must be some reasonable justification in the opinion of the officer effecting the arrest that such arrest is necessary and justified. Except in heinous offences, an arrest must be avoided if a police officer issues notice to person to attend the Station House and not to leave the Station without permission would do.” 70. Recently, Siddharth v. State of Uttar Pradesh,61 relied on Joginder Kumar (supra), to observe: “10. We may note that personal liberty is an important aspect of our constitutional mandate. The occasion to arrest an accused during investigation arises when custodial investigation becomes necessary or it is a heinous crime or where there is a possibility of influencing the witnesses or accused may abscond. Merely because an arrest can be made because it is lawful does not mandate that arrest must be made. A distinction must be made between the existence of the power to arrest and the justification for exercise of it [Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P., (1994) 4 SCC 260 : 1994 SCC (Cri) 1172] . If arrest is made routine, it can cause incalculable harm to the reputation and self-esteem of a person. If the investigating officer has no 61 (2022) 1 SCC 676 2420 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports reason to believe that the accused will abscond or disobey summons and has, in fact, throughout cooperated with the investigation we fail to appreciate why there should be a compulsion on the officer to arrest the accused.” Thus, time and again, courts have emphasised that the power to arrest must be exercised cautiously to prevent severe repercussions on the life and liberty of individuals. Such power must be restricted to necessary instances and must not be exercised routinely or in a cavalier fashion. 71. In Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), a substantive threshold test is not laid down on the ‘necessity to arrest’. However, in paragraph 88 of the , the Court has observed that the safeguard provided in Section 19(1) of the PML Act is to ensure fairness, objectivity and accountability of the authorised officer in forming opinion, as recorded in writing, regarding necessity to arrest a person involved in the offence of money laundering. Similar observations are made in paragraphs 15 and 22 of Pankaj Bansal (supra). 72. However, we must observe that in paragraph 32 of V. Senthil Balaji (supra), it is held that an authorised officer is not bound to follow the rigours of Section 41A of the Code as there is already an exhaustive procedure contemplated under the PML Act containing sufficient safeguards in favour of the arrestee. Thereafter, in paragraph 40 of V. Senthil Balaji (supra), it is observed: “40. To effect an arrest, an officer authorised has to assess and evaluate the materials in his possession.