For this, an analogy can be drawn with the foreign territories incorporated in India after independence, for which India passed various legislations that granted Indian citizenship without mandating the explicit renunciation of their previously acquired foreign citizenship.111 These legislations provide Indian citizenship by default and an opt-out mechanism similar to Section 6A. In the event the person does not opt-out, the law presumes renunciation of previous citizenship. 151. Globally as well, various jurisdictions have held that citizenship can be lost through implied renunciation. For instance, Article 13 of the Constitution of Panama explicitly provides implied renunciation of citizenship. In the USA, Section 349 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 1952, provides for the automatic termination of citizenship when specific actions are taken. Similarly, in the case of Lorenzo v. McCoy,112 the Supreme Court of the Philippines held that express renunciation is not necessary for the forfeiture of one’s citizenship, and it could be terminated by the actions. 152. Similarly, by electing not to opt-out, immigrants involved in the present context are presumed to have implicitly renounced their previous citizenship as per the law. However, it is essential to acknowledge that this presumption regarding renunciation of citizenship is not definitive and is rebuttable. As elaborated earlier, if an individual is found to have voluntarily availed themselves of the benefits of foreign citizenship despite not opting out of Indian citizenship, such a person would fall under the purview of Section 9 of the Citizenship Act, allowing authorities to revoke their Indian citizenship and face consequential deportation. 153. Therefore, based on the aforementioned reasons, we are of the considered opinion that the framework outlined by Section 6A is that an individual falling under Sections 6A(2) and 6A(3) can only 111 Dadra and Nagar Haveli (Citizenship) , 1962; Goa, Daman and Diu, the Goa, Daman and Diu (Citizenship) , 1962; Chandernagore (Merger) Act, 1954, Section 12; Citizenship (Pondicherry) , 1962; Sikkim (Citizenship) , 1975. 112 Lorenzo v. McCoy, 15 Phil., 559 (Philippines Supreme Court). 1072 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports assert Indian citizenship. Such individuals are presumed to have relinquished their previous citizenship. If authorities have reasons to believe that the previous citizenship is still being exercised, they are empowered under Section 9 of the Citizenship Act and associated rules to take steps to revoke the Indian citizenship of the delinquent individuals. Consequently, it can be deduced that Section 6A does not contradict Section 9 of the Citizenship Act, and we declare so. (c) Section 6A and the oath of allegiance 154. The Petitioners also contended that Section 6A contradicts Section 5 of the Citizenship Act (Section 5), which requires every citizen to take an oath of allegiance. 155. The Respondents refuted this argument by asserting that the failure to take the oath was inconsequential, and as such, an oath was not mandated for them. 156. A bare reading of Section 5(2) reflects that it requires the oath of allegiance specifically to be taken by persons who seek citizenship under Section 5(1), which, as summarized previously in paragraph 21, provides citizenship by registration upon making an application to the Central Government.