39. A Nine-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of I.R. Coelho (Dead) by LRs. v. State of T.N.21 recognized the doctrine of the separation of powers as a system of “check and balance”. The Court observed that the separation of powers leads to “prevention of tyranny”. The Court while emphasizing on the interconnectedness between judicial review, rule of law, and the separation of power observed thus: “Equality, rule of law, judicial review and separation of powers form parts of the basic structure of the Constitution. Each of these concepts are intimately connected. There can be no rule of law, if there is no equality before the law. These would be meaningless if the violation was not subject to the judicial review. All these would be redundant if the legislative, executive and judicial powers are vested in one organ. Therefore, the duty to decide whether the limits have been transgressed has been placed on the judiciary. Judicial review is justified by combination of “the principle of separation of powers, rule of law, the principle 21 [2007] 1 SCR 706 : (2007) 2 SCC 1 760 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of constitutionality and the reach of judicial review” (Democracy Through Law by Lord Styen, p. 131).” 40. This Court reiterated that equality, rule of law, judicial review and separation of powers form parts of the basic structure of the Constitution. Each of these concepts are intimately connected. It has been held that there can be no rule of law if there is no equality before the law. It observed that rights would be meaningless if the violation was not subject to the judicial review. The Court records the danger of legislative, executive and judicial powers being vested in one organ and, therefore, held that the duty to decide whether the limits have been transgressed has been placed on the judiciary. 41. While considering the importance of the doctrine of separation of powers in today’s world of positive rights and justifiable social and economic entitlements, this Court in the case of State of U.P. and others v. Jeet S. Bisht and another22 observed thus: “If we notice the evolution of separation of powers doctrine, traditionally the checks and balances dimension was only associated with governmental excesses and violations. But in today’s world of positive rights and justifiable social and economic entitlements, hybrid administrative bodies, private functionaries discharging public functions, we have to perform the oversight function with more urgency and enlarge the field of checks and balances to include governmental inaction. Otherwise we envisage the country getting transformed into a state of repose. Social engineering as well as institutional engineering therefore forms part of this obligation.” (emphasis added) 42. While expanding the contours of the doctrine of separation of powers, the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Kalpana Mehta and others v. Union of India and others,23 observed thus: “… the concept of constitutional limitation is a facet of the doctrine of separation of powers.