It can be simply a license to use the goods which may not amount to the transfer of the right to use. 34. In Civil Appeal no.3548 of 2017, in the impugned , the Division Bench of the High Court proceeded on the footing that the terms and conditions of the agreement, by which cranes were supplied to ONGC, were more or less similar. In paragraph 12 of the impugned , the Division Bench has also dealt with the contracts of supply of water tankers and trailers. Thus, the contracts, as far as the supply of cranes is concerned, are almost identical. It is stated that the contract subject matter of challenge in Civil Appeal nos.3566-3569 of 2017 is slightly different. Therefore, by way of illustration, firstly, we are referring to the terms and conditions of the contract dated 13th April 2006, which is the subject matter of challenge in Civil Appeal no.3548 of 2017. Some of the relevant clauses and features of the said agreement are as follows: a. Clause 2 regarding scope of work/contract, reads thus: “2. Scope of Work/Contract: 1.The services of the manned (Driver/Operator/Slinger/ Khalasi etc. as the case may be) Crane (type of vehicle/ equipment to be given) as per the technical specifications given herein or a vehicle/equipment of equivalent technical specifications and acceptable to ONGC, along with the necessary accessories, with valid permits/licenses, insurance etc. Sufficient fuel, in well maintained condition and fulfilling other pre-requisites, should be available for performing the duties as advised by ONGC, at the appointed time and place, throughout the contract period, not by way of lease or transfer or rights, for use of the vehicle/equipment, by the contractor to ONGC. 2. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..” (underline supplied) 510 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Thus, the contract itself provides that there is no transfer of the right to use the crane/equipment; b. The other salient features are : i. The specifications of cranes and other equipment are provided in clause 3.1. Clause 3.3 provides that apart from the cranes, the contract shall provide a necessary number of slings, hooks, dunnage material and other material for loading and unloading. The specific material is mentioned in the said clause; ii. Though in clause 6.2, the registration number of two cranes has been mentioned, what is important here is clause 5.2. It provides that even if a particular crane or its documents have been approved by ONGC, when a crane is defective, another crane of similar specifications must be offered as a replacement by the contractor. Therefore, the contract does not remain confined only to the two cranes described in clause 6.2, but the contractor has an obligation to replace the cranes; iii. The operational staff, such as driver, crane operator, rigor- slinger, khalasi, cleaner, etc. as specifically mentioned in clause 8.17 and 8.18 shall be provided by the contractor. The crew must operate the cranes with requisite safety accessories, such as safety shoes, gloves, safety helmets, etc.