132. The correctness of a chargeable distance is dependent upon the correct application of the methodology prescribed by law and correct calculation of the same pursuant to the methodology. A distance table, is a public document, which is available and displayed at each station, whenever a consignment is to be booked, the chargeable distance is calculated as per that distance table, had the distance table been incorrect, the respondent company would have disputed the same the very first moment when the consignment was probably being booked. 133. We have no reason to doubt that the chargeable distance as calculated by the old distance table would have come out to 444 km, had it not, it would have been pointed out by the respondent company then and there. But merely because the calculation of the chargeable distance as per the old distance table is correct would not make the distance table correct as-well. 134. The case of the respondent is that the calculation and application of the old methodology used for the formation of the distance table was incorrect, due to which inherent error has crept into the said distance table, thus it is the distance table which is incorrect and by its extension the chargeable distance of 444 km which is required to be payable by the law i.e., the notified distance table. 135. Remarkably, even the Railway Claims Tribunal in its had observed that the “actual distance” (emphasis) from Baad to Hissar was 334 km (sic 333.18 km), and the sole reason why the RCT rejected the claims of the appellant was on the ground of being time-barred by Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989, which we have already stated, is not applicable in the instant case. The relevant observations read as under: - “18. [...] In this case, the goods were booked from ’A’ to ‘B’, showing the chargeable distance as 444 Kms. and payment was given by the applicant company for the same [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1139 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. distance, but later on, Railways reworked the chargeable distance as only 333.18 Kms. The consignment in question was carried through the same route. So, it is clear that the payment was to be made for 333.18 Kms, whereas it was made for 444 Kms. So, it is clear that the payment was to be made for 333.18 Kms., whereas it was made for 444 Kms. xxx xxx xxx 22. [...] from the facts of the present case in hand, as in the present case, the applicant company was well within the knowledge of the actual distance from Baad to Hisar was 333.16 Kms, instead of 444 Kms.” (Emphasis supplied) 136. As afore-stated, since the only tangible difference between the old methodology and the new methodology is of rounding-off, the effect of change in methodology upon the chargeable distance would have at best been limited or confined to a difference of 1 km for each corresponding intervening station. The route from Refinery Baad to Hisar has about 48 stations (approx..).