39 The State of Gujarat v. M/s Ambuja Cement Ltd. Purchases on which no tax credit was claimed by the Respondent dealer nor proposed to be granted in the assessment. On the basis of this assessment, the Respondent being aggrieved preferred an appeal before the Joint Commissioner which was dismissed leading to the filing of a second appeal before the Gujarat Value Added Tax Tribunal at Ahmedabad wherein the same was partly allowed by holding that the tax and value purchases on which no tax was claimed nor was granted in the assessment could not be included in the aggregate of taxable turnover of purchases within the State for the purpose of reduction of tax credit. The State of Gujarat carried an appeal before the High Court challenging the passed by the Tribunal which has been dismissed affirming the of the Tribunal. 11. The issue involved in the present matters revolves around the definition of Purchase Price as provided for under sub-Section (18) of Section 2 of the GVAT Act, which reads as follows: - 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, - [ * * * * *] 18. “purchase price” means the amount of valuable consideration paid or payable by a person for any purchase made including the amount of duties levied or leviable under the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1983 or the Customs Act, 1962 and any sum charged for anything done by the seller in respect of the goods at the time of or before delivery thereof, other than the cost of insurance for transit or of installation, when such cost is separately charged and includes, - (a) in relation to – (i) the transfer, otherwise than in pursuance of a contract of property in any goods, (ii) the supply of goods by any unincorporated association or body of persons to a member thereof, (iii) the supply by way of or as part of any service or in any other manner whatsoever, of goods, being food or any other article for human consumption or any drink 40 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (whether or not intoxicating), the amount of cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration paid or payable therefor, (b) in relation to the transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some other form) involved in the execution of a works contract, such amount as is arrived at by deducting from the amount of valuable consideration paid or payable by a person for the execution of such works contract, the amount representing labour charges for such execution, (c) in relation to the delivery of goods on hire purchase or any system of payment by installments, the amount of valuable consideration payable by a person for such delivery. 12. On going through the above definition as has been provided for, it would indicate that the same is not only exclusive but exhaustive as well, it can rather be said to be enumerative. The first and foremost duty of the Court is to read the statute as it is and if the words therein are clear and unambiguous then only one meaning can be inferred.