1, it did not participate in the second NIT and instead preferred a writ petition on 24.11.2021 before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh. Learned Single Judge was justified in dismissing the writ petition on the ground that merely by offering highest bid, the respondent No.1 did not acquire any vested right for the execution of the contract in its favour. The Division Bench of the High Court, however, allowed the writ appeal and has gone to the extent in directing the IDA to accept the offer of respondent No. 1 which was made before the Court for an amount of Rs. 26,000/- per square meter in respect of the land in question, and further directing IDA to allot the land in question to respondent No.1. This Court in the case of State of Jharkhand and others Vs. CWE-SOMA Consortium (supra) while dealing with the 932 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports similar issue of annulment of tender process, in paras 21, 22 and 23 has held as under: “21 Observing that while exercising power of judicial review, the Court does not sit as appellate court over the decision of the Government but merely reviews the manner in which the decision was made, in Tata Cellular v. Union of India [Tata Cellular v. Union of India (1994) 6 SCC 651], SCC in para 70 it was held as under: (SCC p. 675) “70. It cannot be denied that the principles of judicial review would apply to the exercise of contractual powers by government bodies in to prevent arbitrariness or favouritism. However, it must be clearly stated that there are inherent limitations in exercise of that power of judicial review. Government is the guardian of the finances of the State. It is expected to protect the financial interest of the State. The right to refuse the lowest or any other tender is always available to the Government. But, the principles laid down in Article 14 of the Constitution have to be kept in view while accepting or refusing a tender. There can be no question of infringement of Article 14 if the Government tries to get the best person or the best quotation. The right to choose cannot be considered to be an arbitrary power. Of course, if the said power is exercised for any collateral purpose the exercise of that power will be struck down.” 22 The Government must have freedom of contract. In Master Marine Services (P) Ltd. v. Metcalfe & Hodgkinson (P) Ltd. [Master Marine Services (P) Ltd. v. Metcalfe & Hodgkinson (P) Ltd. (2005) 6 SCC 138], SCC in para 12 this Court held as under: (SCC p. 147) “12. After an exhaustive consideration of a large number of decisions and standard books on administrative law, the Court enunciated the principle that the modern trend points to judicial restraint in administrative action. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 933 Indore Vikas Praadhikaran (IDA) & Anr. v. Shri Humud Jain Samaj Trust & Anr. The court does not sit as a court of appeal but merely reviews the manner in which the decision was made.