However, instead of resorting to the statutorily prescribed procedure for appointment of regular Vice-Chancellors, the Minister-in-charge of the Department of Higher Education, Government of West Bengal, sent a proposal on 18.05.2023 to the Chancellor for extending the tenure of 27 Vice-Chancellors whose tenure was about to expire. The Chancellor, on the other hand, appointed ‘Interim Vice-Chancellors’ and as many as 28 professors were given such assignments. The appointments of these interim/ad- hoc/caretaker Vice-Chancellors came to be challenged by Respondent No. 1 through a Public Interest Litigation, which the High Court not only dismissed vide impugned dated 28-06-2023 but also conferred perks and other monetary benefits on its own to these acting Vice-Chancellors, a benefit which the Chancellor himself had not granted to them. 3. The Division Bench , to the extent of granting pay, allowance, perks or facilities admissible to a regular Vice-Chancellor, was consequently stayed by this Court vide dated 06.10.2023. 4. The rift between the State Government, on the one hand, and the Governor of West Bengal, who happens to be the Chancellor of subject Universities, on the other, is the root cause of stalemate in the appointment of regular Vice-Chancellors. To elaborate further, there is no consensus between the two sets of authorities in the matter of constitution and composition of Search Committees for shortlisting the candidates for appointment as Vice Chancellors. 5. Since we, prima facie, disapproved the Chancellor’s action of appointing interim Vice-Chancellors without consulting the State Government, all such further appointments were stayed vide dated 06.10.2023. 6. The chaos has further deepened as neither there are regular Vice- Chancellors nor interim or ad-hoc Vice-Chancellors are permitted to be appointed. Regardless thereto, the Chancellor has assigned the powers of Vice-Chancellors to various persons — not necessarily all of them are academicians. The State of West Bengal has strongly [2024] 7 S.C.R. 73 The State of West Bengal v. Dr. Sanat Kumar Ghosh and Ors. protested against such a recourse. We, however, do not deem it necessary to dwell on that issue at this stage for the reasons stated hereinafter: (I) On 15-09-2023, the learned Senior Counsel for the State of West Bengal, as well as learned counsel for the Chancellor, very fairly suggested that, pending multiple controversies, the Search Committee may be constituted by this Court. In to explore that possibility, this Court on 27.09.2023 directed the learned senior counsel/counsel for the parties to submit, in a tabulated chart, the details of the Universities, the description of their subjects/disciplines, existing provisions for constitution of Search Committees, as well as the new provision which the State of West Bengal had proposed in the Bill awaiting assent of the Governor. Counsel for the intervenors were also granted liberty to suggest the names of renowned scientists, technocrats, administrators, educationists, jurists or any other eminent person for the purpose of nomination to the Search Committee. (II) On 06.10.2023, the parties sought time to replace certain names earlier suggested by them for nomination to the Search Committees. (III) On 20.11.2023, learned senior counsel for the parties agreed to submit a consolidated list of the names proposed by the State Government/Chief Minister/Chancellor/UGC and other prescribed authorities for the purpose of constituting Search Committees.