are not mentioned in the Scheduled Castes list of the State of Karnataka and therefore, the members of these synonymous castes i.e., the appellants herein cannot claim the benefits of the Scheduled Caste category even in the State of Karnataka. 21. Learned counsel submitted that the controversy at hand is squarely covered by the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Milind (supra), wherein it has been laid down beyond the pale of doubt that the States have no power to amend the Presidential s issued under Article 341 of the Constitution of India. The power to include or exclude, amend or alter the Presidential is expressly and exclusively conferred on and vested with the Parliament, and that too by making law in this regard, and thus, the appellants were rightly denied relief by the Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court. 22. Learned counsel representing the respondent No.1-bank, urged that the appellants are not entitled to claim protection of their services which they procured against the reserved seats on the basis of false or fake Caste Certificates. 23. Learned counsel representing the other respondents-employers adopted the above submissions and implored the Court to dismiss the appeals and affirm the s rendered by the High Court. 24. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at the bar and have gone through the impugned s and the material placed on record. 880 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Discussion and Conclusion: - 25. At the outset, it is to be noted that there is no dispute over the fact that the appellants obtained their Caste Certificates(under the Scheduled Castes category) by following the due process of law. When these Caste Certificates were issued, the synonymous caste, as of the appellants had been included in the list of Scheduled Castes by virtue of the circular issued by the Government of Karnataka, albeit by exercising powers that were not vested in the State. 26. As held by the Constitution Bench in Milind (supra), any inclusion or exclusion in or from the list of Scheduled Castes can only be made through an Act of Parliament under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution of India. As a corollary thereto, neither the State Government nor the Courts have the authority to modify the list of Scheduled Castes as promulgated by the Presidential under the above Articles. 27. For this precise reason, pursuant to the in Milind (supra), the Government of Karnataka took the only permissible decision to de-schedule the castes to which the appellants herein belonged. However, considering the fact that the Caste Certificates issued to the appellants under the previous inclusions made by the State Government to the Scheduled Castes list, albeit under a legal misconception was not obtained through misrepresentation or fraud, the State Government took the pragmatic decision to protect the employment of those individuals who had been benefited by these Caste Certificates obtained prior to issuance of the Government circulars dated 11th March, 2002 and 29th March, 2003.