(1997) 2 SCC 715, (“Vam Organic I”); and State of UP vs. Vam Organic Chemicals Ltd. (2004) 1 SCC 225 (“Vam Organic II”), amongst others, have been discussed. Submissions: 4. As the learned Chief Justice has recorded the submissions of the respective parties in detail, I need not be repetitive except highlighting the submissions of the learned senior counsel Sri Rakesh Dwivedi, Sri Datar and Sri Jaideep Gupta and other counsel for the appellants. The main contention of the appellants is that the States have jurisdiction over “industrial alcohol” and therefore the of this Court in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) is incorrect. The expression “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8 – List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution cannot be restricted to alcoholic liquors for human consumption by a deduction from a reading of Entry 84 – List I with Entry 51 – List II. In other words, “intoxicating liquors” cannot be equated with only “alcoholic liquors for human consumption”. On the other hand, it is contended that the expression “intoxicating liquors” has attained a specific meaning over the passage of time which is more expansive than “alcoholic liquors for human consumption”. 4.1 The further submission was that only the production and manufacture of “industrial alcohol” would be governed by the Union List even if the requirement of a declaration under Section 2 of the IDRA read with Item 26 of the First Schedule thereto is as per Entry 52 – List I. However, when it comes to Entry 33 – List III, there is need for a notified to claim exclusive jurisdiction on a product of a scheduled industry. If no such has been issued, the legislative powers of the State would remain exclusive. It was further submitted that alcoholic liquors for human consumption means it is capable of being consumed by humans and it would fall under Entry 51 – List II, while denatured alcohol such as ethyl alcohol or rectified spirit which usually undergoes [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2051 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons denaturation for the purposes of their use in industries would fall under Entry 84 – List I. That everything, except denatured spirit is alcohol for human consumption because it has the potential to be consumed by humans. That Extra Neutral Alcohol (‘ENA’, for short) and rectified spirit may therefore be understood to be for human consumption and ceases to be such only upon undergoing denaturation. But according to the in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), the States do not have the power to levy tax on ENA despite being fit for human consumption. This position of law in the aforesaid decision has restricted the competence of the States to levy tax under Entry 51 – List II. That pursuant to the aforesaid decision, the Law Commission in its 158th Report suggested an amendment to the IDRA by which Item 26 in the First Schedule has been amended to mean that “Fermentation Industries” would not include “potable alcohol” with retrospective effect.