The audit identified significant areas of concern within the media plan, including but not limited to: • Media buying cost of inventory, from different publishers at various points during the engagements have been found to be significantly more than the industry benchmarks. • Traffic was poor and exposed to the wrong audience. • Number of times the ad was shown (Frequency) has been increased as the reach numbers were being achieved, this only shows that the targeting of the customer/audience has been poor. • The clicks generated were fraudulent. • The leads garnered were junk. • Cost of acquisition was higher than the category competition. We also recommend further detailed investigation across all the media campaigns by Sokrati.” 6. On 22.02.2023, the respondent served a demand notice on the appellant under Section 8 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (“IBC”) seeking Rs 6,25,67,060/- towards the outstanding invoices. In response, on 04.03.2023, the appellant rejected the demand, citing the audit findings, and invoked arbitration under 534 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Clause 18.12 of the MSA. The appellant also filed a counter claim, demanding a refund of Rs 5,53,26,690/- with 18% interest per annum and an additional Rs 6 crore by way of damages towards the alleged misrepresentations by the respondent. 7. Subsequently, upon failure of the respondent to comply with the arbitration notice, the appellant filed Commercial Arbitration Application No. 06 of 2024 before the High Court, seeking appointment of a sole arbitrator to adjudicate the disputes between the parties. However, on 05.10.2023, while the application was pending, the respondent filed Company Petition (IB) No. 27 of 2024 under Section 9 of the IBC before the National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai (NCLT, Mumbai) for initiating the corporate insolvency resolution process of the appellant. 8. The High Court vide the impugned , dismissed the application seeking the appointment of an arbitrator, observing that it lacked in merit and substance. The High Court noted that the independent audit report revealed significant concerns regarding the performance of the digital marketing campaigns executed by the respondent. The High Court was of the view that although the report highlighted poor returns on investment and inconsistent metrics, yet it did not support the assertions made by the appellant regarding fraudulent practices of the respondent. Further, the High Court observed that the appellant failed to demonstrate any substantial discrepancies in the report that would justify withholding payment for the invoices raised. It observed that while further investigation was suggested in the report, the appellant’s attempt to invoke arbitration based on non-existent disputes constituted a manifestly dishonest claim and therefore dismissed the application. The relevant observations from the impugned are extracted hereinbelow: “19. It can be well understood that upon the further investigation, being directed to be carried out as indicated in the report, if it is concluded that the services were not rendered at all or they were deficient and the invoices do not deserve to be cleared, the demand of the money due and payable could have been resisted, but without any justification, by projecting the report of the independent auditor to be its shield to avoid the payment, the attempt on part of the applicant can only be described as ‘dishonest’.