It was regarded as a sacred duty of everyone to protect them. In those days, people worshipped trees, rivers and sea which were treated as belonging to all living creatures. The children were educated by elders of the society about the necessity of keeping the environment clean and protecting earth, rivers, sea, forests, trees, flora, fauna and every species of life.” 39. Furthermore, the Forest (Conservation) Amendment Act, 2023, has also emphasized the importance of preserving the cultural and traditional values of forests, explicitly incorporating these principles into its preamble, which states: “ …. And WhereAs, it is necessary to provide for provisions relating to conservation management and restoration of forests, maintaining ecological security, sustaining 16 (2009) 5 SCC 373 1858 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports cultural and traditional values of forests and facilitating economic needs and carbon neutrality” (emphasis supplied) 40. The FC Act was enacted to provide for the conservation of forests. In the landmark of T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad,17 this Court emphasized that the FC Act was enacted to curb deforestation and address the resulting ecological imbalance. It was held that the FC Act provisions for forest conservation and related matters apply universally to all forests, regardless of their ownership or classification. The relevant portion is as follows: “4. The Forest Conservation Act, 1980 was enacted with a view to check further deforestation which ultimately results in ecological imbalance; and therefore, the provisions made therein for the conservation of forests and for matters connected therewith, must apply to all forests irrespective of the nature of ownership or classification thereof. The word “forest” must be understood according to its dictionary meaning. This description covers all statutorily recognised forests, whether designated as reserved, protected or otherwise for the purpose of Section 2(i) of the Forest Conservation Act. The term “forest land”, occurring in Section 2, will not only include “forest” as understood in the dictionary sense, but also any area recorded as forest in the Government record irrespective of the ownership. This is how it has to be understood for the purpose of Section 2 of the Act. The provisions enacted in the Forest Conservation Act, 1980 for the conservation of forests and the matters connected therewith must apply clearly to all forests so understood irrespective of the ownership or classification thereof. This aspect has been made abundantly clear in the decisions of this Court in Ambica Quarry Works v. State of Gujarat [(1987) 1 SCC 213] , Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra v. State of U.P. [1989 Supp (1) SCC 504] and recently in 17 Supra [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1859 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. the dated 29-11-1996 (Supreme Court Monitoring Committee v. Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority [ WP (C) No 749 of 1995 decided on 29-11-1996] ). The earlier decision of this Court in State of Bihar v. Banshi Ram Modi [(1985) 3 SCC 643] has, therefore, to be understood in the light of these subsequent decisions. We consider it necessary to reiterate this settled position emerging from the decisions of this Court to dispel the doubt, if any, in the perception of any State Government or authority.