In fact, where there is any equivalent or benefit measured in terms of money in respect of a gift the transaction ceases to be a gift and acquires a different colour. ... Love, affection, spiritual benefit and many other factors may enter in the intention of the donor to make a gift but these filial considerations cannot be called or held to be legal considerations as understood by law. It is manifest, therefore, that the passing of monetary consideration is completely foreign to the concept of a gift having regard to the nature, character and the circumstances under which such a transfer takes place... 4 Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary, as referred to in Madras Refineries Ltd. v. Chief Controlling Revenue Authority, Board of Revenue, Madras (1977) 2 SCC 308 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2341 Ramachandra Reddy (Dead) Thr. LRs. & Ors. v. Ramulu Ammal (Dead) Thr. LRs. 21....In fact, the legislature has made its intention clear that gift is excluded by qualifying the word “consideration” by the adjective “adequate.” Assuming that love and affection, spiritual benefit or similar other factors may amount to consideration for the gift, the word “adequate” is wholly inapplicable to and inconsistent with the concept of a gift because it is impossible to measure love and affection, the sentiments or feelings of the donor by any standard yardstick or barometer. The words “adequate consideration” clearly postulate that consideration must be capable of being measured in terms of money value having regard to the market price of the property, the value that it may fetch if sold, the value of similar lands in the vicinity , so on and so forth. In the instant case, the legislature by using the word “adequate” to qualify the word “consideration” has completely ruled out and excluded gift from the ambit of clause (b) of the proviso. In these circumstances, therefore, the argument of Mr. Kacker that by not expressly excluding gift, clause(b) of the proviso includes gift cannot be accepted particularly in the face of the clear and unambiguous language used by clause (b) of the proviso in describing the nature of transaction as one for adequate consideration.” The primary reason, as it appears from the above extract for the High Court holding that the deed in question was in fact a gift deed and not one of settlement, is that it found that the element of ‘adequate consideration’ was missing and instead, the transfer was effected out of love and affection for Govindammal. 15. Since the point which the High Court in its wisdom found to be the determining factor qua the nature of the deed is the element of consideration and its adequateness, let us consider the same. 15.1 It shall be useful to refer to certain provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. The relevant part of the interpretation clause thereof says - “2... (d) When, at the desire of the promisor, the promisee or any other person has done or abstained from 2342 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports doing, or does or abstains from doing, or promises to do or to abstain from doing, something, such act or abstinence or promise is called a consideration for the promise; (e) Every promise and every set of promises, forming the consideration for each other, is an agreement; (f) Promises which form the consideration or part of the consideration for each other are called reciprocal promises;...” 15.2 The discussion regarding the meaning of the word ‘consideration’ made in CIT v. Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority,5 is relevant for our purposes here: “165.