Thus, this Court has no hesitation in providing that the candidate(s) who are born in Maharashtra and whose parents are also domicile of the State of Maharashtra and are employees of the Government of India or its Undertaking, such candidate(s) would be entitled to a seat under the Maharashtra State quota irrespective of the place of posting of the parent(s) because the place of deployment would not be under the control of the candidate or his parents. 22. The Division Bench of Bombay High Court at Nagpur while rejecting the writ petition filed by the appellant, fell into manifest error in not considering case of the appellant in the correct perspective. For that reason, the impugned is unsustainable in facts as well as in law. A fortiori, the letter/communication dated 9th August, 2023 issued by respondent No. 6 cancelling the admission granted to the appellant against the Maharashtra State quota in CAP1 without giving opportunity to show cause is also illegal and arbitrary and deserves to be quashed and set aside. 23. However, there is a practical hurdle which comes in the way of the appellant for being provided admission in the MBBS course in the current session which has progressed significantly from August, 2023. More than six months have passed by since the session started. As per the reply of the respondents, no seat is lying vacant in any college in Maharashtra State quota as on date. 24. Undisputably, the appellant has been illegally deprived from his rightful admission in the first year of the MBBS course owing to the insensitive, unjust, illegal and arbitrary approach of the respondents and so also on account of the delay occasioned in the judicial process. 25. This Court in the case of Manoj Kumar v. Union of India and Others3 considered the concept of restitutive relief. Hon’ble P.S. 3 2024 SCC OnLine SC 163 716 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Narasimha, J. speaking for the Bench, observed that concomitant duty of the Constitutional Court is to take reasonable measures to restitute the injured which is the overarching Constitutional purpose. The relevant paras from the aforesaid are extracted below:- "19. We are of the opinion that while the primary duty of constitutional courts remains the control of power, including setting aside of administrative actions that may be illegal or arbitrary, it must be acknowledged that such measures may not singularly address repercussions of abuse of power. It is equally incumbent upon the courts, as a secondary measure, to address the injurious consequences arising from arbitrary and illegal actions. This concomitant duty to take reasonable measures to restitute the injured is our overarching constitutional purpose. This is how we have read our constitutional text, and this is how we have built our precedents on the basis of our preambular objective to secure justice. 20. In public law proceedings, when it is realised that the prayer in the writ petition is unattainable due to passage of time, constitutional courts may not dismiss the writ proceedings on the ground of their perceived futility.