It was alleged that the driver of the said vehicle was carrying English Liquor (1240.200 litres) worth of rupees 7 lakhs in the said vehicle without any pass or permit. The said vehicle along with the liquor was seized and the aforestated FIR was registered against the accused Lakhabhai Khengarbhai (the son of the present appellant), and others on 29.04.2023 at the Police Station Pardi, Valasad. 3. The respondent – State of Gujarat by filing the counter-affidavit has contented inter alia that Section 98 (2) of the Gujarat Prohibition Act 1949 (hereinafter referred to as the said ‘Act’) forbids the release of such vehicle till the final of the Court, where the quantity of seized liquor is exceeding the quantity prescribed by the Rules. In the instant case, the seized quantity of liquor was 1240 litres as against the prescribed quantity of 20 litres as per the Notification dated 02.07.2019, and hence the said vehicle was liable for the confiscation and could not be released on bond or surety till the final of the court. 4. At the outset, it may be noted that Chapter XXXIV of Cr.P.C deals with the disposal of the property. Section 451 thereof pertains to the to be passed by the Criminal Court for custody and disposal of the property produced before the court pending an inquiry or 610 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports trial, whereas Section 452 pertains to the to be passed for the disposal or confiscation of the property at the conclusion of the trial. Section 451 reads as under: - “451. for custody and disposal of property pending trial in certain cases. — When any property is produced before any Criminal Court during any inquiry or trial, the Court may make such as it thinks fit for the proper custody of such property pending the conclusion of the inquiry or trial, and, if the property is subject to speedy and natural decay, or if it is otherwise expedient so to do, the Court may, after recording such evidence as it thinks necessary, it to be sold or otherwise disposed of. Explanation. —For the purposes of this section, “property” includes— (a) property of any kind or document which is produced before the Court or which is in its custody; (b) any property regarding which an offence appears to have been committed or which appears to have been used for the commission of any offence.” 5. From the bare reading of the aforesaid provision, it clearly transpires that when any property is produced before any criminal court during the course of inquiry or trial, the Court is required to make such as it thinks fit for the proper custody of such property pending the conclusion of the inquiry or the trial. If the property is subject to speedy and natural decay, or if it is otherwise expedient so to do, the Court may after recording such evidence as it thinks necessary, it to be sold or otherwise disposed of. Thus, it is the criminal court, before whom the property in question is sought to be produced, would have the jurisdiction and the power to pass appropriate s for the proper custody of such property or for selling or disposing of such property, having regard to the nature of the property in question, after recording the evidence in that regard.