Section 153-A IPC, as extracted hereinabove, covers a case where a person by words, either spoken or written, or by signs or by visible representations or otherwise, promotes or attempts to promote, disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill will between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or castes or communities or acts prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony or is likely to disturb the public tranquillity. The gist of the offence is the intention to promote feelings of enmity or hatred between different classes of people. The intention to cause dis or incite the people to violence is the sine qua non of the offence under Section 153-A IPC and the prosecution has to prove prima facie the existence of mens rea on the part of the accused. The intention has to be judged primarily by the language of the book and the circumstances in which the book was written and published. The matter complained of within the ambit of Section 153-A must be read as a whole. One cannot rely on strongly worded and isolated passages for proving the charge nor indeed can one take a sentence here and a sentence there and connect them by a meticulous process of inferential reasoning.” (emphasis added) This Court referred to the view taken by Vivian Bose, J., as a Judge of the erstwhile Nagpur High Court in the case of Bhagwati Charan Shukla v. Provincial Government2. A 2 AIR 1947 Nag 1 324 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Division Bench of the High Court dealt with the offence of sedition under Section 124-A of the IPC and Section 4(1) of the Press (Emergency Powers) Act, 1931. The issue was whether a particular article in the press tends, directly or indirectly, to bring hatred or contempt to the Government established in law. This Court has approved this view in its decision in the case of Ramesh v. Union of India3. In the said case, this Court dealt with the issue of applicability of Section 153-A of IPC. In paragraph 13, it was held thus: “the effect of the words must be judged from the standards of reasonable, strong-minded, firm and courageous men, and not those of weak and vacillating minds, nor of those who scent danger in every hostile point of view. … It is the standard of ordinary reasonable man or as they say in English law ‘the man on the top of a Clapham omnibus’.” (emphasis added) Therefore, the yardstick laid down by Vivian Bose, J, will have to be applied while judging the effect of the words, spoken or written, in the context of Section 153-A of IPC. 7. We may also make a useful reference to a decision of this Court in the case of Patricia Mukhim v. State of Meghalaya & Ors4. Paragraphs 8 to 10 of the said decision read thus: 8. “It is of utmost importance to keep all speech free in for the truth to emerge and have a civil society.”—Thomas Jefferson.