The prosecution had examined 19 witnesses including Haseen Khan (PW-5) and Farid Khan (PW- 9), who are the real brothers of deceased Naseem Khan and eye witnesses. Documentary evidence including the postmortem report prepared by Dr. S.S. Thakur (PW-1) were tendered by the prosecution. On the side of the defence two witnesses were examined. 5. The trial Court relied on the oral testimonies of PW-5 and PW-9, the minor brothers of the deceased besides the testimony of PW-8, the mother of the deceased who happened to be the informant and the further found that the ocular evidence got corroboration from the medical evidence, to enter conviction on the appellants for having committed murder of Naseem Khan. Consequently, the respondents herein were sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs. 35,000/-. The respondents herein, the convicts preferred appeal jointly, against the of conviction for the offence punishable under Section 302, IPC read with Section 34, IPC and the life sentence imposed therefor, the High Court acquitted them of the offences with which they were charged and allowed the appeal in the impugned of acquittal. 6. Before dealing with the rival contentions raised before us, we think it only appropriate to refer to some of the relevant decisions of this Court laying law in regard to appeal against acquittal. It is true that the of acquittal was passed after setting aside the of conviction passed against the respondents herein by the trial Court. 7. In the decision in Jai Karan & Ors. v. State of U.P.1 this Court held that where the trial Court and the High Court had concurrently found the accused guilty, the Supreme Court would not scrutinize the evidence once again, unless there has been a total miscarriage of justice. We may hasten to add here that this Court may have to re-appreciate evidence in cases where a prima facie perverse appreciation of evidence is brought out, even in such cases. We shall also not be understood to have held that merely because the 1 [2003] Supp. 4 SCR 995 : (2003) 12 SCC 655 1880 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports trial Court and the High Court have rendered divergent findings, this Court should invariably scrutinize the evidence once again and in that regard this Court should entertain an appeal. In an appeal, against conviction in murder case under Section 374 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (for short the ‘Cr.P.C.’), a proper analysis of the evidence and accepting or rejecting, the appreciation of evidence by the trial Court must reflect in the of the High Court. In other words, the disposal of the appeal under Section 374, Cr.P.C., shall not be by cryptic or non-reasoned . In the decision in Govindaraju v. State by Sivaramapuram PS,2 this Court held that a very vital distinction has to be kept in mind while dealing with appeal under Section 374, Cr.P.C., that interference would be justifiable only when distinction is kept between perversity in appreciation of evidence and mere possibility of another view.