The net result is that the Magistrate in the present case ought to have treated the Protest Petition as a complaint and proceeded according to Chapter XV of the Cr.P.C.. The relevant paragraphs dealing with the above aspect in the case of Vishnu Kumar Tiwari (supra), being paragraphs 42 to 46 are reproduced hereunder: “42. In the facts of this case, having regard to the nature of the allegations contained in the Protest Petition and the annexures which essentially consisted of affidavits, if the Magistrate was convinced on the basis of the consideration of the final report, the statements under Section 161 of the Code that no prima facie case is made out, certainly the Magistrate could not be compelled to take cognizance by treating the Protest Petition as a complaint. The fact that he may have jurisdiction in a case to treat the Protest Petition as a complaint, is a different matter. Undoubtedly, 5 (2019) 8 SCC 27 660 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports if he treats the Protest Petition as a complaint, he would have to follow the procedure prescribed under Sections 200 and 202 of the Code if the latter section also commends itself to the Magistrate. In other words, necessarily, the complainant and his witnesses would have to be examined. No doubt, depending upon the material which is made available to a Magistrate by the complainant in the Protest Petition, it may be capable of being relied on in a particular case having regard to its inherent nature and impact on the conclusions in the final report. That is, if the material is such that it persuades the court to disagree with the conclusions arrived at by the investigating officer, cognizance could be taken under Section 190(1) (b) of the Code for which there is no necessity to examine the witnesses under Section 200 of the Code. But as the Magistrate could not be compelled to treat the Protest Petition as a complaint, the remedy of the complainant would be to file a fresh complaint and invite the Magistrate to follow the procedure under Section 200 of the Code or Section 200 read with Section 202 of the Code. Therefore, we are of the view that in the facts of this case, we cannot support the decision of the High Court. 43. It is true that law mandates notice to the informant/ complainant where the Magistrate contemplates accepting the final report. On receipt of notice, the informant may address the court ventilating his objections to the final report. This he usually does in the form of the Protest Petition. In Mahabir Prasad Agarwala v. State [Mahabir Prasad Agarwala v. State, 1957 SCC OnLine Ori 5 : AIR 1958 Ori 11] , a learned Judge of the High Court of Orissa, took the view that a Protest Petition is in the nature of a complaint and should be examined in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XVI of the Criminal Procedure Code. We, however, also noticed that in Qasim v. State [Qasim v. State, 1984 SCC OnLine All 260 : 1984 Cri LJ 1677] , a learned Single Judge of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, inter alia, held as follows: (Qasim case [Qasim v. State, 1984 SCC OnLine All 260 : 1984 Cri LJ 1677] , SCC OnLine All para 6) [2024] 4 S.C.R.