632 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports C. ISSUES FOR CONSIDERATION 8. The foremost question that falls for consideration before us is whether a prima facie case, to subject the Appellants to the agony of trial, has been made out. In furtherance of this question, the following issues emerge for our further consideration: (i) Whether the actions of the Appellants prima facie constitute the offence of cheating under Section 420 IPC? (ii) Whether there has been a prima facie case made out for forgery under Sections 468 and 471 IPC? (iii) Whether there has been a violation of Section 12(b) of the Passports Act, 1967? D. ANALYSIS 9. In the present case, charges have been brought against the Appellants for offences punishable under Sections 420, 468, 471, 120-B, 201, read with Section 34 IPC, and Section 12(b) of the Passports Act, 1967. In this context, it is paramount to delve into the ingredients of ‘forgery’ and ‘cheating’ required to be prima facie established against the Appellants, at the very threshold. We are conscious of the fact that such an evaluation would have to proceed on the premise that the material gathered by the investigating agency is not to be discarded or disbelieved at this stage. The offence of cheating under Section 420 IPC: 10. Section 420 IPC provides that whoever cheats and thereby dishonestly induces the person deceived to deliver any property to any person, or to make, alter or destroy, the whole or any part of valuable security, or anything, which is signed or sealed, and which is capable of being converted into a valuable security, shall be liable to be punished for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine. Further, Section 415 IPC distinctly defines the term ‘cheating’. The provision elucidates that an act marked by fraudulent or dishonest intentions will be categorised as ‘cheating’ if it is intended to induce the person so deceived to deliver any property to any person, or to consent that any person shall retain any property, causing damage or harm to that person. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 633 Mariam Fasihuddin & Anr. v. State by Adugodi Police Station & Anr. 11. It is thus paramount that in to attract the provisions of Section 420 IPC, the prosecution has to not only prove that the accused has cheated someone but also that by doing so, he has dishonestly induced the person who is cheated to deliver property. There are, thus, three components of this offence, i.e., (i) the deception of any person, (ii) fraudulently or dishonestly inducing that person to deliver any property to any person, and (iii) mens rea or dishonest intention of the accused at the time of making the inducement. There is no gainsaid that for the offence of cheating, fraudulent and dishonest intention must exist from the inception when the promise or representation was made. 12. It is well known that every deceitful act is not unlawful, just as not every unlawful act is deceitful.