Sir, After merger of the officers/employees working under Uttar Pradesh Roadways with State Road Transport Corporation, in connection with merger of services under the Corporation, I have been directed to issue the following, amending the Government no. 3000/30-2-1 70/72 dated June 7, 1972: 1384 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (1) According to the provision of para (1) (A) of the above Government , all those permanent or temporary officers/employees who before the constitution of State Road Transport Corporation were in the services of State Roadways, their services would be considered in the Corporation on deputation. For this deputation no period is being fixed now. (2) The State Road Transport Corporation has under section 45 of the Transport Corporation Act have not made rules about the service conditions till now in connection with the officers and employees under it. Therefore, leaving the above discussed Annexure 1 (1) A of the above Government dated June 7, 1972, the remaining annexures would be considered dismissed. But whenever the Corporation would make rules regarding service conditions, then in them this assurance of the Government would be included that the service condition of the officers/ employees under the Corporation in any condition would not be contemptuous than those conditions which were available to them under the Uttar Pradesh State Roadways and their government service period, their seniority under the corporation, promotion, fixation of pay, right concerning leave and financial benefits would be considered in that way only as they would have remained in their being in government service. Yours faithfully (Girija Prasad Pandey) Commissioner & Secretary No. 2114 (1)/Tees-2-170N/72 Copy submitted to Accountant General, Government of Uttar Pradesh, Allahabad, for information and necessary action. By , (Bhagwan Swaroop Saxena) Dy. Secretary No. 3414(2)/Tees-2-170N/72 Copy submitted to the following for information: - [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1385 U.P. Roadways Retired Officials and Officers Association v. State of U.P. & Anr. (1) Transport Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow. (2) Finance (Expenditure-7) Section By , (Bhagwan Swaroop Saxena) Dy. Secretary” 26. In exercise of power under Section 45(2)(c) of the Act, 1950, the State Government framed the Road Transport Corporation Employees (other than officers) Service Regulations, 1981.12 Regulations 4 and 39 of the Regulations, 1981 being relevant are reproduced hereunder: “4. Option by the employees of the erstwhile Government Roadways Department and other employees. - (1) An employee of the erstwhile U.P. Government Roadways Department who was placed on deputation with the Corporation and who has or is deemed to have offered for absorption in the Service of the Corporation in accordance with Rule 4 of the Uttar Pradesh State Roadways Organisation (Abolition of Posts and Absorptions of Employee) Rules, 1982 ( hereinafter referred to as the said, Rules), shall with effect from August 28, 1982, and so absorbed, and shall, accordingly cease to be an employee of the State Government with effect from the said date. Provided that the terms and conditions of service of the employees so absorbed in the Service of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of G.O.