13. The learned counsel Mr. Pawanshree Agarwal in his turn submits that the interview board members in the Gujarat Selection Board had access to the written marks of the candidates and therefore it was possible for the interview board to arbitrarily disqualify a meritorious candidate, by awarding them less than the qualifying marks. It is also submitted that the Rules were amended in 2011 only with the consultation of the High Court of Gujarat but not the Gujarat Public Service Commission. Therefore, such an amendment violates Article 234 of the Constitution of India. 14. In the same line, Mr. Rishabh Sancheti, learned counsel appearing in the WP(C) No.1146/2022 argued that denial of appointment because of below par score in the viva-voce segment, is discriminatory since such power can be selectively used for knocking out deserving candidates. 15. Projecting the contrary view, the learned counsel representing the High Court of Patna, Mr. Gautam Narayan argued that the High Court in to make the best selection has the discretion to enforce a stricter criteria than what was prescribed by the Shetty Commission. According to Mr. Narayan, the procedure suggested by the Shetty Commission is only recommendatory. The recommendations of the Shetty Commission according to the learned counsel should be construed as guidelines only. It is submitted that the Patna High Court broadly adhered to the recruitment process for the District Judiciary and only made it slightly more stringent. The objective was to ensure the selection of meritorious judicial officers and ultimately maintain the standard of the District Judiciary. It is also submitted that the writ petitions at the instance of the unsuccessful candidates is not maintainable. 16. Mr. Purvish Malkan, learned counsel for the High Court of Gujarat while adopting the other submissions of Mr. Narayan, argues that the power is vested with the High Court to evolve its own procedure under Articles 233,234 and 235 of the Constitution. With this Mr. Malkan supports the amendment of the Rules by the High Court. The learned counsel refers to the High Court’s counter affidavit to contend that the Internal Board members did not have access to the marks in the written test while conducting the viva voce test. 550 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports III.ISSUES 17. The issues to be considered here are: i) Whether the prescription of minimum marks for viva voce is in contravention of the law laid down by this Court in All India Judges(2002) which accepted certain recommendations of the Shetty Commission? ii) Whether the prescription of minimum marks for viva voce is violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India? iii) Whether the selection process in Bihar is vitiated given the moderation of marks and corrective steps, highlighted by the petitioners in the Bihar Selection process? iv) Whether non-consultation with the Public Service Commission as required under Article 234 of the Constitution for selection to the post of Civil Judge in the State of Gujarat would render the Gujarat Rules,2005(as amended in 2011) void?