39. This Court in Deonandan Mishra v. State of Bihar31 has laid down the following principle regarding circumstantial evidence and the failure of accused to adduce any explanation: 31 (1955) 2 SCR 570. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 111 PERUMAL RAJA @ PERUMAL v. STATE, REP. BY INSPECTOR OF POLICE “It is true that in a case of circumstantial evidence not only should the various links in the chain of evidence be clearly established, but the completed chain must be such as to rule out a reasonable likelihood of the innocence of the accused. But in a case like this where the various links as stated above have been satisfactorily made out and the circumstances point to the appellant as the probable assailant, with reasonable definiteness and in proximity to the deceased as regards time and situation, and he offers no explanation, which if accepted, though not proved, would afford a reasonable basis for a conclusion on the entire case consistent with his innocence, such absence of explanation or false explanation would itself be an additional link which completes the chain. We are, therefore, of the opinion that this is a case which satisfies the standards requisite for conviction on the basis of circumstantial evidence.” 40. The appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal in his statement under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 plainly denied all accusations without furnishing any explanation regarding his knowledge of the places from which the dead body was recovered. In this circumstance, the failure of the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal to present evidence on his behalf or to offer any cogent explanation regarding the recovery of the dead body by virtue of his special knowledge must lead to a reasonable adverse inference, by application of the principle under Section 106 of the Evidence Act, thus forming an additional link in the chain of circumstances. The additional link further affirms the conclusion of guilt as indicated by the prosecution evidence. 41. The whereabouts of Rajini @ Rajinikanth were unknown. The perpetrator(s) were also unknown. It is only consequent to the disclosure statement by the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal, that the police came to know that Rajini @ Rajinikanth had been murdered and his body was first dumped in the sump tank and after some months, it was retrieved, cut into two parts, put in sack bags, and thrown in the river/canal. The police, accordingly, proceeded on the leads and recovered the parts of the dead body from the sump tank and sack bags from the river/canal. It has been also established that Rajini @ Rajinikanth was murdered. In addition, there have been 112 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS recoveries of the motorcycle and other belongings at the behest of the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal. These facts, in the absence of any other material to doubt them, establish indubitable conclusion that the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal is guilty of having committed murder of Rajini @ Rajinikanth.