However, in that case, the IRP had moved an application under Regulation 30A of the CIRP Regulations. Instead of adjudicating upon the application under Regulation 30A, the NCLT took the view that Regulation 30A is a mere directory provision and dismissed the application. The NCLT vacated the stay on the constitution of the CoC and directed that the application under 12A be decided directly (i.e. including for compliance with the requirement of a ninety-percent voting share of the CoC). This Court set aside the of the NCLT on the ground that Regulation 30A provides a complete mechanism for dealing with the applications filed under such a provision, and it is not necessary to get the approval of a ninety percent voting share of the CoC if the application for withdrawal is moved before the constitution of the CoC. On the other hand, in the present case, there was no application filed through the IRP before the NCLT under Regulation 30A at all. Therefore, this decision is not applicable to the present case. F. Conclusion 86. For the above reasons, we allow the present appeal and set aside the impugned of the NCLAT dated 2 August 2024 in the above terms. At this stage, it would not be appropriate for this Court to adjudicate on the objections of the appellant to the settlement agreement on merits. The issues raised are the subject matter of several litigations in different fora, including the Delaware Court and investigation by various authorities, including the Enforcement Directorate, which are pending. 1854 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 87. During the course of the proceedings before this Court, the CoC has been constituted. The parties are at liberty to invoke their remedies, to seek a withdrawal or settlement of claims, in compliance with the legal framework governing the withdrawal of CIRP. Nothing in this should be construed as a finding on the conduct of any of the parties or other stakeholders involved in the insolvency proceedings. 88. The amount of Rs 158 crore, along with accrued interest, if any, which has been maintained in a separate escrow account pursuant to the of this Court dated 14 August 2024, is to be deposited with the CoC. The CoC is directed to maintain this amount in an escrow account until further developments and to abide by the further directions of the NCLT. 89. The civil appeal and special leave petition shall stand disposed of accordingly. 90. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Result of the case: Civil appeal and special leave petition disposed of. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey