Herein, on the facts, the authorities have not been able to succeed either on (a) or on (b). Another possibility is that if the foreign country refuses to accept the foreigner, he would be rendered stateless, and languish for the remainder of his life in confinement. 46. Notably, under the Constitution of India, Part III [Fundamental Rights] distinguishes between citizens and non-citizens. Articles 14, 20, 21, 22, 25 and 27 are available to all persons. We have kept in mind Articles 1411 and 2112 of the Constitution while penning down this . 8 ‘11. Mr Salve submits that a statute providing for penal prosecution has to be construed strictly. He refers to Clause 12 aforesaid and contends that it shall govern the field. Mr Bhatt submits that it is Clause 1 of the lease deed which shall govern the issue. We do not have the slightest hesitation in accepting the broad submission of Mr Salve that a penal statute which makes an act a penal offence or imposes penalty is to be strictly construed and if two views are possible, one favourable to the citizen is to be ordinarily preferred but this principle has no application in the facts of the present case. There is no serious dispute in regard to the interpretation of Explanation to Section 269-UA(f) of the Act and in fact, we are proceeding on an assumption that it will cover only such cases where exists provision for extension in lease deed.’ 9 ‘24. In construing penal statutes and taxation statutes, the Court has to apply strict rule of interpretation. The penal statute which tends to deprive a person of right to life and liberty has to be given strict interpretation or else many innocents might become victims of discretionary decision-making. Insofar as taxation statutes are concerned, Article 265 of the Constitution [“265. Taxes not to be imposed save by authority of law.— No tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.”] prohibits the State from extracting tax from the citizens without authority of law. It is axiomatic that taxation statute has to be interpreted strictly because the State cannot at their whims and fancies burden the citizens without authority of law. In other words, when the competent Legislature mandates taxing certain persons/certain objects in certain circumstances, it cannot be expanded/interpreted to include those, which were not intended by the legislature.’ 10 Karnataka State Financial Corporation v N Narasimhaiah (2008) 5 SCC 176 at Para 18. 11 ‘14. Equality before law.— The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.’ 12 ‘21. Protection of life and personal liberty.— No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.’ 2356 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 47. In Mukesh Singh v State (Narcotic Branch of Delhi) (2020) 10 SCC 120, a Bench of 5 learned Judges held: ‘11.3. Now so far as the observations made by this Court in para 13 in Mohan Lal [Mohan Lal v. State of Punjab (2018) 17 SCC 627 : (2019) 4 SCC (Cri) 215] that in the nature of reverse burden of proof, the onus will lie on the prosecution to demonstrate on the face of it that the investigation was fair, judicious with no circumstance that may raise doubt about its veracity, it is to be noted that the presumption under the Act is against the accused as per Sections 35 and 54 of the NDPS Act.