Paragraph 17.34 relates to the statement of the protected witness ‘Y’ with reference to these allegations in the chargesheet. 16. The learned Additional Solicitor General has thus asserted that there are serious allegations against the Appellant and therefore the s as has been passed by the Courts below are fully justified and the prayer made in the present Appeal deserves to be rejected. 17. We have considered the submissions made by the Counsel for the parties and with their able assistance have gone through the chargesheet. Before we proceed in the matter, the principles which have to be kept in mind while considering the prayer for grant of bail under Section 43-D (5) of UAPA, 1967 have to be looked into. 18. This Court had an occasion to deal with the case of an accused charged under Chapters IV and VI of the UAPA, 1967, who sought bail during the pendency of the trial in the case of National Investigation Agency v. Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali.2 In that case, this Court had gone to the extent of stating that the statutory bar on grant of bail could not be an impediment if the court on appreciation of totality of evidence is satisfied that the accusations are prima facie not true. The court is required to consider and examine not only the FIR but the case diary and chargesheet and to examine them on broad probabilities regarding involvement of the accused in the crime to determine whether the accusations are prima facie true as compared to holding the accused not guilty, which would entitle the provisions of Section 43-D(5) of UAPA, 1967, being not an impediment in grant of bail. The Court further concluded that if on perusal of the case diary and chargesheet, an opinion is formed that there are no reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations against such person are prima facie true, the accused can be released on bail. It may be added here that while forming an opinion as to whether there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against the accused is prima facie true or otherwise the said documents have 2 [2019] 5 SCR 1060 : (2019) 5 SCC 1 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1101 Athar Parwez v. Union of India to be accepted as it is. The Court is merely expected to record a finding on the basis of broad probabilities regarding the involvement of the accused in the commission of the stated offence or otherwise. 19. Long incarceration and unlikely likelihood of trial being completed in near future has also been taken as a ground for exercising its constitutional role by the Constitutional Courts to grant bail on violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India which guarantees trial to be concluded within a reasonable time. Gross delay in conclusion of the trial would justify such invocation leading to a conclusion of violation of Part III the Constitution of India, which may be taken as a ground to release an undertrial on bail.