In absence of pleading and proof, this Court held that, it could not be said that the driver had no valid licence to ply the vehicle which met with an accident and he could not be deprived of the compensation. This is clear if one reads para 11 of the , which reads thus: (SCC p. 626) “11. To reiterate, since a vehicle cannot be used as a transport vehicle on a public road unless there is a permit issued by the Regional Transport Authority for that purpose and since in the instant case there is neither a pleading to that effect by any party nor is there any permit on record, the vehicle in question would remain a light motor vehicle. The respondent also does not say that any permit was granted to the appellant for plying the vehicle as a transport vehicle under Section 66 of the Act. Moreover, on the date of the accident, the vehicle was not carrying any goods and though it could be said to have been designed to be used as a transport vehicle or a goods carrier, it cannot be so held on account of the statutory prohibition contained in Section 66 of the Act.” 41. In our , Ashok Gangadhar [(1999) 6 SCC 620 : 1999 SCC (Cri) 1170] did not lay down that the driver holding licence to drive a light motor vehicle need not have an endorsement to drive transport vehicle and yet he can drive such vehicle. It was on the peculiar facts of the case, as the Insurance Company neither pleaded nor proved that the vehicle was transport vehicle by placing on record the permit issued by the Transport Authority that the Insurance Company was held liable.” 618 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 91.3. In Prabhu Lal (supra), this Court correctly noted that the vehicle was a ‘goods carrier’ under Section 2(14) and fell within the definition of ‘transport vehicle’. But then it strikingly overlooked that a ‘transport vehicle’ below 7500 kg unladen weight, would also be covered within the definition of LMV, under Section 2(21). This vital aspect was not discussed and the definition of Section 2(21) was also not adverted to in the . The relevant portion of Ashok Gangadhar Maratha (supra) where it was held that the definition of ‘light motor vehicle’ can apply to ‘light goods vehicle’ as well as a ‘light transport vehicle’, was also overlooked. Instead the Court distinguished the in Ashok Gangadhar Maratha (supra) on the basis of evidence and pleadings in that case. We have already noted earlier that the reasoning in Ashok Gangadhar Maratha (supra) w.r.t evidence and pleadings was only an additional observation. We must not confuse ‘permit’ with a ‘driving license’ to drive a ‘Transport Vehicle’. The Supreme Court in Prabhu Lal (supra) should have followed the decision in Ashok Gangadhar Maratha (supra) which clearly stated the legal position that a ‘light motor vehicle’ would include a ‘light goods vehicle’. 92. The issue in Annappa Irappa Nesaria (supra), as we have already discussed in Part III of the , was whether a driver of a Matador van weighing 3,500 kgs, with a “goods carriage” permit, could drive a “transport vehicle” with just a LMV license.