It was further observed that mere wrangles between governments have no place in the scheme of that article. His Lordship further held that the purpose of Article 131 is to afford a forum for the resolution of disputes which depend for their decision on the existence or extent of a legal right. It has been held that it is only when a legal, not a mere political issue arises touching upon the existence or extent of a legal right that Article 131 of the Constitution is attracted. 37. Justice Chandrachud specifically rejected the contention that the State as a polity was not entitled to raise a dispute of the nature raised herein. His Lordship observed that in a federation, whether classical or quasi-classical, the States are vitally interested in the definition of the powers of the Federal Government on one hand and their own on the other. A dispute bearing upon the delineation of those powers is precisely the one in which the federating States, no less than the Federal Government itself, are interested. It was also observed that the States therefore have the locus and the interest to contest and seek an adjudication of the claim set up by the Union Government. The bond of constitutional obligation between the Government of India and the States sustains that locus. His Lordship further observed that the legal right of the States consists in their immunity, in the sense of freedom from the power of the Union Government. It has been held that the States are entitled, under Article 131, to assert that right either by contending in the absolute that the Centre has no power to dissolve the Legislative Assemblies or with the qualification that such a power cannot be exercised on the ground stated. It has been held that it is constitutionally unsound to say that the State, as a political entity, has no legal interest in such cataclysmic events and no legal rights to assert in relation thereto. The Court specifically rejected the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 701 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India argument on the rigid interpretation of the scope of Article 131 and observed that if such an interpretation was to be accepted, it would virtually reduce it to a dead-letter and destroy a precious safeguard against the use of arbitrary power. 38. After referring to the in the case of State of Bihar v. Union of India and Another (supra), His Lordship observed that, in the said case, the Court held that on the second issue, the suits were not maintainable since a private party was impleaded thereto. His Lordship further observed that the only assistance that could be derived from the said was that the disputes under Article 131 should be “in respect of legal rights and not disputes of a political character”. His Lordship further observed that the assertion of the States was that the Government of India did not possess the constitutional power claimed by it and therefore, this Court should declare that they are immune from such exercise of that power.