8. Vide Notification dated 9th July, 1995 the respondent was granted accelerated promotion to the post of Under Secretary and finally, he was granted accelerated promotion to the post of Joint Secretary, vide Notification dated 5th March, 2003. 9. On 6/8th December, 2003, the Board passed a Resolution deciding to reduce the number of sanctioned posts of Joint Secretary from six to three at its headquarters at Patna and accordingly, issued an Office dated 24th December, 2003 reducing the six sanctioned posts of Joint Secretary to three. One post was to be manned by an Officer from the Bihar Administrative Service of suitable rank, the second one by a Ministerial officer of the Board Secretariat Cadre and the third one by an Officer from the Engineering Cadre. 768 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ENSUING LITIGATION 10. Dissatisfied with the Notification dated 5th March, 2003 issued by the Board granting him accelerated promotion from the post of Under Secretary to Joint Secretary, the respondent filed a writ petition4 before the High Court of Patna for considering his case for promotion to the post of Joint Secretary with effect from 29th July, 1997 and not from 5th March, 2003 on a plea that though the post of Joint Secretary for the reserved category candidate in the Board was vacant from 29th July, 1997, his case had not been considered for promotion from the said date. 11. Noting that a representation in this regard submitted by the respondent was pending before the Secretary of the Board, vide dated 23rd September, 2004, the writ petition5 was disposed of by the learned Single Judge and the Board was directed to consider the said representation and pass a reasoned within a fixed time line. 12. The pending representation of the respondent was decided by the Board by a Resolution dated 9th June, 2005. The said Resolution noted that during his 29 years of service, the respondent was granted five promotions. In view of the bifurcation of the erstwhile State of Bihar into the present State of Bihar and Jharkhand, the Jharkhand State Electricity Board was constituted with effect from 2nd January, 2004. This had resulted in re-organization of the administrative/ministerial cadre at the Headquarters of the Board. Post re-organisation of the Administrative cadre, only three posts of Joint Secretary were fixed for the Board out of which only one post was earmarked for Officers of the Ministerial Cadre, like the respondent herein. The Board rejected the claim of the respondent for seeking promotion to the post of Joint Secretary with effect from 29th July, 1997 on a plea that he had completed the prescribed Kal Awadhi on the said date and the marked post of the Joint Secretary from amidst the Officers of the Ministerial Cadre was vacant at that time. It was observed that the said post was not vacant from 29th July, 1997 and that Officers from the Engineering Service of the Board and Officers of the Administrative Service of the Bihar Government were already 4 CWJC No.