The same reasoning has been adopted by the Full Bench of Andhra Pradesh High Court that ‘Ghee’ is derived out of ‘milk’ by undergoing a process, yet it still remains a product of livestock, for the purposes of the Act and payment of “market fee”. We are absolutely in agreement with the above reasoning. 11. The second argument of the appellant that the procedure given under Section 3 of the Act has not been followed, is also not correct. There is a basic difference between the notification which has to be made under Section 3 of the Act and the notification which has to be made subsequently under Section 4 of the Act. What has to be done under Section 3 is a one-time measure where the Government notifies an area where purchase and sale of agricultural produce, livestock and products of livestock can be made. This is a one-time exercise. What happens under Section 4 of the Act is that the Govt. declares the ‘notified market area’ in respect of any notified product (products which have already been notified under section 3 of the Act). A perusal of Sections 3 and 4 of the Act clearly shows that whereas a draft notification is mandatory under Section 3 and so is the hearing of objections to the draft notification, there is no similar provision under Section 4 of the Act. The two Sections of the Act Section 3 and Section 4 are being reproduced below for a comparative analysis : Section 3 Section 4 3. Declaration of notified area :– 4. Constitution of Market Committee and declaration of notified market area :- (1) The Government may publish in (1) The Government shall constitute, such manner as may be prescribed by notification, a market committee for a draft notification declaring their every notified area from such date as intention of regulating the purchase may be specified in the notification and and sale of such agricultural produce, the market committee so constituted livestock or products of livestock in shall be a body corporate by such such area as may be specified in such name as the Government may notification. specify in the said notification, having perpetual succession and a common seal with power to acquire, hold and dispose of property and may, by its corporate name, sue and be sued: 182 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) Such notification shall state that Provided that any market committee any objections or suggestions which functioning immediately before such may be received by the Government constitution in respect of a notified from any person within a period to be area abolished under the proviso to specified therein will be considered clause(c) of sub-section (4) of section by them. 3 shall stand abolished. (3) After the expiration of the period (1-A) Any notification made under specified in the draft notification and sub-section (1) for the constitution after considering such objections and of a new market committee in suggestions as may be received before respect of any new notified are such expiration, the Government declared under clause (c) of sub- may publish in such manner as may section (4) of section 3, may contain be prescribed a final notification such supplemental, incidental and declaring the area specified in the draft consequential provisions, including notification or any portion thereof, to provisions as to the composition of be a notified area for the purposes of the new market committee or new this Act in respect of any agricultural and existing market committees and produce, livestock and products the apportionment of the assets of livestock specified in the draft and liabilities between the market notification.