38. Appellants have also vehemently contended that they have not been afforded an opportunity to be heard at the first stage before the collector, thus, non-adhesion to the principle of natural justice vitiates the process. At this stage, it is also crucial to mention that Indian Courts time and again have reiterated that principles of natural justice are neither treated with absolute rigidity nor as imprisoned in a straitjacket. It has many facets. Sometimes, this doctrine is applied in a broad way, sometimes in a limited or narrow. Applicability and requirements of natural justice depend upon the facts and circumstances of the case and it is not possible to lay down rigid rules as to when the principles of natural justice are to apply; nor as to their scope and extent. Everything depends on the facts and circumstances. 39. In the case of Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam Ltd. Vs. Girja Shankar Pant and others; (2001) 1 SCC 182, this Court on refinement of principles of natural justice observed in paragraph 2 as thus: - “2. While it is true that over the years there has been a steady refinement as regards this particular doctrine, but no attempt has been made and if we may say so, cannot be made to define the doctrine in a specific manner or method. Strait-jacket formula cannot be made applicable but compliance with the doctrine is solely dependent upon the facts and circumstances of each case. The totality of the situation ought to be taken note of and if on examination of such totality, it comes to light that the executive action suffers from the vice of non-compliance with the doctrine, the law courts in that event ought to set right the wrong inflicted upon the person concerned and to do so would be a plain exercise of judicial power. As a matter of fact the doctrine is now termed as a synonym of fairness in the concept of justice and stands as the most-accepted methodology of a governmental action.” [2024] 4 S.C.R. 183 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. In view of the above, due to steady refinement as regards to the doctrine of natural justice, there cannot be any straitjacket formula to apply. The doctrine will now be termed as a synonym of fairness in the concept of justice and stand as the most-accepted methodology for a governmental action. 40. This Court in the case of Ashok Kumar Sonkar Vs. Union of India & Ors. ; (2007) 4 SCC 54 while dealing with the principle of natural justice doctrine observed that it is well settled that the said doctrine cannot be put in any straitjacket formula. It may not be applied in each case unless prejudice is shown. It is not necessary where it would be a futile exercise. The similar observations have been made by this Court in the case of H.P. Transport Corpn. v. K.C. Rahi, (2008) 11 SCC 502. In the said case, this Court in paragraphs 7 and 8 has observed as thus: - “7.