However, pertinently the whole process of enforcement of security interest as contained in Chapter III of the SARFAESI Act, could be initiated only when the borrower makes any default in repayment of secured debt or any instalment thereof, and his account in respect of such debt is classified by the secured creditor as non-performing asset, in view of Section 13(2) of the said Act. 15. What is contemplated in the “Framework for Revival and Rehabilitation of MSMEs” contained in the Instructions/ Directions stated hereinabove, is required to be followed prior to the classification of the borrower’s account, (in the instant case MSMEs loan account), as Non-Performing Assets. The said Instructions contained in the Notification dated 29.05.2015 as part of measures taken for facilitating the promotion and development of MSMEs issued by the Central Government in exercise of powers conferred under Section 9 of the MSMED Act, followed by the Directions issued by the RBI in exercise 152 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the powers conferred under Section 21 and 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, the Banking companies though may be ‘secured creditors’ as per the definition contained in Section 2 (zd) of the SARFAESI Act, are bound to follow the same, before classifying the loan account of MSME as NPA. 16. We may hasten to add that under the “Framework for Revival and Rehabilitation of MSMEs”, the banks or creditors are required to identify the incipient stress in the account of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, before their accounts turn into non-performing assets, by creating three sub-categories under the “Special Mention Account” Category, however, while creating such sub-categories, the Banks must have some authenticated and verifiable material with them as produced by the concerned MSME to show that loan account is of a Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise, classified and registered as such under the MSMED Act. The said Framework also enables the Micro, Small or Medium Enterprise to voluntarily initiate the proceedings under the said Framework, by filing an application along with the affidavit of an authorized person. Therefore, the stage of identification of incipient stress in the loan account of MSMEs and categorization under the Special Mention Account category, before the loan account of MSME turns into NPA is a very crucial stage, and therefore it would be incumbent on the part of the concerned MSME also to produce authenticated and verifiable doucments/material for substantiating its claim of being MSME, before its account is classified as NPA. If that is not done, and once the account is classified as NPA, the banks i.e. secured creditors would be entitled to take the recourse to Chapter III of the SARFAESI Act for the enforcement of the security interest. 17. It is also pertinent to note that sufficient safeguards have been provided under the said Chapter for safeguarding the interest of the Defaulters-Borrowers for giving them opportunities to discharge their debt. However, if at the stage of classification of the loan account of the borrower as NPA, the borrower does not bring to the notice of the concerned bank/creditor that it is a Micro, Small or Medium Enterprise under the MSMED Act and if such an Enterprise allows the entire process for enforcement of security interest under the SARFAESI Act to be over, or it having challenged such action of the concerned bank/creditor in the court of law/tribunal and having failed, such an Enterprise could not be permitted to misuse the process [2024] 8 S.C.R.