Who be, if the system is to satisfy the tests of democracy. But whoever captures power will not be free to do what he likes with it. In the exercise of it, he will have to respect these Instruments of Instructions which are called Directive Principles. He cannot ignore them. He may not have to answer for their breach in a Court of Law. But he will certainly have to answer for them before the electorate at election time. What great value these Directive Principles possess will be realised better when the forces of right contrive to capture power.” 23 Directive Principles of State Policy incorporated in Part IV of the Constitution of India were therefore to be the “vehicles” for the change of a backward and semi feudal society, towards a journey for a modern and equitable society. Socialist principles were thought to be necessary in making economic policies of the State if this change was to become a reality. For a fair distribution of wealth and resources, and for removal of inequality Articles 38 and 39 of the Constitution were incorporated, which largely contain the democratic and socialist principles of equality and fair distribution. 23 cOnstituent asseMBly deBates, vOl. VII, Pg. 41. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 275 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 12. Initially when Fundamental Rights and Directive Principles of State Policy were debated and discussed in the Constituent Assembly, they were to be a part of the same group of rights. Together they were to be the conscience of the Constitution.24 It was only later that a division was made between them on the basis of justiciable and non-justiciable rights; one being placed in Part III and the other in Part IV of the Constitution. Directive Principles, as we know, are not enforceable by any court, but as it has been stressed multiple times by this Court, these are nevertheless the principles which are fundamental for the governance of the country. This is what Article 37 of the Constitution mandates: “37. Application of the principles contained in this Part. – The provisions contained in this Part shall not be enforceable by any court, but the principles therein laid down are nevertheless fundamental in the governance of the country and it shall be the duty of the State to apply these principles in making laws.” The heart and soul of Part IV is Article 38 of the Constitution of India, which reads as under: “38. State to secure a social for the promotion of welfare of the people. – (1) The State shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and protecting as effectively as it may a social in which justice, social, economic and political, shall inform all the institutions of the national life. (2) The State shall, in particular, strive to minimise the inequalities in income, and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities, not only amongst individuals but also amongst groups of people residing in different areas or engaged in different vocations.” Article 39 of the Constitution of India, which is to be interpreted by us, has to be read in light of Articles 37 and 38.