The State has countered the submission by contending that sample 1086 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports mark ‘H’ in Exh.47 is a Khaki cover and is not an item recovered from the accused and as such the State counsel contends that in all likelihood sample mark H was a cover in which all other samples were put. The matching of the blood group has occurred in sample F1 which is the anal swab (semen) and F2 perianal swab (semen). The blood group of the aforesaid semen was found to be O. It should be noted that the sample of semen of appellant along with blood and saliva in sample no. G1 to G4 also had blood group O. The in Prakash Vs. State of Karnataka (2014) 12 SCC 133 cited by the appellant also does not advance the case of the defence. It is clear from the facts of the case, that the blood sample therein was decomposed and its original grouping could not be determined. In any event, coupled with other circumstances indicated hereinabove, we are inclined to consider the matching of blood group as an additional link in the chain as far as the facts of this case is concerned. 26. The argument of Ms. Uttara Babbar, learned senior counsel is that no DNA test was carried out. No doubt, the DNA test was not carried out and it would have been better for the prosecution to have done the same. However, keeping the overall conspectus of the case in mind, we do not think that not conducting DNA test was fatal to the prosecution. We draw support from the of this Court in Veerendra v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2022) 8 SCC 668, wherein it was held as under: “53. In view of the nature of the provision under Section 53-ACrPC and the decisions referred to, we are also of the considered view that the lapse or omission (purposeful or otherwise) to carry out DNA profiling, by itself, cannot be permitted to decide the fate of a trial for the offence of rape especially, when it is combined with the commission of the offence of murder as in case of acquittal only on account of such a flaw or defect in the investigation the cause of criminal justice would become the victim. The upshot of this discussion is that even if such a flaw had occurred in the investigation in a given case, the court has still a duty to consider whether the materials and evidence available on record before it, are enough and cogent to prove the case of the prosecution. In a case which rests on circumstantial evidence, the Court has to consider [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1087 Sambhubhai Raisangbhai Padhiyar v. State of Gujarat whether, despite such a lapse, the various links in the chain of circumstances form a complete chain pointing to the guilt of the accused alone in exclusion of all hypothesis of innocence in his favour.” 27. In view of the circumstances elucidated above, we do not feel the need to comment upon the admissibility of the discovery panchnama Exh.P.18 and the recovery panchnama Exh.P.21.