As would be clear from Avtar Singh (Supra), it has been clearly laid down that though a person who has suppressed the material information cannot claim unfettered right for appointment, he or she has a right not to be dealt with arbitrarily. The exercise of power has to be in a reasonable manner with objectivity and having due regard to the facts. In short, the ultimate action should be based upon objective criteria after due consideration of all relevant aspects. 22. Avtar Singh (Supra) also noticed the in Commissioner of Police and Others Vs. Sandeep Kumar, (2011) 4 SCC 644. In Sandeep Kumar (supra), this Court set out the story of the character “Jean Valjean” in Victor Hugo’s novel Les Miserables, where the character was branded as a thief for stealing a loaf of bread for his hungry family. It also discussed the classic of Lord Denning in Morris v. Crown Office, (1970) 2 QB 114 and concluded as follows:- “10… … In our opinion, we should display the same wisdom as displayed by Lord Denning. 11. As already observed above, youth often commits indiscretions, which are often condoned. 12. It is true that in the application form the respondent did not mention that he was involved in a criminal case under Sections 325/34 IPC. Probably he did not mention this out of fear that if he did so he would automatically be disqualified. At any event, it was not such a serious offence like murder, dacoity or rape, and hence a more lenient view should be taken in the matter.” [2024] 2 S.C.R. 735 Ravindra Kumar v. State of U.P. & ORS. Thereafter, in Avtar Singh (supra) dealing with Sandeep Kumar (supra), this Court observed as under: “24… … This Court has observed that suppression related to a case when the age of Sandeep Kumar was about 20 years. He was young and at such age people often commit indiscretions and such indiscretions may often be condoned. The modern approach should be to reform a person instead of branding him a criminal all his life. In [Morris v. Crown Office, (1970) 2 QB 114 : (1970) 2 WLR 792 (CA)] , the observations made were that young people are no ordinary criminals. There is no violence, dishonesty or vice in them. They were trying to preserve the Welsh language. Though they have done wrong but we must show mercy on them and they were permitted to go back to their studies, to their parents and continue the good course.” 23. In Ram Kumar vs. State of U.P. and Others, (2011) 14 SCC 709, another case noticed and discussed in Avtar Singh (Supra) arising out of near identical facts and construing a similar clause in the verification form, this Court, while granting relief, held as follows:- “9. We have carefully read the Government dated 28-4-1958 on the subject “Verification of the character and antecedents of government servants before their first appointment” and it is stated in the government that the Governor has been pleased to lay down the following instructions in supersession of all the previous s: “The rule regarding character of candidate for appointment under the State Government shall continue to be as follows: The character of a candidate for direct appointment must be such as to render him suitable in all respects for employment in the service or post to which he is to be appointed.