11. A supplementary charge sheet came to be filed against the accused appellant for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC. The trial Court framed charge against the accused appellant for the said offence. He pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. The prosecution examined 24 witnesses and exhibited 48 documents to support its case. 12. It is relevant to mention here that the complainant Ashok Kumar Pathak, was not produced for deposition in the trial which resumed after the arrest of the accused appellant. The trial Court held that the non-examination of complainant Ashok Kumar Pathak was not a deliberate act of the prosecution and rather the same was beyond the control of prosecution. The trial Court further found that complainant Ashok Kumar Pathak was examined on oath on 17th July, 1991 in proceedings under Section 299 CrPC. In this sworn statement, Ashok Kumar Pathak proved his signature on the statement[Exhibit PW-1/A (which led to registration of FIR)] made by him to the police on 20th May, 1990 and gave a detailed account of the sequence of events witnessed by him. The complainant Ashok Kumar Pathak could not [2024] 6 S.C.R. 321 Sukhpal Singh v. NCT of Delhi be examined in the trial proceedings post arrest of the accused as he could not be found at the address given in the FIR despite all sincere efforts. 13. The trial Court held that since Ashok Kumar Pathak could not be located despite genuine efforts, his sworn deposition recorded in absence of the accused appellant was liable to be read in evidence as per the provisions of Section 299 CrPC. Accordingly, the said statement was relied upon as a piece of incriminating evidence against the accused appellant. 14. The trial Court also placed reliance on the confession note/letter (Exhibit PW-12/E) holding that the same was found to be in the handwriting of the accused appellant by the handwriting expert (PW- 24) vide report (Exhibit PW-12/F). The said confession was treated to be an admission and a strong link of incriminating circumstantial evidence against the appellant. 15. Placing reliance upon the evidence of Ashok Kumar Pathak recorded in proceedings under Section 299 CrPC and the evidence of the handwriting expert (PW-24), the trial Court held the confession note (Exhibit PW-12/E) to be an unimpeachable piece of evidence sealing the fate of the accused. Corroboration thereto was sought from the evidence of Sudha (PW-10), sister of the deceased Usha. By relying on these incriminating links of circumstantial evidence, the trial Court proceeded to convict and sentenced the accused appellant as above vide dated 6th March, 2003. 16. The appeal preferred by the accused appellant in the High Court of Delhi was rejected by learned Division Bench of High Court vide dated 7th January, 2010 holding that the confession note (Exhibit PW-12/E) written by the accused appellant proved his culpability in the crime. The prosecution had established that the accused appellant was in company of the deceased Usha at her house where she was murdered in the intervening night of 19th and 20th May, 1990.