affecting any person shall be passed under this sub-section unless such person has had an opportunity of making his representation thereto. 15. In Ibrahimpatnam’s case (supra) wherein sub-section (4) of Section 50-B was pressed into service discloses that the expression ‘the collector may, suo moto at any time; is occurring while such expression is conspicuously absent in sub-section (6) of Section 122-(C) of UPZALR Act. In the aforesaid case, it came to be held by the Apex Court that suo moto power should be exercised within a reasonable period even in case of fraud and within a reasonable time from the date of discovery of fraud and it depends on facts and circumstances of each case. It came to be further held: “12. The learned Single Judge has referred to and relied on various decisions including the decisions of this Court as to how the use of the words “at any time” in sub-section [2024] 6 S.C.R. 295 Smt. Shyamo Devi and Others v. State of U.P. Through Secretary and Others (4) of Section 50-B of the Act should be understood. In the impugned the Division Bench of the High Court approves and affirms the decision of the learned Single Judge. Where a statute provides any suo motu power of revision without prescribing any period of limitation, the power must be exercised within a reasonable time and what is “reasonable time” has to be determined on the facts of each case. 13. In the light of what is stated above, we are of the view that the Division Bench of the High Court was right in affirming the view of the learned Single Judge of the High Court that the suo motu power under sub-section (4) of Section 50-B of the Act is to be exercised within a reasonable time. 19. It is also necessary to note that the suo motu power was sought to be exercised by the Joint Collector after 13-15 years. Section 50-B was amended in the year 1979 by adding sub-section (4), but no action was taken to invalidate the certificates in exercise of the suo motu power till 1989. There is no convincing explanation as to why the authorities waited for such a long time. It appears that sub-section (4) was added so as to take action where alienations or transfers were made to defeat the provisions of the Land Ceiling Act. The Land Ceiling Act having come into force on 1-1-1975, the authorities should have made inquiries and efforts so as to exercise the suo motu power within reasonable time. The action of the Joint Collector in exercising suo motu power after several years and not within reasonable period and passing s cancelling validation certificates given by the Tahsildar, as rightly held by the High Court, could not be sustained.” In the teeth of the expression ‘any time’ not being found in sub- section (6) of Section 122-C, it would not detain us for too long to set aside the impugned s. 16. However, in to satisfy ourselves as to whether the issue of fraud would arise in the instant case?