136. Previously, a six-judge bench of this Court had conducted a similar exercise in State of Kerala v. Very Rev. Mother Provincial76 and defined the term establish as the ‘bringing into being of an institution’: “8. Article 30(1) has been construed before by this Court. Without referring to those cases it is sufficient to say that the clause contemplates two rights which are separated in point of time. The first right is the initial right to establish institutions of the minority’s choice. Establishment here means the bringing into being of an institution and it must be by a minority community. It matters not if a single philanthropic individual with his own means, founds the institution or the community at large contributes the funds. The position in law is the same and the intention in either case must be to found an institution for the benefit of a minority community by a member of that community. It is equally irrelevant that in addition to the minority community others from other minority communities or even from the majority community can take advantage of these institutions. Such other communities bring in income and they do not have to be turned away to enjoy the protection” [Emphasis supplied] 76 Mother Provincial, supra note 71, para 8. 1824 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 137. Hence, as rightly held by this Court, the term ‘establish’ means bringing the institution into existence for the benefit of the minority community. However, we must ask ourselves as to when an institution can be said to have come into existence, and what it means to establish it for the benefit of the community. Each of these prongs have been analysed separately below. I.1. Bringing into existence—meaning and factors 138. In this regard, the Appellant and Respondents both suggested that an institution comes into existence at a single point in time but disagreed on what that exact point should be. The Appellant suggested looking back into the genesis of the institution to determine when it was ‘founded’ or when the idea was conceived. In contrast, the Respondents argued against going back in time and instead urged that the institution should be considered established the moment it was operationalized. According to them, if the institution was operationalized by virtue of a statute, then it was established at that specific point by the Legislature. 139. To clarify these divergent views, it might be helpful to consider analogous situations. For instance, if the question is about when a photograph taken with an analogue camera comes into existence, one perspective would argue that it is created when the photograph is clicked, while the other would assert that it only exists when the photo is finally printed on paper. Similarly, in the context of a melody, one side might argue that it comes into existence when it is composed, whereas the other side could contend that it only comes into being when it is finally performed. Or in the context of art, one perspective could be that a painting comes into existence when the idea is conceived, and the other side could be that it is only when it is fully completed.