8 in Mustkil No. 33, which the Appellants never claimed to have purchased. On this basis, the Court held that the ingredients of the offences alleged were made out against the Appellants and consequently, the application for quashing was dismissed. Contentions & Analysis: 10. Learned Counsel for the Appellants forcefully contends that the dispute between the parties is essentially civil in nature and as the appropriate civil remedy is already being pursued by the Appellants, the criminal proceedings arising out of the Subject FIR amount to an abuse of the process of law. In this context, it is also urged that the High Court erred in failing to consider the litigation history between the parties i.e., the pending Civil Suit and the FIR filed by the Appellants against the family of Respondent No. 2. 11. Per Contra, Learned Counsel for the State of Haryana submits that there exists sufficient prima facie evidence for the Trial Court to proceed against the Appellants and that the mere existence of a civil profile does not justify quashing of criminal proceedings. 12. It is pertinent to note that despite being served, Respondent No. 2 has not contested the matter before us. 13. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. 14. In the considered opinion of this Court, the dispute herein, which forms the genesis of the criminal proceedings initiated by Respondent No. 2 is entirely civil in nature i.e., whether the Appellants are in lawful possession of the Suit Property or, in essence, whether the RSD is valid. To that extent, the Appellants have already taken recourse to the appropriate civil remedy to establish their claim before the Civil Court. The grievance of Respondent No. 2 i.e., whether the RSD is forged and fabricated is an issue that will be considered by the Civil Court while making its determination. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 677 Dr Sonia Verma & Anr. v. The State of Haryana & Anr. 15. A closer examination of the surrounding facts and circumstances fortifies the conclusion that an attempt has been made by the Respondent No. 2 to shroud a civil dispute with a cloak of criminality. The following aspects of the case are pertinent to note: (i) Respondent No. 2 registered the Subject FIR subsequent to the filing of the Civil Suit and the filing of FIR No. 372/2022 by the Appellants; (ii) the chain of sale deeds produced by the Appellants contain identical descriptions of the Suit Property and yet Respondent No. 2 has pursued criminal action only against the Appellants and Sher Singh and not against Babu Lal and her husband; (iii) Respondent No. 2 has failed to contest the present matter before this Court; (iv) the admitted position that the Appellants were bonafide in their payment of rent before their alleged purchase of the Suit Property. 16. This Court in Paramjeet Batra v. State of Uttarakhand & Ors.1 has expounded on the scope of exercise of power under Section 482 CrPC whilst dealing with similar matters: “7.