Hence, the High Court, while making a modification to its own Resolution, ought to have consulted the State Government; and (v) The Government was not informed by the High Court of the change in the criteria requiring a minimum of 50% marks in both the suitability test and in the viva voce. On the other hand, where an amendment of the Rules was sought to be effected, the High Court has moved the State Government. 27. Mr Nidhesh Gupta, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the High Court, in support of the decision which was taken on the administrative side and ultimately as affirmed in the impugned of the Division Bench, submitted: (i) Properly construed, Rule 8 of the Rules provides the modalities for testing the merit and suitability of the members of the Judicial Branch for promotion under clause (a) of Rule 6(1). The purpose [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1153 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors of conducting the written test and the viva voce is to ascertain and examine the knowledge and efficiency of the officer under consideration in law; (ii) Where the Rules are silent in regard to the details in the implementation process, it is a settled principle of law that they can be supplemented by administrative instructions; (iii) The Rules, in the present case, being silent on the minimum qualifying marks required to be obtained in the written test and the viva voce, the administrative instructions which were issued by the High Court do not involve any amendment of a rule; (iv) As a matter of fact, the Full Court Resolution dated 29 January 2013 was issued in terms of the administrative power which is vested in the High Court in regard to the appointment of District Judges under Article 233 and in relation to the control of the High Court over the District Judiciary under Article 235 and the High Court has invoked the very same power while modifying the terms of the earlier resolution on 30 November 2021; (v) The plea of discrimination as between the requirements for direct recruits, the in-service candidates in a limited departmental examination and the promotional quota for in-service candidates has no valid basis in law. All three categories are distinct and constitute valid classifications; (vi) The decision of this Court in All India Judges’ Association (supra) distinguishes between all the three categories for appointment to the Higher Judicial Service. This distinction is exemplified by the Rules in question. For the promotional quota of 65%, the written test consists only of multiplechoice questions totaling to 75 marks, each candidate being given four options for every question. In the matter of direct recruitment, the written test consists of five papers totaling 750 marks comprising of three papers in law, each of 200 marks, a language paper of 100 marks and a general knowledge paper of 50 marks. In the limited competitive examination, the written examination has a weightage of 600 marks. As opposed to the detailed examination which is expected of candidates for direct recruitment and in the limited competitive examination, the in-service candidates who avail of the promotional quota of 65% have to appear for a suitability test of a different nature and 1154 [2024] 2 S.C.R.