III of CPC pertains to the Recognized Agents and Pleaders. As per the definition of “Pleader” contained in Section 2 (15) CPC, ‘Pleader means any person entitled to appear and plead for another in Court and includes an Advocate, a Vakil and an Attorney of a High Court. Rule1 of III states that any appearance, application or act in or in any Court may be made or done by the party in person, or by his recognized agent or by a pleader appearing, applying or acting, as the case may be on his behalf. Rule 4 of the said III states that no pleader shall act for any person in any Court, unless he has been appointed for the purpose by such person by document in writing signed by such person or by his recognized agent or by some other person duly authorized by or under a power of attorney to make such appointment. It further provides that every such appointment shall be filed in Court and shall for the purposes of sub-rule (1) be deemed to be in force until determined with the leave of the Court by writing signed by the client or the pleader as the case may be and filed in the Court, or until the client or the pleader dies, or until all proceedings in the suit are ended so far as regards the client. Such document regarding appointment of a pleader is known in common parlance as “Vakalatnama”, the proforma of which has been appended in Form No.19 of the ‘Appendix H’ to CPC. The said form is reproduced here under: - “No.19 VAKALATNAMA In the Court ……..Suit/Miscellaneous case/ Civil Appeal/ Execution Case No……….. of 19…./20…,fixed for Plaintiff/ Appellant/ Applicant/ D.H……….. Defendant/ Respondent/ 518 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Opposite Party/ J.D. Vakalatnama of Plaintiff/ Appellant Applicant/ D.H./ Defendant/ Respondent/ Opposite Party/ J.D. In the case noted above Sri…………, each of Sarvasri………. Advocate, is hereby appointed as counsel, to appeals, plead and act on behalf of the undersigned, in any manner, he thinks it proper, either himself or through any other Advocate, and in particular to do the following, namely, - To receive any process of Court (including any notice from any appellate or revisional Court), to file any applications, petitions or pleadings, to file, produce or receive back any documents, to withdraw or compromise the proceedings, to refer to any matter to arbitration, to deposit or withdraw any moneys, to execute any decree or , to certify payment, and receive any money due under such decree or . The undersigned should be bound by all whatsoever may be done in the aforesaid case (including any appeal or revision therefrom) for and on behalf of the undersigned by any of the said counsel. Signature……… Attesting Witness: Name in full ………. Name in full…………. Date …………. Address…………… Date…………. Accepted/ Accepted on the strength of the signature of the attesting witnesses.” 40. A conjoint reading of the provisions contained in III CPC and Chapter IV of Advocates Act pertaining to right to practise, there remains no shadow of doubt that an advocate whose name has been entered in the State roll is entitled as of right to practise in all Courts, however he can act for any person in any Court only when he is appointed by such person by executing the document called “Vakalatnama.” Such Advocate has certain authorities by virtue of such “Vakalatnama” but at the same time has certain duties too, i.e.