Regardless, we may also hasten to add here that there are serious doubts on the jurisdictional competence of the Civil Court, in holding that agriculture related structures could be raised without prior permission. Such a hasty declaration by the ADJ was ex facie uncalled for and beyond its jurisdictional authority, given that it was expressly barred under the Punjab Periphery Act. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2291 Haryana Urban Development Authority v. Abhishek Gupta etc. 22. However, the Respondents’ strategy of arguing that their constructions were authorized (being agricultural), while simultaneously seeking exemption from acquisition on the ground that their lands were subserving the same intention as the acquisition (being residential), is not only contradictory but also ill-advised. Furthermore, in first placing themselves at par with the object of acquisition, and then vitiating that very purpose by claiming that it contravenes the Punjab Periphery Act, the Respondents have effectively shot themselves in the foot. 23. The Respondents have also failed to discharge their burden of proof. They have not produced any reliable material to prove that the constructions on their land were authorized, and if anything, have further created doubts, as to whether these structures are indeed permitted under the auspices of the Punjab Periphery Act. 24. On the contrary, there is ample material on record to show that the High-Powered Committee comprised of senior officials, made their assessment after having properly inspected the site. This Committee emphatically recommended that the whole of the land, including the unauthorized structures, be acquired for the proposed regulated development. Such a decision, in our considered view, is in conformity with the legislative object behind the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, whereunder no construction on an agricultural land is permissible save and except when the change of land use is granted by the appropriate authority, in accordance with the procedure prescribed therein. 25. In any case, even if the constructions were to be authorized, it would not materially affect our outcome. As has been held by this Court on several occasions, exempting lands bearing constructions from acquisition is a matter of State Policy, and not of law.6 In case the Government finds that exempting such lands would adversely affect the larger Development Plan or any other purpose behind the acquisition, then it can still continue with the acquisition.7 Private interest of a few, should give way to the public interest of the many. 6 NOIDA v. Darshan Lal Bohra, 2024 SCC Online SC 1690. 7 Anand Buttons Ltd. v. State of Haryana (2005) 9 SCC 164. 2292 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Prior authorization of the constructions is also not the definitive saving grace that the Respondents imagine it to be. In fact, this Court has repeatedly allowed acquisitions even in cases where the construction was specifically authorized by the government beforehand, as was the case in State of Haryana v. Vinod Oil & General Mills:8 “8. Acquisition of the respondents’ lands was held to be vitiated on the ground that the State having granted permission to the respondents for change of land use and develop the area as an industry cannot turn around after twenty-six years to acquire the land saying that the same is required to be developed for residential purposes and the action of the respondent State was held to be arbitrary.