Though there were other reasons as well, they may not be relevant for our purposes. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the First Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 1951 states as follows: - “The main object of the Bill are, accordingly to amend Article 19 for the purposes indicated above and to insert provisions fully securing the constitutional validity of zamidari abolition laws in general and certain specified State Acts in particular.” At that time, the Constituent Assembly was working as the provisional Parliament because the First General Elections were yet to be conducted. The urgency of the provisional Parliament in bringing the First Constitutional Amendment was explained by the Prime Minister on May 16, 1951, who said that the delay was causing injustice to millions of Indians, and there was an urgent need to incorporate Article 31A and 31B and the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution. 59 Then explaining the predictable long delay the land reforms would take in Courts, against which nothing much could be done, he said as follows: “It is not good for us to say we are helpless before fate and the situation which we are to face at present. Therefore we have to think in terms of these big changes 58 1951 SCC OnLine All 183, paras 41, 42 and 47. 59 PARLIAMENTARY DEBATES (PART II-PROCEEDINGS OTHER THAN QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS), Pg. 8830. Prime Minister Nehru explained the urgency as follows :- “……the primary problem is the land problem today in Asia, as in India. And every day of delay adds to difficulties and dangers apart from being an injustice in itself.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 303 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. land changes and the like and therefore we thought of amending article 31. Ultimately, we thought it best to propose additional articles 31A and 31B in addition to that there is a schedule attached of a number of Acts passed by the State Legislatures, some of which have been challenged or might be challenged and we thought it best to save them from long delays and these difficulties, so that this process of change which has been initiated by the States should go ahead. Many of us present here are lawyers and have had some training in law which is a good training and many of us respect lawyers. But nevertheless a lawyer represents precedent and tradition and not change, not dynamic process. Above all the lawyer represents litigation…” 60 In other words, the Parliament could not wait for decisions of Courts to settle the position in regard to land reforms, as it could take a long time and every day of delay in bringing land reforms would be an injustice to the people to whom they had promised these reforms long before Independence. The Parliament wanted to stabilize the situation as early as possible and did not want these land reforms to remain entangled in the legal battles, at least this is what was thought. 34. The First Amendment, inter alia, introduced Articles 31-A & 31-B and the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution with an aim to strengthen land reform laws with the innovative Ninth Schedule, providing safe harbour to such legislations.