We must clarify that Tribunal could have still arrived at the conclusion that the steps taken during the cure period were not effective within the meaning of the clause for certain reasons. However, such discussion and reasoning is conspicuously absent. 52. Issue H framed by the Tribunal- “Did the issuance of certificate by CMRS show that the defects were duly cured” similarly glosses over the effective steps aspect of the clause. Given this framing, the issue was bound to be answered in the negative since the CMRS certificate does not conclude that the defects were completely cured. 53. The decisions of the Single Judge and this Court are similarly silent on the aspect of “effective steps”. In paragraphs 31 to 34 of its , this Court noted that since the defects were not cured in 90 days, the termination was valid. Impliedly, this Court found that the defects ought to have been fully cured within the cure period in to avoid termination. 54. The of this Court also never tested the relevance of the CMRS certificate vis-à-vis “effective steps”. This Court accepted a reading of the termination clause by the Arbitral tribunal and the Single Judge that was not even a possible view and could not have been arrived at on any objective assessment. This Court not only overlooked the plain words of the clause but also rendered the phrase “effective steps” otiose. 498 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ii. The award overlooked vital evidence and matters on the record 55. The erroneous and misleading framing of the issue as noted above led to the ignoring of vital evidence relevant to the issue of termination. The arbitral tribunal held that since the Commissioner imposed conditions of inspection and speed restrictions, this meant that the defects were not fully cured. 56. Certainly, the imposition of conditions shows that the defects were not cured completely, to warrant an unconditional sanction for full speed operations. However, as the Division Bench of the High Court correctly observed, the separation of the validity of termination and relevance of the CMRS certificate was the reason for this erroneous finding. Since the ‘effective steps’ aspect was overlooked, the CMRS certificate was erroneously deemed to be irrelevant. 57. On 19 November 2012, a joint application was made by the parties to the Commissioner under the 2002 Act. Significantly, the annexure to the application which was jointly signed by the parties states as set out below: “f) The repairs have been Inspected by an Independent Engineer M/s TUV, engaged by DMRC to conduct the technical check on the quality of work and to ensure that the repairs are carried out as per the approved repair methodology. The copies of the certificates obtained from TUV are enclosed as Annexures xvii. g) Cracks in soffit of some ‘U’ girders were also observed and, therefore, inspection of all the girders have been done and mapping of the cracks have been undertaken accordingly (Annexure-xviii). Cracks have beery noticed in 367 girders.