109 M/S Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/S Aptech Ltd. 67. Although, limitation is an admissibility issue, yet it is the duty of the courts to prima-facie examine and reject non-arbitrable or dead claims, so as to protect the other party from being drawn into a time-consuming and costly arbitration process. 68. In Mustiu and Boyd’s Commercial Arbitration (1982 Ed., pp. 436) under the heading “Hopeless Claims” in Chapter 31 it is stated thus in relation to the jurisdiction of an arbitral tribunal adjudicating commercial disputes: “Two situations must be distinguished. The first, which is very rare, exists when the claimant not only appreciates, but will if pressed be prepared to acknowledge, that his claim is ill-founded in law. In effect, he asserts that his claim has commercial and moral merit; that if the law gives him no remedy, there is a defect in the law; and that a commercial arbitrator ought to award him something in recognition of the true merits. Here, we believe that there is undoubtedly jurisdiction to interfere by way of injunction to prevent the respondent from being harassed by a claim which can never lead to valid award, for example in cases where claim is brought in respect of the alleged arbitration agreement which does not really exist, or which has ceased to exist. So also where the dispute lies outside the scope of the arbitration agreement. By parity of reasoning, the Court should be prepared to intervene where the claimant and the respondent are at one as to the absence of legal merits, so that it can be said that there is no real dispute. The respondent might also seek to protect himself by recourse to the arbitrator. He cannot ask the arbitrator to rule that there is no dispute, since this would be a matter affecting his own jurisdiction. An alternative would be to invite the arbitrator summarily to dismiss the claim. It would appear safer, however, to leave the matter to the court.” 69. The scope of this primary examination has been carefully laid down by a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Vidya Drolia and Others v. Durga Trading Corporation reported in (2021) 2 SCC 1 as follows: 110 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “148. Section 43(1) of the Arbitration Act states that the Limitation Act, 1963 shall apply to arbitrations as it applies to court proceedings. Sub-Section (2) states that for the purposes of the Arbitration Act and Limitation Act, arbitration shall be deemed to have commenced on the date referred to in Section 21. Limitation law is procedural and normally disputes, being factual, would be for the arbitrator to decide guided by the facts found and the law applicable. The court at the referral stage can interfere only when it is manifest that the claims are ex facie time-barred and dead, or there is no subsisting dispute. All other cases should be referred to the Arbitral Tribunal for decision on merits. Similar would be the position in case of disputed “no-claim certificate” or defence on the plea of novation and “accord and satisfaction”.