The Liquidator had stated that “If you are confident enough that the property may fetch for more than Rs. 100.00 Crores you are at liberty to bring the proposed buyers and ask them to participate in the bidding process.” Again, the Liquidator wrote a letter dated 27th November, 2019 to the appellant suggesting that ask eligible parties willing to offer a better price to participate in the auction process. The appellant did not follow up after that. 32.6 Therefore, the appellant cannot be permitted to argue that since the tax value of the subject property was estimated by the Registered Valuers at above ₹48 crores, the Liquidator ought not to have fixed the reserve price at ₹39,41,28,500/- (Rupees Thirty nine crore forty one lakh twenty eight thousand five hundred only) for the simple reason that though the reports of the Registered Valuers mentioned the tax value of the subject property at a little above ₹48 crores, but the liquidation value in both the reports was much lower and the Liquidator arrived at the average of the two estimated liquidation values to fix the reserve price of the subject property. 1296 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 34. NON-CONSTITUTION OF A STAKEHOLDERS CONSULTATION COMMITTEE AND ITS EFFECT 34.1 It has been argued that the Liquidator has violated Regulation 31A of the IBBI Regulations, 2016 that requires him to constitute a Stakeholders’ Consultation Committee. For purposes of ready-reference, Regulation 31A is reproduced below: “31A. Stakeholders’ consultation committee. (1) The liquidator shall constitute a consultation committee within sixty days from the liquidation commencement date, based on the list of stakeholders prepared under regulation 31, to advise him on matters relating to- (a) appointment of professionals and their remuneration under regulation 7; (b) sale under regulation 32, including manner of sale, pre-bid qualifications, reserve price, amount of earnest money deposit, and marketing strategy: Provided that the decision(s) taken by the liquidator prior to the constitution of consultation committee shall be placed before the consultation committee for information in its first meeting. xxxxx (5) Subject to the provisions of the Code and these regulations, representatives in the consultation committee shall have access to all relevant records and information as may be required to provide advice to the liquidator under sub-regulation (1). xxxxx (8) The liquidator shall place the recommendation of committee of creditors made under subregulation (1) of regulation 39C of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016, before the consultation committee for its information. (9) The consultation committee shall advise the liquidator, by a vote of not less than sixty-six percent [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1297 V.S. Palanivel v. P. Sriram, CS, Liquidator, Etc. of the representatives of the consultation committee, present and voting. (10) The advice of the consultation committee shall not be binding on the liquidator: Provided that where the liquidator takes a decision different from the advice given by the consultation committee, he shall record the reasons for the same in writing. 34.2 Regulation 31A that was inserted on the amendment of the IBBI Regulations, 2016 by virtue of the Notification48 dated 25th July, 2019, requires a Liquidator to constitute a Stakeholders’ Consultation Committee within a period of sixty days from the date of commencement of the liquidation process.