Surface rent: Payable in terms of Rule 27(1)(d), at the rate specified by the State Government in the lease. 1772 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Sl. No. Category of Procedure for Liability to pay land over grant of lease Royalty and Dead which mining and Conditions Rent prescribed lease is of mining lease under: granted: prescribed under: 2. Mining lease Chapter V of the Royalty and Dead in respect of Rules: rent: land in which Rule Royalty and dead minerals vest 45-Conditions rent are payable in exclusively of mining lease terms of Section 9 in a person [Conditions and 9A of the Act, other than the stipulated respectively, read with Government under Rule Rule 27 (1) (c) of the 27 have been Rules. adopted with Surface rent: modification to substitute ‘State Payable in terms of Government’ as Rule 27(1)(d), as appearing under substituted in terms Rule 27(1)(c) of Rule 45, at the and (d) with the rate specified by the word ‘lessor’.] lessor in the lease. In addition to the conditions statutorily prescribed, Rule 45 (iii) permits the parties to set down and mutually agree upon such other conditions in the instrument of lease, so long as such additional conditions are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act and the Rules. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1773 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. Sl. No. Category of Procedure for Liability to pay land over grant of lease Royalty and Dead which mining and Conditions Rent prescribed lease is of mining lease under: granted: prescribed under: 3. Mining leases Chapter VI of the Royalty and Dead in respect of Rules: rent: land in which The procedure Royalty and dead the minerals and conditions rent are payable in vest partly in the prescribed under terms of Section 9 Government and Chapter IV to and 9A of the Act, partly in private apply mutatis respectively, read persons mutandis with Rule 27 (1) (c) of the Rules. 10.9 Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957 categorically deals with royalty. It has to be read with the Second Schedule which deals with rates of royalty in respect of minerals listed therein. Therefore, there can be no cavil that royalty is an aspect within the scope and ambit of the Parliamentary law which is intended to take under the control of the Union by a declaration (vide Section 2 of the said Act) vis-à-vis regulation of the mines and mineral development which is declared to be expedient in the public interest. When the imposition of royalty on a mining lease in terms of lease-deed as envisaged in Form-K of the MMDR Act, 1957 is considered in light of Entry 54 - List I read with Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957, it is clear that royalty is a matter coming under the control of the Union. If payment of royalty, which is a consideration for exercise of mineral rights is expressly covered under Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957, can the same be a basis for any other exaction by a State either by imposing another tax/cess based on royalty or by imposing any other tax on mineral bearing land?