No other documents have been filed by the respondent – CBI to demonstrate that it had initiated an independent inquiry into the mining operations of KPCL or that it was during the course of its inquiry into the affairs of KPCL and KECML that it had stumbled upon some irregularities in the MoU executed between KECML with GCWL. Quite clearly, the respondent–CBI made the Audit Report of the CAG submitted in 2013, a launching pad for initiating the prosecution of the appellants in respect of the allegations levelled in the present case and subsequently sought to substantiate them by delving into the records maintained by KPCL, KECML and GCWL. In other words, there was no move within the Department to investigate KPCL or KECML before 2015. The PE’s registered in the year 2012 did not inculpate the appellants in any manner. The entire focus of the said PE’s was on the larger issue of irregularities in the allocation of coal blocks through the Government dispensation route. In this background, the respondent–CBI cannot be heard to state 78 For short ‘SIR’ [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1215 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation that CBI was independently investigating the matter at hand well before 2015 or the Audit Report of the CAG of 2013 was not the trigger point for commencing the investigation. 9. COULD THE AUDIT REPORT OF THE CAG FASTEN ANY LIABILITY ON KECML? 9.1 Coming next to the CAG Report, as much hinges on the said Report, we may note that the same was considered by the Division Bench of the High Court of Karnataka in its judgement dated 24th March, 2016, wherein, it was noticed that there was no dispute between KPCL and KECML regarding the obligations cast on them under the contracts for the development of captive coal blocks and for supply of coal for consumption at the Thermal Power Station (BPCL) located in the State of Karnataka until the CAG submitted an Audit Report for the year ending March, 2013. The High Court took note of the Report of the CAG which stated that the total production of coal from one of the open cast mines between 2008-09 and June 2012 was 80.78 lacs MT and a minimum quantity of coal rejects ought to be 10% of the total production which would come to 8.28 lacs MT which financially translated into ₹52,37,00,000/- (Rupees Fifty Two Crores Thirty Seven Lacs only). Based on the above analysis, the CAG raised an audit objection and called upon KPCL to explain the loss of ₹52,37,00,000/- (Rupees Fifty Two Crores Thirty Seven Lacs only) allegedly caused to the public exchequer, on account of the rejects being disposed of in terms of a MoU executed between KECML and GCWL. The stand taken by KPCL was also noted by the court. KPCL submitted its Audit Objections to the said Report stating inter alia that the valuation of the rejects was erroneous; that assessment of washery rejects did not have any co-relation with the quantity of coal produced at the open coal mines; that the rejects generated in the mining operation were only stones and boulders and could not be used for generation of electricity at BPCL and lastly, that all the rejects were used for levelling and piling work within the mines for better mining operations.