First, Indian legislators did not enjoy any privilege prior to the commencement of the Constitution and therefore a reference to the Dominion Parliament would leave the House with virtually no privileges. Second, it was not possible to make an exhaustive list of privileges at the time nor was it preferable to enlist such a long list as a schedule to the Constitution.42 68. Clause (3) allows Parliament to enact a law on its privileges from time to time. It may be noted here that the House of Commons in 42 See reply of Sir Alladi Krishnaswami Ayyar and Dr BR Ambedkar to the Constituent Assembly, CAD Vol VIII 19 May 1949 Draft Article 85 and Vol X 16 October 1949 Draft Article 85. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 513 Sita Soren v. Union of India the UK does not create new privileges.43 Its privileges are those which have been practiced by the House and have become ancient and undoubted. 69. Further, unlike the House of Commons in the UK, Parliament in India cannot claim power of its own composition. The extent of privileges in India has to be within the confines of the Constitution. Within this scheme, the Courts have jurisdiction to determine whether the privilege claimed by the House of Parliament or Legislature in fact exists and whether they have been exercised correctly. In a steady line of precedent, this Court has held that in the absence of legislation on privileges, the Parliament or Legislature may only claim such privilege which belonged to the House of Commons at the time of the commencement of the Constitution and that the House is not the sole judge to decide its own privilege. 70. When the Parliament or Legislatures enact a law on privileges, such a law would be subject to the scrutiny of Part III of the Constitution. The interplay between Part III of the Constitution and Article 105(3) arose in the decision of this Court in MSM Sharma v. Sri Krishna Sinha,44 where a Constitution bench speaking through SR Das, CJ held that the privileges of the House of Parliament under Clause (3) of Article 105 are those which belonged to the House of Commons in the UK at the commencement of the Constitution which would prevail over the fundamental rights guaranteed to citizens under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. However, if the Parliament were to enact a law codifying its privilege then it may not step over the fundamental rights of citizens by virtue of Article 13 of the Constitution. K Subba Rao, J (as the learned Chief Justice then was) dissented from the majority and held that the import of privileges held by the House of Commons in the UK was only a transitory provision till the Parliament or legislatures enact a law codifying their respective privileges. Therefore, Justice Subba Rao held in his dissent that the legislature cannot run roughshod over the fundamental rights of citizens who in theory have retained their rights and only given a part of it to the legislature.