This scheme should include provisions for legal aid, psychological support, and financial assistance to help them transition to a life of self-reliance. G. States’ efforts to curb child marriage 102. Each State and UT in India has introduced training programs, awareness initiatives, and financial incentives as part of a comprehensive approach to enforcing the PCMA137. These efforts encompass preventive training, education, financial support, and community-based outreach to discourage child marriage and promote girls’ education and empowerment. Relevant up-to-date data on the States’ efforts to curb child marriage over the last three years has been placed before this Court. As and by way of illustration, we shall briefly provide an overview of the efforts made in regard to (i) training schemes, (ii) awareness programs, (iii) financial incentives and (iv) other incentives. We shall then analyse the impact of these schemes broadly. i. Training schemes 103. Across India, States and UTs have conducted extensive training programsover the past three years to equip officials and communities with the knowledge needed to combat child marriage. States and UTs are conducting training programs to equip officials and communities with the knowledge needed to combat child marriage. 104. States like Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Gujarat, and Chhattisgarh have conducted training and awareness programs for field workers through DCPUs, providing critical information on the PCMA. Some states have partnered with DWCD&SS and UNICEF, with 137 Additional Affidavit, Ministry of Women and Child Development (2023). The data highlights the steps undertaken by the States in the Past Three Years – 2020 -2023. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1575 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. support from partner organizations, to conduct these training sessions. For instance, Karnataka has established Child Marriage Prohibition Cells138 under its Spoorthi Yojana139 to train staff in identifying and preventing child marriages. Additionally, Rs. 12.51 crores have been allocated for training Protection Officers and staff in Special Cells for women and children140. In Haryana, Protection-cum-Prohibition officers receive intensive training and sensitization from experts with support from NIPCCCD and HIPA.These initiatives indicate a structured approach, focusing not only on immediate prevention but also on long-term societal change by raising awareness and educating local populations about the harms of child marriage. ii. Awareness programs 105. Awareness initiatives play a vital role in changing societal perceptions about child marriage and promoting girls’ education. In terms of the number of awareness sessions over the last year, most sessions have been reported by Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Tamil Nadu.141 Andhra Pradesh conducted 37,446 sessions, reaching 857,012 participants; Uttar Pradesh conducted 35,377 sessions, reaching 1,248,394 participants; and Odisha conducted 33,276 sessions covering 30,755 blocks and villages.142 Additionally, Tamil Nadu has actively engaged communities with widespread awareness programs tailored to local needs.143 106. States have deployed varied and unique measures in spreading awareness such as leveraging local media to economically empower girls,144 distributing legal informational pamphlets in rural 138 These cells deal with the administrative Sanction of Spoorthi Yojana, Action Plan, Prohibition of Child Marriage Act Systematic Procedure, Coordination and Review Committee, Cell Establishment Details, Child Marriage Prohibition Officers Roles and responsibilities and additional CMPOs s, Revised Committee at Gram panchayat; See details of Government s and guidelines for major schemes and programs of the Department (2024) https://dwcd.karnataka.gov.in/info-4/Details+of+Gove rnment+s+and+guidelines+for+major+schemes+and+programs+of+the+Department/en.