[2024] 9 S.C.R. 257 : 2024 INSC 669 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. (Criminal Appeal No. 2501 of 2024) 09 September 2024 [Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI, J.B. Pardiwala* and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether an application for anticipatory bail under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 is maintainable at the instance of an accused while he is already in judicial custody in connection with his involvement in a different case. Headnotes† Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.438 – Accused already in judicial custody in connection with one case, if can apply for anticipatory bail in a different case – Maintainability of such anticipatory bail applications – Divergent opinions expressed by different High Courts: Held: An anticipatory bail application filed at the instance of an accused already in judicial custody in a different offence is maintainable – An accused is entitled to seek anticipatory bail in connection with an offence so long as he is not arrested in relation to that offence – Once he is arrested, the only remedy available to him is to apply for regular bail either u/s.437 or s.439, as the case may be – There is no express or implied restriction in the CrPC or in any other statute that prohibits the Court of Session or the High Court from entertaining and deciding an anticipatory bail application in relation to an offence, while the applicant is in custody in relation to a different offence – No restriction can be read into s.438 to preclude an accused from applying for anticipatory bail in relation to an offence while he is in custody in a different offence, as that would be against the purport of the provision and the intent of the legislature – The only restriction on the power of the court to grant anticipatory bail u/s.438 is the one prescribed u/s.438(4) and in other statutes like the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, etc. – While a person already * Author 258 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in custody in connection with a particular offence apprehends arrest in a different offence, then, the subsequent offence is a separate offence for all practical purposes – Thus, all rights conferred by the statute on the accused as well as the investigating agency in relation to the subsequent offence are independently protected – For the purpose of interrogation/investigation in an offence, the investigating agency can seek remand of the accused whilst he is in custody in connection with a previous offence so long as no granting anticipatory bail has been passed in relation to the subsequent offence – Under s.438, the pre-condition for a person to apply for pre-arrest bail is a “reason to believe that he may be arrested on an accusation of having committed a non-bailable offence” – Therefore, the only pre-condition for exercising the said right is the apprehension of the accused that he is likely to be arrested – Custody in one case does not have the effect of taking away the apprehension of arrest in a different case – Right of an accused to protect his personal liberty u/Article 21 of the Constitution of India with the aid of the provision of anticipatory bail u/s.438 cannot be defeated or thwarted without a valid procedure established by law – Such procedure should also pass the test of fairness, reasonableness and manifest non-arbitrariness u/Article 14.