22. It may also be pertinent to point out that the Cantonment Board, Ramgarh throughout had claimed rights over 2.55 acres of land of village Ramgarh and not in respect of the entire 5.38 acres of land which was additionally acquired by the Raja. It is also not the case of the Cantonment Board, Ramgarh that the land which was temporarily settled in its favour by the Raja has been occupied by the plaintiff-appellant or that the plaintiff-appellant is claiming rights over the land which was settled in its favour. In other words, the land belonged to the Raja, part of which was settled in favour of the plaintiff-appellant to the extent of 0.30 acres of plot Nos. 432 and 438, whereas, another piece of land measuring 2.55 acres with certain structures but certainly excluding the suit land was settled in favour of Cantonment Board, Ramgarh. The right of the plaintiff-appellant to claim the suit land or the right of the Cantonment Board over the 2.55 acres of land settled in its favour never came to be adjudicated in previous Title Suit No. 8 of 64. 23. The general policy behind the principle of res judicata as enshrined under Section 11 CPC is to avoid parties to litigate on the same issue which has already been adjudicated upon and settled. This is in consonance with the public policy so as to bring to an end the conflict of interest on the same issue between the same parties. One of the basic essential ingredients for applying the principle of res judicata, as stated earlier also, is that the matter which is directly and substantially in issue in the previous litigation ought not to be permitted to be raised and adjudicated upon in the subsequent suit. It is a settled law that the principle of res judicata is applicable not only between the plaintiff and the defendants but also between the co-defendants. In applying the principle of res judicata between the co-defendants, primarily three conditions are necessary to be [2024] 7 S.C.R. 37 Har Narayan Tewari (D) Thr. Lrs. v. Cantonment Board, Ramgarh Cantonment & Ors. fulfilled, namely, (i) there must be a conflict of interest between the co-defendants; (ii) there is necessity to decide the said conflict in to give relief to plaintiff; and (iii) there is final decision adjudicating the said conflict. Once all these conditions are satisfied, the principle of res judicata can be applied inter se the co-defendants. 24. In context with the above settled principle, though reference can be made to several decisions starting from that of Privy Council, but we consider it appropriate to refer to only one of the latest decisions on the point rendered by this Court in the case of Govindammal (Dead) by Legal Representatives and Ors. vs. Vaidiyanathan and Ors.3, wherein after considering all previous decisions regarding application of principle of res judicata between co-defendants, this Court culled out the above three conditions for applying the same. 25. In the light of the above legal position, we find that there was no conflict of interest between the co-defendants in the earlier Suit No.