One who holds possession on behalf of another, does not by mere denial of that other’s title make his possession adverse so as to give himself the benefit of the statute of limitation. Therefore, a person who [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1907 Mallavva and Anr. v. Kalsammanavara Kalamma (Since Dead) by Legal Heirs & Ors. enters into possession having a lawful title, cannot divest another of that title by pretending that he had no title at all.” 50. This principle was upheld in the case of Mohan Lal v. Mirza Abdul Gaffar (1996) 1 SCC 639 (two-Judge Bench) - “4. As regards the first plea, it is inconsistent with the second plea. Having come into possession under the agreement, he must disclaim his right thereunder and plead and prove assertion of his independent hostile adverse possession to the knowledge of the transferor or his successor in title or interest and that the latter had acquiesced to his illegal possession during the entire period of 12 years, i.e., up to completing the period of his title by prescription nec vi, nec clam, nec precario. Since the appellant’s claim is founded on Section 53-A, it goes without saying that he admits by implication that he came into possession of the land lawfully under the agreement and continued to remain in possession till date of the suit. Thereby the plea of adverse possession is not available to the appellant.” 51. The Court in Uttam Chand (supra) has reiterated this principle of adverse possession. 52. Burden of proof rests on the person claiming adverse possession. 53. This Court, in P.T. Munichikkanna Reddy v. Revamma (2007) 6 SCC 59 (two-Judge Bench), it held that initially the burden lied on the landowner to prove his title and title. Thereafter it shifts on the other party to prove title by adverse possession. It was observed:— “34. The law in this behalf has undergone a change. In terms of Articles 142 and 144 of the Limitation Act, 1908, the burden of proof was on the plaintiff to show within 12 years from the date of institution of the suit that he had title and possession of the land, whereas in terms of Articles 64 and 65 of the Limitation Act, 1908 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 1963, the legal position has underwent complete change insofar as the onus is concerned : once a party proves its title, the onus of proof would be on the other party to prove claims of title by adverse possession….” 54. The Court reiterated this principle in the case of Janata Dal Party v. Indian National Congress (2014) 16 SCC 731 (two-Judge Bench): “…the entire burden of proving that the possession is adverse to that of the plaintiffs, is on the defendant…”” 34. The decision of this Court in the case of Khatri Hotels Private Limited & Anr. v. Union of India & Anr. reported in (2011) 9 SCC 126 relied upon by the learned counsel appearing for the appellants is of no avail.