SCR 207 : (2004) 10 SCC 796 : 2004 INSC 348 1006 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 (for short, “MRTP Act”). In the said case, this Court was considering the power of the State Government to make any changes of its own in the modifications submitted by the Planning Authority under Section 37 of the MRTP Act. This Court observed thus: “5. Making of DCR or amendments thereof are legislative functions. Therefore, Section 37 has to be viewed as repository of legislative powers for effecting amendments to DCR. That legislative power of amending DCR is delegated to the State Government. As we have already pointed out, the true interpretation of Section 37(2) permits the State Government to make necessary modifications or put conditions while granting sanction. In Section 37(2), the legislature has not intended to provide for a public hearing before according sanction. The procedure for making such amendment is provided in Section 37. Delegated legislation cannot be questioned for violating the principles of natural justice in its making except when the statute itself provides for that requirement. Where the legislature has not chosen to provide for any notice or hearing, no one can insist upon it and it is not permissible to read natural justice into such legislative activity. Moreover, a provision for “such inquiry as it may consider necessary” by a subordinate legislating body is generally an enabling provision to facilitate the subordinate legislating body to obtain relevant information from any source and it is not intended to vest any right in anybody. (Union of India v. Cynamide India Ltd. [(1987) 2 SCC 720], SCC paras 5 and 27. See generally H.S.S.K. Niyami v. Union of India [(1990) 4 SCC 516] and Canara Bank v. Debasis Das [(2003) 4 SCC 557 : 2003 SCC (L&S) 507] .) While exercising legislative functions, unless unreasonableness or arbitrariness is pointed out, it is not open for the Court to interfere. (See generally ONGC v. Assn. of Natural Gas Consuming Industries of Gujarat [1990 Supp SCC 397] .) Therefore, the view adopted by the High Court does not appear to be correct.” 57. It could thus be seen that this Court in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) held that making of Development Control Rules (DCR) or amendments thereof are legislative functions. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1007 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another 58. In the said case, the Court also found that since the legislature did not provide for a public hearing before according sanction, the delegated legislation could not be questioned for violating the principles of natural justice in its making except when the statue itself provide for that requirement. The Court went on to hold that where the legislature has not chosen to provide for any notice or hearing, no one can insist upon it and it is not permissible to read natural justice into such legislative activity. 59. Again, in the case of Bangalore Development Authority v. Aircraft Employees’ Cooperative Society Limited and Others24, the scheme for finalization of the development plan as provided under the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act, 1961 was considered and the said power was held to be in exercise of the legislative powers.