MMDR Act, 1957, the same acted as a limitation imposed by the Parliament by law relating to mineral development on the States’ competence to also tax on exercise of mineral rights by levying a cess or any other impost on royalty. Therefore, by a logical deduction, it was held that royalty is a tax within the meaning of Entry 50 - List II. Consequently, any cess on royalty or any other impost on royalty or royalty being a basis for a further tax or impost being levied by a State Government was impermissible. In other words, the MMDR Act 1957 insofar as and to the extent dealt with the aspect of royalty being payable by a holder of a mining lease imposed a limitation on the States’ right to levy any other impost/ tax on mineral rights as royalty was payable for exercise of mineral rights resulting from a mining operation and extraction of minerals. It was in this context that it was reasoned that royalty is a tax. Also, royalty could not be a basis for levy of any other tax on mineral bearing land as land revenue. 1812 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 24.1 On the other hand, the s of four other High Courts, namely, Punjab and Haryana, Orissa, Rajasthan and Gujarat did not consider the controversy from the perspective of the constitutional Entries and Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957. The said s proceeded on the dictionary meaning of ‘royalty’ under various types of transactions under which royalty has to be paid and concluded that royalty was not an impost or tax, which approach was also adopted by the majority in Kesoram. Thereby, Entry 54 - List I and Entry 50 - List II as well as Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957 was given a complete go-by while arriving at such a conclusion. Consequently, the said s and also the majority in Kesoram concluded that the States have the legislative competence to tax mineral rights or make royalty a basis for any other exaction such as cess etc. This was contrary to the view expressed in India Cement by this Court. Therefore, it was unnecessary for the seven-judge Bench in India Cement to have discussed the s of the High Courts of Punjab and Haryana, Gujarat, Orissa and Rajasthan referred to above. In fact, in my view, the s of the aforesaid High Courts were impliedly overruled in India Cement, which aspect has not been noticed by the majority in Kesoram. 25. Insofar as the of this Court in the case of Mahalaxmi Fabric Mills is concerned, the said followed India Cement. However, it was overruled in Kesoram. So also, the s in Saurashtra Cement and other cases. Reference was made to Mahanadi Coalfields wherein the levy by the State Legislature was a tax of Rs.32/- per thousand acre on coal-bearing lands. The attack on the legislation was that the provision was one on mineral lands and mineral rights and the Parliament had enacted the MMDR Act, 1957 and the field was entirely covered and the State Legislature was incompetent to levy the tax.