According to us, the case on hand stands on a much firmer footing than those cases. When leave is sought to challenge a of acquittal would undoubtedly reveal the fact that the acquitter was made to face the trial before a Court and acquittal is the outcome of appreciation of evidence by the trial Court concerned. 22. The case on hand is not one where the third party sought leave to challenge a of acquittal. In the case on hand, the very FIR registered against the third respondent for the serious offences, as mentioned above, was quashed by the High Court invoking the power under Section 482, Cr. P.C. solely based on the fact that a compromise was arrived at between the third and the fourth respondents, as mentioned above. It is a fact that the compromise was acted upon despite the opposition of the public prosecutor and even then, the State has not chosen to file petition seeking leave to challenge the passed by the High Court. Though, the fourth respondent is the father of the victim, who suffered sexual assault and such other offences under the POCSO Act and IPC offences in view of the fact that he had compromised the offences with the third respondent accused, and in view of the manner in which he supports the impugned , it is evident that he would not invoke the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. While considering the locus standi of the appellants to challenge the dated 04.02.2022 the aforesaid aspects are also to be borne in mind. The appellants are ordinary men residing in the very same village to which the fourth respondent belong. There is absolutely no case for the third and fourth respondents that they filed the Special Leave Petition due to any private revenge or personal vendetta. No ill motive has been attributed on them. We have already taken note of the fact that the very object and purpose of enactment of the POCSO Act and also taken note of the offences alleged against the third respondent which are heinous and serious in nature. The definition to crimes by Blackstone was taken note of in P.S.R. Sadhanantham’s case (supra) by this Court as “the breach and violation of public rights and duties which affect the whole community” to observe that in such circumstances a crime is an act deemed by law to be harmful to society in general, even though its immediate victim is an individual. In view of the nature of the offences alleged against the third respondent, one can only say that if they are proved they could be treated only as offences [2024] 11 S.C.R. 659 Ramji Lal Bairwa & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors. against the society and at any rate, it cannot be said that prosecuting an offender against whom such allegations are made is not in the interest of the society. In fact, it would only be in the interest of the society.