Even penal Statutes are governed not only by their literal language, but also by the object sought to be achieved by Parliament11. Even if the words occurring in the Statute are plain and unambiguous, they have to be interpreted in a manner which would fit in the context of the other provisions of the Statutes and bring about the real intention of the legislature12. 13. Although not specifically mentioned in the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Amendment Act, 2018, the object of inserting Section 17A in the PC Act, which is in pari materia with the provisions contained in Section 6A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act 1946, is to protect the honest public servants from the harassment by way of inquiry or investigation in respect of the decisions taken or acts done in bonafide performance of their official functions or duties. Whereas Section 19 bars the courts from taking the cognizance of an offence punishable under the PC Act, alleged to have been committed by public servants except with the prior sanction of the concerned authorities mentioned therein, Section 17A bars the police officer from conducting any enquiry or inquiry or investigation of offences relatable to recommendations made or decision taken by public servant in discharge of official functions or duties, without the previous approval of the concerned authorities mentioned therein. From the bare reading, it is discernible that Section 17A has the following main four facets. 9 S. Gopal Reddy Vs. State of A.P. ; 1996 (4) SCC 596. 10 Indian Handicrafts Emporium & Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors. ; 2003 (7) SCC 589. 11 Asian Resurfacing of Road Agency Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation; 2018 (16) SCC 299. 12 R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla & Anr. Vs. Union of India & Anr; AIR 1957 SC 628. 594 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (I) Enquiry or inquiry or investigation of offences under the PC Act. (ii) Alleged offences should be relatable to the recommendation made or decision taken by a public servant. (iii) Such recommendation made or decision taken by a public servant should be in discharge of official functions or duties and (iv) Previous approval of the authorities mentioned therein. 14. Though the word ‘Enquiry’ as contained in Section 17A has neither been defined in the PC Act nor in the CrPC, as per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions (Department of Personnel& Training) dated 3rd September, 2021 for processing of cases under Section 17A, “Enquiry” means any action taken, for verifying as to whether the information received by the Police Officer pertains to the commission of an offence under the Act (Para 4.2 of the said SOPs). The meaning of the words ‘inquiry’ and ‘investigation’ for the purposes of Section 17A could be imported from the definitions contained in Section 2(g) & Section 2(h) respectively of Cr.PC, the same being made applicable subject to certain modifications in view of Section 22 of the PC Act.