The EPA, 1986 was enacted with a view to improve the environment and its protection mechanisms. i. Under the definition Clause, S.2, certain terms require reference: “(a) “environment” includes water, air and land and the inter- relationship which exists among and between water, air and land, and human beings, other living creatures, plants, micro-organism and property; (b) “environmental pollutant” means any solid, liquid or gaseous substance present in such concentration as may be, or tend to be, injurious to environment; (c) “environmental pollution” means the presence in the environment of any environmental pollutant; x x x (e) “hazardous substance” means any substance or preparation which, by reason of its chemical or physico-chemical properties or handling, is liable to cause harm to human beings, other living creatures, plant, micro-organism, property or the environment; (f) “occupier”, in relation to any factory or premises, means a person who has, control over the affairs of the factory or the premises and includes in relation to any substance, the person in possession of the substance;” ii. S.3 of the Act empowers the Central Government to undertake wide-ranging measures for the protection and improvement of the environment. S.3(2) lays down the matters wherein such measures are to be exercised. Some pertinent areas are: 1870 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “….. (vi) laying down procedures and safeguards for the prevention of accidents which may cause environmental pollution and remedial measures for such accidents; (vii) laying down procedures and safeguards for the handling of hazardous substances; (viii) examination of such manufacturing processes, materials and substances as are likely to cause environmental pollution; (x) inspection of any premises, plant, equipment, machinery, manufacturing or other processes, materials or substances and giving, by , of such directions to such authorities, officers or persons as it may consider necessary to take steps for the prevention, control and abatement of environmental pollution; (xi) establishment or recognition of environmental laboratories and institutes to carry out the functions entrusted to such environmental laboratories and institutes under this Act;” iii. S.5 empowers the Central Government to issue directions to any person for the purposes of the Act, and such person will be bound to comply with such directions. iv. S.6 further provides the Central Government with the power to make rules for the matters enumerated in S.3. Particularly, the following have been expressly laid down in S.6(2), amongst others: “… (b) the maximum allowable limits of concentration of various environmental pollutants (including noise) for different areas; (c) the procedures and safeguards for the handling of hazardous substances; [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1871 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (d) the prohibition and restrictions on the handling of hazardous substances in different areas;” v. S.7 prohibits the discharge of environmental pollutants in excess of the standards as may be prescribed under S.3. S.8 provides that those persons handling hazardous substances shall not do so except in accordance with the procedure and safeguards prescribed in respect thereto. vi. S.10 empowers the Central Government or any person empowered under it with the power of entry and inspection at all reasonable times, for the following purposes: “(a) for the purpose of performing any of the functions of the Central Government entrusted to him; (b) for the purpose of determining whether and if so in what manner, any such functions are to be performed or whether any provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder or any notice, , direction or authorisation served, made, given or granted under this Act is being or has been complied with; (c) for the purpose of examining and testing any equipment, industrial plant, record, register, document or any other material object or for conducting a search of any building in which he has reason to believe that an offence under this Act or the rules made thereunder has been or is being or is about to be committed and for seizing any such equipment, industrial plant, record, register, document or other material object if he has reason to believe that it may furnish evidence of the commission of an offence punishable under this Act or the rules made thereunder or that such seizure is necessary to prevent or mitigate environmental pollution.” vii.