In Seema Silk Sarees v. Directorate of Enforcement reported in (2008) 5 SCC 580, although the provision involved therein is not pari materia with Section 30 of the POCSO, yet the observations made by this Court are relevant to the issue involved in the case at hand. Therein this Court whilst upholding the constitutional validity of Section 18 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 which inter-alia provided for a statutory presumption of contravening the provisions of the said Act, held that such a statutory presumption would stand attracted once certain foundational facts are established by the prosecution. The relevant observation read as under: - “19. A legal provision does not become unconstitutional only because it provides for a reverse burden. The question as regards burden of proof is procedural in nature. [...] 20. The presumption raised against the trader is a rebuttable one. Reverse burden as also statutory presumptions can be raised in several statutes as, for example, the Negotiable Instruments Act, Prevention of Corruption Act, TADA, etc. Presumption is raised only when certain foundational facts are established by the prosecution. The accused in such an event would be entitled to show that he has not violated the provisions of the Act. [...] (Emphasis supplied) 256 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 163. Similarly in Noor Aga v. State of Punjab & Anr. reported in (2008) 16 SCC 417, the constitutional validity of Section 35 of the NDPS Act was challenged which as aforestated provided for the presumption of culpable mental state. This Court speaking through Justice S.B. Sinha (as he then was) whilst upholding the validity of the aforesaid provision observed that although the presumption of innocence being a human right cannot be thrown aside, yet the same would still be subject to exceptions. The court held that where a statute raises a presumption with regard to the culpable mental state on the part of the accused and also places the burden of proof on the accused to prove the contrary, the said presumption would be constitutionally valid and can be raised provided that the foundational facts pertaining to the establishing the actus reus of the requisite offence has been proved. It further held that despite such statutory presumption, the initial burden would always lie upon the prosecution to prove certain foundational facts clearly establishing the actus reus in respect of the offence that is sought to be punished. It is only after the prosecution has proved the foundational facts, that the statutory presumption gets attracted, whereafter the burden would shift onto the accused to prove otherwise. In the last it also held that the extent of burden to prove the foundational facts pertaining to the actus reus by the prosecution would depend upon the seriousness of the offence. The relevant observations read as under: - “35. A right to be presumed innocent, subject to the establishment of certain foundational facts and burden of proof, to a certain extent, can be placed on an accused. It must be construed having regard to the other international conventions and having regard to the fact that it has been held to be constitutional.