11. While considering the various additions and deletions, the Tribunal inter alia considered the addition carried out by the Assessing Officer [which was thereafter deleted by the CIT (Appeals)] in the hands of the appellant R.C. Sabharwal herein with respect to income of M/s Morni Devi Brij Lal Trust. The Assessing Officer had justified these additions on the grounds that: (i) The source of investment made by the founders of the said trust being Smt. Morni Devi and Sh. Brij Lal was not explained. (ii) The special bearer bonds which were encashed in the account of the said Trust were not out of investments from the Trust since the said bonds were purchased prior to the formation of the Trust itself. Some other person had invested the amount and encashed it in the hands of the trust. (iii) The founder of the trust was not shown to have the income necessary to purchase the said bonds. 12. The CIT (Appeals) had deleted these additions. In examining this issue and approving the said deletion, the Tribunal rendered the following findings: (i) The Appellant R.C. Sabharwal had no obligation to explain the source of investment of the founders of the trust being Smt. Morni Devi and Sh. Brij Lal. (ii) The Trust itself had been filing its return of income since it came into existence and had been assessed separately. No evidence was produced to show that the assessee was the benami owner of the trust. (iii) As regards the credits representing deposits of Special Bearer Bonds, relying upon Section 3 of the Special Bearer Bonds (Immunities and Exemptions) Act, 1981 it was held that no person who has subscribed to or has otherwise acquired Special Bearer Bonds shall be required to disclose, for any purpose whatsoever, the nature and source of acquisition of such bonds and that complete immunity has been granted to the bond holders. The presumption of the Assessing Officer that the bearer bonds were acquired by the trust was held to be not correct; 688 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iv) Reference is made by the Tribunal to the findings of the CIT (Appeals) that the special bearer bonds were tendered for encashment by the trust and that Assessing Officer exceeded his jurisdiction in making an enquiry and calling upon the trust to explain the nature and source of acquisition of such bonds. (v) Reference is made by the Tribunal to the findings of the CIT (Appeals) that the trust would be a person within the meaning of the Special Bearer Bonds (Immunities and Exemptions) Act, 1981. (vi) The Tribunal then quotes the findings of the CIT (Appeals) whereunder it was held that once the assessment has been made and the department has accepted the existence of the trust it could not be reversed without bringing on record any adverse material. The onus was on the department to show that the trust was benami and there was no evidence in that regard. (vii) The Tribunal then quotes the findings of the CIT (Appeals) whereunder it was concluded that the Assessing Officer had not been able to prove that the Trust was benami and that the income of the trust belonged to R.C.