Furthermore, in State of A.P. v. McDowell & Co.,20 (3-Judge Bench), this Court observed that the restrictions on the law-making power of legislatures is similar to those under the Federal Constitution of the United States of America. The two grounds on which a law made by the Parliament or the legislature can be struck down are - (1) lack of legislative competence; and (2) violation of any of the fundamental rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution or of any other constitutional provision. There is no third ground. It held: “43. … The main criticism against the ground of substantive due process being that it seeks to set up the courts as arbiters of the wisdom of the legislature in enacting the particular piece of legislation. It is enough for us to say that by whatever name it is characterised, the ground of invalidation must fall within the four corners of the two grounds mentioned above. In other words, say, if an enactment is challenged as violative 19 [1994] Supp. 5 SCR 666 : (1995) 1 SCC 519 20 [1996] 3 SCR 721 : (1996) 3 SCC 709 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1893 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. of Article 14, it can be struck down only if it is found that it is violative of the equality clause/equal protection clause enshrined therein. Similarly, if an enactment is challenged as violative of any of the fundamental rights guaranteed by sub-clauses (a) to (g) of Article 19(1), it can be struck down only if it is found not saved by any of the clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19 and so on. No enactment can be struck down by just saying that it is arbitrary or unreasonable. Some or other constitutional infirmity has to be found before invalidating an Act. An enactment cannot be struck down on the ground that the court thinks it unjustified. Parliament and the legislatures, composed as they are of the representatives of the people, are supposed to know and be aware of the needs of the people and what is good and bad for them. The court cannot sit in over their wisdom. In this connection, it should be remembered that even in the case of administrative action, the scope of judicial review is limited to three grounds, viz., (i) unreasonableness, which can more appropriately be called irrationality, (ii) illegality and (iii) procedural impropriety.” (Emphasis supplied) 26.4. In Onkar Lal Bajaj v. Union of India21 (2-Judge Bench), it was held: “27. Article 14 guarantees to everyone equality before law. Unequals cannot be clubbed. The proposition is well settled and does not require reference to any precedent though many decisions were cited. Likewise, an arbitrary exercise of executive power deserves to be quashed, is a proposition which again does not require support of any precedent. It is equally well settled that an passed without application of mind deserves to be annulled being an arbitrary exercise of power. At the same time, we have no difficulty in accepting the proposition urged on behalf 21 [2002] Supp.