17. The petitioner having agreed to this course of action, we are not inclined to entertain the submission that the High Court has committed an error of jurisdiction. The hearing before the High Court spanned forty-two days and the High Court has rendered a on all factual and legal aspects, after considering as many as thirty-eight issues. c. Interference under Article 136 is not warranted 18. In considering the merits of the challenge, this Court would have to apply settled principles of judicial review bearing on whether the findings which have been arrived at by the High Court are borne out from the record or conversely, are based on misappreciation of law and fact. This Court may exercise its power under Article 136 sparingly and only when exceptional circumstances exist which justify the exercise of its discretion.6 19. From the material which has emerged on the record and having considered the rival submissions, we are of the view that the areas which are matters of serious concern are: a. The failure of the petitioner at the material time to remove the copper slag which was dumped indiscriminately at almost eleven sites in the vicinity including private land adjoining the river; b. The failure to abide by the conditions in the ‘consent to operate’ governing the disposal of gypsum; c. The failure to obtain authorisation for the disposal of hazardous waste; and d. The failure of the petitioner to continue remediating the pollution 6 Chandi Prasad Chokhani v. State of Bihar, AIR 1961 SC 1708; Pritam Singh v. State, [1950] 1 SCR 453 : 1950 SCC 189. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1131 Vedanta Limited v. The State of Tamil Nadu & Ors caused by it despite findings and directions by multiple judicial fora at different points in time, including by this Court in 2013. 20. The of this Court in Sterlite Industries (supra) afforded the petitioner sufficient opportunity to take remedial action. The consequence of the adjudication by this Court was not to obliterate the environmental violations which had preceded it. This Court came to the conclusion that there indeed were environmental violations, which were additionally compounded by a suppression of material facts. As the court held: “48. We now come to the submission of Mr Prakash that we should not grant relief to the appellants because of the misrepresentation and suppression of material facts made in the special leave petition that the appellants have always been running their plant with statutory consents and approvals and misrepresentation and suppression of material facts made in the special leave petition that the plant was closed at the time the special leave petition was moved and a stay was obtained from this Court … There is no doubt that there has been misrepresentation and suppression of material facts made in the special leave petition but to decline relief to the appellants in this case would mean closure of the plant of the appellants. … For these considerations of public interest, we do not think it will be a proper exercise of our discretion under Article 136 of the Constitution to refuse relief on the grounds of misrepresentation and suppression of material facts in the special leave petition.” (emphasis supplied) 21.