What weighed in with the District Judge, Hardoi was the fact that even though the land had been partitioned vide a Decree dated 09.08.1971 passed by the Ld. Munsiff, Hardoi, the partition was liable to be ignored and not taken into account for the purposes of imposition of ceiling in view of Explanation I to sub-section 7 of Section 5 of the 1960 Act, which reads as under: [5. Imposition of ceiling- (1) On and from the commencement of the Uttar Pradesh Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holdings (Amendment) Act, 1972, no tenure-holder shall be entitled to hold in the aggregate, throughout Uttar Pradesh, any land in excess of the ceiling area applicable to him. ……………………………………………………… ……………………………………………………… (7) In determining the ceiling area applicable to a tenure- holder, any partition of land made after the twenty-fourth day of January, 1971 which but for the partition would have been declared surplus land under this Act shall be ignored and not taken into account: [2024] 12 S.C.R. 715 State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. v. Suresh Chandra Tewari & Ors. Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to (a) [ * * * * ] (b) a partition of a holding made in a suit or a proceeding pending on the said date : Provided further that notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding proviso, the prescribed authority, if it is of opinion that by collusion between the tenure-holder and any other party to the partition, such other party has been given a share which he was no entitled to, or a larger share than he was entitled to, may ignore such partition. [Explanation I- If a suit is instituted after the said date for declaration that a partition of land has taken place on or before the said date, then such declaration shall be ignored and not be taken into account, and it shall be deemed that no partition has taken place on or before the said date.] (emphasis provided) The institution of the Suit by Late Hari Shankar Tiwari was on 30.01.1971 i.e. after the cut-off date of 24.01.1971. This would mean that in spite of the decree dated 09.08.1971, it is to be deemed that no partition took place at all, in terms of sub-section (7) of Section 5, read with the proviso and the explanation. Upon remand, again by the of the Prescribed Authority, the land was declared as surplus. Against the declaration of this surplus land, a writ petition was filed before the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, which was dismissed by the High Court on 07.08.1978. The High Court reiterated the finding of the District Judge that since the partition suit was instituted after the cut-off date of 24.01.1971, the decree dated 09.08.1971 is liable to be ignored. Against the of the High Court, the father of the respondent no.1 Late Shri Hari Shankar Tiwari preferred a Special Leave Petition before this Court which was subsequently dismissed as withdrawn. In other words, in the first round of litigation the respondents had lost from all courts including this Court (albeit by withdrawal of petition), and thus claim based on family settlement, etc.