In doing so, it overlooked vital evidence pertaining to an issue that goes to the root of the matter. The cure notice was obviously on the record and merited consideration for its contents bearing on vital elements of safety. 66. The cure notice, which contains statements bearing on the safety of the line and other material indicating that the line was running uninterrupted are matters of record. While the cure notice contains allegations about the line not being operational, there is evidence on the record indicating that the line was in fact running. Even if we were to accept that the finding of the arbitral tribunal that the defects were not completely cured during the cure period is a factual finding incapable of interference, it is clear from the record that DMRC took steps towards curing defects which led to the eventual resumption of operations. The award contains no explanation as to why the steps which were taken by DMRC were not ‘effective steps’ within the meaning of the termination clause. 67. In essence, therefore the award is unreasoned on the above important aspects. It overlooks vital evidence in the form of the joint application of the contesting parties to CMRS and the CMRS certificate. The arbitral tribunal ignored the specific terms of the termination clause. It reached a conclusion which is not possible for any reasonable body of persons to arrive at. The arbitral tribunal erroneously rejected the CMRS sanction as irrelevant. The award bypassed the material on record and failed to reconcile inconsistencies between the factual averments made in the cure notice, which formed the basis of termination on the one hand and the evidence of the successful running of the line on the other. The Division Bench correctly held that the arbitral tribunal ignored vital evidence on the record, resulting in perversity and patent illegality, warranting interference. The conclusions of the Division Bench are, thus, in line with the settled precedent including the decisions in Associate Builders (supra) and Ssangyong (supra). H. Conclusion 68. The of the two-judge Bench of this Court, which interfered with the of the Division Bench of the High Court, has resulted 504 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in a miscarriage of justice. The Division Bench applied the correct test in holding that the arbitral award suffered from the vice of perversity and patent illegality. The findings of the Division Bench were borne out from the record and were not based on a misappreciation of law or fact. This Court failed, while entertaining the Special Leave Petition under Article 136, to justify its interference with the well-considered decision of the Division Bench of the High Court. The decision of this Court fails to adduce any justification bearing on any flaws in the manner of exercise of jurisdiction by the Division Bench under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act. By setting aside the judgement of the Division Bench, this Court restored a patently illegal award which saddled a public utility with an exorbitant liability.