18. By the impugned , the High Court also rejected an application filed by the SP Kangra, to implead her and to recall its earlier dated 26 December 2023 by which she was also directed to be moved out of the post. Though the State Government had implemented the of the High Court against the petitioner, it has not been implemented against SP, Kangra yet. 19. Before the High Court, it was admitted on behalf of the petitioner that he had requested the complainant to come to Shimla. The case of the petitioner was that he was contacted by a senior advocate (referred to as “Y”) who had a dispute in regard to business transactions with the complainant. Allegedly, the dispute had taken an ugly turn when scandalous allegations were made by the complainant against “Y”, following which, on 9 October 2023, an email was addressed by “Y” to the petitioner to take action against the complainant. The petitioner admitted that in pursuance of the email, on 27 October 2023, he asked his Private Secretary to contact the complainant through his official land line. The petitioner states that he was informed that the complainant could not be reached despite repeated attempts. Eventually, on 27 October 2023, the complainant made a call to the petitioner and when he was requested to come to Shimla, he declined to do so on the ground that he was travelling out of India. 3 “CBI”. 4 “SIT”. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 449 Sanjay Kundu v. Registrar General, High Court of Himachal Pradesh & Ors 20. On the other hand, it is the complainant’s case that “Y” has been using his connections so as to intimidate the complainant into selling his shares in his company. Having failed in the takeover bid, “Y” has resorted to threatening the complainant and his family, through the petitioner. 21. The High Court observed that while it could not decide on the rival contentions, the petitioner, who is a public servant, had overstepped his authority by intervening in what was clearly a private civil dispute. The High Court noted that the status report submitted by the SP Shimla indicated the continuing contact of “Y” with the petitioner between September and November 2023 and that the SHO, Palampur had approached the complainant requiring him to call up the land line number of the petitioner. The High Court observed that the petitioner had admitted in his recall application to having placed the hotel run by the complainant under surveillance for alleged drug running activities in September 2023. 22. The status report filed by the SP Shimla on 4 January 2023 alleged that the petitioner was intimidating in his conduct towards the Investigating Officer handling the case initiated by FIR No. 98/2023 filed at the instance of the petitioner against the complainant. The status report stated that the conduct of the petitioner raised suspicion about his role in the alleged offences against the complainant. When the petitioner was confronted with this status report of the SP, Shimla, the petitioner imputed mala fide intentions to the said officer.