However, as discussed in the foregoing paragraphs, the underlying object behind the creation of two distinct categories of immigrants under Section 6A of the Citizenship Act could have been achieved only if the exercise of detection of the immigrants of the 1966-71 stream and their deletion from the electoral rolls was conducted in an en-masse and time-bound manner. However, the same having not been achieved as intended, I find no justification to hold that the classification made between the immigrants of the pre-1966 and 96 The Hindu Bureau, Assam plans action against people who forged documents to be in NRC, the hinDu, Dec. 10, 2023. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1213 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 1966-71 stream still remains relevant to the object of Section 6A. To allow Section 6A to continue indefinitely for all times to come would tantamount to taking a reductive and one-sided view of the historical context in which Section 6A came to be enacted, more particularly, that Section 6A sought to achieve a delicate balance between two competing interests. f. manifeSt arBitrarineSS viS-à-viS temporal unreaSonaBleneSS 170. Having discussed in detail the working mechanism and the object sought to be achieved by the enactment of Section 6A of the Citizenship Act, I shall now examine if the said section suffers from manifest arbitrariness. 171. It is settled law that even if a statutory provision fulfils the two-pronged test of reasonable classification and rational nexus with the object of enactment, it can still suffer from the vice of manifest arbitrariness and be violative of Article 14 if the provision may lead to differential application on similarly situated persons. 172. The test for manifest arbitrariness was laid down in Shayara Bano v. Union of India reported in (2017) 9 SCC 1, wherein it was held as follows: “101. It will be noticed that a Constitution Bench of this Court in Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) (P) Ltd. v. Union of India [Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) (P) Ltd. v. Union of India (1985) 1 SCC 641 : 1985 SCC (Tax) 121] stated that it was settled law that subordinate legislation can be challenged on any of the grounds available for challenge against plenary legislation. This being the case, there is no rational distinction between the two types of legislation when it comes to this ground of challenge under Article 14. The test of manifest arbitrariness, therefore, as laid down in the aforesaid s would apply to invalidate legislation as well as subordinate legislation under Article 14. Manifest arbitrariness, therefore, must be something done by the legislature capriciously, irrationally and/or without adequate determining principle. Also, when something is done which is excessive and disproportionate, such 1214 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports legislation would be manifestly arbitrary. We are, therefore, of the view that arbitrariness in the sense of manifest arbitrariness as pointed out by us above would apply to negate legislation as well under Article 14.” (Emphasis supplied) 173. In Cellular Operators Assn. of India v. Telecom Regulatory Authority of India reported in (2016) 7 SCC 703, it was held by this Court that in to pass the scrutiny of Article 14, the provision under challenge must be shown to have been drafted as a result of intelligent care and deliberation.