Due to the elusive and concealed nature of such offences there is often little to no direct evidence available to establish what was in fact in the mind of the accused at the time when the particular act in question occurred or that the said act was done only with a particular intention. 168. It is in such scenarios, the legislature consciously provides for a statutory presumption of a culpable mental state to overcome the aforesaid hurdles and assist the prosecution to prove its case. This presumption of a culpable mental state is neither a conclusive proof [2024] 10 S.C.R. 261 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. of guilt for any particular offence nor does it completely replace or absolve the prosecution of its burden of proof and should not be understood as such, but rather it is a potent tool to assist the prosecution in discharging its initial burden and establishing its case. It seeks to bridge the evidentiary gap that exists between the actus reus and the mens rea in complex clandestine offences which otherwise cannot be proved through conventional means. 169. One good reason for providing such statutory presumptions in different legislations is owed to the fact that at times having regard to the peculiar case the prosecution may find it extremely difficult to know the mind of the accused so as to establish his intention and mental state. In contrast, the accused may not have to face the same degree of difficulty because he is fully aware of his mental state and can explain his intentions on the basis of his conduct or actions. 170. However, since the courts were in seisin of the harshness of such presumptions and the inherent danger they pose – particularly in blurring the line between the presumption of a culpable mental state and the presumption of the guilt itself and thereby undoing or compromising the fairness of such criminal proceeding, this Court for the first time in Baldev Singh (supra) sowed the seeds for a test to ascertain as to when such presumption can be safely attracted which was later more fully evolved in Noor Aga (supra) wherein a brightline test was laid down in the form of the ‘Rule or Principle of Foundational Facts’. 171. This ‘Rule or Principle of Foundational Facts’ simpliciter lays down that before the statutory presumption of culpable mental state could be validly invoked, the prosecution must first establish certain foundational facts. These foundational facts typically involve or correspond to proving those facts or elements that cogently establish the actus reus required for the offence alleged by the prosecution. It is only after such foundational facts have been proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the prosecution may take recourse of the statutory presumption provided by the legislature. The rationale behind the same is two-fold. First, in the absence of any actus reus there is no possible way to ascertain the corresponding mens rea that is required to be established.