The School has been closed on 01.04.2023 with the approval of the 128th Standing Committee held on 13.05.2022 and 49th General Council held on 26.05.2022. I further state that the Respondent No. 3 who was select in pursuance of aforementioned application had joined the post of Primary Teacher on 02.04.2018 and has since resigned on 24.10.2019. 4. I therefore state that on account of the closure of the School, there is no vacancy in the post of Primary Teacher to which the Petitioner and the Respondent No. 3 had applied and which is the subject matter of the Special Leave Petition. The letter dated 13/14.12.2023 of the Pt. Deendayal Upadhyay National Institute for Persons with Physical Disabilities (Divyangjan) to the Ministry of Law and Justice is also annexed herewith for reference as Annexure A1.” 16. It is evident from the above that the school for which the advertisement was issued was closed on 01.04.2023. In view of the closure of the school, we cannot direct the respondent Institute to employ the appellant as a primary school teacher. This is an unfortunate situation where the Court finds that the action of the respondent was arbitrary, but the consequential remedy cannot be given due to [2024] 2 S.C.R. 417 Manoj Kumar v. Union of India & Ors. subsequent developments. One stark reality of the situation is the time that has passed between the of 2018 impugned herein and the that we pronounce in 2024. 17. Judicial review of administrative action in public law is qualitatively distinct from judicial remedies in civil law. In judicial review, constitutional courts are concerned with the exercise of power by the State and its instrumentalities. 18. Within the realm of judicial review in common law jurisdictions, it is established that constitutional courts are entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring the lawfulness of executive decisions, rather than substituting their own to decide the rights of the parties, which they would exercise in civil jurisdiction.5 It has been held that the primary purpose of quashing any action is to preserve in the legal system by preventing excess and abuse of power or to set aside arbitrary actions. Wade on Administrative Law states that the purpose of quashing is not the final determination of private rights, for a private party must separately contest his own rights before the administrative authority.6 Such private party is also not entitled to compensation merely because the administrative action is illegal.7 A further case of tort, misfeasance, negligence, or breach of statutory duty must be established for such person to receive compensation.8 19. We are of the opinion that while the primary duty of constitutional courts remains the control of power, including setting aside of administrative actions that may be illegal or arbitrary, it must be acknowledged that such measures may not singularly address repercussions of abuse of power. It is equally incumbent upon the courts, as a secondary measure, to address the injurious consequences arising from arbitrary and illegal actions. This concomitant duty to take reasonable measures to restitute the injured is our overarching constitutional purpose.