Today every person exercising his or her right to use the air, water, or land and associated natural ecosystems has the obligation to secure for the rest of us the right to live or otherwise use that same resource or property for the long-term and enjoyment by future generations. To say it another way, a landowner or lessee and a water right holder has an obligation to use such resources in a manner as not to impair or diminish the people›s rights and the people›s long-term interest in that property or resource, including downslope lands, waters and resources. *** 65. We reiterate that natural resources including forests, water bodies, rivers, seashores, etc. are held by the State as a trustee on behalf of the people and especially the future generations. These [2024] 3 S.C.R. 279 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal constitute common properties and people are entitled to uninterrupted use thereof. The State cannot transfer public trust properties to a private party, if such a transfer interferes with the right of the public and the court can invoke the public trust doctrine and take affirmative action for protecting the right of people to have access to light, air and water and also for protecting rivers, sea, tanks, trees, forests and associated natural ecosystems.” 137. The importance of the doctrine of ‘public trust’ has further been emphasized in the case of Tata Housing Development Company Limited v. Aalok Jagga and others12 to which one of us (B.R. Gavai, J.) was a party. 138. In the present case, it is clear beyond doubt that the then Forest Minister and Mr. Kishan Chand, DFO considered them to be the law unto themselves. They have, in blatant disregard of the law and for commercial purposes, indulged in the illicit felling of trees on a mass-scale to construct buildings on the pretext of promotion of tourism. This is a classic case that shows how the politicians and the bureaucrats have thrown the public trust doctrine in the dustbin. Though Mr. Kishan Chand, DFO was found to have been involved in serious irregularities at his earlier postings, and even though the Authorities had recommended not to post the said officer at any sensitive post, the then Hon’ble Forest Minister inserted his name in the proposal relating to transfer and postings at a sensitive post. Not only that, even after the NTCA found Mr. Kishan Chand, DFO involved in serious irregularities, and the Secretary (Forests) recommended placing him under suspension, the then Hon’ble Forest Minister has not only overruled the recommendation of the Secretary (Forest) for suspension but also justified his proposed posting to the Lansdowne Division. It was only after the then Hon’ble Forest Minister demitted his office, that Mr. Kishan Chand, DFO could be put under suspension. This is a case that shows how a nexus between a Politician and a Forest Officer has resulted in causing heavy damage to the environment for some political and commercial gain.