(m) The Washability Report submitted by CIMFR, Nagpur, a Government Laboratory stated in so many words that [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1261 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation the coal rejects did not contain any useful c.v. Therefore, the entire edifice of criminality and conspiracy built by the respondent-CBI on the premise that the coal rejects had a commercial c.v. with an assertion that the appellants had profited from the sale thereof in the open market and pocketed the sale proceeds, flies in the face of the Washability Report. (n) The Revised Mining Plan submitted by the appellants to the MoC in the year 2010 and approved in 2011, could not have been relied on by the respondent-CBI for pressing charges against the appellants on a plea that had the new technology for utilizing the coal rejects been put to use, the losses could have been mitigated. It is not in dispute that the new technology namely, FBC was not even in vogue when the MoC had approved the original Mining Plan submitted by KECML in the year 2004. Besides that, before putting the new technology to use, there were several steps required to be undertaken, which included obtaining approvals from different government agencies and establishment of a plant. None of that could take place as an was passed by this court in the year 2014, deallocating all captive coal mines. 21.3 In the light of the aforesaid discussion, we are of the opinion that the respondent–CBI embarked on a roving and fishing inquiry on the strength of the Audit Report of the CAG and then started working backwards to sniff out criminal intent against the appellants. The underpinnings of what was a civil dispute premised on a contract between the parties, breach whereof could at best lead to determination of the contract or even the underlying lease deed, has been painted with the brush of criminality without any justification. This criminal intent has been threaded into the dispute by the respondent-CBI by misinterpreting the clauses of the agreements governing the parties and by heavily banking on the observations made in the Audit Report of the CAG that has not attained finality till date. In view of the glaring infirmities mentioned hereinabove, the impugned s deserve interference in exercise of the powers vested in this court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. 1262 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21.4 For all the reasons enumerated above, the present appeals succeed. The on charge dated 24th December, 2021 and the framing charges dated 3rd March, 2022 passed by the learned Special Judge, CBI qua the appellants before this Court are unsustainable and accordingly quashed and set aside. Result of the case: Appeals allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan