A conjoint reading of Articles 21, 48A and 51-A(g) of the Constitution of India will [2024] 5 S.C.R. 129 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. show that the State is under a mandate to protect and improve the environment and safeguard the forests. The precautionary principle requires the Government to anticipate, prevent and remedy or eradicate the causes of environmental degradation including to act sternly against the violators; vi. While interpreting and applying the laws relating to the environment, the principle of sustainable development must be borne in mind. In the case of Rajeev Suri v. Delhi Development Authority and Ors. [(2022) 11 SCC 1], a Bench of this Court to which one of us is a party (A.M. Khanwilkar, J.) has very succinctly dealt with the concept of sustainable development. Paragraphs 507 and 508 of the said decision reads thus: “507. The principle of sustainable development and precautionary principle need to be understood in a proper context. The expression “sustainable development” incorporates a wide meaning within its fold. It contemplates that development ought to be sustainable with the idea of preservation of natural environment for present and future generations. It would not be without significance to note that sustainable development is indeed a principle of development - it posits controlled development. The primary requirement underlying this principle is to ensure that every development work is sustainable; and this requirement of sustainability demands that the first attempt of every agency enforcing environmental Rule of law in the country ought to be to alleviate environmental concerns by proper mitigating measures. The future generations have an equal stake in the environment and development. They are as much entitled to a developed society as they are 130 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to an environmentally secure society. By Declaration on the Right to Development, 1986, the United Nations has given express recognition to a right to development. Article 1 of the Declaration defines this right as: “1. The right to development is an inalienable human right by virtue of which every human person and all peoples are entitled to participate in, contribute to, and enjoy economic, social, cultural and political development, in which all human rights and fundamental freedoms can be fully realized.” 508. The right to development, thus, is intrinsically connected to the preservance of a dignified life. It is not limited to the idea of infrastructural development, rather, it entails human development as the basis of all development. The jurisprudence in environmental matters must acknowledge that there is immense interdependence between right to development and right to natural environment. In International Law and Sustainable Development, Arjun Sengupta in the chapter “Implementing the Right to Development” notes thus: “… Two rights are interdependent if the level of enjoyment of one is dependent on the level of enjoyment of the other…” vii. Even ‘environmental rule of law’ has a role to play. This Court in the case of Citizens for Green Doon v. Union of India and Ors.