It is asserted that the Courts below have failed to appreciate that the assessing officer had rightly included the amount of Value Added Tax and unclaimed tax credit in the turnover of purchases as defined in Section 2(32) of the GVAT Act. 5. It was further submitted that the legislative intent has been wrongly interpreted to say that it did not intend to include Value Added Tax within the definition of the purchase price as defined under Section 2(18) of the Gujarat Value Added Tax. Section 2(18) which defines the purchase price is not exhaustive and the Value Added Tax should be included in the purchase price for the purpose of calculation of taxable turnover of purchases. Based on these submissions, it is asserted by the learned senior advocate for the Appellant that the s passed by the High Court as well as the Tribunal cannot 38 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports be sustained and deserve to be set aside by restoring the s passed by the assessment authorities being in accordance with the law. 6. On the other hand, learned counsel for the Respondent has asserted that the as passed by the Tribunal which has been approved by the High Court has laid down the correct interpretation of the statutory provisions. Supporting the said , the learned counsel submitted that the purchase price as defined aforesaid does not include the Value Added Tax component, and whatever duties and levies are required to be included in the meaning of purchase price are specifically provided for in the form of two Acts i.e., Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 and the Customs Act, 1962. Apart from these two taxes which have been specifically referred to and provided for in Section 2(18) of the GVAT Act, no other tax is to be included. Had the legislature intended to include the VAT component in the purchase price, the same could have been expressly provided for in the statute. 7. It is further contended by the learned counsel that the scope of Section (11)(3)(b) of the GVAT Act while computing the taxable turnover of purchases cannot be expanded beyond the provision as provided for under the GVAT Act, supporting the said , therefore, it was prayed for the dismissal of the present appeals. 8. We have considered the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties and have gone through the provisions, as well as the pleadings. 9. In brief, the facts of the case are that the Respondent dealer as mentioned calculated the taxable turnover of its purchases within the State of Gujarat by excluding the amount representing Value Added Tax and value of purchases of which no credit was claimed. This was asserted to have been done under the provisions of Section 11(3)(b) of the GVAT Act. Accordingly, the taxable turnover was calculated and proportionately reduced by four per cent on the quantity of goods involved in the manufacturing of goods dispatched by way of branch transfer. 10. The Deputy Commissioner during the process of audit assessment determined the taxable turnover of purchases within the State by including the tax amount i.e., Value Added Tax Amount and Value of [2024] 8 S.C.R.