Both held that this delay was justifiable and not fatal to the insurance claim. Both the courts had also reached the finding that the damage took place in two phases: (a) once when the vehicle fell into a ditch and capsized; and (b) when the short-circuiting took place due to the car remaining in that state. 13. In our opinion, the National Commission could not have interfered with pure finding of fact arrived at by the District and State Commissions while exercising revisional jurisdiction. It is unclear as to how the National Commission perceived that the State Commission exercised jurisdiction not vested in it or has failed to exercise jurisdiction vested in. There is nothing to indicate in the decision of the National Commission as to whether there is any illegality in the approach adopted by the State Commission or that it had acted with material irregularity. 14. The other ground that the respondent has raised before us is that the survey report was disregarded by the District and State Commissions but the National Commission has correctly examined and relied on it. This submission cannot be accepted, since the State Commission had examined the survey report in detail and in fact found it to be lacking. It stated that the surveyor’s claim that the vehicle was left unattended cannot be accepted since the appellant had justifiable reasons for the same. Furthermore, the finding of the surveyor that the short-circuiting was caused by the appellant himself was not based on any evidence. 15. This Court had the occasion to examine the scope and ambit of jurisdiction of the National Commission while exercising revisional jurisdiction. In Sunil Kumar Maity v. State Bank of India & Ors.,7 it was held that the conditions laid down in Section 21(b) are the only parameters under which a revision may be invoked. If a document has already been considered and rejected by the State Commission, a revision does not lie merely because the National Commission has a different view on the same. Similarly, in Rajiv Shukla v. Gold Rush Sales & Services Ltd.,8 it was laid down thatin cases where the courts below have reached findings on facts, the jurisdiction of revision is very limited and must be invoked only when there is a 7 [2022] 1 SCR 258 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 77 8 [2022] 11 SCR 213 : (2022) 9 SCC 31 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1115 Rajesh Kumar v. National Insurance Co. Ltd. patent illegality in the findings. In Rubi Chandra (supra) it was held that even if no patent error, the revisional jurisdiction may be invoked in a case of gross miscarriage of justice. 16. In the present case, no miscarriage of justice is made out by the respondent. The State Commission has addressed all the issues raised before it and found the delay in intimation to be reasonable and that the insurance claim is payable on the damage due to the accident as well as the short-circuiting. The State Commission also examined the genuineness of the accident’s claim by considering the police report and discarded the surveyor’s report for lack of evidence.