24. Now, we shall proceed to discuss the evidence of the star prosecution eyewitness, namely, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11), the first informant. The witness (PW-11) narrated the details of the incident as were stated by him in an oral statement given to S.N. Ghori, PSI (PW-17) on 4th May, 2011 at the Krishna Medical Hospital, Karamsad [2024] 8 S.C.R. 365 Allarakha Habib Memon Etc. v. State of Gujarat which was treated to be the FIR (Exhibit P-79). In addition to the facts as set out in the FIR, the witness also alleged that he also received an injury on his head when he fell down as a result of the push given by Mohmedfaruk @ Palak. A very important fact which emerges from the evidence of the first informant (PW-11) is that he categorically stated that he gave a complaint of the incident by personally appearing at the Anand Town Police Station. He further stated that after he had given the complaint, the police called him next morning after the incident and that he had pointed out the crime scene to the police. Only thereafter, he signed the complaint. Apparently thus, from the version set out in the examination-in-chief of the first informant (PW-11), there is a grave discrepancy regarding the time and place of lodging the complaint. 25. In cross-examination, the first informant (PW-11) stated that he reached the Krishna Medical Hospital, Karamsad at around 9:00 pm. He did not take any treatment for the injuries sustained by him in the incident. By the time he reached Krishna Medical Hospital, his uncle Mohammed Iqbal Memon, father of the deceased, was already present there and he told the doctors that the attack was made by sharp weapons. They proceeded from the hospital to the Anand Town Police Station which is at a distance of about 10 kms from the hospital and he gave the complaint at the Police Station. No police personnel accompanied him when he proceeded from Krishna Hospital. When he reached the hospital, he noticed the injuries suffered by the deceased. They went to the police after meeting the doctor. The witnesses referred to in the complaint were present with him when he drafted the complaint which was submitted at the Police Station about an hour, after his companions had reached there. He admitted that before giving the complaint, a discussion was held amongst the relatives as to the manner in which the complaint was to be drafted and lodged. However, the witness explained that he drafted the complaint describing the incident as he had seen it. A pertinent suggestion was given to the witness (PW-11) in cross- examination that he could not describe the number and location of the injuries caused to the deceased because he was not present on the spot and did not see the incident. He denied the said suggestion. He admitted that the factum of his going to the petrol pump along with the deceased was known only to him, Mohammad Sohail (deceased) and Mehboobbhai.