The said submission, if we are permitted to say so, is a justification from hind sight. The result manifests itself. In the case at hand, it does not require Solomon’s wisdom that bias is in stricto sensu as from a reasonable mind could be thought. As we have referred to the authorities above, bias is a state of mind at work. Quite apart from above, when the degree of relationship is in quite proximity, bias is to be inferred and the authorities below have inferred the same and after 166 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports detailed discussion, the learned Single Judge has given the stamp of approval to the same.” (emphasis supplied) 12. In the backdrop of the above factual matrix, as analysed and recorded, the Division Bench did not find any fault in the findings of two quasi-judicial authorities and learned Single Judge. While dismissing the appeal and refusing to entertain the plea of violation of principle of natural justice, it was observed that since the selected candidates were relatives of the office bearers of the committee, the possibility of reasonable likelihood of bias cannot be obliterated. Once the possibility of likelihood of bias kicks in, the selection process stands vitiated. It is said that in absence of any demonstrable prejudice to the appellants, their appointment cannot be approved. On the plea of not joining them as party before the Collector, the Division Bench observed in paragraph 11 as thus: “11. The second aspect is whether the s passed by the Collector and the Commissioner should have been quashed by the learned Single Judge as the appellants who had been visited with adverse civil consequence were not arrayed as parties before the Collector. It is urged by the learned counsel for the appellants that in view of the law laid down in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra) and M/s Laksmi Precision Screws Limited (supa), no person should be visited with an adverse civil consequence without affording him a reasonable opportunity of hearing. There cannot be any cavil on the aforesaid proposition. The learned Single Judge has placed reliance on the decision rendered in State Bank of Patiala and Others v. V.K. Sharma, (1996) 3 SCC 364 to come to hold that unless prejudice is caused due to non-granting of hearing, the s should not be mechanically interfered with. It is worth noting that the appellants had preferred the revision. They participated in the hearing before the revisional authority in all aspects. The Commissioner had called for the entire selection proceeding and other documents on record were available to the petitioners therein. There was due deliberation in respect of the defence put forth by the [2024] 4 S.C.R. 167 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. revisionists. That apart, the learned Single Judge had called for the parties. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the considered opinion that though it was imperative on the part of appellants to implead the affected parties, yet as the affected parties had been given full opportunity from all aspects by the revisional forum as well as by the learned Single Judge, we do not think it apt and apposite to quash the and remand the matter to the Collector to re-adjudicate singularly on the ground that the appellants herein should have been impleaded as a parties and that the matter should be reheard.