We may now proceed to examine the facts of the present case.” (emphasis supplied) Article 48A and 51A To Be Considered in Light of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, 1950 ● M.C. Mehta v. Kamal Nath, (2000) 6 SCC 213 “8. Apart from the above statutes and the rules made thereunder, Article 48-A of the Constitution provides that the State shall endeavour to protect and improve the environment and to safeguard the forests and wildlife of the country. One of the fundamental duties of every citizen as set out in Article 51-A(g) is to protect and improve the natural environment, including forests, lakes, rivers and wildlife and to have compassion for living creatures. These two articles have to be considered in the light of Article 21 of the Constitution which provides that no person shall be deprived of his life and liberty except in accordance with the procedure established by law. Any disturbance of the basic environment elements, namely air, water and soil, which are necessary for “life”, would be hazardous to “life” within the meaning of Article 21 of the Constitution. 9. In the matter of enforcement of rights under Article 21 of the Constitution, this Court, besides enforcing the provisions of the Acts referred to above, has also given effect to fundamental rights under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution and has held that if those rights are violated by disturbing the environment, it [2024] 5 S.C.R. 113 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. can award damages not only for the restoration of the ecological balance, but also for the victims who have suffered due to that disturbance. In to protect “life”, in to protect “environment” and in to protect “air, water and soil” from pollution, this Court, through its various s has given effect to the rights available, to the citizens and persons alike, under Article 21 of the Constitution. The for removal of hazardous and obnoxious industries from the residential areas, the directions for closure of certain hazardous industries, the directions for closure of slaughterhouse and its relocation, the various directions issued for the protection of the Ridge area in Delhi, the directions for setting up effluent treatment plants to the industries located in Delhi, the directions to tanneries etc., are all s which seek to protect the environment.” (emphasis supplied) Article 48A And 51A Must guide the Interpretation of Laws ● Pradeep Krishen v. Union of India, (1996) 8 SCC 599 “15. Now as pointed out earlier, since Parliament had no power to make laws for the States except as provided by Articles 249 and 250 of the Constitution, the States were required to pass resolutions under Article 252(1) to enable Parliament to enact the law. After as many as 11 States passed resolutions to that effect, the Act came to be enacted to provide for the protection of wild animals and birds and for matters connected therewith or ancillary or incidental thereto. Even Articles 48-A and 51-A(g) inserted in the Constitution by the 42nd Amendment oblige the State and the citizen, respectively, to protect and improve the natural environment and to safeguard the forest and wildlife of the country.