We shall address both these contentions in seriatim as they are pivotal to the fate of the present appeal. i. Issue No. 1 34. Section 11 of the Act, 1996 lays down the procedure for appointment of arbitrators through the intervention of the High Court or the Supreme Court, as the case may be. A reading of the said provision indicates that there is nothing therein which prevents a party from filing more than one application seeking the appointment of arbitrator for adjudicating disputes arising from the same contract. 35. However, the appellant has contended that in lieu of the principles contained in 23 Rule 1 of the CPC, the respondent could not have filed a subsequent application under Section 11(6) for adjudication of the same disputes, having previously withdrawn unconditionally an application filed for the same purpose. To address the contention of the appellant, we need to determine whether the principles contained in 23 Rule 1 of the CPC will apply to an application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996. 160 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a. Scope and applicability of 23 Rule 1 of the CPC to proceedings other than suits 36. Prior to its amendment by the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976, 23 Rule 1 of the CPC provided for two kinds of withdrawal of a suit, namely absolute withdrawal and withdrawal with the permission of the court to institute a fresh suit on the same cause of action. The first category of withdrawal was governed by sub-rule (1) thereof, as it stood then, which provided that at any time after the institution of a suit, the plaintiff may, as against all or any of the defendants withdraw his suit or abandon a part of his claim. The second category was governed by sub-rule (2) thereof which provided that where the court was satisfied (a) that a suit must fail by reason of some formal defect, or (b) that there were sufficient grounds for allowing the plaintiff to institute a fresh suit for the subject-matter of a suit or part of a claim, it may, on such terms as it thought fit, grant the plaintiff permission to withdraw from such suit or abandon a part of a claim with liberty to institute a fresh suit in respect of the subject-matter of such suit or such part of the claim. Sub-rule (3) of the former 23 Rule 1 of the CPC provided that where the plaintiff withdrew from a suit or abandoned a part of a claim without the permission referred to in sub-rule (2), he would be liable to such costs as the court may award and would also be precluded from instituting any fresh suit in respect of such subject-matter or such part of the claim. The legislature felt that the use of the word “withdrawal” in relation to both the aforesaid categories had led to confusion and thus amended the rule to avoid such confusion. 37. 23 Rule 1 of the CPC as it stands now post the amendment is reproduced hereinbelow: “Withdrawal of suit or abandonment of part of claim.— (1) At any time after the institution of a suit, the plaintiff may as against all or any of the defendants abandon his suit or abandon a part of his claim: Provided that where the plaintiff is a minor or other person to whom the provisions contained in rules 1 to 14 of XXXII extend, neither the suit nor any part of the claim shall be abandoned without the leave of the Court.