71. In Bakhshish Singh Brar v. Gurmej Kaur and Another reported in (1987) 4 SCC 663, the petitioner police officer along with 14 other persons was charged under Sections 148, 149, 302, 323 and 325 IPC for allegedly causing hurt to the complainant and also causing the death of her son. This Court had emphasized that a balance has to be struck between protecting public servants from being harassed in criminal prosecutions and protecting the rights of the citizens against unlawful acts of public servants. This must be done by examining as to what extent and how far is a public servant working in the discharge or purported discharge of his duties and whether the public servant had exceeded his limit. Having said so, it was observed that criminal trials must also not be stayed in all cases at the preliminary stage because that will cause great damage to the evidence. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “6. In the instant case, it is alleged that grievous injuries were inflicted upon the complainant and as a result of injuries one of the alleged accused had died. The question is while investigating and performing his duties as a police officer was it necessary for the petitioner to conduct himself in such a manner which would result in such consequences. It is necessary to protect the public servants in the discharge of their duties. They must be made immune from being harassed in criminal proceedings and prosecution, that is the rationale behind Section 196 and Section 197 of the CrPC. But it is equally important to 828 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports emphasise that rights of the citizens should be protected and no excesses should be permitted. “Encounter death” has become too common. In the facts and circumstance of each case protection of public officers and public servants functioning in discharge of official duties and protection of private citizens have to be balanced by finding out as to what extent and how far is a public servant working in discharge of his duties or purported discharge of his duties, and whether the public servant has exceeded his limit. It is true that Section 196 states that no cognizance can be taken and even after cognizance having been taken if facts come to light that the acts complained of were done in the discharge of the official duties then the trial may have to be stayed unless sanction is obtained. But at the same time it has to be emphasised that criminal trials should not be stayed in all cases at the preliminary stage because that will cause great damage to the evidence.” (emphasis supplied) 72. This Court in P.K. Pradhan v. State of Sikkim reported in (2001) 6 SCC 704 re-emphasized that for invoking protection under Section 197 CrPC, the acts of the accused must be such that it cannot be separated from the discharge of the official duty. However, if there was no reasonable connection between the act and the performance of those duties, and the official status only furnishes the occasion or opportunity for the illegal act, then no sanction would be required.