Therefore, once an enquiry is held, charge of gross indiscipline is found proved, bearing in mind that the original petitioner was a member of a disciplined force, the punishment awarded, being one of the punishments imposable, was not liable to be interfered with by the High Court. 10. In support of her submissions, Ms. Bhati relied on two decisions of this Court, namely, (a) Union of India & Ors. v. Ghulam Mohd. Bhat9; and (b) Union of India & Ors. v. Diler Singh10. Submissions on behalf of the respondent 11. Mr. Anand Shankar, learned counsel for the respondent, defending the impugned submitted: (i) Punishment of compulsory retirement as specified in Rule 27 of the CRPF Rules is ultra vires the provisions of Section 11 of the CRPF Act, which is exhaustive, and no punishment beyond what is specified therein can be imposed; (ii) Decision of this Court in Ghulam Mohd. Bhat (supra) is of no help to the appellants as it relates to the punishment of removal from service and not compulsory retirement from service; (iii) Rule 27 was framed in exercise of power delegated to the Central Government under clause (d) of sub-section (2) of Section 18 of the CRPF Act, which is only to regulate the award of minor punishment not to introduce any other species / kind of punishment. Therefore, a punishment which is not contemplated under the statute cannot be introduced by way of a rule, particularly in absence of specific delegation of power in this regard. Dismissal and compulsory retirement are two different kinds of punishment and cannot be treated as interchangeable. Thus, in absence of any delegation of power Note— 2. When the post of Commandant remains unfilled for a period of over one month at a time consequent on the incumbent proceeding on leave or otherwise, the Assistant Commandant shall exercise the powers of punishment vested in the Commandant, except the powers of ing dismissal or removal from the Force. 9 [2005] Supp. 4 SCR 367 : (2005) 13 SCC 228 10 (2016) 13 SCC 71 440 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to frame rules introducing a new punishment, Rule 27, to the extent it introduces the punishment of compulsory retirement, is ultra vires the CRPF Act; (iv) The charge levelled on the original petitioner was not established, as no eye-witness was presented to prove it. Otherwise also, Hawaldar M. Devnath, who was allegedly assaulted by the original petitioner, was inimical to the original petitioner and made a false complaint. The Disciplinary Authority and the Appellate Authority acted in a mechanical manner. 12. In support of his submissions, Mr. Anand Shankar relied on a decision of this Court in General Officer Commanding-in-Chief & Anr. v. Subash Chandra Yadav & Anr11. Issues 13. Having taken note of the rival submissions, the issues that arise for our consideration in this appeal are as follows: (i) Whether the punishment of compulsory retirement from service could have been imposed upon the respondent by relying upon the provisions of Rule 27 of the CRPF Rules?