Thus, the Borrower’s case at that time was clearly that its right of redemption is not independent of the challenge to the validity of the measures taken by the Bank under the SARFAESI Act and rather was consequential to it, which is why both its primary prayer and its alternative prayer sought for the adjudication of the S.A No. 46 of 2022 on the basis of which its right may then be adjudicated. The prayer made by the Borrower [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1667 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. in paragraph 11(b) of its writ petition is particularly interesting, inasmuch as it is seeking a direction from the High Court that it may be permitted to redeem the mortgage during the pendency of the S.A No. 46 of 2022, which further reinforces that until the securitization application was decided it could not have redeemed its mortgage without a specific direction permitting it to do so. 115. The pleadings of the Borrower in the aforesaid writ petition are also significant to the controversy at hand. The Borrower had assailed the demand notice dated 07.06.2021 under Section 13(2), the possession notice dated under Section 13(4) and the e-auction sale notices dated 25.03.2022 issued under the SARFAESI Act on various grounds. Pertinently, the Borrower in its writ petition never imputed any illegality or perversity to the 9th Auction notice. From a plain reading of the aforesaid writ petition, the following position emerges: - (i) Although the Borrower at paragraph 4.28 has stated that the aforesaid auction notice was issued on 12.06.2023 scheduling the auction for 30.06.2023, yet there is nothing to indicate that the Borrower had assailed the said notice on the ground of want of a 30/15 days period of notice in terms of Rule 8 and 9 of the SARFAESI Rules. (ii) In the very next paragraph i.e., at paragraph 4.29, although the Borrower has stated that the sale process is absolutely erroneous, yet it has not laid any specific challenge to the 9th auction notice dated 12.06.2023. Thus, far from a mere bald assertion that the sale process is erroneous, no specific plea as regards the absence of a 30/15 days gap between the sale notice and auction was taken, which the Borrower now seeks to espouse in the present contempt petition. (iii) Pertinently, in the grounds, the Borrower has left no stone unturned for challenging the demand notice, the possession notice, the first sale notice, the valuation of the Secured Asset by the Bank etc. Yet again, the plea which the Borrower seeks to take in the present contempt petition is conspicuously absent. The ground taken by the Borrower at paragraph ‘x’ again at best can be construed as seeking to challenge the validity of the first sale notice and not the 9th auction notice. 1668 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (iv) The only ground which remotely touches the validity of the 9th auction notice dated 12.06.2023 appears to be at paragraph hh. which again does not contain the plea which the Borrower has taken in the present contempt petition as regards the validity of the said sale notice, rather, the Borrower’s contention in the said paragraph is plain & simple that due to the infirmities in the earlier measures taken by the Bank under the SARFAESI Act, namely the demand notice, the possession notice and the first sale notice, all subsequent actions are also rendered illegal and contrary to the provisions of the Act.