The witnesses were coming together in a jeep from Lakhisarai and were going towards their home in Ghogsha village, the village wherein the deceased was married and also the native village of PW18/informant. PW2 was the driver of PW4. The testimo-nies of the said PWs have made it clear that while coming from Lakhisarai to Sikandra Chowk, Ghogsha came first, followed by Lohanda and Simaltalla. In such circumstances, their presence at Sikandra Chowk at 10:00 PM must be explained to the satisfaction of the Court. For, if they were going [2024] 10 S.C.R. 119 Vijay Singh @ Vijay Kr. Sharma v. The State of Bihar to their village, there was no occasion for them to come to Simaltalla as it did not fall on their way. But no such ex-planation is forthcoming from the material on record. 22. Interestingly, this lacuna was duly noted by the High Court with respect to PW5 as there was no reason for him to be present at Sikandra Chowk at the time of incident and his testimony was excluded. However, the same logic was not extended to the testimony of PW4 as well, as it was equally improbable for him to be present at Sikandra Chowk at 10:00 PM on the date of incident. His visit to Sikandra Chowk was not necessitated for going to his village. Even otherwise, since the three eye witnesses were similarly placed as per their own version, the rejection of testimony of one witness ought to have raised a natural doubt on the testimonies of the other two witnesses unless they had a better explanation. However, no such doubt was entertained by the High Court and the impugned offers no explanation for the same. In light of their own testimonies, none of the three eye witnesses were required to visit Sikandra Chowk or Simaltalla for going to their village. 23. The testimonies of the eye witnesses are also impeachable in light of the other evidence on record. PW21 was the investigating officer in the case and he had examined the aforesaid PWs as eye witnesses of the incident. The version put forth by the eye witnesses meets a serious doubt when examined in light of the evidence of DW3 and DW4, the concerned Deputy Superintendent and Superintendent of Police respectively who had supervised the investigation of the present case. Both these officers were examined as defence witnesses on behalf of the appellants. As per the supervision notes prepared by DW3 during the course of investigation, PW2 and PW4 got to know about the incident only when PW18 came running to them after the incident. PW2, at that time, was sitting in a hotel with Umesh Singh to have ‘prasad’. Similarly, the evidence of DW4 indicates that on the date of incident, at around 10:00 PM, PW4 was coming from Lakhisarai in his jeep and he saw six-seven persons fleeing away in a jeep and he identified them as the accused persons. Thus, PW4 entered the scene after the commission of offence and he did not witness the act of abduction.