The opinion of the expert committee was then communicated to the Court, as requested. 21. On 23 July 2024, the arguments in the case were concluded and the conclusions were pronounced in court after the hearings concluded. The Court held that the standard prescribed by decisions of this court for the cancellation of the test had not been met and that a re-test was not warranted. The conclusion of the Court rested on the absence of sufficient material, as on that date, indicative of a widespread or systemic leak or other malpractice. The conclusions of the Court are reproduced below: 6 “IIT” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 61 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India & Ors. “11. … (i) The fact that a leak of the NEET (UG) 2024 paper took place at Hazaribagh in the State of Jharkhand and at Patna in the State of Bihar is not in dispute; (ii) Following the transfer of the investigation to it, the CBI has filed its status reports dated 10 July 2024, 17 July 2024 and 21 July 2024. The disclosures by the CBI indicate that the investigation is continuing. The CBI has indicated that at the present stage, the material which has emerged during the course of the investigation would indicate that about 155 students drawn from the examination centres at Hazaribagh and Patna appear to be the beneficiaries of the fraud; (iii) Since the investigation by the CBI has not attained finality at the present WPC 335/2024 7 point of time, this Court had in its previous required the Union Government to indicate whether trends in regard to the existence of abnormalities can be deduced through data analytics on the basis of the results emanating from 4,750 centres situated in 571 cities. Pursuant to the directions of the Court, the Union Government has produced a report of Indian Institute of Technology,6 Madras. The objection of the petitioners to the report of IIT, Madras on the grounds of alleged bias would be considered in the course of the reasoned which will follow. At this stage, in to obviate any controversy, the Court has independently scrutinized the data which has been placed on the record by the NTA; (iv) At the present stage, there is an absence of material on the record to lead to the conclusion that the entire result of the examination stands vitiated or that there was a systemic breach in the sanctity of the examination; (v) Added to the absence of conclusive material on the record at the present stage, the data which has been produced on the record city-wise and centre-wise and the comparison of data for the years 2022, 2023 and 2024 are not indicative of a systemic leak of the question paper impacting the sanctity of the examination; 62 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (vi) In arriving at the ultimate conclusion, the Court is guided by the well-settled 6 “IIT” WPC 335/2024 8 test of whether it is possible to segregate tainted students from those whose candidature does not suffer from any taint.