• Vide email dated 09.10.2020 sent to the AMP Group, the JRS lawyers shared drafts of the Share Purchase Agreements (hereinafter, “SPAs”) pertaining to Millenium and Deegee and a copy was marked to Mr. Kalpesh Parmar. • Vide email dated 27.11.2020 and a reminder email dated 03.04.2021, Mr. Kalpesh Parmar sent the drafts of these SPAs [2024] 9 S.C.R. 911 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. (with AMP Group comments) to the SRG lawyers with a copy marked to Respondent No.9 in to seek their comments. • Vide email dated 26.03.2021 sent to the AMP Group with a copy marked to the Respondent No.9, Mr. Kalpesh Parmar clarified that though the SPAs related to Deegee was stuck up with a non-JRS Group, yet the JRS Group was ready to hand over the affairs of Deegee w.e.f. 01.04.2021 and requested the AMP Group to withdraw all litigations before the concerned forums. • Vide email dated 03.04.2021 sent to the JRS Group with a copy marked to the Respondent No.9, the AMP Group requested the JRS Group to undertake steps for restoring the original shareholding of the AMP Group in Deegee. 16. Several items under the FAA were pending implementation including the finalisation and execution of SPAs for Millenium and Deegee at the end of the SRG Group. Therefore, vide email dated 20.12.2021 sent to the JRS Group, the AMP Group nominated Mr. Upen Shah as the AMP Group’s representative in compliance with clause 7.1.2 of the FAA for amicable resolution of the issues arising out of the FAA between the AMP and JRS Groups. Vide reply email dated 26.12.2021, the JRS Group named Mr. Sanket Jain and/or Mr. Kalpesh Parmar as their representative. Clause 7.1.2 is reproduced hereinbelow: “7.1.1 The Parties agree to use all reasonable efforts to resolve any dispute, controversy, claim or disagreement of any kind whatsoever between or amongst any of the Parties in connection with or arising out of this Agreement or the Transaction Document/s executed in connection with the transaction contemplated under or in connection with this Agreement, including any question regarding its existence, validity or termination (“Dispute”), expediently and amicably to achieve timely and full performance of the terms of this Agreement or the Transaction Document/s. 7.1.2 Any Party which claims that a Dispute has arisen must give notice thereof to the other Parties as soon as practicable after the occurrence of the event, matter or thing which is the subject of such Dispute and in such notice, such Party shall provide particulars of the 912 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports circumstances and nature of such Dispute and of its claim(s) in relation thereto and shall designate a Person as its representative for negotiations relating to the Dispute, which Person shall have authority to settle the Dispute. The other Parties shall, within 7 (seven) days of such notice, each specify in writing its position in relation to the Dispute and designate as their representative in negotiations relating to the Dispute, a Person with similar authority.” 17.