9. On 04.05.2023, this Court granted an of interim stay. Pursuant to the same, the Appellant No.1 being Secretary of the elected Committee, sent letters dated 05.05.2023 to the Manager, Kerala Gramin Bank, Oachira, and the Manager, Punjab National Bank, Oachira, stating that the elected Committee has resumed the office and therefore, the accounts of the subject temple should not be allowed to be operated by anybody except the Secretary and Treasurer of the elected Committee as contemplated in the bye-laws. However, the Bank replied that there being no specific direction in the interim , they cannot accede to the said request of the office bearers. Being dissatisfied with the same, the appellants preferred Contempt Petition (Civil) bearing No(s).987-988/2023 in SLP (C) No(s).10598-10599/2023. 10. Heard learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of all the parties and perused the materials placed before us. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 363 Oachira Parabrahma Temple & Anr. v. G. Vijayanathakurup and Ors. 11. It is evident from the records that the administration of the subject temple and the institutions thereunder is governed by the Bye-laws of the temple. Clause 9 of the Bye-laws makes it clear that the term of office of the elected General Body is five years from the date of the election. As per Clause 11, the term of the other elected bodies is co-terminus with that of the General Body. Concededly, after the election in May 2017, no election has been conducted so far. 12. The learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants expressed serious grievances about the functioning of the Administrative Head appointed by the High Court. According to the learned senior counsel, the Administrative Head has not understood the ground realities and the emergent situation prevailing over the subject temple and its institutions; that he refused to meet the elected representatives and accede to the decisions taken by them; and that he has not even visited the subject temple, which is essentially required to resolve the problems and streamline the development. It is further alleged that the Administrative Head has been issuing s without proper consultation with the elected bodies and he has gone to the extent of appointing a Monitoring Committee with the assistance of Advocate Commissioner for maintenance and general issues relating to the administration of the hospital, nursing college and school. 13. The learned senior counsel appearing on the other side has stoutly refuted the aforesaid submissions made on behalf of the appellants and submitted that steps are only taken for administration of the temple until scheme is framed and elections are held for the Samithis. 14. However, we are not inclined to go into the contentions/issues raised by the appellants at this stage as the High Court has granted liberty to the parties to raise all the contentions before the Trial Court. At the same time, the fact remains that there are serious disputes in administering and managing the subject temple and its institutions by the Administrative Head appointed by the High Court and the alleged Executive Committee.