This appeal emanates from a of a Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay dated 4 April 2024 which denied the minor daughter of the Appellant (hereinafter referred to as ‘X’) permission to terminate her pregnancy. ‘X’ is a minor, about fourteen years of age and is alleged to have been subjected to sexual assault in September 2023. The incident did not come to the fore till ‘X’ revealed the incident on 20 March 2024 by which time she was about 25 weeks into her pregnancy. ‘X’, it has been averred, always had irregular periods and could not have assessed her pregnancy earlier. 2. An FIR was registered with Turbhe MIDC Police Station against the alleged perpetrator on 20 March 2024 for offences punishable under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 4, 8 and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act 2012. ‘X’ was taken to a hospital on 21 March 2024 for medical examination and then transferred to the JJ Group of Hospitals, Mumbai for termination of her pregnancy. On 28 March 2024 the medical board of the Grant Government Medical College & Sir JJ Group of Hospitals, Mumbai constituted under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act 19711 opined that ‘X’ was physically and mentally fit for termination of her pregnancy subject to the permission of the High Court. 1 MTP Act 476 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3. The Appellant moved the High Court of Judicature at Bombay under Article 226 of the Constitution seeking the termination of pregnancy of her daughter. On 3 April 2024, the medical board issued a ‘clarificatory’ opinion, without re-examining ‘X’. The report denied the termination of pregnancy on the ground that the gestational age of the fetus was twenty-seven to twenty-eight weeks and that there were no congenital abnormalities in the fetus.2 By the impugned the High Court dismissed the writ petition on the ground that the pregnancy exceeded the statutory period of twenty-four weeks. 4. The Appellant moved this court under Article 136 of the Constitution. The Special Leave Petition was mentioned for urgent s after the Court had risen on the conclusion of normal working hours at 5:15 pm on 19 April 2024. The Bench reassembled immediately thereafter and had the benefit of hearing the counsel for the Appellant, the Standing Counsel for the State of Maharashtra and Ms Aishwarya Bhati, Additional Solicitor General. While issuing notice, this Court took note of the fact that the report of the Medical Board dated 3 April 2024, which was relied upon by the High Court had not dealt with the impact of the pregnancy on the physical and emotional well-being of ‘X’. Accordingly, a fresh Medical Board was directed to be constituted under the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital and Lokmanya Tilak Municipal Medical College, Sion, Mumbai.3 This Court directed that: "5. From the material which has been placed on the record, a striking feature which has emerged before this Court, prima facie, is that the medical report does not contain an evaluation of the physical and mental status of the minor, particularly having regard to the background leading up to the pregnancy, including the alleged sexual assault.