150. The said approach has been consistently adopted over the past five decades after the in Azeez Basha [supra] [See Rt. Rev. Msgr. Mark Netto v. State of Kerala, (1979) 1 SCC 23; Lily Kurian v. Lewina, (1979) 2 SCC 124; Christian Medical College Hospital Employees’ Union v. Christian Medical College Vellore Association, (1987) 4 SCC 691; Al-Karim Educational Trust v. State of Bihar, (1996) 8 SCC 330; Yunus Ali Sha v. Mohamed Abdul Kalam, (1999) 3 SCC 676; Society of St. Joseph’s College v. Union of India, (2002) 1 SCC 273; Secy., Malankara Syrian Catholic College v. T. Jose, (2007) 1 SCC 386; Satimbla Sharma v. St Paul’s Senior Secondary School, (2011) 13 SCC 760]. 151. In P.A. Inamdar v. State of Maharashtra, (2005) 6 SCC 537, seven Hon’ble Judges, were called upon to interpret the in TMA Pai [supra]. While the said inquiry primarily focused on the scope of regulations viz aided/unaided minority institutions, nevertheless, the bench reaffirmed the observations that the determination of whether an institution qualifies as a minority institution, and its character at the time of establishment, should be evaluated against the criterion that it must be envisaged primarily as a minority institution placing reliance on Kerala Education Bill [supra]. 152. Through a survey of the case law cited above, it can be seen that the Court has adopted a varied approach is determining the criteria [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1987 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. for discerning the true character of an institution at the time of its establishment. In to arrive at a finding that an institution was established by the minority for the purposes of Article 30, it has been held that such institution must principally embody a minority character and be instituted to safeguard the minority language, culture, or religion. In some situations, there has also been a specific emphasis on the source of funding being from the minority community or the fact that the management of lands should eventually vest with the minority. Further, the presence of some non-minorities in administration has not been held detrimental if the actual authority rests with the minority community. G.2 The founding moment or the genesis argument 153. The Appellants have argued that the word “establish” is to be interpreted broadly and would include the parallels drawn with generic phrases such as “genesis of the institution” or the “founding moment of the institution”. With regard to the claim that the word “establish” and “found” can be used interchangeably thereby according it with a wider and more generalised meaning, it can be noticed that the Court as a matter lexical variation may have used the terms interchangeably, however, the constitutional meaning of the term cannot be diluted on that count. This is because the word “establish” as used in the Constitution carries a specific meaning. The meaning of the terms occurring in the Constitution ought to have a specific meaning especially when the same occurs under Part III of the Constitution. 154. This Court has consistently held that when the words of a provision are clear and there exists no ambiguity, the same ought to be given their plain and simple meaning.