987 High Court Bar Association, Allahabad v. State of U.P. & Ors. makes an application to the High Court for the vacation of such and furnishes a copy of such application to the party in whose favour such has been made or the counsel of such party, the High Court shall dispose of the application within a period of two weeks from the date on which it is received or from the date on which the copy of such application is so furnished, whichever is later, or where the High Court is closed on the last day of that period, before the expiry of the next day afterwards on which the High Court is open; and if the application is not so disposed of, the interim shall, on the expiry of that period, or, as the case may be, the expiry of the said next day, stand vacated.” 3. No doubt, the above provision is in respect to petitions filed before the High Court invoking the extraordinary jurisdiction of the Court and is not meant to be applied specifically to other proceedings, nonetheless the principles behind the said provision can always be extended to other proceedings as has been done in Asian Resurfacing. It is worth noting that wherever under a statute any such time limit has been prescribed or is fixed for deciding a particular nature of proceeding, it has been held to be directory in nature rather than mandatory. So appears to be the position with regard to the applicability of Article 226(3) of the Constitution of India. 4. It is well recognised that no one can be made to suffer on account of any mistake or fault of the Court which means that even delay on part of the Court in deciding the proceedings or any application therein would not be detrimental to any of the parties to the litigation much less to the party in whose favour an interim stay is passed. 5. It is settled in law that grant of interim stay ought to be ordinarily by a speaking and therefore as a necessary corollary, a stay once granted cannot be vacated otherwise than by a speaking , more so, when its extension also requires reasons to be recorded. 6. It is noticeable that under Article 226(3) of the Constitution of India, the automatic vacation of the stay envisages making of an application to the High Court for the vacation of the interim stay . Therefore, filing of an application for vacating the stay is a sine qua non for triggering the automatic vacation of the stay 988 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under Article 226(3) if such an application is not decided within the time prescribed of two weeks. 7. In other words, applying the above analogy or principle, the stay granted in any proceedings would not automatically stand vacated on the expiry of a particular period until and unless an application to that effect has been filed by the other side and is decided following the principles of natural justice by a speaking .