4.1. It is contended that the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the petitioners (Subhashini Ali and others) is neither maintainable in law nor tenable on facts. That a third party has no locus to challenge the s of remission passed by a competent authority under the garb of a PIL. A PIL is not maintainable in a criminal matter as the petitioners are in no way connected with the proceedings with which the convicted persons have been granted remission. Therefore, the writ petition may be dismissed on that ground alone. In support of this submission, reliance has been placed on Rajiv Ranjan Singh ‘Lalan’ (VIII) vs. Union of India, (2006) 6 SCC 613 (“Rajiv Ranjan”); Gulzar Ahmed Azmi vs. Union of India, (2012) 10 SCC 731 (“Gulzar Ahmed”); Simranjit Singh Mann vs. Union of India, (1992) 4 SCC 653 (“Simranjit Singh”); and, Ashok Kumar Pandey vs. State of West Bengal, (2004) 3 SCC 349 (“Ashok Kumar”). [2024] 1 S.C.R. 773 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others It is submitted that a third party/stranger either under the provisions of the CrPC or under any other statute is precluded from questioning the correctness of grant or refusal of ‘sanction for prosecution’ or the conviction and sentence imposed by the Court after a regular trial. Similarly, a third party stranger is precluded from questioning a remission passed by the State Government which is in accordance with law. Therefore, dismissal of the petition at the threshold is sought. 4.2. It is next averred that the petitioners have not pleaded as to how they have the locus to seek a writ of certiorari for quashing the s of remission passed by respondent no.1 with respect to the eleven convicts sentenced by the Special Judge, Greater Mumbai in Sessions Case No.634 of 2004. That the petitioners have not pleaded as to how their fundamental rights have been abridged or how they are aggrieved by the action of the State Government. Therefore, filing of the writ petition as Public Interest Litigation (in short, ‘PIL’) is an abuse of PIL jurisdiction and is motivated by political intrigues and machinations. In this regard, reliance has been placed on Tehseen Poonawalla vs. Union of India, (2018) 6 SCC 72 (“Tehseen”); and Ashok Kumar. 4.3. It is further submitted that the petitioners not being aggrieved persons have invoked the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution for extraneous purposes. As the petitioners are not the “persons aggrieved”, the writ petition is not maintainable. On the scope and ambit of the expression “person aggrieved”, reliance has been placed on State of Maharashtra vs. M.V. Dabholkar, (1975) 2 SCC 702 (“M.V. Dabholkar”); Jasbhai Motibhai Desai vs. Roshan Kumar, Haji Bashir Ahmed, (1976) 1 SCC 671 (“Jasbhai Motibhai”); and Thammanna vs. K. Veera Reddy, (1980) 4 SCC 62 (“Thammanna”). 4.4. On merits, it is stated that one of the respondents/prisoners, namely, Radheshyam Bhagwandas Shah had filed Writ Petition (Crl.) No.135 of 2022, inter alia, praying to consider his remission application.