All of them were not arrested till the filing of the complaint and have co-operated in the investigation. Therefore, we propose to direct that the warrants issued against the appellants shall stand cancelled subject to the condition of the appellants giving undertakings to the respective Special Courts to regularly and punctually attend the Special Court on all dates fixed unless specifically exempted by the exercise of powers under Section 205 of the CrPC. The second condition will be furnishing bonds to the Special Court in terms of Section 88 of the CrPC. 890 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports OPERATIVE CONCLUSIONS 23. Now, we summarise our conclusions as under: a) Once a complaint under Section 44 (1)(b) of the PMLA is filed, it will be governed by Sections 200 to 205 of the CrPC as none of the said provisions are inconsistent with any of the provisions of the PMLA; b) If the accused was not arrested by the ED till filing of the complaint, while taking cognizance on a complaint under Section 44(1)(b), as a normal rule, the Court should issue a summons to the accused and not a warrant. Even in a case where the accused is on bail, a summons must be issued; c) After a summons is issued under Section 204 of the CrPC on taking cognizance of the offence punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA on a complaint, if the accused appears before the Special Court pursuant to the summons, he shall not be treated as if he is in custody. Therefore, it is not necessary for him to apply for bail. However, the Special Court can direct the accused to furnish bond in terms of Section 88 of the CrPC; d) In a case where the accused appears pursuant to a summons before the Special Court, on a sufficient cause being shown, the Special Court can grant exemption from personal appearance to the accused by exercising power under Section 205 of the CrPC; e) If the accused does not appear after a summons is served or does not appear on a subsequent date, the Special Court will be well within its powers to issue a warrant in terms of Section 70 of the CrPC. Initially, the Special Court should issue a bailable warrant. If it is not possible to effect service of the bailable warrant, then the recourse can be taken to issue a non-bailable warrant; f) A bond furnished according to Section 88 is only an undertaking by an accused who is not in custody to appear before the Court on the date fixed. Thus, an accepting bonds under Section 88 from the accused does not amount to a grant of bail; g) In a case where the accused has furnished bonds under Section 88 of the CrPC, if he fails to appear on subsequent dates, [2024] 6 S.C.R. 891 Tarsem Lal v. Directorate of Enforcement Jalandhar Zonal Office the Special Court has the powers under Section 89 read with Sections 70 of the CrPC to issue a warrant directing that the accused shall be arrested and produced before the Special Court; If such a warrant is issued, it will always be open for the accused to apply for cancellation of the warrant by giving an undertaking to the Special Court to appear before the said Court on all the dates fixed by it.