On these grounds, Ms. Bhati, learned ASG implored the Court to accept the unconditional apology filed on behalf of contemnor-respondent No.3 and discharge the contempt notice issued to him. 23. Mr. K. Parameshwar, learned counsel appearing on behalf of Shri R.Y. Raval, Police Inspector(contemnor-respondent No. 4) urged that the officer had no intention whatsoever to disregard or wilfully disobey this Court’s . He advanced the following submissions: - 23.1 At the outset, Investigating Officer (contemnor-respondent No. 4) in his reply affidavit has tendered an unconditional apology for any contumacious act/conduct arising of inadvertent action/omission attributed to him in the contempt proceedings. 23.2 That when the petitioner appeared at the police station with the of this Court dated 8th December, 2023, he was immediately released on bail by accepting his bail bonds. However, the petitioner gave evasive replies upon being interrogated and was totally non-cooperative in the process of investigation and thus, the Investigating Officer, contemnor- respondent No. 4 felt a genuine requirement to seek police custody remand of the petitioner to effect discovery of incriminating evidence. 23.3 That there prevails a long-standing practice being followed by all the Courts in the State of Gujarat whereby the Investigating Officer is given liberty to seek police custody remand in 262 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports s granting anticipatory bail to the accused. Swayed by this misconception based on the practice consistently being followed in the State, the Inspector bona fide moved the application for police custody remand of the petitioner herein. 23.4 That even the learned Magistrate misconstrued this Court’s and granted police custody remand of the petitioner and hence, the Inspector cannot be faulted and punished for contempt just for moving the remand application. 23.5 That no maltreatment was ever meted out to the petitioner during the period of police custody which fact is borne out from the observations made in the proceedings recorded by the learned Magistrate on 16th December, 2023. 23.6 That the Police Inspector (contemnor-respondent No.4) had joined Vesu Police Station on 5th October, 2023 and thus, the allegation that he was hands in glove with the complainant(contemnor-respondent No. 6) is totally misplaced. 23.7 That contemnor-respondent No.4 was sincerely discharging his official duties while investigating the FIR No. 11210068230266 dated 21st July, 2023 wherein, the petitioner was alleged to have cheated the complainant of a huge sum of money running into more than Rs. 1.65 crores and thus, he cannot be attributed the motive of colluding with the complainant. 23.8 That the cheques given by the complainant to the accused- petitioner were illegally retained and, the recovery thereof was imperative for fair investigation of the case and therefore, the Police Inspector had sought police custody remand of the petitioner herein in an absolutely bona fide and unbiased manner. 23.9 That the petitioner’s claim of being tortured during the period of police custody is yet to be adjudicated in the complaint filed by the petitioner which is pending enquiry. 23.10 In addition to above, learned counsel submitted that contemnor-respondent No.4 is already facing departmental proceedings in relation to these very allegations and hence, these contempt proceedings would tantamount to double jeopardy.