fixation of price, submission of accounts, selling in a particular area or territory and so on. These restrictions per se would not convert a contract of sale into one of agency, because in spite of these restrictions the transaction would still be a sale and subject to all the incidents of a sale. A contract of agency, however, differs essentially from a contract of sale inasmuch as an agent after taking delivery of the property 9 Warren A. Seavey, The Rationale of Agency, 29 YALE L.J. 859, 866 (1920). 10 Ibid. 11 G.H.L. Fridman, The Law of Agency 33 (Butterworths, 7 ed. 1996). 12 [1977] 3 SCR 578 : (1977) 3 SCC 147. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1015 Bharti Cellular Limited (Now Bharti Airtel Limited) v. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Circle 57, Kolkata and Another does not sell it as his own property but sells the same as the property of the principal and under his instructions and directions. Furthermore, since the agent is not the owner of the goods, if any loss is suffered by the agent he is to be indemnified by the principal. This is yet another dominant factor which distinguishes an agent from a buyer—pure and simple. In Halsbury’s Laws of England, Vol. 1, 4th Edn., in para 807 at p. 485, the following observations are made: “807. Rights of agent. —The relation of principal and agent raises by implication a contract on the part of the principal to reimburse the agent in respect of all expenses, and to indemnify him against all liabilities, incurred in the reasonable performance of the agency, provided that such implication is not excluded by the express terms of the contract between them, and provided that such expenses and liabilities are in fact occasioned by his employment.” 12. The aforesaid in the context of distinction between a contract of sale and contract of agency observes that the agent is authorised to sell or buy on behalf of the principal, whereas the essence of contract of sale is the transfer of title of goods for the price paid or promised to be paid. In case of an agency to sell, the agent who sells them to the third parties, sells them not as his own property, but as a property of the principal, who continues to be the owner of the goods till the sale. The transferee is the debtor and liable to account for the price to be paid to the principal, and not to the agent for the proceeds of the sale. An agent is entitled to his fee or commission from the principal. 13. This distinction and test was referred to by this Court in Commissioner of Income Tax, Ahmedabad and Others v. Ahmedabad Stamp Vendors Association13, which is a case relating to Section 194-H of the Act. This Court had approved the decision of the High Court in Ahmedabad Stamp Vendors Association v. Union of India14. We may also refer to two more decisions of this Court. In the case 13 (2014) 16 SCC 114.