In addition, as some of the original provisions enacted in 1890 had continued without any change, a need for their replacement by new provisions more responsive to the needs of the present day was felt and some other provisions have become redundant. There has also been a demand, both within and outside Parliament, for the re-enactment of the Act so as to reflect the large number of changes that have occurred in the railways. It has, therefore, become necessary to consolidate and amend the law relating to railways by a new act. 2. The Bill, while giving effect to the changes that are necessary due to the change of circumstances, provides, among other things, for the following matters, namely: - (i) The railways are being administered by zonal railways. This position had not been given effect to in the Act. The Bill provides for the constitution of railway zones, abolition of existing zones and appointment of General Managers as heads of these railways administrations. (ii) Power has been given to the Central Government to fix the rates for the carriage of passengers and goods over the railways instead of the existing provisions to fix only the maximum and minimum rates for such carriage and leaving the fixation of specific rates to the railway administrations. In addition, the railway administrations are also being authorised to specify lump sum rates for the carriage of goods. (iii) In accordance with certain judicial pronouncements, the Bill provides for statutory recognition of the railway receipt as a negotiable instrument. (iv) The Bill specifically provides for limiting the monetary liability of railway administrations in respect of payment of compensation of loss, damage, etc. of goods. Provision has, however been made for full liability subject to the condition that the consignor while entrusting the goods to a railway administration 1082 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for carriage, should declare the value of the goods and pay a percentage charge on such value. (v) The offences included in the Act have been rationalised and a few new offences have also been included in the Bill. Punishment for some of the offences had not been changed since the enactment of the Act. Penalties provided for the offences under the Act have been made more stringent which would include, among other things, a minimum punishment for many of the offences. 3. The Bill seeks to achieve the aforesaid objects.” (Emphasis supplied) 27. The Act, 1989 is a consolidating and amending legislation relating to the Railways which received assent and came into force on 03.06.1989 replacing the erstwhile Act, 1890 by virtue of the repealing provision contained in Section 200 of the Act, 1989. The Act, 1989 is divided into 16 Chapters and 200 Sections. Chapter XI of the Act, 1989 sets out the provisions (Section(s) 93 to 112) relating to the Responsibilities of Railway Administration as Carriers, and it deals with claims for refund and compensation in respect of the goods carried by railway. 28. In addition to the aforesaid statute, the Railway Claims Tribunal Act, 1987 was also enacted for the establishment of the Railway Claims Tribunal with a view to provide the procedural framework and forum for inquiry, determination and adjudication of claims against the railway administration.