The respondent, thereafter, received an opportunity to submit a written representation, which he availed of. Further, he was afforded an opportunity of hearing as well. In this view, we are unable to find any violation of the principles of natural justice. 30. Before the Enquiry Officer, 13 witnesses and 75 documents were exhibited on behalf of the Authority. 3 witnesses deposed in defence of the delinquent employee-respondent. Considering the evidence on record, the Enquiry Officer by his report held certain charges levelled against the respondent to have been proved in full/part. Subsequently, a fresh Removal was passed, agreeing with the conclusions drawn by the enquiry officer. This Removal cannot be said to be based on ‘no evidence’. On perusal thereof, we find that the Removal is reasoned as on the aspects where the Disciplinary Authority disagreed with the Enquiry Officer’s report, reasons therefor have been assigned. On the areas of agreement, the Removal bears discussion on the relevant evidence. 31. It is well-settled that if the Disciplinary Authority accepts findings recorded by the Enquiry Officer and proceeds to impose punishment basis the same, no elaborate reasons are required, as explained by three learned Judges of this Court vide Boloram Bordoloi v Lakhimi Gaolia Bank, (2021) 3 SCC 806: ‘11. ... Further, it is well settled that if the disciplinary authority accepts the findings recorded by the enquiry officer and passes an , no detailed reasons are required to be recorded in the imposing punishment. The punishment is imposed based on the findings recorded in the enquiry report, as such, no further elaborate reasons are required to be given by the disciplinary authority. …’ 32. The Removal makes it clear that the Disciplinary Authority has considered the whole material before it and was satisfied to impose punishment on the respondent. 33. The observation on page 7 by the Division Bench makes it apparent that it was conscious of the proposition of law but still tried to make a distinction, which we do not find just and proper. It runs contrary to the record. Though arguments have been addressed [2024] 8 S.C.R. 173 The State of Rajasthan & Ors. v. Bhupendra Singh by the appellants with regard to each and every charge, we would not go individually into the same as we are not re-appreciating the evidence. Suffice it would be to say that broadly, the charges were proved based on the factual position, which, in turn, was based on official documentation, which at no point of time, the respondent has controverted or denied. The respondent has not alleged that the documents were non-existent/false/fabricated. 34. The learned Single Judge had also reasoned that there was no difference between the earlier of removal and the Removal passed subsequently. The learned Single Judge was of the view that simple reference to the respondent’s representation had been made, but without discussion thereon, as such, the Removal was passed mechanically and without reasons. Even though this ground has not been taken by the respondent qua the Impugned , we deem it fit to deal therewith.