The court might then in its discretion refuse to hear him until the impediment was removed or good reason was shown why it should not be removed.” 49. This decision was followed by the House of Lords in X Ltd. v. Morgan-Grampian Ltd.40 which also observes that the court will proceed with the contempt where a contemnor not only fails willfully and contumaciously to comply with an of the court, albeit makes it clear that he will continue to defy court’s authority. The courts in such circumstances may decline to entertain an appeal or hear a party unless they purge themselves. 50. It will be appropriate here to also quote from Halsbury’s Laws of England,41 which states: “Thus a party in contempt may apply to purge the contempt, he may apply with a view to setting aside the in which his contempt is founded, and in some cases he may be entitled to defend himself when some application 39 1952 (2) All ER 567 40 1990 (2) All ER 1 41 Volume 8, Third Edition 1108 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is subsequently made against him. Even the plaintiff in contempt has been allowed to prosecute his action, when the defendant had not applied to stay the proceedings. Probably the true rule is that the party in contempt will not be heard only on those occasions when his contempt impedes the course of justice and there is no other effective way of enforcing his obedience.” 51. This Court In the Matter of Anil Panjwani 42 has observed that it is no rule of law and certainly not a statutory rule that a contemnor cannot be heard unless the contempt is purged. It has only developed as a rule of practice for protecting the sanctity of the court proceedings and the dignity of the court that a person who is prima facie guilty of having attacked the court may be deprived of the right of participation in the hearing lest he should misuse such an opportunity unless he has agreed to disarm himself. The court would not be unjust in denying hearing to one who has shown his lack of worth by attacking the court unless he has agreed to beat a retreat and the court is convinced of the genuineness of such retreating. It lies within the discretion of the court to tell the contemner charged with having committed contempt of court that he will not be heard and would not be allowed participation in the court proceedings unless the contempt is purged. This is a flexible rule of practice and not a rigid rule of law. The discretion shall be guided and governed by the facts and circumstances of a given case. Where the court may form an opinion that the contemner is persisting in his behaviour and initiation of proceedings in contempt has had no deterrent or reformatory effect on him and/or if the disobedience by the contemner is such that so long as it continues it impedes the course of justice and/or renders it impossible for the court to enforce its s in respect of him, the court would be justified in withholding access to the court or participation in the proceedings from the contemner.