This principle, however, will not apply where the bargaining power of the contracting parties is equal or almost equal. This principle may not apply where both parties are businessmen and the contract is a commercial transaction. In today’s complex world of giant corporations with their vast infrastructural organizations and with the State through its instrumentalities and agencies entering into almost every branch of industry and commerce, there can be myriad situations which result in unfair and unreasonable bargains between parties possessing wholly disproportionate and unequal bargaining power. These cases can neither be enumerated nor fully illustrated. The court must judge each case on its own facts and circumstances.” (emphasis supplied) 144. The Court held that Rule 9(i) was void under Section 23 of the Contract Act for being opposed to public policy. The principle of unconscionability cannot be applied to contracts where: (i) the bargaining power of the contracting parties is equal or almost equal;259 and (ii) both parties are businessmen and the contract is a commercial transaction. This Court has held that the doctrine of unequal bargaining of parties does not generally apply to arbitration agreements, which are in the nature of commercial contracts.260 However, the principles of non-arbitrariness continue to apply in situations where a government instrumentality enters into a contract with a private party. 259 See Indian Bank v. Blue Jaggers Estates Ltd. (2010) 8 SCC 129 [23] [“23. It must be remembered that the respondents were not in a position of disadvantage vis-à-vis the appellant. If they so wanted, the respondents could have declined to avail loan and other financial facilities made available by the appellant. However, the fact of the matter is that they had signed the agreement with open eyes and agreed to abide by the terms on which the loan, etc. was offered by the appellant. Therefore, the doctrine of unconscionable contract cannot be invoked for frustrating the action initiated by the appellant for recovery of its dues.”]; ICOMM Tele Ltd. v. Punjab State Water Supply and Sewerage Board (2019) 4 SCC 401 [11]. 260 S K Jain v. State of Haryana (2009) 4 SCC 357 [8] [“8. It is to be noted that the plea relating to unequal bargaining power was made with great emphasis based on certain observations made by this Court in Central Inland Water Transport Corpn. Ltd. v. Brojo Nath Ganguly [(1986) 3 SCC 156 : 1986 SCC (L&S) 429 : (1986) 1 ATC 103] . The said decision does not in any way assist the appellant, because at para 89 it has been clearly stated that the concept of unequal bargaining power has no application in case of commercial contracts.”] 2266 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 145. The government has the freedom to enter into contracts with private parties. However, the award of governmental contracts is subject to the exercise of judicial review to prevent arbitrariness or favouritism.261 The government has to abide by the principles laid down under Article 14 while awarding contracts.262 In Food Corporation of India v. Kamdhenu Cattle Feed Industries,263 this Court held that in the “contractual sphere as in all other State actions, the State and all its instrumentalities have to conform to Article 14 of the Constitution of which non-arbitrariness is a significant facet.” It was further observed that since a public authority possesses powers only to use them for the public good, they have a duty to act fairly and “to adopt a procedure which is ‘fair play in action’.”264 146.