Explanation.—For the purposes of clause (e), if any approval of shareholders is required under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or any other law for the time being in force for the implementation of actions under the resolution plan, such approval shall be deemed to have been given and it shall not be a contravention of that Act or law. xx xx xx (4) The committee of creditors may approve a resolution plan by a vote of not less than sixty-six per cent of voting share of the financial creditors, after considering its feasibility and viability the manner of distribution proposed, which may take into account the of priority amongst creditors as laid down in sub-section (1) of Section 53, including the priority and value of the security interest of a secured creditor, and such other requirements as may be specified by the Board: xx xx xx 22. The first issue that arises for consideration in these appeals is whether the amendments made in the substantive portion of Section [2024] 1 S.C.R. 123 DBS BANK LIMITED SINGAPORE v. RUCHI SOYA INDUSTRIES LIMITED AND ANOTHER 30(2), in terms of Explanation 2 will be applicable when the first appeal was heard by the NCLAT. The Amendment Act was notified and came into effect on 16.08.2019. The appellant had preferred the first appeal before the NCLAT on 31.07.2019, which appeal was directed against the provisional approval passed by the NCLT on 24.07.2019. In our opinion, Explanation 2(ii) clearly states that an appeal preferred under Section 61 or 62, when it is not barred by time under any provision of law, shall be heard and decided after considering the amended Section 30(2)(b) under the Amendment Act. In fact, Explanation 2(i) states that the amended clause shall “also” apply to the CIRP of the corporate debtor where a resolution plan has not been approved or rejected by the adjudicating authority. Explanation 2(iii) states that the amended Section 30(2)(b) shall “also” apply where legal proceedings have been initiated in any court against the decision of the adjudicating authority. Clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of Explanation 2 reflect the wide expanse and width of the legislative intent viz. the application of the Amendment Act, whether proceedings are pending before the adjudicating authority, the appellate authority, or before any court in a proceeding against an of the adjudicating authority in respect of a resolution plan. Only when the resolution plan, as approved, has attained finality as no proceedings are pending, that the amendments will not apply to re-write the settled matter. 23. A three Judge Bench of this Court in Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Limited v. Satish Kumar Gupta & Ors.9, in paragraph 130, has observed that Explanation 2 applies to the substituted Section 30(2)(b) to pending proceedings either at the level of the adjudicating authority, appellate authority or in a writ or civil court. Referring to several decisions, it is observed that no vested right inheres in any resolution applicant who has plans approved under the Code.