13. When the Research Assistants have been re-designated as Lecturers and thereafter as Assistant Professors, it was submitted that they cannot be deprived of the benefit available to Lecturers. Learned counsel would canvass that the CAS does not provide that the benefit is not available to such incumbents, whose posts have been designated as Lecturers. The decision was rightly taken by the Board of the appellant to accord the benefit of CAS, which was unnecessarily objected to by the State Government. The submission was that such decision has been illegally reviewed by the appellant, under the directions of the State Government. 9 hereinafter referred to as the ‘1974 Act’. 182 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 14. Having perused the record and heard learned counsel for the parties, the Court finds that the dated 20.01.2011 passed by the Division Bench needs interference. The basic premise for allowing the claim of the original writ petitioners/instant Respondents No.1 to 54 to the benefit of CAS is that when Research Assistants have been designated as Lecturers and thereafter as Assistant Professors, they cannot be deprived of the benefit(s) available to Lecturers. 15. At this stage, it is worthwhile to refer to the earlier of this Court dated 25.04.1985 in Writ Petition No.9555/1984 and analogous cases, whereby it was clarified that the passed by the High Court and summary dismissal of the SLP (C) thereagainst, “had nothing to do with amalgamation of cadres, a common seniority list or a feeder source for further promotions” and reiterated that “Research Assistants and Lecturers are separate and distinct cadres.” Further, the Court went on to state that the only thing common would be that both would enjoy the same pay-scale as recommended by the UGC. The Court also observed that “Research Assistants and Lecturers will form separate cadres” and that “they need not be brought on a common seniority list only on the ground that both enjoy the same pay scale as recommended by the University Grants Commission”. 16. Subsequent to the Research Assistants (designated as teachers holding the post of Junior Lecturers or equivalent post) being designated as Lecturers, they were later re-designated as Assistant Professors, drawing the same pay-scale as admissible to other faculty members like Lecturers/Assistant professors. After this, the Government of India notified CAS vide Letter dated 22.07.1988 to make the revision of the pay-scales of teachers in universities and colleges. Every Lecturer was to be placed in a senior scale of Rs.3000-5000 if he had completed 8 years of service after regular appointment. In terms thereof, the Board in its Meeting held on 24.11.1988, resolved to give the revised UGC pay-scales to Lecturers and Research Assistants. The Board further resolved to designate Research Assistants and Lecturers as Assistant Professors. However, it was decided that persons duly/directly appointed as Assistant Professors would rank senior to the Lecturers/Research Assistants designated as Assistant Professors. This Resolution was again reviewed by the Board in its Meeting dated 28.01.1989 and [2024] 8 S.C.R.