Hence, they contended that the writ petitions cannot be considered to have been filed after a delay. Alternatively, they urged that delay, per se, would not be fatal to their claim because the doctrine of laches is not applicable when substantial questions of law are involved. In the instant case, since the dispute involves questions like the security of the state, the rights of Assamese people under Article 29, the discrimination against the State of Assam, etc., the petitions should not be barred at the threshold on the grounds of delay. 58. The primary issue to be determined, therefore, is whether the current writ petitions should be dismissed outright due to delay without delving into the merits of the Petitioners’ claims. (a) Limitation period for writs 59. In India, the Limitation Act, 1963 sets out the maximum period within which suits, appeals, and applications must be filed before the court. Cases brought after this prescribed period are typically barred due to delay unless the court decides to condone the delay. However, it is important to note that the Limitation Act, 1963 does not apply to writ proceedings and, therefore, does not specify a particular time limit within which a writ needs to be filed.59 Similarly, though the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 specify the time limit for certain petitions that the Limitation Act, 1963 does not cover (such as Special Leave Petitions),60 these Rules too do not specify the limitation period for filing a writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution. 60. However, while such a period is not prescribed by the Limitation Act, 1963, or the Supreme Court Rules, 2013, a writ petition filed belatedly after a considerable delay is barred by the operation of the doctrine of laches.61 The said doctrine of laches is a common 59 Tilokchand & Motichand v. HB Munshi (1969) 1 SCC 110, para 9. 60 Supreme Court Rules, 2013, XXI Rule 1. 61 Aflatoon v. Lt. Governor of Delhi (1975) 4 SCC 285, para 11; Narayani Debi Khaitan v. State of Bihar, 1964 SCC OnLine SC 1, paras 8 and 13. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1045 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 law principle disallowing a claim because it has been brought to the court after an unreasonable lapse of time. It is based on the maxim ‘vigilantibus non dormientibus jura subveniunt’, which means that the law assists those who are vigilant with their rights and not those that sleep thereupon. Hence, even in the absence of the prescription of a statutory time limit for its filing, a claim that has been filed after a significant delay can be rejected at the threshold by invoking this doctrine. 61. Indeed, the laches principle bears similarities to the Limitation Act, 1963, as both are founded on similar policy considerations. A claim brought after considerable delay may not be entertained because third-party rights may have been established during this time-lapse, and it would be unjust to prejudice innocent parties due to the tardiness of the claimant.62 Additionally, considering a delayed claim could be unfair to the opposing party, as they may have lost access to crucial evidence needed to defend against the claim.