Hussain v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi).20 Additionally, it was stated that the High Court has the power to re-investigation while relying on the of this court in Devendra Nath Singh v. State of Bihar.21 (v) That the appellant did not avail the remedy of approaching the High Court or this Court upon receiving summons from the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chengalpattu, or during the initial stages of the trial proceedings. It was further stated that the appellant approached the High Court only subsequent to the examination of 34 prosecution witnesses and after the completion of the chief examination of the concerned Investigating Officer, at that stage the appellant was fully aware that sufficient evidence had been adduced to sustain a conviction against him. 11. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties. The issues which arise for the consideration before this court are: (i) Whether the High Court was justified in directing re-investigation and retrial of the same offence on the same set of facts, after 18 (2017) 12 SCC 699 19 (1964) 1 SCR 926 20 (2012) 9 SCC 408 21 (2023) 1 SCC 48 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1563 P. Manikandan v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. acquitting the accused by giving him the benefit of doubt? In other words, when considering an appeal against conviction under Section 386(b)(i) of Cr.P.C., is the High Court empowered to direct re-investigation, if yes, then could such a direction be given while acquitting the accused, in the very same ; (ii) Whether, in the attending fact and circumstances, the de novo investigation violated the principle of double jeopardy and the appellant’s right under Article 20(ii) of the Constitution of India and Section 300 of the Cr.P.C. 12. In the present case, the High Court acquitted the appellant and directed to transfer the documents and relevant material to conduct the de novo investigation before CBI on the same facts for the same offences and to proceed against the appellant in accordance with law, by exercising the power under Section 386 of Cr.P.C. 13. The power of the Appellate Court as described under Section 386 of Cr.P.C is extracted below: “386. Power of the Appellate Court- After perusing such record and hearing the appellant or his pleader, if he appears, and the Public Prosecutor, if he appears, and in case of an appeal under section 377 or section 378, the accused, if he appears, the Appellate Court may, if it considers that there is no sufficient ground for interfering, dismiss the appeal, or may – a. in an appeal from an of acquittal, reverse such and direct that further inquiry be made, or that the accused be re-tried or committed for trial, as the case may be, or find him guilty and pass sentence on him according to law; b. in an appeal from a conviction (i) reverse the finding and sentence and acquit or discharge the accused, or him to be re-tried by a Court of competent jurisdiction subordinate to such Appellate Court or committed for trial, or (ii) alter the finding, maintaining the sentence, or 1564 [2024] 12 S.C.R.