We must, however, evolve such process which will work.” (Emphasis supplied) [See also: Dwarkadas Marfatia & Sons v. Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay : (1989) 3 SCC 293 at para 27.] 46. In LIC v. Consumer Education & Research Centre reported in (1995) 5 SCC 482, the Court held that the law as it stood earlier that a State or its instrumentality whose action is hedged with public element cannot be called into question because such action was in the field of private law is no longer a good law. The relevant observations read as under: - “23. Every action of the public authority or the person acting in public interest or any act that gives rise to public element, 564 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports should be guided by public interest. It is the exercise of the public power or action hedged with public element (sic that) becomes open to challenge. If it is shown that the exercise of the power is arbitrary, unjust and unfair, it should be no answer for the State, its instrumentality, public authority or person whose acts have the insignia of public element to say that their actions are in the field of private law and they are free to prescribe any conditions or limitations in their actions as private citizens, simpliciter do in the field of private law. Its actions must be based on some rational and relevant principles. It must not be guided by irrational or irrelevant considerations. Every administrative decision must be hedged by reasons. [...] xxx xxx xxx 26. This Court has rejected the contention of an instrumentality or the State that its action is in the private law field and would be immuned from satisfying the tests laid under Article 14. The dichotomy between public law and private law rights and remedies, though may not be obliterated by any strait-jacket formula, it would depend upon the factual matrix. The adjudication of the dispute arising out of a contract would, therefore, depend upon facts and circumstances in a given case. The distinction between public law remedy and private law field cannot be demarcated with precision. Each case will be examined on its facts and circumstances to find out the nature of the activity, scope and nature of the controversy. The distinction between public law and private law remedy has now become too thin and practicably obliterated.” (Emphasis supplied) 47. This Court in Consumer Education & Research Centre (supra) further held that the writ jurisdiction of the courts cannot be shackled by technicalities and that any action of the State which has a public law element or a public character, such actions by their nature are required to be just, fair, reasonable & in the interest of public, and as such they would be amenable to judicial review. As to what is meant by actions bearing insignia of public law element, this Court held that wherever the action of a State or its instrumentality in the sphere of [2024] 7 S.C.R.