1 Sudhir Vilas Kalel has failed to produce his Caste Validity Certificate within the prescribed time as per Section 10(1A) of the Panchayats Act. Proceedings arising from the No Confidence Motion 22. On 13.06.2023, eight Members moved a No Confidence Motion against Appellant No. 2-Sushila Sitaram Kalel, expressing No Confidence in her being the Sarpanch. The eight Respondents herein voted in favour of the No Confidence Motion. If Appellant No.1 was entitled to sit, the total number of members would be eleven and eight members voting would only constitute 72.73%. If the Appellant No.1 was not entitled to sit, then the total number of members would be ten and eight members voting would constitute 80%. On 19.06.2023, on the ground that there was absence of minimum three-fourth of the Members voting in favour of the motion, the No Confidence Motion was ed as rejected. The relevant part of Section 35 of the Panchayats Act which deals with the process of No Confidence Motion is extracted below: “35. Motion of no confidence. – (1) A motion of no confidence may be moved by not less than two third of the total number of the members who are for the time being entitled to sit and vote at any meeting of the panchayat against the Sarpanch or the Upa-Sarpanch after giving such notice thereof to the Tahsildar as may be prescribed. Such notice once given shall not be withdrawn. 182 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) Within seven days from the date of receipt by him of the notice under sub-section (1), the Tahasildar, shall convene a special meeting of the panchayat at a time to be appointed by him and he shall preside over such meeting. At such special meeting, the Sarpanch or the Upa- Sarpanch against whom the motion of no confidence is moved shall have a right to speak or otherwise to take part in the proceedings at the meeting including the right to vote. (3) If the motion is carried by a majority of not less than three-fourth of the total number of the members who are for the time being entitled to sit and vote at any meeting of the panchayat or the Upa-Sarpanch, as the case may be, shall forthwith stop exercising all the powers and perform all the functions and duties of the office and thereupon such powers, functions and duties shall vest in the Upa-Sarpanch in case the motion is carried out against the Sarpanch; and in case the motion is carried out against both the Sarpanch and Upa-Sarpanch, in such officer, not below the rank of Extension Officer, as may be authorised by the Block Development Officer, till the dispute, if any, referred to under sub-section (3B) is decided: …” 23. On 23.06.2023, respondents no. 1 to 8 filed a Writ Petition before the High Court praying that the No Confidence Motion against Appellant No. 2 be declared to be duly and validly carried, and for consequential directions directing the Appellant No.