This Court has had the occasion to examine the aforementioned provisions in the Articles in multiple decisions. While it is true that Article 234 mandates consultation with the Public Service Commission and the High Court, the five-judge Constitution Bench of this Court in State of Bihar v. Bal Mukund Sah39 (for short “Bal Mukund”), noted that there is a fine distinction in the nature of consultation between the two: “51. As seen earlier, consultation with the High Court as envisaged by Article 234 is for fructifying the constitutional mandate of preserving the independence of the Judiciary, which is its basic structure. The Public Service Commission has no such constitutional imperative to be fulfilled. The scope of the examining body’s consultation can never be equated with that of consultation with the appointing body whose agent is the former. It is also pertinent to note that the essence of consultation is the communication of a genuine invitation to give advice and a genuine consideration of that advice which in turn depends on sufficient information and time being given to the party concerned to enable it to tender useful advice. It is difficult to appreciate how the Governor while consulting the Public Service Commission before promulgating the rules of recruitment under Article 234 has to solicit similar type of advice as he would solicit from the High Court on due consultation. The advice which in the process of consultation can be tendered by the Public Service Commission will confine itself to the constitutional requirements of Article 320. They are entirely 39 [2000] 2 SCR 299 : (2000) 4 SCC 640 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 585 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. different from the nature of consultation and advice to be solicited from the High Court which is having full control over the Subordinate Judiciary under Article 235 of the Constitution and is directly concerned with the drafting of efficient judicial appointments so that appropriate material will be available to it through the process of selection both at the grass-root level and at the apex level of the District Judiciary. Consultation, keeping in view the role of the High Court under Article 234 read with Article 235, stands on an entirely different footing as compared to the consultation with the Public Service Commission which has to discharge its functions of an entirely different type as envisaged by Article 320 of the Constitution.” 87. It is well-settled that the consultation with the High Court as envisaged in Article 234 is to preserve the constitutional mandate of the Independence of the judiciary which forms part of the basic structure of the Constitution of India. The consultation with the High Court must be given primacy in matters of judicial recruitment as compared to the consultation with the Public Service Commission. 88. With the above understanding of the law, let us now refer to Article 320 of the Constitution of India which is extracted below: “Functions of Public Service Commission (1) It shall be the duty of the Union and the State Public Service Commissions to conduct examinations for appointments to the services of the Union and the services of the State respectively.