of Chandigarh under Article 342 even though a notification under Article 341 for the Scheduled Castes in Chandigarh had been issued. Thus, it was enquired as to whether the Scheduled Tribes category could be entitled to a minimum reservation of 5%. In response to the request of the Appellant, the clarification issued by the Research Officer to the Finance Secretary of the Chandigarh Administration vide letter dated 21.09.1983 referred to the Brochure on Reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and noted that even if the population of the Scheduled Tribe community was less than 5%, a minimum reservation of 5% could be made even for the Scheduled Tribes in respect of all built houses/dwelling units. Being aggrieved by the non-allotment of a house, the respondent-plaintiff approached the civil Court. 5. The respondent instituted Civil Suit No. 327/1984 in the Court of Senior Sub Judge, Chandigarh seeking a declaration that the appellant’s decision to not allot houses earmarked for Scheduled Tribes was mala fide. It was stated that he belongs to the Scheduled Tribes community as recognized in the State of Rajasthan and had been permanently residing in Chandigarh for twenty years. 6. The suit was contested by the appellant herein by averring that no right much less a legal right to allotment of four houses kept in abeyance could accrue to the Scheduled Tribes in the absence of the notification of any Scheduled Tribe by the President of India in so far as Union Territory of Chandigarh was concerned. 7. By and decree of the trial court dated 09.01.1986, the suit was decreed by the trial Court on the basis of the letter of [2024] 2 S.C.R. 375 Chandigarh Housing Board v. Tarsem Lal clarification dated 21.09.1983 from which the trial court inferred that the Appellant was obliged to reserve a minimum of 5% dwelling units for Scheduled Tribes. The said letter was found to be ‘good for all purpose’ and all the four applicants belonging to the Schedules Tribe category were held to be entitled to the allotment. While noting that Article 342 of the Constitution had not been ‘made applicable to the U.T. Chandigarh’, the trial court concluded that it would not mean that Scheduled Tribes cannot get any benefit from the Chandigarh Administration. The trial court reasoned that the advertisement dated 28.06.1983 did not stipulate that only members of the Scheduled Tribes of Chandigarh could apply. Therefore, the respondent was decreed to be entitled to allotment of the house at the price fixed on the date of draw of lots dated 09.09.1983. 8. Being aggrieved by the and decree of the trial Court, the appellant herein preferred Civil Appeal No. 295/1990 before the First Appellate Authority (Additional District Judge), which was also dismissed. Hence, the appellant herein preferred Regular Second Appeal No. 1570/1991 (O&M) before the High Court. By the impugned , the Regular Second Appeal has also been dismissed. The High Court placed reliance on the Chandigarh Administration’s letter of clarification dated 21.09.1983 (Exhibit D-3) and the Ministry of Home Affairs’ Letter No.