2. I am also in agreement with the opinion of Brother Justice Gavai that ‘creamy layer’ principle is also applicable to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and that the criteria for exclusion of creamy layer for the purpose of affirmative action could be different from the criteria as applicable to the Other Backward Classes. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1583 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. Bela M. Trivedi, J. 1. Though unanimity and consensus in the opinions expressed by the larger Benches on the Constitutional matters are desirable for the sake of certainty and strength of the law laid down, I for one, believe that the “dissent” for well-chosen reasons would be equally important for an effective adjudication in a democratic functioning of judiciary, which would have a potential to develop the law in future. 2. Justice William O. Douglas of the US Supreme Court,1 a great dissenter who had written as many as 486 dissenting opinions, had stated: “The right to dissent is the only thing that makes life tolerable for a Judge of an Appellate Court…………. It is the right of dissent, not the right or duty to conform, which gives dignity, worth, and individuality to man”. 3. Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, another great dissenter, in his first dissent in the Supreme Court in Northern Securities Company Vs. The United States (1903) 2 had stated: “I am unable to agree with the of the majority of the Court, and although I think it useless and undesirable, as a rule, to express dissent, I feel bound to do so in this case and to give my reasons for it………” 4. With somewhat similar feelings, and with due respect, I beg to differ from the erudite expression of opinions expressed by the Learned Chief Justice and my esteemed Brothers Justice B.R. Gavai and Justice Pankaj Mithal, and pen down my own opinion with reasons for my dissent. 5. For the sake of brevity and avoid repetition, the facts and the submissions made by the learned advocates for the parties as narrated in the opinion expressed by the learned Chief Justice, are not reiterated. At the outset, it may be noted that neither the Referral made in the State of Punjab and Others vs. Davinder Singh and Others,3 contains a formulation of precise questions nor the dated 12.10.2023 made in the Reference case sets out specific 1 Bernard Schwartz, A Book of Legal Lists: The Best and Worst in American Law P.283 2 193 U.S. 197 (1903) 3 (2020) 8 SCC 65 1584 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports questions for consideration by this Bench. Hence, having regard to the opinions expressed in Davinder Singh and in E.V. Chinnaiah vs. State of Andhra Pradesh and Others,4 and having regard to the submissions - oral and written - made by the learned advocates for the parties, following substantial questions of law are formulated for consideration. (I) Whether the law laid down by the Five-Judge Bench in E.V.