iv. The view taken by SBP & Co. (supra) and Boghara Polyfab (supra) was seen by the legislature as causing delays in the disposal of Section 11 petitions, and with a view to overcome the same, Section 11(6-A) was introduced in the Act, 1996 to limit the scope of enquiry under Section 11 only to the extent 896 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of determining the “existence” of an arbitration agreement. This intention was acknowledged and given effect to by this Court in the decision in Duro Felguera (supra) wherein it was held that the enquiry under Section 11 only entailed an examination whether an arbitration agreement existed between the parties or not and “nothing more or nothing less”. v. Despite the introduction of Section 11(6-A) and the decision in Duro Felguera (supra), there have been diverging views of this Court on whether the scope of referral court under Section 11 of the Act, 1996 includes the power to go into the question of “accord and satisfaction”. In Antique Art (supra) it was held that unless some prima facie proof of duress or coercion is adduced by the claimant, there could not be a referral of the disputes to arbitration. This view, however, was overruled in Mayavati Trading (supra) which reiterated the view taken in Duro Felguera (supra) and held that post the 2015 amendment to the Act, 1996, it was no more open to the Court while exercising its power under Section 11 of the Act, 1996 to go into the question of whether “accord and satisfaction” had taken place. vi. The decision in Vidya Drolia (supra) although adopted the view taken in Mayawati Trading (supra) yet it provided that in exceptional cases, where it was manifest that the claims were ex-facie time barred and deadwood, the Court could interfere and refuse reference to arbitration. Recently, this view in the context of “accord and satisfaction” was adopted in NTPC v. SPML (supra) wherein the “eye of the needle” test was elaborated. It permits the referral court to reject arbitration in such exceptional cases where the plea of fraud or coercion appears to be ex-facie frivolous and devoid of merit. 93. Thus, the position after the decisions in Mayavati Trading (supra) and Vidya Drolia (supra) is that ordinarily, the Court while acting in exercise of its powers under Section 11 of the Act, 1996, will only look into the existence of the arbitration agreement and would refuse arbitration only as a demurrer when the claims are ex-facie frivolous and non-arbitrable. iii. What is the effect of the decision of this Court in In Re: Interplay Between Arbitration Agreements under the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 897 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 and the Indian Stamp Act 1899 on the scope of powers of the referral court under Section 11 of the Act, 1996? 94. A seven-Judge Bench of this Court, in In Re: Interplay Between Arbitration Agreements under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 and the Indian Stamp Act 1899 reported in 2023 INSC 1066, speaking eruditely through one of us, Dr Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, Chief Justice of India, undertook a comprehensive analysis of Sections 8 and 11 respectively of the Act, 1996 and, inter alia, made poignant observations about the nature of the power vested in the Courts insofar as the aspect of appointment of arbitrator is concerned.