(x). Whether there was any issue of readiness and willingness relevant in a case where, at the time of entering into the Agreement to Sell, the purchaser had paid the entire sale consideration to the seller? 24. We now proceed to deal with the each of the above points framed by us to test whether the of the Trial Court or the High Court deserved to be maintained. 1. AGREEMENT TO SELL DATED 30.08.1990 25. In all, there are seven Agreements to Sell executed by Sushila Devi in favour of different purchasers on 30.08.1990, and accordingly, seven suits were filed. Before us, only six purchasers are in appeal. With respect to the 7th purchaser, apparently the matter is pending before the High Court or the Trial Court. One of the purchasers is K.D. Maheshwari, who is the plaintiff in suit RCS No. 48-A/01. He held the Power of Attorney for the four other purchasers who are before us. K.D. Maheshwari appeared as PW-1 in five suits, either 2400 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports as the plaintiff in his own suit or as the Power of Attorney holder for the other four plaintiffs. In one case, the plaintiff Bharat Kumar Lathi had executed Power of Attorney in favour of Pankaj Maheshwari. In the said suit, he examined himself as PW-I. K.D. Maheshwari proved the execution of the Agreement to Sell, the payment of the full consideration to Sushila Devi, and also that Sushila Devi and the witnesses duly signed the Agreement to Sell. In addition, the plaintiffs examined one of the attesting witnesses to the Agreement to Sell, namely Dipesh Chandra Patni as PW-2. Further, M.K. Maheshwari, who had a registered Power of Attorney from Sushila Devi executed on 04.09.1990, was also examined as PW-3, and he supported the plaintiffs stating that Sushila Devi had executed the Agreement to Sell after receiving the full consideration. The plaintiffs also examined Mr. R.K. Pathik, a handwriting expert, to prove that the signatures on the Agreement to Sell were that of Sushila Devi. 26. The plaintiff-appellants, thus, discharged their burden of proving the transaction between Sushila Devi and the plaintiffs on 13.08.1990, the passing of the consideration, and the execution of Agreement to Sell. 27. Coming to the evidence of defendant-respondents, the legal heirs of Sushila Devi, one Mohd. Shakir Khan was examined as DW-1, one of the legal heirs of Sushila Devi namely Vinod Aggarwal was examined as DW-2, and one N.C. Deshpande, a handwriting expert, was examined as DW-3. Mohd. Shakir Khan is the subsequent purchaser. He had no personal knowledge of the transaction that took place on 30.08.1990 at the time of execution of the Agreement to Sell. Vinod Kumar Aggarwal was one of the sons of Sushila Devi, and was admittedly not residing with her. Defendants had set up a case that the Agreement to Sell was a forged document, and had denied its execution and also passing of any consideration. In support of their allegation of forgery, the defendant had examined Mr. N.C. Deshpande, a handwriting expert, as PW-3.