In this respect, the following aspects are relevant: a) The Coordinate Bench in Canon India (supra) observed that: “14. It is well known that when a statute directs that the things be done in a certain way, it must be done in that way alone. As in this case, when the statute directs that “the proper officer” can determine duty not levied/not paid, it does not mean any proper officer but that proper officer alone. We find it completely impermissible to allow an officer, who has not passed the original of assessment, to re-open the assessment on the grounds that the duty was not paid/not levied, by the original officer who had decided to clear the goods and who was competent and authorised to make the assessment. The nature of the power conferred by Section 28(4) to recover duties which have escaped assessment is in the nature of an administrative review of an act. The section must therefore be construed as conferring the power of such review on the same officer or his successor or any other officer who has been assigned the function of assessment. In other words, an officer who did the assessment, could only undertake re-assessment [which is involved in Section 28(4)] ” [Emphasis supplied] 322 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b) According to Canon India (supra), only “the proper officer” empowered to undertake the exercise of assessment or re-assessment under Section 17 in a jurisdictional area can perform the functions of “the proper officer” under Section 28 of the Act, 1962 as the exercise involved in Section 28 is the re-assessment of duty. The defect pointed out by the Court in Canon India (supra) is that the DRI officers were not “the proper officers” who undertook the exercise of assessment under Section 17. Hence, they lacked the jurisdiction to issue show cause notices under Section 28. The reasoning given by the Court was that any other reading of the expression “proper officers” would lead to a multiplicity of proper officers competent to perform functions under Section 28, which would result in the perpetuation of chaos and confusion as pointed out in Sayed Ali (supra). c) However, the apprehension expressed is unfounded in our opinion especially in context of the Customs department’s policy of exclusion of jurisdiction of other competent proper officers once a particular proper officer empowered to issue a show cause notice under Section 28 has issued it. Such a policy acts as an adequate safeguard in our view. d) We find that the ouster of jurisdiction of DRI to issue show cause notices under Section 28 once an assessment has been done under Section 17 is not a defect at all in light of Notification No. 44/2011 dated 06.07.2011 and new Section 17 as amended by the Finance Act, 2011. We have already recorded a finding in the foregoing segments of this that these facts were not considered in Canon India (supra) and therefore, become the basis of the review petition herein.