2023 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. executive and academic officer of the University, and shall exercise general supervision and control over the affairs of the University and give effect to the decisions of all the authorities of the University. The powers of the ‘Court’ were revised but remained significantly curtailed. 238. The amendment in 1981 rescinded Section 23 to its position prior to 1965, which had resulted in the ‘Court’ being demoted to a consultative body. It amended Section 17 to provide that the Chancellor to be elected by the ‘Court’. The 1981 amendment deleted the portion in Section 8 which restricted the University from adopting or imposing any test of religious belief or profession for admissions or appointments as teacher or other office. The 1981 amendment also made three specific changes which are a subject matter of the present petitions and deserve to be quoted in full : Previous provision Amended provision (1) “University” means the Aligarh (1) “University” means the Muslim University educational institution of their choice established by the Muslims of India, which originated as the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College, Aligarh, and which was subsequently incorporated as the Aligarh Muslim University. An Act to establish and incorporate An Act to incorporate a teaching a teaching and residential Muslim and residential Muslim University University at Aligarh. at Aligarh. WHEREAS it is expedient to WHEREAS it is expedient establish and incorporate a teaching to incorporate a teaching and and residential Muslim University residential Muslim University at Aligarh, and to dissolve the at Aligarh, and to dissolve the Societies registered under the Societies registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860), which are respectively (21 of 1860), which are respectively known as the Muhammadan Anglo- known as the Muhammadan Anglo- Oriental College, Aligarh, and the Oriental College, Aligarh, and the Muslim University Association, and Muslim University Association, and to transfer to and vest in the said to transfer to and vest in the said University all properties and rights of University all properties and rights of the said Societies and of the Muslim the said Societies and of the Muslim University Foundation Committee; University Foundation Committee; 2024 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 5. Powers of the University— The 5. Powers of the University— The University shall have the following University shall have the following power, namely:- power, namely:- xxx xxx 2 (c) to promote especially the educational and cultural advancement of the Muslims of India; 239. From a perusal of the same, it is clear that through a legislative device, the question as to who established the AMU, was sought to be laid out. As stated above, the legislative declaration as to the fact of establishment or incorporation, while relevant, cannot be sole basis of the enquiry required under Article 30. Further, the said amendments may have been without any controversy had the fact as to who established the AMU in 1920 was not already finally decided by this Court in Azeez Basha [supra].