Paragraph No.2 mentions the details of the amount received by the Defendant under the Agreement to Sell as advance until the time the compromise was arrived at. It would be relevant to mention that the total sale consideration was Rs.40,000/- out of which as per paragraph No.2 of the Compromise Deed, Rs.15,000/- had already been received by the Defendants. Paragraph No.3 mentions that the Defendant No.1 will get the Sale Deed executed and registered in favour of the Plaintiff till 01.07.1978 after receiving Rs.25,000/- of the remaining sale consideration. It, however, mentioned that if the Defendant No.1 does not execute the Sale Deed till 01.07.1978, the Plaintiff would be entitled to get the Sale Deed executed and registered in his favour through the Court. The cost of registration would be borne equally by the Plaintiff and Defendant No.1. It was further mentioned that Defendant No.1 had also received half of the cost of registration from the Plaintiff and furthermore, the responsibility to receive the NOC would be of Defendant No.1. Paragraph No.4 mentions that Saeeduddin–Defendant No.2 was residing on the third floor of the suit property which Defendant No.1-Ghulam Mohiuddin would get vacated and ensure that physical possession is delivered to the Plaintiff-Rehan Ahmed prior to registration. Further, the rent notes executed by the tenants who are presently occupying the suit property, would be executed by the tenants in favour of Rehan Ahmed. One Ahsan Ahmed has been impleaded as proforma defendant in respect of whom it was stated in paragraph No.5 of the Compromise Deed that he had relinquished his entire right to the property in favour of the Plaintiff–Rehan Ahmed through a Deed of Relinquishment dated 28.06.1977 which was accepted by the Court vide dated 28.09.1977. In paragraph No.6 it was stated that Defendant No.2-Saeeduddin admitted that he did not have the right to sell or execute the Agreement to Sell but now Defendant No.1, who was the real owner of the suit property, admits this agreement. Therefore, there is no hindrance in passing the compromise decree. The property was also described in the Compromise Deed to be a pacca house comprising of three stories and one chauk including the entire internal houses of the three storeys and five shops 702 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports outside along with the staircase adjoining the shops. The house was numbered as 54/1 in the municipal records, whereas the five shops were numbered as 52, 53, 55, 56 and 57. Thus the entire property in question including the house of the five shops having municipal numbers 52 to 57 (except 54), Circle No.1. 5. The Addl.District & Sessions Judge, Court No.1, Jaipur City, Jaipur proceeded with the compromise and required the same to be duly verified for which due time was granted to the parties. On 09.05.1979, initially the suit was dismissed in the absence of the Plaintiff. However, on the same date, upon an application being filed, the case was again taken up on board. The Trial Court recorded that Rehan Ahmed and that Mohiuddin (Defendant No.1) had executed the compromise.