However, if the State deems it necessary to alter or cancel a contract on the ground of public interest or change in policy then such considerations must be bona-fide and should be earnestly reflected in the decision-making process and also in the final decision itself. We say so because otherwise, it would have a very chilling effect as participating and winning a tender would tend to be viewed as a situation worse than losing one at the threshold. H. FINAL CONCLUSION 130. We are of the considered opinion that the litigation at hand is nothing but a classic textbook case of an arbitrary exercise of powers by the respondent in cancelling the tender that was issued in favour of the appellant and that too at the behest of none other than the concerned Minister-In-Charge and thereby rendering the Notice of Cancellation dated 07.02.2023 illegal. 131. During the course of hearing, we were informed that the appellant herein pursuant to the terms of the subject tender had erected multiple structures at different sites on the concerned underpasses 610 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for displaying advertisements at a huge personal cost. He has made significant investments pursuant to the tender. 132. As, we have held the Notice of Cancellation dated 07.02.2023 to be non-est, the issuance of a fresh tender to any third-party in respect of the same work would not defeat the vested rights that accrued in favour of the appellant. Similarly, the handing over of the operation and maintenance of the E.M. Bypass to the KMC also would have no bearing whatsoever, on the rights that stood vested in the appellant as on the date of cancellation of the tender. Such vested rights would continue to operate notwithstanding any change in the control and maintenance of the underpasses. 133. The dated 16.09.2023 passed by the Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Department, Government of West Bengal merely transferred the operation and maintenance of the underpasses including the right to receive revenue from KMDA to KMC and therefore will have no effect on any rights that accrued in favour of the appellant as such rights are independent of the authority in control of operations and maintenance. 134. Thus, for all the foregoing reasons, the appeal succeeds and is hereby allowed. The notice of cancellation dated 07.02.2023 is quashed and the impugned and passed by the High Court is hereby set aside. 135. Pending application(s), if any, also stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey