24. He further urged that the trivial contradictions in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses cannot be considered sufficient so as to discard the entire prosecution case which is based on unimpeachable direct as well as circumstantial evidence. He further contended that the trial Court and the High Court have recorded concurrent findings of facts in the impugned s after appreciating the evidence available on record and thus this Court should not feel persuaded 348 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to interfere in the conviction of the accused while exercising the jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. On these grounds, he implored the Court to dismiss the appeals and affirm the impugned s. 25. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at bar and have gone through the impugned s and the evidence placed on record. Discussion and Conclusion: - 26. At the outset, we are of the opinion that the very inception of the prosecution case is shrouded under a grave cloud of doubt and we shall record our reasons for the above conclusion while discussing the prosecution evidence. It is undisputed that neither the victim Sachin Garg nor his family members ever reported the incident to the police. Sachin Garg(PW-2) deposed that when he was driving on the road dividing Sectors 17 and 18, three miscreants obstructed his path. They had come in a Maruti car. One of them placed a pistol against the head of Sachin Garg and asked him to shift to the adjoining seat. The other assailant was armed with a knife and he directed Sachin Garg to shift to the rear seat of the car and snatched away his gold chain. The person holding the pistol came and sat beside him. The third assailant who too was armed with a knife, occupied the driver’s seat and extended a threat. His wrist watch, ATM card, identity card and some cash amount were also snatched away by the same person who had taken the gold chain. The miscreants then put a blindfold on his eyes and drove away the car. Sachin Garg(PW-2) admitted that while being blindfolded, he could identify the driver as Gaurav Bhalla(A2). He was taken to an unknown location where they reached after driving for 45 minutes. He was kept confined in a room for the entire night with the blind-fold. He overheard the accused appellants talking to each other and, thus, he managed to catch their names. Then, he was taken in a car and accused appellants told him that they would be releasing him at a place from where, his father would pick him up. He was extended a threat that in case he disclosed about the occurrence to anyone, his entire family would be eliminated. He was dropped off after some time. He opened the blind-fold(patti) and found himself standing in Sector 20, Panchkula. Ten to fifteen minutes later, his father arrived and took him home. Thereafter, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 349 Gaurav Maini v. The State of Haryana he came to know that his father had paid a sum of Rs.