Explanation 2.-- For the purposes of this clause it is hereby declared that on and from the date of com- mencement of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code [Amendment] Act, 2019, the provisions of this clause shall also apply to the corporate insolvency resolution process of a corporate debtor---- (i) where the resolution plan has not been approved or rejected by the adjudicating authority; (ii) where an appeal has been preferred under section 61 or section 62 or such an appeal is not time barred under any provision of law for the time being in force; or (iii) where a legal proceeding has been initiated in any court against the decision of the adjudicating authority in respect of a resolution plan; (c) provides for the management of the affairs of the corporate debtor after approval of the resolution plan; (d) the implementation and supervision of the resolution plan; (e) does not contravene any of the provisions of the law for the time being in force; (f) conforms to such other requirements as may be specified by the Board. 16 [2022] 5 SCR 319 : (2023) 1 SCC 724 17 Section 5(8).—“financial debt” means a debt along with interest, if any, which is disbursed against the consideration for the time value of money and includes – (a) money borrowed against the payment of interest; (b) any amount raised by acceptance under any acceptance credit facility or its dematerialised equiva- lent; (c) any amount raised pursuant to any note, purchase facility or the issue of bonds, notes, debentures, loan stock or any similar instrument; (d) the amount of any liability in respect of any lease or higher purchase contract which is deemed as a financial or capital lease under the Indian Accounting Standards or such other accounting standards as may be prescribed; (e) receivables sold or discounted other than any receivables sold on non-recourse basis; 268 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports creditor to a debtor, and as the lease executed by the appellant was not a financial lease or capital lease, the appellant does not qualify as a financial creditor; (iii) the resolution plan was approved by the Adjudicating Authority on 04.08.2020, and the successful resolution applicant (SRA) seeking implementation of the plan informed the appellant vide letter dated 24.09.2020 about the plan, yet I.A. No.344/ 2021 was not filed before 06.10.2020 and I.A. No. 1380/2021, seeking recall, was filed only on 15.03.2021, which shows that the appellant had not been diligent in pursuing its right, if any, therefore the challenge, post approval of the resolution plan, is liable to be rejected; and (iv) there appears no material irregularity in the approval of the Resolution Plan, particularly, when the commercial wisdom of the COC is not justiciable. 13. We have heard Sri Ravindra Kumar, learned senior counsel, for the appellant; Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned senior counsel, for respondent no.2 (Resolution Applicant); and Sri V.M. Kannan for respondent no.1 (Resolution Professional). Submissions on behalf of the appellant 14. The learned counsel for the appellant, inter alia, submitted: (a) There is no dispute that appellant had submitted its claim with proof on 30.01.2020 as a financial creditor having security interest over the assets of the CD.