Dakshin, District Firozabad are hereby quashed.” (emphasis supplied) 20. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant (complainant) is here before this Court with the present appeal. B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 21. Mr. Ravindra Singh, the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the plea of Alibi which was taken by the accused Ashok Dixit on the ground that his arrest in connection with the offence under Section 34 of the Excise Act was effected on 12.10.2007, at 09:30 am, by the officials of the Murar Police Station, Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, has been appropriately considered by the Trial Court at Firozabad in Sessions Trial No. 753 and 753A of 2008. However, the said plea of alibi was outrightly rejected by the Trial Court by way of its well-reasoned . The Trial Court categorically observed that the accused Ashok Dixit in connivance with the police officials of the Murar Police Station, Gwalior had managed to get a false case registered under Case Crime No. 967 of 2007 related to Section 34 of the Excise Act. The Trial Court had further observed that during the investigation, the presence and arrest of Ashok Dixit in Murar, Gwalior was found to be false & bogus and therefore, charge sheet came to be filed against those police officials for acting in collusion with Ashok Dixit. Furthermore, those police officials have also been suspended and a departmental enquiry has been initiated against them. Therefore, it was submitted that the respondent no. 1 cannot assert that he has been erroneously implicated in Case Crime No. 617 of 2007 registered for the offence [2024] 12 S.C.R. 791 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. under Sections 147, 148, 149, 307, 302, 201 & 120-B of IPC with the Dakshin Police Station, Firozabad, Uttar Pradesh. 22. The counsel submitted that the High Court fell in serious error while passing the impugned . The High Court could be said to have travelled beyond its jurisdiction by quashing the criminal proceedings against the respondents on the ground that the Trial Court has already decided the case against Ashok Dixit and the other accused. The Trial Court in Sessions Trial Nos. 753 and 753A of 2008 respectively arising out of Case Crime No. 617 of 2007 held Ashok Dixit guilty of the offence of murder of the appellant’s brother. 23. The counsel submitted that the High Court erroneously quashed the criminal proceedings against the respondents saying that the accused respondents being public servants, the sanction to prosecute for the alleged offence is a must. It was submitted that the act of hatching a conspiracy to commit murder and creating a plea of alibi by instituting a false case, cannot be said to be done in the exercise of discharge of official duty. It was further submitted that no sanction is required under Section 197 CrPC to prosecute an erring Government official/ respondent no.1 herein for the reason that the respondent no. 1 was not posted at the Murar Police Station, Gwalior where the Case Crime No.