The plea of alibi, in the light of the decision in Binay Kumar Singh’s case (supra) can be applied only if the ‘elsewhere place’ is far away from the place of occurrence so that it was extremely improbable or impossible for the person concerned to reach the place of occurrence and to participate in the crime on the relevant date and time of occurrence. In such circumstances, we are of the considered view that the said contention was rightly rejected by the Courts below. 14. The effect of false plea of alibi was considered by this Court in Babudas v. State of M.P.2 and in G. Parshwanath v. State of Karnataka.3 In G. Parshwanath’s case, this Court held that when the accused gave a false plea that he was not present on the spot, his statement would be regarded as additional circumstance against him strengthening the chain of circumstances already found firm. 15. In the decision in Babudas’s case (supra), this Court held that in a case of circumstantial evidence, a false plea of alibi set up by the accused would be a link in the chain of circumstances but then it could not be the sole link or sole circumstances based on which a conviction could be passed. 16. In the decision in Paramjeet Singh v. State of Uttarakhand,4 this Court held that the aid of false defence led on behalf of accused could be used to lend assurance to the Court when the case of the prosecution is established on the basis of circumstantial evidence. 17. Now, we will deal with the contention made as a last-ditch effort against the finding of the Courts below that Pushpa’s death is homicidal, 2 (2003) 9 SCC 86 3 2010 INSC 525 : [2010] 10 SCR 377 : (2010) 8 SCC 593 4 2010 INSC 647 : [2010] 11 SCR 1064 : (2010) 10 SCC 439 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 753 Ashok Verma v. The State of Chhattisgarh based on the non-rupture of hyoid bone. Based on the decision in Satish Nirankari v. State of Rajasthan,5 and the relevant text at page 454 and 456 of Modi’s Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology, the contention(s) unsuccessfully raised before the High Court were reiterated before us and in other words, contended that non-rupture of hyoid bone would indicate that death of Pushpa is suicidal and not homicidal in nature. We have already held that sturdy and sound reasons have been given by two Courts to conclude that it is a case of homicide. Non-rupture of hyoid bone of Pushpa would not and should not be taken as the sole reason to upturn the said concurrent finding that it is a case of strangulation. In this context, it is to be noted that in Satish Nirankari’s case, this Court held even in the absence of non-rupture of hyoid bone cause of death can be of strangulation. The position and posture of the body of Pushpa when PW-8 and others came to the house of the appellant-convict, as deposed by PW-8, were not challenged in cross-examination.