Alternatively, the President and Secretary who were authorized under the bye-laws had died and no election had been held for replacing them. Even the Vice-President and the Joint-Secretary had also passed away and they had also not been replaced by any fresh elections. The only person who could be said to be managing the affairs of the Society was the Working President Mr. Wasade, and in particular, when all the 16 surviving and valid members had made a request for convening a meeting, no fault could be found with the decision of the Working President Mr. Wasade to convene the meeting. The other option could have been that all the 16 members could have themselves nominated any one of the members to chair the meeting of the Executive Body and thereafter they could have proceeded to take appropriate decisions. In such situation, we are of the view that the convening of the meeting for holding the elections on 08.09.2002 cannot be faulted with. Question No.1 is answered accordingly in favour of the appellants. 21. Coming to the next question regarding notice to the objectors, at the outset, Section 15 of the Registration Act is reproduced hereunder: “Section 15 in The Societies Registration Act, 1860 15. Member defined.— Disqualified members - For the purposes of this Act a member of a society shall be a person who, having been admitted therein according to the rules and regulations thereof, shall have paid a subscription, or shall have signed the roll or list of members thereof, and shall not have resigned in accordance with such rules and regulations; Disqualified members.—But in all proceedings 1078 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under this Act no person shall be entitled to vote or be counted as a member whose subscription at the time shall have been in arrears for a period exceeding three months.” The High Court, in the impugned , has held that the said provision is applicable. 22. It is not in dispute that all the Objectors were in arrears of their membership fee for a period of more than three months. This fact is admitted as is recorded by not only the High Court but all the three authorities. In fact, these Objectors had gone to the extent of saying that even if notices were issued to them, they will not receive it. The question is what would be the effect of such non-payment in the light of the proviso contained in Section 15 of the Registration Act. The specific language used is that such members in default of membership fee would not be entitled to vote and would not be counted as members of the Society. If they were not entitled to vote and they were not to be counted as members, there would be no illegality or for that matter any prejudice being caused by not issuing any notice as the same would be an exercise in futility. 23. It is a fact that under the bye-laws of the Society, there was no provision that a member defaulting in payment of membership fee and duly covered by the proviso to Section 15 of the Registration Act, would automatically lose his membership or in effect would cease to be a member of the Society.