Works (P) Ptd. (supra), T.T.G Industries Ltd. Vs. CCE (2004) 4 SCC 751 and examined various characteristics of the property including marketability and lack of permanency to determine whether the property in issue was movable or immovable. 11.7.4 In Triveni Engineering (supra), this Court applied the marketability test, in which it took the view that if the goods in question are capable of being taken into the market and sold, the same cannot be treated to be as immovable but movable property. This Court observed that “marketability” itself indicates movability of the property in issue. 11.7.5 This Court was of the view and thus held that if the goods that were fixed to the earth were capable of being dismantled without doing any damage or change in the nature of goods, it would indicate the “absence of permanency” and [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1569 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune such a good cannot be deemed to be immovable property, as held in the following paragraph: “20. Further, in the instant case, it is a common ground that a turbo alternator comes into existence only when a steam turbine and alternator with all their accessories are fixed at the site and only then it is known by a name different from the names of its components in the market. The Tribunal recorded the finding that fixing of steam turbine and the alternator is necessitated by the need to make them functionally effective to reduce vibration and to minimise disturbance to the coupling arrangements and other connections with the related equipments. It also noted that removal of the machinery does not involve any dismantling of the turbine and alternator in the sense of pulling them down or taking them to pieces but only undoing the foundation bolts arrangement by which they are fixed to the platform and uncoupling of the two units and, therefore, the turbo alternator did not answer the test of permanency laid down by this Court in the case of Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay. In our view, the findings recorded do not justify the conclusion of the Tribunal inasmuch as on removal, a turbo alternator gets dismantled into its components - steam turbine and alternator. It appears that the Tribunal did not keep in mind the distinction between a turbo alternator and its components. Thus, in our view, the test of permanency fails.” As regards marketability it was held as follows: - “21. The marketability test requires that the goods as such should be in a position to be taken to the market and sold and from the above findings it follows that to take it to the market the turbo alternator has to be separated into its components — turbine and the other alternator — but then it would not remain turbo alternator, therefore, the test is incorrectly 1570 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports applied. Though, there is no finding that without fixing to the platform such turbo alternator would not be functional, it is obvious that when without fixing, it does not come into being, it can hardly be functional.” 11.7.6 In the case of Sirpur Paper Mills Ltd. (supra), this Court again applied the test of marketability.