Since they have no other way of access to their land, they are being denied connectivity or approach to their land. As a result, access to the Dominant Heritage stands completely blocked. In cross-examination, he states that Dharmadhikari has also purchased some land from Vasant Ramchandra Borkar and that the said Dharmadhikari is having right of way through the disputed rasta. PW-2, the then Sarpanch simply deposes that he has knowledge of the existence of disputed rasta since his childhood. The neighbour (PW-3) also repeated the same thing and stated that there is a road from Salav-Murud road which passes through the land of the Ramani’s [2024] 4 S.C.R. 367 Manisha Mahendra Gala & Ors. v. Shalini Bhagwan Avatramani & Ors. up to his land i.e. Survey No.43. The said road is in existence since long and is being used by the agriculturist. Nobody has ever raised objection to its use. The Surveyor (PW-4) is alleged to have surveyed the land on 26.12.1998. He had shown the existence of the road in dispute in the sketch map prepared by him. 27. The aforesaid evidence simply proves that there exists a road on Survey No.57 Hissa No.13A/1 for long but that by itself is not sufficient to prove that the Gala’s have acquired any easementary right over the same. There is no evidence to prove that the Gala’s are in use of the said land for the last over 20 years uninterruptedly. The Gala’s have entered the scene only on purchasing the said land on 17.09.1994 after the suit had been filed and as such, they could not and have not deposed anything about the pre-existing right or the easementary right attached with the Dominant Heritage. The said right has to be proved as existing prior to the institution of the suit. Neither the Gala’s nor their predecessor-in-interest Joki Woler Ruzer have dared to come in the witness box. They have only relied upon the deposition of their Power of Attorney holder/the Manager. 28. The law as understood earlier was that a General Power of Attorney holder though can appear, plead and act on behalf of a party he represents but he cannot become a witness on behalf of the party represented by him as no one can delegate his power to appear in the witness box to another party. However, subsequently in Janki Vashdeo Bhojwani vs. IndusInd Bank Ltd.3, this Court held that the Power of Attorney holder can maintain a plaint on behalf of the person he represents provided he has personal knowledge of the transaction in question. It was opined that the Power of Attorney holder or the legal representative should have knowledge about the transaction in question so as to bring on record the truth in relation to the grievance or the offence. However, to resolve the controversy with regard to the powers of the General Power of Attorney holder to depose on behalf of the person he represents, this Court upon consideration of all previous relevant decisions on the aspect including that of Janki Vashdeo Bhojwani (supra) in A.C Narayan vs. State of Maharashtra4 concluded by upholding the principle of law laid 3 [2004] Suppl..6 SCR 681 : (2005) 2 SCC 217 4 [2013] 11 SCR 80 : (2014) 11 SCC 790 368 [2024] 4 S.C.R.