A committee’s role goes beyond mere quantification of disability; disability is a factual condition. The key question for a Disability Assessment Board is whether an individual with a disability, aided by modern scientific tools and devices, can enter the MBBS program. Put differently, the board must assess whether it is infeasible for the candidate to pursue a medical career with their disability. 37. Appendix “H-1” stipulates that assessments, particularly for individuals with locomotor disabilities exceeding 80%, should focus on evaluating functional competence. This functional competency test serves two critical purposes. First, it emphasizes the abilities of the person with a disability, assessing their capability rather than their limitations. Second, it mandates an evaluation rooted in practical relevance, aligning the candidate’s abilities with the functional requirements of 19 (2019) 14 SCC 422 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2213 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. the MBBS curriculum. Mere quantification of disability is insufficient and fails to address the necessary criteria, a position this Court has consistently upheld as unsatisfactory in such cases.20 38. At this point, it is imperative to deal with the holding of this Court in Vidhi Himmat Katariya v. Union of India.21 In that case, persons with disabilities who had appeared for the NEET UG Exam 2019 had moved this Court against their disqualification by the Medical Board. Appendix “H” had been issued midway through the process for admitting candidates from the NEET UG 2019. The primary contention of the petitioners was that since the new guidelines were issued in the middle of the admission process, they must not apply to the ongoing process. The petitioners prayed to be tested against the rules as they existed at the time of the application process for the examination, namely, the MCI guidelines of 2017. On this count, the Court ruled against the petitioners. The demurrer argument of the petitioners was that they have not been tested on relevant parameters. This Court while rejecting the argument noted that the petitioners were disqualified for not meeting the eligibility criteria of having “both hands intact, with intact sensation, sufficient strength and range of motion.” Accordingly, the Court refused to sit in appeal over the expert body’s opinion. The of the Court in Vidhi Himmat Katariya (supra) was specific to the facts of that case and did not involve any question of interpretation or Constitutional analysis. The Court was not examining any criteria and did not scrutinise the guidelines to inspect their validity. The Court did not have the benefit of looking at the firm roots which reasonable accommodation has grown within the fold of the Constitution. Further, the s of this Court in Vikash Kumar (supra), Avni Prakash (supra), Ravinder Dhariwal (supra) and Omkar Gond (supra) were not available to the Court while dealing with the case of Vidhi Himmat Katariya (supra). Therefore, the opinion in Vidhi Himmat Katariya (supra) is inapplicable. 39. Courts are not expert bodies in matters of medicine. The competent authority to adjudge the eligibility of a person to pursue a medical course is the Disability Assessment Board.