Government is negligent in this case. Officials deny the presence of Bangladeshis for bribe. Even on complaining, the police come and report that the targets have run away and thus do not report their presence. This problem will not be solved. (Male, aged 50 years, Science teacher) Assam police B personnel force is like milking cow... they can go, take money and…Our people are equally responsible; as a policeman, as mondal, hakim, general people as employer, we think about our own benefits. (Male, aged 67 years, retired Principal). The police therefore are seen to not co-operate with the locals and provide both direct and indirect support to the immigrants. Fake Documentation The whole problem of enumerating and estimating illegal immigrants in Assam exists because most illegal settlers possess legal documents. Therefore, it becomes very difficult to tell them apart from the legal citizens. And these legal documents are acquired by illegal means. Indigenous people in Assam are living in great fear. The immigrants are collecting the legal documents huge way. For example, consider my today’s experience: a birth certificate is shown to me which was signed on a date of 2009 but was printed in 2012. On the same page, the year of print was printed in very small fonts. As an officer, I send these kinds of certificates for review but it will be sent back to me as “no record is available”. Now I have two options: to file a criminal case which will take 7 to months... or to file an FIR. But at the end, everything will 1212 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports be managed by money … Also thousands of people are buying (Male, aged 34 years, ADC). xxx xxx xxx This is a racket known most commonly to locals, yet the government seems most unaware of. Therefore, it is this complex network of corruption that makes legal documents available to illegal settlers through illegal means to designate them as legal citizens with the right to vote and return benefits to the corrupt politicians.” (Emphasis supplied) 167. Thus, Section 6A without any end date of application, promotes further immigration into Assam – immigrants come hoping with forged documents96 to set up the defence of belonging to pre-1966 or the 1966-71 stream upon identification as a foreigner and reference to the tribunal. 168. While the object that was sought to be achieved long back with the aid of the enactment of Section 6A of the Citizenship Act remained a distant dream, its misuse has only continued to increase with the efflux of time. I say so because with the passage of time, the government records would get damaged and perish making it increasingly difficult to cross-check the false claims that may be made by the immigrants of the post-1971 stream trying to misuse the benefits conferred exclusively to the immigrants of the pre-1971 stream. 169. It could be argued that the principle of temporal unreasonableness cannot be made applicable to a situation where the classification still remains relevant to the object sought to be achieved by the provision.