Let us examine if such argument deserves our endorsement. 94.4. The decision in Angad Kol (supra) was rendered when Prabhu Lal (supra) and Annapa Irappa Nesaria (supra) held the field. However, as we have noticed earlier, Prabhu Lal (supra) conspicuously failed to notice the definition of LMV in Section 2(21) even though it considered the definition of Transport Vehicle. It also wrongly distinguished Ashok Gangadhar Maratha (supra), where the legal position was clearly stated as under: “10. The definition of “light motor vehicle” as given in clause (21) of Section 2 of the Act can apply only to a “light goods vehicle” or a “light transport vehicle”. A “light motor vehicle” otherwise has to be covered by the definition of “motor vehicle” or “vehicle” as 622 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports given in clause (28) of Section 2 of the Act. A light motor vehicle cannot always mean a light goods carriage. Light motor vehicle can be a non-transport vehicle as well.” 94.5. The Court in Angad Kol (supra) overlooked the crucial legal analysis in Para 9 and 10 and instead distinguished Ashok Gangadhar Maratha (supra) by relying on Para 11 where the Court only provided additional reasoning on the requirement of a ‘permit’. A ‘driving license’ is different from a ‘permit’. The conflation of the two terms led to the confusion. While a driving license relates to a driver’s qualification, a ‘permit’ relates to the vehicle’s operational classification. 94.6. The Court in Angad Kol (supra) also relied on Annapa Irappa Nesaria (supra), which held that the introduction of Transport Vehicles post-amendment would imply that a specific endorsement would be needed for Transport Vehicles. At the cost of repetition, even otherwise, a comprehensive reading of the MV Act and Rules shows that the specific mention of the term Transport Vehicle in different places of the Act and Rules for the purpose of driving license would reasonably be applicable only for those Transport Vehicles, that fall above the weight limit prescribed in Section 2(21) for LMVs. 95. In S. Iyyapan v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd.,42 the 2-judge bench relied on inter alia, Ashok Gangadhar Maratha (supra) and Annappa Irappa Nesaria (supra). The case stemmed from an accident involving a Mahindra Maxi Cab (a light motor vehicle) that led to the death of one person. The deceased’s wife filed a claim before the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal. The Tribunal awarded Rs. 2,42,000/- in compensation and held that a person holding a LMV License was entitled to drive a Mahindra Maxi Cab. The High Court, however reversed this decision noting that the vehicle was used as a taxi and hence it was a commercial vehicle. It held that a separate license is necessary for driving a commercial vehicle. The Supreme court however restored the decision of MACT stating that the driver with a LMV license was legally competent to drive the Max Cab, used as a taxi. The Court additionally considered Sections 146, 147, and 149 of 42 [2013] 7 SCR 45 : (2013) 7 SCC 62 [2024] 11 S.C.R.