The three-judge Bench concluded that the charging Section of the impugned Act imposed a tax on the minerals also and was not confined to a levy on land or surface characteristic of the land. This was because non-mineral-bearing lands and non-coal-bearing lands were left out of the levy. The levy was struck down as the levy was not a tax on land, but on minerals and mineral rights. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1813 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. Kannadasan: 26. In this context, it is significant to refer to another of this Court in Kannadasan wherein this Court, by following the observations in India Cement and Orissa Cement, held that the States are denuded of the power to levy any tax on minerals and therefore, the State enactments were declared to be lacking in legislative competence as in the aforesaid cases, insofar as they pertained to levy of tax/cess on royalty paid on minerals extracted. It was observed that the denudation of the States’ powers was not partial but total and the States cannot levy any tax on mining and minerals, so long as the declaration in Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957 stands. Once the denudation is total, there is no occasion or necessity for any further declaration of denudation, or for that matter, for repeated declarations of denudation. Kannadasan was partially overruled by a three-judge Bench in District Mining Officer vs. Tata Iron and Steel Company, (2001) 7 SCC 358 (“Tata Iron and Steel”), but on a different question which I shall also advert to later. 26.1 However, what is relevant for the purposes of this reference could be discussed in the first instance. In Kannadasan, the appellants therein had challenged the validity of the Cess and Other Taxes on Minerals (Validation) Act, 1992 (“Validation Act” for short) enacted by Parliament. The High Court had rejected the writ petitions. The background of the said Act was that in India Cement, this Court had held that (i) the levy could not be sustained under and with reference to Entry 49 - List II as a tax on land; (ii) the levy was a levy on minerals and was relatable to Entries 23 and 50 - List II; (iii) that on account of the declaration made by Parliament contained in Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957, the State Legislatures had been denuded of the power to levy tax on minerals. That regulation of mines and mineral development takes within its purview the levy of tax on minerals. This Court held that Sections 9 and 9A of the MMDR Act, 1957 provides for levy of royalty/dead rent on minerals. The State Legislatures cannot, therefore, impose any tax on minerals or exercise of mineral rights and HRS Murthy was wrongly decided. Having so declared, this Court in India Cement, however, directed that the said decision 1814 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports shall only have a prospective effect. This was for the reason that the States had been levying and collecting the cesses on the basis of the decision of this Court in HRS Murthy.