The Bombay High Court, after hearing the parties, concluded that Form No.5 is not an instrument as defined by Section 2 of the Stamp Act and that stamp duty can only be charged on Articles of Association, where the maximum duty (Rs.25 Lakhs), payable as per the amendment has already been paid by the respondent. The High Court allowed the writ petition and directed the appellants to refund Stamp Duty of Rs.25 lakhs along with interest @ 6% per annum. 1 Form No. 5 of the Companies (Central Government’s) General Rules & Forms, 1965 is the prescribed form of notice, which has to be sent under Section 97 of the Companies Act. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 345 State of Maharashtra & Anr. v. National Organic Chemical Industries Ltd. 3. Learned counsel for the appellants submits that a company increases its share capital by sending a notice in Form No.5 as per Section 97 of the Companies Act. Thus, he contends that every time a company increases its share capital, it is a separate taxing event and stamp duty is liable to be paid irrespective of whether the maximum amount payable under the section has previously been paid. The learned counsel further relies on Section 14A of the Stamp Act to contend that any material or substantial alteration in the character of an instrument requires a fresh stamp duty according to its altered character. Finally, it is also contended that the maximum cap or upper ceiling of Rs. 25 lakhs was introduced after the payment of Stamp Duty of Rs.1,12,80,000/-. Therefore, the stamp duty paid earlier cannot be taken into consideration in any case. 4. On the other hand, learned senior counsel for the respondent submits that it is only the Articles of Association of a company which are chargeable to Stamp Duty under Article 10. Form No.5 which is being contended by the appellants to be a separate instrument, is completely alien to the Stamp Act as it serves a very limited purpose of giving notice to the Registrar that a company has increased its share capital beyond the authorised share capital. She would further submit that increase in the share capital of a company does not materially or substantially alter the character of the Articles of Association so as to fall within Section 14A of the Stamp Act. She refers to Section 31 of the Companies Act to submit that any alterations made to the Articles of Association are valid and are to be taken as if originally contained therein. Finally, she relies on a catena of judgements to contend that fiscal statutes have to be construed strictly and in case of any ambiguity in the charging provision, the same has to be resolved against the Department. 5. Let us now examine the relevant provisions of the Stamp Act. Section 3 of the Stamp Act provides that inter alia stamp duty is payable on instruments which are executed in the State of Maharashtra and the duty payable is the amount indicated in Schedule-I of the Stamp Act.