1863 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. are not mentioned in clauses (a) to (k) but excluding the traditional right of hunting or trapping or extracting a part of the body of any species of wild animal; (m) right to in situ rehabilitation including alternative land in cases where the Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest dwellers have been illegally evicted or displaced from forest land of any description without receiving their legal entitlement to rehabilitation prior to the 13th day of December, 2005.” (emphasis supplied) Further, Section 5 provides: “5. Duties of holders of forest rights.—The holders of any forest right, Gram Sabha and village level institutions in areas where there are holders of any forest right under this Act are empowered to— (a) protect the wild life, forest and biodiversity; (b) ensure that adjoining catchments area, water sources and other ecological sensitive areas adequately protected; (c) ensure that the habitat of forest dwelling Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest dwellers is preserved from any form of destructive practices affecting their cultural and natural heritage; (d) ensure that the decisions taken in the Gram Sabha to regulate access to community forest resources and stop any activity which adversely affects the wild animals, forest and the biodiversity are complied with.” (emphasis supplied) 44. Similarly, the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, under Section 36-C, recognizes the importance of community reserves, underscoring the need to preserve cultural and ecological landscapes. The provision states as follows: 1864 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “36-C. Declaration and management of community reserve.— (1) The State Government may, where the community or an individual has volunteered to conserve wild life and its habitat, declare any private or community land not comprised within a National Park, sanctuary or a conservation reserve, as a community reserve, for protecting fauna, flora and traditional or cultural conservation values and practices. (2) The provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 18, sub- sections (2), (3) and (4) of Section 27, Sections 30, 32 and clauses (b) and (c) of Section 33 shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to a community reserve as they apply in relation to a sanctuary. (3) After the issue of notification under sub-section (1), no change in the land use pattern shall be made within the community reserve, except in accordance with a resolution passed by the management committee and approval of the same by the State Government.” (emphasis supplied) 45. The Biological Diversity Act, 2002, and the National Forest Policy, 1988, also advocate for integrating biodiversity conservation into community-based management frameworks. The relevant Clause of the National Forest Policy, 1988 is extracted below: “Clause 4.3.4.2: The holders of customary rights and concessions in forest areas should be motivated to identify themselves with the protection and development of forests from which they derive benefits. The rights and concessions from forests should primarily be for the bona fide use of the communities living within and around forest areas, especially the tribals. It is imperative for the MOEF&CC to take these considerations into account while formulating policies and executing programs aimed at forest protection and development, ensuring that the interests of communities reliant on forests, particularly tribals, are safeguarded.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 12 S.C.R.