Clause 6(a) in the lease subject matter of the said case was identical to clause II(4)(a) of the perpetual lease in the present case. This Court also held that clause 2(d) of the policy determining unearned income was attracted in the case of transfer due to demerger. In our view, the same principles will apply to a merger, and an unearned increase will be payable. In the case of Indian Shaving Products Limited1, the High Court of Delhi dealt with the amalgamation of companies under the SICA and not under the Companies Act. In any event, this court confirmed the said decision by summarily dismissing the petition. In the present case, the relevant clause II(4)(a) of the leases covers involuntary transfers as well. 10. An argument is also sought to be canvassed that the transfer in this case is not covered by the transfer defined under Section 5 of the TPA. Section 5 of the TPA reads thus: “5. “Transfer of property” defined.— In the following sections “transfer of property” means an act by which a living person conveys property, in present or in future, to one or more other living persons, or to himself, and one or more other living persons; and “to transfer property” is to perform such act. In this section “living person” includes a company or association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, but nothing herein contained shall affect any law for the time being in force relating to transfer of property to or by companies, associations or bodies of individuals.” 11. The relevant clause II(4)(a) in the perpetual leases subject matter of this appeal is very wide. It not only covers transfers but also parting with possession. Therefore, the transfer contemplated by [2024] 4 S.C.R. 441 M/s. Jaiprakash Industries Ltd. (Presently known as M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Ltd.) v. Delhi Development Authority the said clause is much wider than what is defined under Section 5. Importantly, Section 5 clarifies that nothing contained therein shall affect any law for the time being in force in relation to the transfer of property to or by companies. Therefore, Section 5 of the TPA will not be of any assistance to the appellant. 12. Therefore, we find nothing illegal about the impugned . Accordingly, we dismiss this appeal with no as to costs. 13. By the dated 3rd January 2008 of this Court, an interim stay was granted to the impugned subject to a condition of the appellant depositing a sum of Rs.2,13,59,511.20 with this Court. The office report shows that the amount and the interest accrued thereon have been separately invested. Therefore, it will be open for the respondent-DDA to withdraw the principal amount of Rs.2,13,59,511.20 along with the interest. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeal dismissed.