Digital Supreme Court Reports of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest. List II – State List Entry 23 : Regulation of mines and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union. xxx xxx xxx Entry 49 : Taxes on lands and buildings. Entry 50 : Taxes on mineral rights subject to any limitation imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development.” Interpretation of Legislative Entries: 8.4 On the aspect of interpretation of legislative Entries in the three Lists, the following principles are apposite as discussed in State of Karnataka. 8.4.1 The power to legislate which is dealt with under Article 246 has to be read in conjunction with the Entries in the three Lists which define the respective areas of legislative competence of the Union and State Legislatures. While interpreting these Entries, they should not be viewed in a narrow or myopic manner but by giving the widest scope to their meaning, particularly, when the vires of a provision of a statue is assailed. In such circumstances, a liberal construction must be given to the Entry by looking at the substance of the legislation and not its mere form. However, while interpreting the Entries in the case of an apparent conflict, every attempt must be made by the Court to harmonise or reconcile them. Where there is an apparent overlapping between two Entries, the doctrine of pith and substance is applied to find out the true character of the enactment and the Entry within which it would fall. The doctrine of pith and substance, in short, means, if an enactment substantially falls within the powers expressly conferred by the Constitution upon the legislature which enacted it, the same cannot be held to be invalid merely because it incidentally encroaches on matters assigned to another legislature. Also, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1757 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. in a situation where there is overlapping, the doctrine has to be applied to determine to which Entry, a piece of legislation could be related. In to examine the true character of enactment or a provision thereof, due regard must be had to the enactment as a whole and to its scope and objects. It is said that the question of invasion into another legislative territory has to be determined by substance and not by degree. 8.4.2 In case of any conflict between Entries in List I and List II, the power of Parliament to legislate under List I will supersede when, on an interpretation, the two powers cannot be reconciled. But if a legislation in pith and substance falls within any of the Entries of List II, the State Legislature’s competence cannot be questioned on the ground that the field is covered by Union list or the Concurrent list vide Prafulla Kumar Mukherjee vs. Bank of Commerce, Khulna, AIR 1947 P.C.