1 SCR 129 : (1989) 4 SCC 378 568 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iv) What is the effect of the amendment made by virtue of Act 54 of 1994 w.e.f. 14.11.1994 which substituted four classes under clauses (e) to (h) in Section 10 with a single class of ‘Transport Vehicle’ in Section 10(2)(e)? (v) Whether the decision in Mukund Dewangan (2017) is per incuriam for not noticing certain provisions of the MV Act and MV Rules? E. DISCUSSION (I) The Purpose of the MV Act, 1988 12. Prior to the enactment of the MV Act 1988, the legal framework governing motor vehicles was based on the Motor Vehicle Act, 1939 which was incorporated from the English Road Traffic Act, 1930. In January 1984, a working group was constituted to review all provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1939 and to propose necessary amendments. This culminated in the enactment of the MV Act, 1988 which has since undergone several amendments. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the MV Act, 1988 is extracted below for ready reference: “2. Various Committees, like, National Transport Policy Committee, National Police Commission, Road Safety Committee, Low Powered Two - Wheelers Committee, as also the Law Commission have gone into different aspects of road transport. They have recommended updating, simplification and rationalization of this law. Several Members of Parliament have also urged for comprehensive review of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, to make it relevant to the modern - day requirements. 3. A Working Group was, therefore, constituted in January, 1984 to review all the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 and to submit draft proposals for a comprehensive legislation to replace the existing Act. This Working Group took into account the suggestions and recommendations earlier made by various bodies and institutions like Central Institute of Road Transport (CIRT), Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), and other transport organisations including, the manufacturers and the general public, Besides, obtaining comments of State Governments on the recommendations of the Working Group, these were discussed in a specially convened meeting of Transport [2024] 11 S.C.R. 569 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. Ministers of all States and Union territories. Some of the more important modifications so suggested related for taking care of – (a) the fast increasing number of both commercial vehicles and personal vehicles in the country ; (b) the need for encouraging adoption of higher technology in automotive sector; (c) the greater flow of passenger and freight with the least impediments so that islands of isolation are not created leading to regional or local imbalances; (d) concern for road safety standards, and pollution- control measures, standards for transportation of hazardous and explosive materials; (e) simplification of procedure and policy liberalization for private sector operations in the road transport field ; and (f) need for effective ways of tracking down traffic offenders.” 13. As per the Statement of Objects and Reasons, the important provisions addressed the following: "(a) rationalization of certain definitions with additions of certain new definitions of new types of vehicles; (b) stricter procedures relating to grant of driving licences and the period of validity thereof; (c) laying down of standards for the components and parts of motor vehicles; (d) standards for anti-pollution control devices; (e) provision for issuing fitness certificates of vehicles also by the authorised testing stations; (f) enabling provision for updating the system of registration marks; (g) liberalised schemes for grant of stage carriage permits on non nationalised routes, all-India Tourist permits and also national permits for goods carriages; 570 [2024] 11 S.C.R.