Digital Supreme Court Reports [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1021 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. 9. The dispute relates to the property of one Parukutty Amma. Parukutty Amma had four children namely Karunakara Menon, Neelakanta Menon, Narayani Amma and Amukutty Amma. Narayani Amma had four children namely, Kamalakshy, Aravindakshy Amma, Ramachandran and Padmavathi Amma. The husband and children of one of these four, Padmavathi Amma, are the plaintiffs. All other children and grandchildren of Parukutty Amma are the defendants except Padmavathy Amma. The defendants, having concurrently lost before all the courts below, are appellants herein. For ease of reference, the parties shall be referred, as per their position before the Trial Court. 10. A suit for partition and separate possession (O.S. No.631/1993) was filed by Plaintiffs no. 1-8 against Defendants before the Addl. Sub Court, Ernakulam4 for dividing the plaint scheduled properties belonging to Andipillil Tharwad by metes and bounds into 16 shares. Before us, the challenge pertains to two sets of scheduled properties- Item no.1 and Item no.2. Some preliminary understanding is required of how the properties subject matter of dispute came to be divided into two heads. 10.1 Item No.1: The property is situated in Ponnurunni Desom of Poonithura village and was part of the erstwhile Cochin state. It was gifted by one Krishna Menon in favour of 11 members of the same tharwad vide gift deed no.1223/1099. One of the donees, Ayyappa Menon filed a suit for partition5 of the said property against other donees. During the pendency of the suit, parties thereto entered into a compromise, and a partition deed giving effect to such compromise was executed dated 1.11.1950. The property was divided amongst nine donees as two, namely, Ravunni Nair and Madhavi Amma had passed away and it was mutually allotted to five branches as shown below:- 4 hereinafter referred to as ‘Trial Court’ 5 (O.S.77/1125) 1022 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Ayyapa Menon (Branch 1) Parameswara Govinda Raghava Branch 5 Menon Meon Menon Parukutty Amma and her children namely, (Branch 2) (Branch 3) (Branch 4) Karunakara Menon, Neelakanda Menon, Narayani Amma and Ammukutty Amma 10.2 Item no.2: There was one Sankar Padmanabhan, on his demise, half of his property devolved on his wife, Parukutty Amma and their children; and another half on his mother, Parvathy Amma. His mother subsequently transferred her interest in the said property in favour of Parukutty Amma and her children through a mortgage deed. TRIAL COURT 11. The Trial Court framed as many as eleven issues. Below is a tabulated representation of the eleven issues and their corresponding findings. Sr. Issue Finding Decision No. 1. Whether the The plaintiffs can ignore the No suit is time partition deeds since they barred? are not binding on them, as execution of partition deeds by some of the members will not take away their right. 2. Whether the The assignees of a partition of No suit is bad for the plaint schedule properties non-joinder were impleaded as additional of necessary defendants after the issues were parties?