1010 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the clause (iii) of Section 204, in the case of credit or in the case of payment in cases not covered by clauses (i), (ii), (ii)(a), (ii)(b), “the person responsible for paying” is the payer himself, or if the payer is a company, the company itself and the principal officer thereof. 4. Explanation (i) to Section 194-H3 of the Act defines the expressions ‘commission’ or ‘brokerage’, as: “Explanation. — For the purposes of this section, — (i) “commission or brokerage” includes any payment received or receivable, directly or indirectly, by a person acting on behalf of another person for services rendered (not being professional services) or for any services in the course of buying or selling of goods or in relation to any transaction relating to any asset, valuable article or thing, not being securities;” Payment is received when it is actually received or paid. The payment is receivable when the amount is actually credited in the books of the payer to the account of the payee, though the actual payment may take place in future. The payment received or (iv) in the case of credit, or as the case may be, payment of any sum chargeable under the provisions of this Act made by or on behalf of the Central Government or the Government of a State, the draw- ing and disbursing officer or any other person, by whatever name called, responsible for crediting, or as the case may be, paying such sum. (v) in the case of a person not resident in India, the person himself or any person authorised by such person or the agent of such person in India including any person treated as an agent under Sec- tion 163.] Explanation. —For the purposes of this section, — (a) “non-resident Indian” and “foreign exchange asset” shall have the meanings assigned to them in Chapter XII-A; (b) “authorised person” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (c) of Section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999). 3 Sub-section 1 to Section 194-H of the Act can be interpreted as requiring deduction of tax at source on commission and brokerage, even when the principal and agent relationship does not exist between the parties. Explanation (i) to Section 194-H of the Act can be read as expanding and widening the scope of the provision of sub-section (1) to include in the ambit of brokerage and commission, payments made by the principal to the agent, when covered under the four corners of the said explanation. We would not like to pronounce on this aspect as it has not been argued by the Revenue, and it appears that the requirement of relationship of principal and agent has been read into the main section. Further, applying common or commercial parlance meaning to the terms ‘brokerage’ or ‘commission’, given the wide di- vergence in which it is understood, would lead to confusion and has pitfalls. Deduction of Tax provisions should be pragmatically and realistically construed, and not as enmeshes or by adopting catch-as-catch- can approach.