He could not even remember the shops near by the lodge. It is rather surprising that this witness while engrossed in changing the wheel of his car at 10.30 PM manages to note the blood stains on the pant and also recorded the registration number of the motorcycle. There is nothing to indicate that he had a pen or a paper to readily note the registration number. His statement is to be contrasted with the version of Ram Kumar IO (PW-24) who stated that “I did not see any arrangement of the light on the Karnal bypass road especially the alleged place where the car of Rajesh Kumar got punctured and he saw the accused while riding the motorcycle. It is correct that there is no light arrangement on the place of occurrence because it is an agriculture area.” We are not at all impressed with the evidence of PW-11. There are too many coincidences in his version and his story is improbable in the context of the facts and circumstances of the case. He is certainly an unreliable witness. 20. PW-12 – He is again a chance witness, relied on by the prosecution to prove the last seen theory. This witness is said to have gone out for an evening walk on Kaithal Road between 9.45 to 10 PM. While urinating by the roadside, he sees a motorcycle with three accused on it. He states that the accused moved away towards Karnal bypass, the moment he started coughing while urinating. He reports this incident two days later, that is on 12.04.2004 by going to Sadar Police Station, Kaithal. We will analyse his statement. 21. As per the statement of PW-12, he went on an evening walk between 9.45 to 10 PM, two Kilometres away from his house, particularly in an area which does not have streetlights. The multi-tasking of urinating, coughing, seeing the motorcycle, noting the blood stains clothes and recording the registration number happens simultaneously. There is no evidence as to the manner in which he had recorded the registration number. He is said to have studied only up to 6th class. How could he notice and also memorise the registration number having seen [2024] 1 S.C.R. 315 Pradeep Kumar v. State of Haryana it from a long distance. He himself says the motorcycle was at a distance. His version is highly improbable. 22. This witness says that the blood stained trouser and dandas in the hands of the accused caused suspicion and therefore, he recorded the number. However, that did not compel him to go to the police station. Instead, he reports the incident only on the 12.04.2004, that is two days later. Strangely, instead of reporting the incident to the police chowki which is next to his residence, he goes all the way to Sadar Police Station, Kaithal. We are of the opinion that the evidence of PW-12 does not inspire confidence at all. 23. PW-16 – This is yet another witness relied on by the prosecution, however, the Trial and the High Court have not laid much emphasis.