[2024] 9 S.C.R. 16 : 2024 INSC 652 Vaibhav Jain v. Hindustan Motors Pvt. Ltd. Civil Appeal No. 10192/2024 03 September 2024 [J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether as a mere dealer of M/s Hindustan Motors, the appellant could be considered owner of the vehicle and as such liable, jointly and severally with M/s Hindustan Motors, to pay the compensation as directed by the Tribunal/High Court; whether clauses 3 (b) and 4 of the Dealership Agreement absolved M/s Hindustan Motors of its liability to pay compensation as an owner; whether M/s Hindustan Motors, even without preferring an appeal against the award of the Tribunal, could question its liability under the award by relying on the provisions of 41, Rule 33 of the CPC. Headnotes† Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 – Compensation – Liability of the dealer, if any – “ownership/owner” of the vehicle – Dealership Agreement between M/s Vaibhav Motors-appellant, the dealer and M/s Hindustan Motors, manufacturer of the vehicle – Accidental death when the vehicle was taken out for a test-drive by the employees of M/s Hindustan Motors from the dealership of the appellant – Prior to the accident, if M/s Hindustan Motors had sold the offending vehicle to the appellant – If not, whether the dealer would be liable for the compensation, jointly and severally with M/s Hindustan Motors: Held: ‘owner’ of a vehicle is not limited to the categories specified in s. 2(30) of the 1988 Act – If the context so requires, even a person at whose command or control the vehicle is, could be treated as its owner for the purposes of fixing tortious liability for payment of compensation – There is no evidence that the vehicle was sold to the appellant-dealer – At the time of accident only two persons were present in the vehicle (the driver and the deceased) both of whom were employees of M/s Hindustan Motors and had taken the vehicle from the appellant-dealer for the test drive – * Author [2024] 9 S.C.R. 17 Vaibhav Jain v. Hindustan Motors Pvt. Ltd. Dealer had no authority to deny them the permission to take the vehicle for the test drive more so, when they were representatives of the owner of the vehicle, i.e. M/s Hindustan Motors – At the time of accident the vehicle was not only under the ownership of M/s Hindustan Motors but also under its control and command through its employees – Therefore, the appellant, being just a dealer of M/s Hindustan Motors was not liable for compensation as an owner of the vehicle – At the time of accident, the vehicle was being driven by an employee of M/s Hindustan Motors, thus, apart from the driver, M/s Hindustan Motors alone was liable for the compensation awarded. [Paras 19, 20, 23] Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 – Compensation – Dealership Agreement between M/s Vaibhav Motors-appellant, the dealer and M/s Hindustan Motors, manufacturer of the vehicle – M/s Hindustan Motors was held jointly and severally liable to pay compensation – It contended that Clauses 3 (b) and 4 the Agreement shifted the tortious liability to the appellant-dealer and it was not liable for payment of compensation: Held: Rejected – Clauses 3(b) and 4 in the Agreement limited the company’s liability in respect of any defect in the motor vehicle to the company’s obligations under the warranty clause – The use of the words “and the company will have no other liability and all liabilities other than one under warranty as aforesaid shall be to the account of the Dealer”, in absence of specific exclusion of tortious liability arising from use of such vehicle, cannot absolve the owner of the motor vehicle of its liability under the Motor Vehicles Act and shift it on to the dealer when the vehicle at the time of accident was under the control and command of the owner i.e.