Although Entry 32 of List II and Entry 25 of List III empower the state legislatures to enact laws concerning the incorporation of universities, the whole gamut of the university including teaching, quality of education, curriculum and examinations, would not come within the purview of the state legislature because of Entry 66 of List I. Entry 66 of List I concerns the coordination and determination of standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions. Parliament alone is competent to enact legislation which pertains to Entry 66 of List I. The UGC Act was enacted in pursuance of this entry; c. A statute enacted by the state legislature which stultifies or has the effect of nullifying a statute validly enacted by Parliament would be ultra vires. The Chhattisgarh Act made it impossible for the UGC to perform its duties and to ensure the coordination and determination of standards in terms of the UGC Act; and d. The expression “established or incorporated” in Sections 2(f), 22 and 23 of the UGC Act must be read as “established and incorporated” insofar as private universities are concerned. This is necessary in to give effect to the purpose of the UGC Act. 153. The decision of this Court in Prof. Yashpal (supra) will not have a bearing on this case for the following reasons: a. The interpretation of a statutory provision cannot influence the interpretation of a provision of the Constitution. The Constitution 1758 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports is the basic or fundamental law of the country. It controls all other laws; b. The decision in Prof.Yashpal (supra) was rendered in the context of institutions which were given the status of universities by the operation of law but which existed only on paper, without any facilities, and offered some courses which were not approved by the relevant authorities. The purpose of this Court reading “established or incorporated” as “established and incorporated” was to prevent such institutions from being given the status of universities in the absence of essential features of universities. It was to ensure that institutions which were accorded the status of universities existed in actuality; and c. The distinction between the meaning of the term ‘establish’ and that of the term ‘incorporate’ was not effaced by this interpretation. Article 30 uses the word ‘establish.’ The indicia for determining whether an institution is a minority educational institution for the purposes of Article 30 would depend only upon whether the minority community in question established the educational institution. viii. The amendment of the NCMEI Act in 2010 154. The NCMEI Act was enacted in 2004 to constitute a National Commission for minority educational institutions and to provide for matters connected or incidental to it. Section 3 mandates the constitution of the National Commission For Minority Educational Institutions.132 Section 11 details the functions of the Commission which include advising the Central or State governments on questions related to the education of minorities which may be referred to it; suo motu enquiries or enquiries based on petitions instituted by minority educational institutions; and intervening in proceedings before courts (with the leave of the court) which concern the deprivation or violation of the educational rights of minorities.