The travel agents were entitled to 7% commission on sale of the tickets for its services as the standard commission based on the price bar set by the IATA. The airlines were deducting tax at source under Section 194-H of the Act on the 7% commission. In addition to the 7% commission, the travel agents were also entitled to additional/ supplementary commission on the tickets sold by them. The additional/supplementary commission and the amount at which the tickets were sold were computed by the travel agents and transmitted to the billing and settlement plan (BSP). The BSP, functioning under the aegis of the IATA, managed, inter alia, logistics vis-à-vis payments, and acted as a forum for agents and airlines to examine details pertaining to the sale of the flight tickets. 33.1 This Court examined the operation of the BSP where the financial data regarding sale of tickets was stored. The BSP agglomerated the data from multiple transactions. Thereupon, this data was transmitted either bimonthly or twice a month to the airlines. It is on the basis of this data that the airlines/air carriers were required to pay the additional commission to the travel agents. These are the striking distinguishing features in Singapore Airlines Limited (supra) case. 33.2 Having considered the aforesaid mechanism and the nature of relationship between a principal and an agent26, this Court found considerable merit in the argument of the Revenue that the airlines/ air carriers utilised the BSP to discern the amount earned as additional/supplementary commission and accordingly arrive at the income earned by the agent to deduct tax at source, in accordance with the provisions of Section 194- H of the Act. If the aforesaid mechanism is understood, then it is not difficult to appreciate and understand the conclusion arrived at by this Court in the said case. 25 ‘PSA’, for short. 26 As stated above the airlines were deducting tax at source under Section 194-H on the 7% commission (standard commission). The dispute only related to whether the airlines were liable to deduct tax at source on the additional commission (supplementary commission). [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1033 Bharti Cellular Limited (Now Bharti Airtel Limited) v. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Circle 57, Kolkata and Another 33.3 Thus, the question whether there was relationship of principal and agent was not in dispute, but nevertheless the assessees in the said case disputed liability to deduct tax at source on the additional/supplementary commission. However, the does refer to the difference between the legal relationship of master and servant, principal and agent, and between principal and principal. In this context, reference is made to the statement of law in Halsbury’s Law of England27, which reads: “The difference between the relations of master and servant and of principal and agent may be said to be this: a principal has the right to direct what work the agent has to do: but a master has the further right to direct how the work is to be done.” xx xx xx “An agent is to be distinguished on the one hand from a servant, and on the other from an independent contractor.