We certainly think so. The question is not whether it actually happened. The question is could it have been possible. 30. We are supported in this view by two old s of the Madras High Court. In Re Elukuri Seshapani Chetti (ILR 1937 Mad 358) Justice Mockett following the of Justice Jackson In Kodangi V. Emperor (AIR 1932 Mad 24.) held as under:- 976 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “In my this is clearly a confession, as I have already said, and, as has been pointed out by Jackson J. In Kodangi V. Emperor (AIR 1932 Mad 24.) a confession made to the Police in the course of investigating crime A, although it relates to another crime B, is equally inadmissible. The whole spirit of section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act is to exclude confessions to the police and, the moment a statement is found to amount to a confession, I do not think it matters in the slightest of what crime it is said to be a confession.” (Emphasis supplied) 31. We feel that the principle laid down there on is applicable. In fact, the three-Judge Bench in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), in the para extracted hereinabove, expressly refers to Section 25 of the Evidence Act while dealing with statements recorded when the person is in custody. 32. We have no hesitation in holding that when an accused is in custody under PMLA irrespective of the case for which he is under custody, any statement under Section 50 PMLA to the same Investigating Agency is inadmissible against the maker. The reason being that the person in custody pursuant to the proceeding investigated by the same Investigating Agency is not a person who can be considered as one operating with a free mind. It will be extremely unsafe to render such statements admissible against the maker, as such a course of action would be contrary to all canons of fair play and justice. 33. We also draw support from the way Section 50 is structured. Section 50 reads as under:- “Section 50. Powers of authorities regarding summons, production of documents and to give evidence, etc. (1) The Director shall, for the purposes of section 13, have the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) while trying a suit in respect of the following matters, namely:-- (a) discovery and inspection; [2024] 8 S.C.R. 977 Prem Prakash v. Union of India Through The Directorate of Enforcement (b) enforcing the attendance of any person, including any officer of a reporting entity and examining him on oath; (c) compelling the production of records; (d) receiving evidence on affidavits; (e) issuing commissions for examination of witnesses and documents; and (f) any other matter which may be prescribed. (2) The Director, Additional Director, Joint Director, Deputy Director or Assistant Director shall have power to summon any person whose attendance he considers necessary whether to give evidence or to produce any records during the course of any investigation or proceeding under this Act.