[2024] 6 S.C.R. 59 Sheikh Noorul Hassan v. Nahakpam Indrajit Singh & Ors. days for filing an election petition. Taking into consideration new allegations introduced through a replication would tantamount to entertaining a time-barred petition. Allegations in paragraphs 15, 16, 18, 19, 22 and 23 of the Replication are new. Not only that, new documents have been annexed by way of: (i) Ex.-A-18- List of Self-Help groups in the concerned Assembly Constituency; (ii) Ex.- A-19 and 20 - Status report of Income Tax demands; and (iii) A-21- Original Copy of registration certificate of vehicle number DL4CNB4776. Submissions on behalf of First Respondent/ Election Petitioner 7. Per contra, Mr. Anupam Lal Das, inter alia, submitted: (i) Section 875 of the 1951 Act provides that subject to the provisions of the Act, and of any rules made thereunder, an election petition shall be tried by the High Court in accordance with the procedure applicable under the Code of Civil Procedure, 19086 to try a suit. A written statement can be rebutted under VIII Rule 97 of the CPC. Therefore, it is incorrect to state that filing of a replication in the proceedings of an election petition has no legal basis. (ii) No new case has been introduced by way of the replication. Though, by way of rebuttal of paragraphs 1(i) to (x) and Explanation.- In this sub-section, elector means a person who was entitled to vote at the election, to which the election petition relates, whether he has voted at such election or not. (2) ****** (Omitted by Act 47 of 1966, w.e.f. 14.12.1966) (3) Every election petition shall be accompanied by as many copies thereof as there are respondents mentioned in the petition, and every such copy shall be attested by the petitioner under his own signature to be a true copy of the petition. 5 Section 87. Procedure before the High Court.— (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, and of any rules made thereunder, every election petition shall be tried by the High Court, as nearly as may be, in accordance with the procedure applicable under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) to the trial of suits: Provided that the High Court shall have the discretion to refuse, for reasons to be recorded in writing, to examine any witness or witnesses, if it is of the opinion that the evidence of such witness or witnesses is not material for the decision of the petition or that the party tendering such witness or witnesses is doing so on frivolous grounds or with a view to delay the proceedings. (2) The provisions of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), shall subject to the provisions of this Act, be deemed to apply in all respects to the trial of an election petition. 6 CPC 7 VIII Rule 9.— Subsequent pleadings.— No pleading subsequent to the written statement of a defendant other than by way of defence to set off or counterclaim, and shall be presented except by the leave of the Court and upon such terms as the Court thinks fit; but the Court may at any time require a written statement or additional written statement from any of the parties and fix a time of not more than 30 days for presenting the same.