26. The franchisee’s/distributor’s price and payment for services will be specified by the assessee from time to time. The rates can be varied during the terms of the agreement at the discretion of the assessee and such variation is to be intimated to the franchisee/ distributor. All tax liabilities in connection with, or arising out of, the transactions pertaining to the agreement shall be the responsibility of the franchisee/distributor. 27. The trademarks, logos, trade names or identifying marks and slogans used by the assessee, whether registered or not, are exclusive property of the assessee or the affiliated companies. The use of such marks, logos etc. will be in accordance with the guidelines issued by the assessee. As long as the agreement is in force, but not thereafter, the franchisee/distributor shall identify itself as an authorised franchisee, but shall not use trademarks, logos, tradenames, as part of its proprietorship name/corporate/ partnership name or otherwise. The franchisee/distributor is entitled to use its logo on the side door at its outlets and on its memos and official business documents towards the services effected from the outlet. 1030 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 28. On the question of actual business financial model adopted and followed, it is an admitted position that the franchisees/distributors were required to pay in advance the price of the welcome kit containing the SIM card, recharge vouchers, top-up cards, e-tops, etc. The abovementioned price was a discounted one. Such discounts were given on the price printed on the pack of the prepaid service products. The franchisee/distributor paid the discounted price regardless of, and even before, the prepaid products being sold and transferred to the retailers or the actual consumer. The franchisee/ distributor was free to sell the prepaid products at any price below the price printed on the pack. The franchisee/distributor determined his profits/income. 29. The Revenue has highlighted that the prepaid SIM cards were not the property of franchisee/distribution and no right, title or interest was transferred to them. These were always to remain the property of the assessee. This is correct, but it is equally true that this is a mandate and requirement of the licence issued to the assessee by the DoT. In actual practice, the right to use the SIM card and its possession is handed over and given to the end-user, that is, the customer who installs the SIM card in his phone to avail the telecommunication services. Similarly, the franchisees/distributors are to ensure that the post-paid customers/end-users fill up the form as prescribed along with the documents which are given and submitted to the assessee. These are mandates prescribed by the licence issued by the DoT to the assessees. The contractual obligations of the distributors/ franchisees, do not reflect a fiduciary character of the relationship, or the business being done on the principal’s account. 30. The franchisees/distributors earn their income when they sell the prepaid products to the retailer or the end-user/customer. Their profit consists of the difference between the sale price received by them from the retailer/end-user/customer and the discounted price at which they have ‘acquired’ the product.