However, as with Bhim Singh, the decision in Sanjeev Coke offers no explanation as to the exact legal mechanics which lead to the continued legal operation of the unamended Article 31-C. Thus, these decisions leave unaddressed the contentions raised by the present appellants. 50. It is also pertinent to refer to the approach of the two-judge Bench of this Court in Basantibal Khetan. In that case, Special Leave Petitions were filed against the judgement of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay invalidating certain provisions of the MHADA Act which permitted the acquisition of private property. It was contended that the provisions of the legislation which set out the basis for determining compensation were violative of Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution. In invalidating these provisions, the High Court held that the impugned provisions were not protected by Article 31-C of the Constitution and were violative of Article 14. However, when the matter was heard by a Division Bench of this Court, Justice ES Venkataramiah (as the learned Chief justice then was) held that the law would be entitled to immunity under Article 31-C. The learned judge observed: “13. Even granting for purpose of argument that sub- sections (33) and (4) of Section 44 are violative of Article 14 of the Constitution, we are of the view that the said provisions receive the protection of Article 31-C of the Constitution. […] Let us proceed on the basis that after Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala and Minerva Mills Ltd. v. Union of India, Article 31-C reads as: “Notwithstanding anything contained in Article 13, no law giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of Article 39 shall be deemed to be void on the 64 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ground that it is inconsistent with or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by Article 14 or Article 19.” Clause (b) or Article 39 of the Constitution which is relevant for our purpose states that the State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing that the ownership and control of material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve common good. […] 14. … The High Court erred in taking a very narrow view of the objects of the Act and the functions of the Authority under it. We are satisfied that the Act is brought into force to implement the Directive Principle contained in Article 39(b) and hence even if there is any infraction of Article 14 it is cured by Article 31-C which is clearly attracted to the case.” The extracted paragraphs demonstrate that the Division Bench explicitly proceeded on the basis that the unamended Article 31-C had revived and was in legal effect. The two-Judge Bench cited both the decisions in Kesavananda Bharati and Minerva Mills. It concluded that after Kesavananda Bharati, the second half of Article 31-C was no longer in effect. It also concluded that after Minerva Mills struck down the Forty-Second Amendment, the text of Article 31-C as it stood prior to the Forty-Second Amendment stood revived.