In Lokayukta, Justice Ripusudan Dayal v. State of MP,55 a three-judge bench of this Court held that the scope of a privilege enjoyed by a House and its members must be tested on the basis of the necessity of the privilege to the House for its free functioning. This Court further held that members of the House cannot claim exemption from the application of ordinary criminal law under the garb of privileges which accrue to them as members of the House under the Constitution. P Sathasivam, CJ opined that 55 [2014] 3 SCR 242 : (2014) 4 SCC 473 524 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “51. The scope of the privileges enjoyed depends upon the need for privileges i.e. why they have been provided for. The basic premise for the privileges enjoyed by the Members is to allow them to perform their functions as Members and no hindrance is caused to the functioning of the House. […] 52. It is clear that the basic concept is that the privileges are those rights without which the House cannot perform its legislative functions. They do not exempt the Members from their obligations under any statute which continue to apply to them like any other law applicable to ordinary citizens. Thus, enquiry or investigation into an allegation of corruption against some officers of the Legislative Assembly cannot be said to interfere with the legislative functions of the Assembly. No one enjoys any privilege against criminal prosecution. … 76. It is made clear that privileges are available only insofar as they are necessary in that the House may freely perform its functions. For the application of laws, particularly, the provisions of the Lokayukt Act and the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, the jurisdiction of the Lokayukt or the Madhya Pradesh Special Police Establishment is for all public servants (except the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker of the Madhya Pradesh Vidhan Sabha for the purposes of the Lokayukt Act) and no privilege is available to the officials and, in any case, they cannot claim any privilege more than an ordinary citizen to whom the provisions of the said Acts apply. Privileges do not extend to the activities undertaken outside the House on which the legislative provisions would apply without any differentiation.” (emphasis supplied) 90. The necessity test for ascertaining parliamentary privileges has struck deep roots in the Indian context. We do not need to explore the well- established jurisprudence on the necessity test in other jurisdictions beyond the above exposition of Indian jurisprudence on the subject at this juncture. The evolution of parliamentary privileges in various [2024] 3 S.C.R. 525 Sita Soren v. Union of India parliamentary jurisdictions has shown a consistent pattern that when an issue involving privileges arises, the test applied is whether the privilege claimed is essential and necessary to the ly functioning of the House or its committee. We may also note that the burden of satisfying that a privilege exists and that it is necessary for the House to collectively discharge its function lies with the person or body claiming the privilege.