As such for the purposes of delayed compensation, we think it appropriate that due date of possession will be considered after expiry of six month from the payment of 11th instalment by the home buyer. The developer would be entitled for further six months as grace period. The developer shall pay delayed compensation in the shape of interest @ 6% per annum on the deposit of the complainants from the due date of possession as determined in accordance of above formula till the date of actual possession.” 10. One of the main contentions of the appellants is that ignoring Annexure P-18 of this Court, the NCDRC virtually permitted the first respondent to introduce facts to dispute their claims and complaints inasmuch as the opportunity offered to the first respondent by NCDRC to file written submissions was utilised by the first respondent to introduce new facts to resist their claims and contentions. Such newly introduced facts and factors by the first respondent through written submissions, obviously, weighed with NCDRC in adopting the formula followed in paragraph 8 of the impugned , for the purpose of computation of compensation payable to the complainants, it is contended. 11. We will straight away verify the verity of the aforesaid contentions with reference to Annexure P-18 dated 11.08.2021, firstly, to see whether the same was overreached and then, subject to its answer and consequences of its defiance. A bare perusal of Annexure P-21, which is the written submissions on behalf of the first respondent herein (opposite party therein) filed before the NCDRC 830 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and marked as such in this proceeding, without any peradventure would go to show that in and vide the said written submissions, the first respondent had introduced some pleadings to resist the claims and the contentions of the complainants in CC No.945 of 2019 and eventually, to offer its explanation for the delay in handing over possession of the flats. The raison d’etre for our remarks would be unravelled by a mere perusal of Annexure P-21. Paragraph 3 thereof, opens thus: - “The complainants do not deserve any compensation as,” (underline supplied) 12. Thenceforth, under para 3 (i) to 3 (iii), the respondents gave the reasons therefor. Through paragraph 4 of Annexure P-21, the respondent introduced further reasons to support its stand that the complainants do not deserve compensatory interest for the delay in handing over possession of flats. It is to be noted that even after taking a stand at paragraph 5 thereof that there was no delay at all from its part, the first respondent proceeded to explain the delay in paragraph 6. The statements made in the further paragraphs of Annexure P-21 also carry, either the case of the first respondent or its explanations/reasons to counter the claim of the complainants. To put it pithily, the first respondent, on being given the opportunity to file written submission, made use of it to make good its failure to file a written statement despite the fact that its right to file the same was declared as forfeited by this Court.