Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. The appellant-DSGMC assailed the aforesaid passed by the learned Single Judge by filing a Letters Patent Appeal7 which was dismissed vide dated 15th March, 2023 for want of prosecution. Hence, the dated 1st October, 2019 has attained finality. 15. A bare perusal of the above would clearly indicate that the offer of re-employment made by the appellant-DSGMC to the teaching and non-teaching staff of the school was not found to be bona fide as the same was not in conformity with the directions given by the High Court. 16. Thus, in the present appeals, the only issue which requires adjudication is as to whether the appellant-DSGMC has any valid ground so as to assail the impugned of the High Court dated 9th December, 2009, whereby the NDMC was directed to reimburse the pay and perquisites including the pension and other benefits accruing to the staff of the school and “then to recover the same from the appellant-DSGMC”. 17. Shri Ritesh Khatri, learned counsel representing the appellant- DSGMC, while referring to Rule 47 of the Delhi Education Rules, urged that where as a result of closure of a recognised school, or withdrawal of the recognition, the staff of the school becomes surplus, they may be absorbed as far as possible in a Government school or aided school. As per learned counsel, the teachers and other staff of the school who became surplus on account of closure of the school would be entitled to the benefit under Rule 47 of the Delhi Education Rules. Thus, in sum and substance, the contention of learned counsel representing the appellant-DSGMC is that the NDMC and the Director (Education), NDMC are primarily responsible for absorption and payment of salary and other service benefits to the staff, which became surplus on account of closure of the school. However, we find it difficult to sustain this argument which is fallacious on the face of record. The closure which is contemplated in Rule 47 of the Delhi Education Rules has to be a valid closure, i.e., having been carried out with the prior approval of the Director as provided under Rule 46 of the Delhi Education Rules which reads as under:- 7 LPA No. 732 of 2019 in Majinder Singh Sora & Anr. v. Manju Tomar & Ors. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 659 New Delhi Municipal Council v. Manju Tomar and Other “Rule 46. Closing down of a school or any class in a school- No managing committee shall close down a recognised school, not being an unaided minority school, or an existing class in such school without giving full justification and without the prior approval of the Director, who shall, before giving such an approval, consult the Advisory Board.” 18. A bare perusal of the above Rule concludes beyond the pale of doubt that no recognised school or an existing class in the school, except an unaided minority school, shall be closed without offering full justification and without the prior approval of the Director.