xxx xxx xxx 128. In the forgoing discussions, we have noted that the liquidation value of the workmen as has been referred to in Form-H preferred by the Resolution Professional is Rs.113 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2143 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. crores and workmen were entitled to receive at least Rs.113 crores as per Section 30(2)(b) read with Section 53(1)(b) of the Code. Shri Krishnendu Datta, learned Counsel for Successful Resolution Applicant during his submission, submitted that Successful Resolution Applicant shall be paying an amount of Rs.113 crores to the workmen as per the Resolution Plan, since it was contemplated that, if liquidation value is more than Rs.52 crores, the liquidation value shall be payable to the workmen. To clear any doubt, we deem it fit and proper to issue direction to Successful Resolution Applicant to make payment to the workmen of Rs.113 crores as per the Resolution Plan. xxx xxx xxx 134. In result, the Appeal(s) are decided in following manner: (I) The Appeal(s) of workmen and employees being Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) Nos. 643 of 2021, 752 of 2021, 801 of 2021, 915 of 2021, 771 of 2022 are partly allowed with following directions: (a) Successful Resolution Applicant is directed to make payment of unpaid provident fund to the workmen till date of insolvency commencement, after deducting the amount already paid towards provident fund in the Resolution Plan to the workmen. (b) The workmen are also entitled for payment of their gratuity dues as on insolvency commencement date, after adjusting any amount towards gratuity paid under the Resolution Plan. It is made clear that entitlement of those employees and workmen, who were demerged into AGSL shall not be there, since demerger has not been treated as termination of their services. (c) The employees are also entitled for the payment of their full provident fund, unpaid up to the date of insolvency commencement date. It is made clear that full payment of provident fund would be of that unpaid part of provident 2144 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports fund, which has not been deposited by the Corporate Debtor in the EPFO. (d) Employees shall also be entitled for the gratuity, which fell due up to insolvency commencement date. (e) The rest of the prayers of the workmen and employees are denied. (f) The Chairman of the Monitoring Committee, erstwhile Resolution Professional is directed to compute the payments to be made to workmen and employees within one month from today and communicate the same to the Successful Resolution Applicant to take steps for payment.” (emphasis supplied) 135. Thus, it was held in clear terms that the workmen and employees are entitled to full payment of Provident Fund and Gratuity. The non- payment of these amounts shall lead to a violation of Section 30(2) (e) of the IBC, 2016 which requires that the Resolution Plan must not contravene any of the provisions of the law for the time being in force.