The relevant observations read as under: - “26. It is not a case where minimum qualifying marks are prescribed for assessment of performance and merit and those who secure the prescribed minimum qualifying marks are selected for promotion on the basis of seniority. In the circumstances, it must be held that the High Court has rightly come to the conclusion that the mode of selection that was in fact employed was contrary to the principle of ‘seniority-cum-merit’ laid down in the Rules.” (Emphasis supplied) 88. This distinction was reiterated in Union of India and Ors. v. Lt. Gen. Rajendra Singh Kadyan & Anr. reported in (2000) 6 SCC 698, State of U.P. v. Jalal Uddin & Ors. reported in (2005) 1 SCC 169 and Haryana State Electronics Development Corporation Ltd. & Ors. v. Seema Sharma & Ors. reported in (2009) 7 SCC 311. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1123 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. 89. This Court in Palure Bhaskar Rao & Ors. v. P. Ramaseshaiah & Ors. reported in (2017) 5 SCC 783 reiterated the distinction between the principles of ‘Seniority-cum-merit’ and ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’. As far as promotion by ‘seniority-cum-merit’ or seniority per se, the eligible senior cannot be superseded. Other things being equal, the senior automatically get promoted. But in the case of selection based on ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’, the senior candidate can be superseded if the candidate who is senior is not otherwise eligible to be considered according to the applicable service rules. 90. This Court in its decision in K. Samantaray v. National Insurance Co. Ltd. reported in (2004) 9 SCC 286 reaffirmed that when it comes to promotion, apart from the two guiding principles that have come to be accepted namely; ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ and ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’, a third model has also now come to be recognized as a mode of promotion known as the ‘Hybrid Mode of Promotion’. This Court while explaining the ‘Hybrid Mode of Promotion’ observed that the requirement is that seniority is to be duly respected and merit is to be appropriately recognized. The relevant observations read as under: - “10. [...] The third mode (apart from seniority-cum-merit and merit-cum-seniority modes) has been recognized. It has been described as a “hybrid mode of promotion”. In other words, there is a third category of cases where seniority is duly respected and merit is appropriately recognized. 11. While laying down the promotion policy or rule, it is always open to the employer to specify area and parameter of weightage to be given in respect of merit and seniority separately so long as policy is not colourable exercise of power, nor has the effect of violating of any statutory scope of interference and other relatable matters. The decision in B. V. Sivaiah case (supra) is clearly distinguishable on facts and in law. That was a case where statutory rules governed the field. This Court, inter alia, held that fixing terms which are at variance with the statutory rules is impermissible. In the case at hand, prior to the formulation of policy in February, 1990, there were no codified prescriptions.