Digital Supreme Court Reports company or agency owned or controlled by the state government or a state government department on such terms and conditions as it deems fit. 11.1. Registration of excise contractors is provided for in Rule 4A. As per sub-rule (1), every application for registration as excise contractor shall be made to the Excise Commissioner in the prescribed format. After following the procedure prescribed in sub-rules (2) to (4), the Excise Commissioner under sub-rule (5) may register such an applicant as an excise contractor and grant a certificate of registration in the prescribed format which is not transferable. Sub-rule (8) clarifies that the registration certificate so issued shall be valid for participation in tender/ auction for the disposal of the right of retail vend of liquor for the excise year specified in such certificate. 11.2. As per Rule 10(1), where the right of retail vend of liquor within a district is to be disposed of by auction, the Deputy Commissioner of that district and where the disposal of the right is in more than a district in a Division, the Divisional Commissioner of that Division shall hold the auction on the date, time and place as may be notified. The procedure to be followed in the auction is laid down in Rule 11. 12. Under Section 71 of the Excise Act, Government of Karnataka has framed another set of rules called the Karnataka Excise (Manufacturing and Bottling of Arrack) Rules, 1987 (already referred to as “the 1987 Rules” hereinabove). Rule 2(b) defines “arrack” to mean the spirit manufactured by blending or reducing the spirit and includes spiced arrack, but does not include Indian or foreign liquor. “Blending” is defined in Rule 2(c) to mean the mixing of spirits with other spirits of the same or different strengths. As per Rule 2(e), “commissioner” means the Excise Commissioner. Rule 2(n) defines “warehouse” to mean any distillery or other place where spirit is stored, blended, matured, fortified, diluted or flavoured to produce arrack and also a place for bottling such arrack, but does not include a manufactory where wine or Indian liquor, beer or toddy is manufactured. 12.1. As per Rule 3(1), a licence may be granted by the Excise Commissioner for the manufacture and bottling of arrack for any specified area or areas. Sub-rule (2) of Rule 3 was inserted [2024] 7 S.C.R. 303 The Excise Commissioner Karnataka & Anr. v. Mysore Sales International Ltd. & Ors. subsequently w.e.f. 01.07.1993. Sub-rule (2) of Rule 3 clarifies that a licence under Rule 3 shall be issued only to a company or agency owned or controlled by the state government or to a state government department. This provision, being important, is extracted as under: 3. Licence to be granted only to a company etc : - (1) A licence shall be granted by the Commissioner, whenever necessary for any specified area or areas for the manufacture and bottling of arrack. (2) The licence under this rule shall be issued only to a company or agency owned or controlled by the state government or to a state government department.