iii. Evolution of the Principles of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ in Service Jurisprudence. a. Concept of Promotion: The meaning and origin of seniority and merit as parameters. 68. Promotion is an integral part of any formal sector employment. The principal object of a promotion system is to secure the best possible incumbents for higher positions while maintaining the morale of the whole organization.1 In the matter of formulation of a policy for promotion to a higher post, the two competing principles which are taken into account are inter-se seniority and comparative merit of employees who are eligible for promotion. Understanding the meaning of Seniority and Merit 69. The Black’s Law Dictionary defines ‘seniority’ as follows2: - “Represents in the highest degree the right to work, and by seniority the oldest man in point of service, ability and fitness for the job being sufficient, is given choice of jobs, is first promoted within range of jobs subject to seniority, and is the last laid off, proceeding so on down the line to the youngest in point of service.” 1 High Court of Calcutta v. Amal Kumar Roy [1963] 1 SCR 437 2 Henry Campbell Black, Black’s Law Dictionary, p. 1528 (6th Edn., 1968). 1114 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 70. Weber, the sociologist, described “promotion according to seniority or to achievement” as an important component of an efficient bureaucracy.3 Establishing a promotion system based on seniority is fundamental to modern management, which ensures that individuals joining an organization have opportunities for career advancement. Further, promotions based on seniority is tried and tested method because those who have been engaged at the employment for longer have had more time to refine the skills necessary for the higher posts. What constitutes ‘Merit’ 71. According to the Cambridge Dictionary, merit is defined as the quality of being good and deserving. In the context of employment, it is the sum total of various qualities which are relevant for fulfilling the requirements of the employment.4 There are multiple attributes of merit which must be taken into consideration such as character, integrity, and devotion to the assigned official duties. The manner in which the candidate discharges their final duties would also be a relevant factor. 72. Further, past performance is a relevant factor to judge the merit of the candidate, particularly in promotional posts, since it would indicate the capability of the candidate to discharge their duties effectively. Merely because any person possesses higher qualifications or higher marks in an examination does not mean that they are meritorious than others.5 73. In the United States, the Federal Civil Services Act of 1871, provides for filling of vacancies in higher positions by competitive promotion tests, wherever practicable. H. Eliot Kaplan, General Counsel of the New York Bar, in his “Law of Civil Services” writes that in some jurisdictions promotions may be made on a wider basis, the field of promotion being left to the discretion of the personnel agency.6 He also notes that the eligibility requirements for promotion are usually not specified in the statutes but are usually left to be determined by 3 H. Gerth and C.W.