It was observed that licence fees are regulatory when the activities for which a licence is given are required to be regulated or controlled. It was further held that the fees charged for regulation of activities could be validly classified as fees although no service is rendered. A regulatory fee such as a licence fee enables authorities to supervise, regulate, and monitor the activity related to which the licence has been issued and to secure proper enforcement of the legal provisions.54 38. The principle which follows from the above discussion is that the State grants a licence to regulate a particular trade, business, or profession.55 These regulatory activities entail a duty on behalf of the State or its instrumentalities to supervise, regulate, and monitor that particular trade, business, or profession. Because such activities require the State to expend public resources, the State can charge licence fees to defray the administrative costs. The enrolment fee stipulated by Section 24(1)(f) of Advocates Act meets the characteristic of a regulatory fee. 39. Having encapsulated the broad gist of the historical and legal context, we now deal with the issues arising in these petitions. E. Fees charged by the SBCs 40. Presently, the SBCs charge different fees from advocates at the time of enrolment. Most SBCs charge an enrolment fee in addition to other miscellaneous fees. For instance, the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa is charging library fees, certificate fees, administration fees, identity card fees, training fees, and welfare fund contributions. Resultantly, the enrolment fee and the other fees charged by the SBC amounts to Rupees fifteen thousand for general candidates and Rupees fourteen thousand five hundred for candidates from SC and ST category. 41. The Bar Council of Odisha is charging Rupees forty-two thousand one hundred from advocates at the time of enrolment. In their counter affidavit, the SBC concedes the fact that Section 24(1)(f) 53 [1999] 1 SCR 143 : (1999) 2 SCC 274 [9] 54 Vam Organic Chemicals Ltd v. State of U P (1997) 2 SCC 715 [18]; A P Paper Mills Ltd. v. Government of A P (2000) 8 SCC 167 [24]. 55 Indian Mica Micanite Industries v. State of Bihar (1971) 2 SCC 236 [14] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1519 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. only mandates the SBCs to charge Rupees seven hundred fifty in total at the time of enrolment. However, the SBC sought to justify charging the enhanced enrolment fee and other fees from the advocates “having regard to the functions of the Odisha Bar Council” under the Advocates Act. The SBC further claims that in line with its functions under Section 6, it has created various welfare funds for the benefit of advocates on its roll and utilizes the contributions received from the fees towards this end. Resultantly, the SBC is charging Rupees twenty-six thousand nine hundred as a one-time deposit to enable an advocate to avail of a lifetime benefit of various welfare schemes. This amount is in addition to the enrolment fee of Rupees six thousand, processing/ development fees of Rupees seven thousand, and other miscellaneous charges.