Accordingly, the findings of the Trial Court were affirmed in the impugned dated 03.03.2023. 10. The Appellant has thereupon moved this Court in challenge to the said impugned on the grounds that as the signature on the concerned cheque was admitted by the Respondent, the Appellant was able to successfully raise a presumption under Section 139 of the NI Act 1881 and as per the submissions of the Respondent, he had failed to rebut the said presumption. He also put forth that the reliance on the decision in Rangappa (supra) by the High Court was misplaced, and even going by the standard of preponderance of probabilities, the Respondent failed to discharge his onus. 11. Having heard the learned Senior Advocate for the Appellant as well as the learned Counsel on behalf of the Respondent, it is imperative to deliberate over the position of law apropos the applicable provisions of the NI Act 1881, and others, if any. 12. Earlier, a case of dishonour of a cheque was dealt through provisions of Section 420 read with Section 415 of the IPC 1860. To enhance the acceptability of cheques as well as to provide for adequate safeguards to prevent harassment of honest drawers through painting the liability arising out of dishonour of a cheque with a punitive brush, an amendment to the NI Act 1881 was brought about by introducing Chapter VIII. Thence, seeking to promote credibility in transactions 1 [2010] 6 SCR 507 : (2010) 11 SCC 441. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 129 Sri Dattatraya v. Sharanappa through the medium of banking channels and operations as well as their efficacy. Section 138 of the NI Act 1881 is reproduced below as: “138. Dishonour of cheque for insufficiency, etc., of funds in the account. Where any cheque drawn by a person on an account maintained by him with a banker for payment of any amount of money to another person from out of that account for the discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or other liability, is returned by the bank unpaid, either because of the amount of money standing to the credit of that account is insufficient to honour the cheque or that it exceeds the amount arranged to be paid from that account by an agreement made with that bank, such person shall be deemed to have committed an offence and shall, without prejudice to any other provision of this Act, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may be extended to two years’, or with fine which may extend to twice the amount of the cheque, or with both: Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply unless— (a) the cheque has been presented to the bank within a period of six months from the date on which it is drawn or within the period of its validity, whichever is earlier; (b) the payee or the holder in due course of the cheque, as the case may be, makes a demand for the payment of the said amount of money by giving a notice; in writing, to the drawer of the cheque, within thirty days of the receipt of information by him from the bank regarding the return of the cheque as unpaid; and (c) the drawer of such cheque fails to make the payment of the said amount of money to the payee or, as the case may be, to the holder in due course of the cheque, within fifteen days of the receipt of the said notice.