The Transferee Court at Pune was directed to consider the case of the respective parties and record the evidence, if any, and submit a report in the form of an to this Court for the purpose of considering the application filed by the respondent under Article 142(1) of the Constitution. 3.11 In compliance with the aforesaid of this Court, both the parties appeared before the Transferee Court, i.e., Family Court, Pune. The petitioner-wife filed an application before that court for fixation of alimony commensurate to the assets of the respondent-husband and further sought monthly maintenance and residence rights in the matrimonial house at Pune. The petitioner averred before the Family Court, Pune that the respondent divorced his first wife and gave her 50% of his net worth, which was around Rs.500 crores, in addition to a house in USA, and therefore, the petitioner may be paid permanent alimony in the same manner as was given to the first wife and as per the status of the respondent. 3.12 The respondent denied the claims made by the petitioner in her application for fixation of alimony and stated that the present marriage between the parties was for a short duration of only three months, during which no marital assets were created, unlike his previous marriage where his ex-wife had contributed to building the assets of the respondent and thus she was entitled to a stake in those assets. He stated that on the contrary, the criminal cases filed by the petitioner herein 1366 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports have led to a further loss of his business. Thus, the respondent prayed for the permanent alimony to be fixed in the range of Rs.20 lakhs to 40 lakhs. 3.13 The Family Court, Pune, after a detailed analysis of the material on record, submitted its report dated 22.03.2024 to this Court. The learned Judge of the Family Court at Pune concluded that after taking into consideration the status and standard of living of the respondent-husband; the income and expenditure of the petitioner-wife; as well as the fact that the petitioner-wife has her own house where she can live, permanent alimony of Rs.2 lakhs per month was just and reasonable and if a lumpsum amount is to be granted, an amount of Rs.10 crores would be just and proper. Mediation Proceedings: 4. Pending consideration of the application filed under Article 142(1) of the Constitution, this Court made further attempts to encourage the parties to reach an amicable settlement inter se. By dated 22.04.2024, the matter was referred to the Supreme Court Mediation Centre. But after a few mediation sessions, the respondent submitted through Video Conferencing Facility (VC) before us that he was not interested in pursuing a mediated settlement before the Supreme Court Mediation Centre and the same was recorded in the dated 13.05.2024. However, the parties agreed to attempt a mediated settlement of the dispute between them before a retired Judge of this Court. Consequently, Mr. Justice S. Ravindra Bhat, Retired Judge, Supreme Court of India, was appointed as a mediator in the matter by the aforesaid .