17. PW-5 examined by the prosecution was Kamal Singh, who happened to be the cousin brother of the deceased Devaki. He stated that on receiving the telephone call on 14.09.2003 at 8:00 PM about the incident, he had gone to the house of the deceased and saw that the dead body of his sister Devaki was lying on the floor in naked condition and some green grass was put over her body. One bedding was also lying in the room and water was put all over it. He also stated that on inspection of the room, he felt that Devaki had not committed suicide but her mother-in-law and husband had murdered her by setting her ablaze. He further deposed that quarrels used to take place between the deceased and the appellants over her desire of going to Chandigarh with her husband. 18. During cross-examination, PW-5 deposed that the deceased had told him that her mother-in-law was not allowing her to visit Chandigarh. 19. PW-6 Sunita Devi, was the sister-in-law of the deceased Devaki. She stated that as and when Devaki used to visit her parental [2024] 11 S.C.R. 915 Vijaya Singh & Anr. v. State of Uttarakhand home, she used to tell her about the harassment caused by her mother-in-law and husband. She used to tell her that she (Devaki) was kept terrorized and threatened, and was not given proper food at her matrimonial home and that her in-laws would go out locking her in the house. 20. The expert witnesses regarding the cause of death, examined by the prosecution, was PW-7 Dr. Shailendra Kumar, who had carried out post-mortem of the deceased Devaki. He stated that the deceased had sustained 100% burn injuries and the whole body was burnt from top to bottom. The cause of death was ‘Death due to shock’ and semi digested food was found in her stomach. No smell of any kind was felt from her person. He further stated that a male womb measuring 10 cm having weight 200 gm was found in the uterus of the deceased. In the cross-examination, he had stated that it was not possible to give opinion whether the deceased had got herself burnt or somebody had burnt her after pouring kerosene. However, in his opinion, sustaining 100% burn injuries was not possible in case of self-inflicting burns and that some percentage would have been left. In the cross-examination, he had explained that 100% burns would mean the body was lying burnt from top to bottom. He also admitted that if the size of the room was very small, then entering the room from outside would not be probable due to smoke. 21. The Investigating Officer, Shyam Lal Patwari examined as PW-8 had deposed about the investigation carried out by him after receiving the complaint from PW-2 on 15.09.2003. He deposed that he had seized the articles from the place of occurrence, which included semi burnt bedding, two cans of kerosene measuring 5 litre each, having half litre of kerosene available in each can at that time, one burnt wood etc.