This, therefore, can be achieved by making a reasonable classification so that every class of citizens is duly represented in services which will enable equality of opportunity to all citizens. The classification, however, must be a reasonable one and must fulfil the following conditions: 1502 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) It must have a rational basis; (ii) it must have a close nexus with the object sought to be achieved; (iii) it should not select any person for hostile discrimination at the cost of others.” 97. His Lordship observed that differences and disparities exist among men and things, and they cannot be treated alike by the application of the same laws. He observed that the law must come to terms with life and must be able to recognize the genuine differences and disparities that exist in human nature. He observed that the Legislature has also to enact legislation to meet specific ends by making a reasonable and rational classification. 98. It has been observed that clause (1) of Article 16 clearly provides for equality of opportunity to all citizens in the services under the State. His Lordship emphasized that the words “equality of opportunity for all citizens” used in the Constitution imply that the opportunity must be given not only to a particular section of the society or a particular class of citizens who may be advanced or otherwise more affluent but to all classes of citizens. According to the Learned Judge, this can be achieved by making a reasonable classification so that every class of citizens is duly represented in services which will enable equality of opportunity to all citizens. He however culls out three conditions, viz., (i) it must have a rational basis; (ii) it must have a close nexus with the object sought to be achieved; and (iii) it should not select any person for hostile discrimination at the cost of others. 99. Echoing the sentiments of the other Learned Judges, by holding that Article 16(4) is not a proviso to Article 16(1), the Learned Judge observed thus: “187. For these reasons, therefore, I respectfully agree with the observations of Subba Rao, J., as he then was, in T. Devadasan v. Union of India [AIR 1964 SC 179 : (1964) 4 SCR 680 : (1965) 2 LLJ 560] where he observed: “That is why the makers of the Constitution introduced clause (4) in Article 16. The expression ‘nothing in this article’ is a legislative device to express its intention in a most emphatic way that the power conferred thereunder is not limited in any way by the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1503 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. main provision but falls outside it. It has not really carved out an exception, but has preserved a power untrammelled by the other provisions of the article.” My view that Article 16(4) is not a proviso to Article 16(1) but that this clause covers the whole field of Article 16 is amply supported by the decision of this Court in General Manager, Southern Railway v. Ranga-chari where it was observed: (p. 599) “It is common ground that Article 16(4) does not cover the entire field covered by Article 16(1) and (2).