402/2021 registered against him for the offences punishable under Sections 406, 420, 120B of IPC and Section 4/6 of the Rajasthan Public Examination (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 1992. He was released on bail by this Court vide dated 18th January 2023. Thereafter, the petitioner was arrested by the ED on 21st June 2023. The Court observed thus: “7. Adverting to the prayer for grant of bail in the instant case, it is pointed out by learned counsel for ED that the complaint case is at the stage of framing of charges and 24 witnesses are proposed to be examined. The conclusion of proceedings, thus, will take some reasonable time. The petitioner has already been in custody for more than a year. Taking into consideration the period spent in custody and there being no likelihood of conclusion of trial within a short span, coupled with the fact that the petitioner is already on bail in the predicate offence, and keeping in view the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, 5 SLP(Crl.) No. 3205 of 2024 dated 30.07.2024 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1079 Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement it seems to us that the rigours of Section 45 of the Act can be suitably relaxed to afford conditional liberty to the petitioner. ed accordingly.” 39. In the light of the specific observations of this Court in paragraph 28 of the first , we are not inclined to accept the submission of the learned ASG that the provisions of Section 45 of the PMLA would come in the way of consideration of the application of the appellant for grant of bail. 40. From the first of this Court, it would be clear that an assurance was given at the Bar on behalf of the prosecution that they shall conclude the trial by taking appropriate steps within next 6-8 months. In view of the said statement, this Court did not consider the application of the appellant for bail at that stage, however, granted liberty to the appellant to move a fresh application for bail in case of change in circumstances, or in case the trial is protracted and proceeded at a snail’s pace in next three months. Though, this Court observed that if any application for bail was filed on the grounds mentioned in paragraph 29, the same would be considered by the trial court without being influenced by the dismissal of the earlier bail applications including the present , however, it clarified that the observations made by the Court with regard to right to speedy trial would be taken into consideration. The liberty was also granted to the appellant to file an application for interim bail in case of ill- health and medical emergency due to illness of his wife. 41. A perusal of the impugned and would reveal that though the learned Single Judge of the High Court has dismissed the applications for bail on merits, on medical grounds, it has permitted the appellant to visit his residence to meet his wife in custody once every week.