1567 P. Manikandan v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. Cr.P.C in Ajay Kumar Ghoshal v. State of Bihar,24 to the effect that: “10. Section 386 CrPC deals with the powers of the appellate court. As per Section 386(b) CrPC in an appeal from a conviction, the appellate court may : (i) reverse the finding and sentence and acquit or discharge the accused, or him to be retried by a court of competent jurisdiction subordinate to such appellate court or committed for trial, or (ii) alter the finding, maintaining the sentence, or (iii) with or without altering the finding, alter the nature or the extent, or the nature and extent, of the sentence, but not so as to enhance the same. 11. Though the word “retrial” is used under Section 386(b) (i) CrPC, the powers conferred by this clause is to be exercised only in exceptional cases, where the appellate court is satisfied that the omission or irregularity has occasioned in failure of justice. The circumstances that should exist for warranting a retrial must be such that where the trial was undertaken by the court having no jurisdiction, or trial was vitiated by serious illegality or irregularity on account of the misconception of nature of proceedings. An for retrial may be passed in cases where the original trial has not been satisfactory for some particular reasons such as wrong admission or wrong rejection of evidences or the court refused to hear certain witnesses who were supposed to be heard. 12. “De novo” trial means a “new trial” ed by an appellate court in exceptional cases when the original trial failed to make a determination in a manner dictated by law. The trial is conducted afresh by the court as if there had not been a trial in first instance. Undoubtedly, the appellate court has power to direct the lower court to hold “de novo” trial. But the question is when such power should be exercised…” (Emphasis supplied) 19. This court in Nasib Singh v. State of Punjab,25 formulated the principles emerging from several decisions on retrial given by this Court: 24 (2017) 12 SCC 699 25 (2022) 2 SCC 89 1568 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 33. The principles that emerge from the decisions of this Court on retrial can be formulated as under: 33.1. The appellate court may direct a retrial only in “exceptional” circumstances to avert a miscarriage of justice. 33.2. Mere lapses in the investigation are not sufficient to warrant a direction for retrial. Only if the lapses are so grave so as to prejudice the rights of the parties, can a retrial be directed. 33.3. A determination of whether a “shoddy” investigation/ trial has prejudiced the party, must be based on the facts of each case pursuant to a thorough reading of the evidence. 33.4. It is not sufficient if the accused/prosecution makes a facial argument that there has been a miscarriage of justice warranting a retrial. It is incumbent on the appellate court directing a retrial to provide a reasoned on the nature of the miscarriage of justice caused with reference to the evidence and investigatory process.