Thirdly, this Court has held repeatedly that keeping vacant seats results in huge financial loss to the college apart from being a national wastage of resources (See Index Medical College, Hospital & Research Centre v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. (2023) 11 SCC 570). 24. Fourthly, this Court has also frowned upon the grant of provisional admission unless the court is fully satisfied that the petitioner has a cast iron case which is bound to succeed or the error is so gross or apparent that no other conclusion is possible. Even there, the court has opined that a short notice to the respondent ought to be given and after hearing the other side, in an exceptional case fulfilling the criteria prescribed necessary s can be made (See Krishna Priya Ganguly & Ors. v. University of Lucknow & Ors. (1984) 1 SCC 307). 25. If provisional admission seats are not to be given casually, the said principle should also apply for directions to keep seats vacant. Only if there is a cast iron case for the petitioner and the petitioner is bound to succeed in cases where the error of the respondent authorities is so gross as to negate any other conclusion, interim s keeping seats vacant could be made. Though courts have power to make s directing seats to be kept vacant in such cases, great caution and circumspection should be shown in exercising the power. In appropriate cases, even where the said exceptional criterion as set out above is met, the court will be justified in directing the petitioner to provide security, to the concerned college-institution where the seat is ultimately directed to be kept vacant or on whom ultimately the liability of the vacant seat would fall. The security is to guarantee that in the event of the Writ Petition/Appeal being dismissed and the seat going unfilled for the academic year the Petitioner/Appellant would make good the loss which the college may incur financially. Even in rare and exceptional cases where s for keeping seats vacant are made, every endeavor must be made by the Court to dispose of the matter before the counselling for admissions are over. 26. Additionally, even if the Writ Petition/Appeal succeeds, but if the matter could not be disposed off before the deadline the seat may still go vacant. It should not be forgotten that while the recurring and non-recurring expenditure for a college remains the same, a vacant seat will deprive the college of the fees to that extent, not [2024] 11 S.C.R. 711 Ramkrishna Medical College Hospital & Research Centre v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. just for one year but for the whole course, which could be four, five or more years. 27. Lastly, these safeguards are essential to restitute the colleges which may have suffered for no fault of theirs. It is well settled that if on account of an act of a party persuading the court to pass an , which at the end has been held not sustainable and if in the process one party has gained an advantage which it would not have otherwise earned or the other party had suffered an impoverishment, restitution can be made.