2 SCR 467 : (1995) 5 SCC 139, paras 17-18 and 25. 5 ibid, para 17. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 149 Yash Raj Films Private Limited v. Afreen Fatima Zaidi & Anr. depend on the civil and statutory legal regime. The complainant has invoked the jurisdiction of the consumer court and therefore, it is necessary to analyse the issues in view of the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. 8. The Consumer Protection Act has been enacted to protect the interests of consumers and for that purpose, to establish authorities for the settlement of consumer disputes. A ‘consumer’ has been defined in Section 2(1)(d) as a consumer of goods or services. A consumer of goods is one who buys any goods, and a consumer of a service is one who hires or avails of any service, for a consideration, except when such goods or services are for a commercial purpose.6 A consumer can file a ‘complaint’, which is defined in Section 2(1) (c) of the Act,7 alleging inter alia ‘deficiency in service’ and ‘unfair trade practice’. 9. Deficiency of Service: In this context, the definition of ‘deficiency’ and ‘service’ are important. The term ‘service has been defined in Section 2(1)(o) of the Act as follows: “2. Definitions.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— 6 Section 2(1)(d) of the Act defines ‘consumer’ as follows’: “2. Definitions.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— (d) “consumer” means any person who,— (i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose; or (ii) hires or avails of any services for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any beneficiary of such services other than the person who hires or avails of the services for consideration paid or promised, or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such services are availed of with the approval of the first mentioned person but does not include a person who avails of such services for any commercial purpose” 7 The relevant portion of Section 2(1)(c) of the Act defining ‘complaint’ is as follows’: “(c) “complaint” means any allegation in writing made by a complainant that— (i) an unfair trade practice or a restrictive trade practice has been adopted by any trader or service provider; *** (iii) the services hired or availed of or agreed to be hired or availed of by him suffer from deficiency in any respect; *** with a view to obtaining any relief provided by or under this Act;” 150 [2024] 5 S.C.R.