In terms of the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2019 (Act No. 33 of 2019),16 the time-limit for making an arbitral award under Section 29A(1) is not applicable to international commercial arbitration. As per the amendment made by Act No. 33 of 2019, the twelve-month period commences from the date of completion of pleadings under Section 23(4) of the A & C Act. Earlier, Section 29A(1) had stipulated that the twelve-month period would begin from the date the arbitral tribunal enters upon reference. Section 29A(2) states that if the award is made within six months, the arbitral tribunal will be entitled to receive such amount as additional fees as the parties may agree. 6. Section 29A(4) is the provision which requires interpretation. It states that where the award is not made within the specified period of twelve or eighteen17 months, the mandate of the arbitral tribunal (8) It shall be open to the Court to impose actual or exemplary costs upon any of the parties under this section. (9) An application filed under sub-section (5) shall be disposed of by the court as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made to dispose of the matter within a period of sixty days from the date of service of notice on the opposite party.’ ” 16 Section 29A was further amended vide the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2019 (Act No. 33 of 2019) which read: “6. Amendment of Section 29-A.— In Section 29-A of the principal Act,— (a) for sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:— ‘(1) The award in matters other than international commercial arbitration shall be made by the arbitral tribunal within a period of twelve months from the date of completion of pleadings under sub-section (4) of Section 23: Provided that the award in the matter of international commercial arbitration may be made as expeditiously as possible and endeavour may be made to dispose of the matter within a period of twelve months from the date of completion of pleadings under sub-section (4) of Section 23.’; (b) in sub-section (4), after the proviso, the following provisos shall be inserted, namely:— ‘Provided further that where an application under sub-section (5) is pending, the mandate of the arbitrator shall continue till the disposal of the said application: Provided also that the arbitrator shall be given an opportunity of being heard before the fees is reduced.’” 17 This includes the period of twelve months under Section 29A(1) and the extended period of six months under Section 29A(3). 482 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports will terminate. However, this provision does not apply if the court has extended the period, either before or after the expiry of the initial or the extended term. In other words, Section 29A(4) empowers the court to extend the period for making of the arbitral award beyond a period of twelve months or eighteen months, as the case may be. The expression “either prior to or after the expiry of the period so specified” is unambiguous.