22.07.2002 was his weekly holiday. Therefore, he was at home. The quarter of Rekha Dhokne, lady police constable, was in front of his quarter in the police colony. On 22.07.2002, between 08:30 PM to 09:00 PM, he heard cries of a lady from the house of Dhokne. On hearing the cries, he and his wife came out of his house and entered the house of Dhokne. At that time, Dhokne was completely burnt. He and his wife poured water on her person and extinguished the fire. At that time, husband and brother-in-law of Rekha Dhokne were standing near the door of the house. Rekha was saying loudly that her husband and brother-in- law had set her on fire. When somebody brought an auto-rikshaw, her husband and brother-in-law took her to the S.R.T.R. Hospital in the said auto rikshaw. On 24.07.2002, Rekha Dhokne died while taking treatment in the hospital. His supplementary statement was recorded by the police on 25.07.2002. According to him, he had learnt that the in-laws of Rekha were demanding that she should part with her salary and since she was unwilling to do that, she was set on fire. 14.1. In his cross-examination, PW-8 stated that though he had told the police that when he and his wife had extinguished the fire, the husband and brother-in-law of Rekha were present near the door of the house, this is not reflected in his police statement. However, his statement that when his wife was pouring water on the person of Dhokne, husband Rajendra 750 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and brother-in-law Suresh were standing nearby, was recorded in his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. 15. PW-10 is Uttam, the police inspector, who had investigated the case. He stated that he had visited the crime scene alongwith two panchas. He had seized half burnt parker petticoat, gown, one water bottle smelling of kerosene, one half burnt stick, broken mangalsutra, lock etc. The seizure list was prepared by him and signed by the panchas. 15.1. In his cross-examination, he stated that on receiving information from the medical officer of the hospital that Rekha Dhokne had sustained burn injuries, he had directed PW-6 to record the dying declaration of her, entry of which was made in the station diary. In so far the Section 161 statement of PW-2 is concerned, he stated that PW-2 did not state before him that Rekha had told him that her husband had gagged her mouth by one hand and had poured kerosene on her person by the other hand. Regarding the Section 161 statement of PW-3, he stated that PW-3 did not say that the accused were demanding money from Rekha and that they were subjecting her to cruelty by not providing her food, confining her to the house and on the day of the incident, accused Rajendra and Suresh had set her on fire by pouring kerosene. He further stated that PW-3 Kausalyabai had not stated in her Section 161 statement that Shyamla had informed her that accused Rajendra and his brother Suresh had killed Rekha by setting her on fire.