1809 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. judge Bench to answer eleven points for reference which, in my view, was wholly unnecessary. This aspect would become more clear if the of this Court in P. Kannadasan vs. State of Tamil Nadu, (1996) 5 SCC 670 (“Kannadasan”) is perused which is discussed later. 23.13 By contrast, Sinha J., in his dissenting opinion in Kesoram at paragraph 309, has appreciated the controversy in the following words: “309. The decisions of the Privy Council in Governor General in Council v. Province of Madras [1945 FCR 179 : AIR 1945 PC 98] on the question of interpretation as regards conflicting legislative entries in general and tax entries in particular may not be apposite in the instant case inasmuch as herein we are concerned with only one question, namely, whether the field of taxation of mines and minerals which are extracted and cease to be a part of the surface, is wholly covered or not. One of the principles for reconciling conflicting tax entries is to ascertain as to whether a person, thing or activity is the subject-matter of tax and the amount of the tax to be levied. The question which has to be answered on the basis of the aforementioned principle is, is it a tax on land or tax on mineral. If having regard to the nature of tax and keeping in view the history of the legislation to the effect that the State of West Bengal has all along been trying to impose tax on minerals as opposed to tax on land, is taken into consideration, it will be noticed that endeavours have been made to continue to impose “cess” on mineral and mineral rights in the garb of “land tax”.” (underlining by me) 23.14 Therefore, the pith and substance of the controversy being, whether in the garb of imposition of impugned land tax on the strength of Entry 49 - List II, the State has the power to impose cess on royalty, or, in other words, cess on mineral and mineral rights was rightly identified. This is because royalty 1810 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is a payment for the exercise of mineral rights and not a tax on land and if cess is levied on royalty, then the same is an imposition on the exercise of mineral rights, which is covered under Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957. It is in the aforesaid context that Sinha, J. also referred to Section 25 of the MMDR Act, 1957 which states that any rent, royalty, tax, fee or other impost under the said Act or the Rules made thereunder can be recovered as arrears of land revenue. Therefore, in paragraph 321, it was opined by Sinha, J. as under: “321. Section 25 of the MMRD Act, 1957 by necessary implication refers to the taxing power of Parliament. Imposition of taxes on mineral rights would affect the development of mines and minerals.