Raju appearing on behalf of the State of Gujarat and Union of India;and learned senior counsel Mr. Sidharth Luthra and other counsel for respondent Nos.3 to 13 and perused the material on record. 6.1 We have also heard learned senior counsel and learned counsel Ms. Indira Jaising, Ms. Vrinda Grover and Ms. Aparna Bhat, for the petitioners in the public interest litigations. 6.2 We have perused the material on record as well as the judicial dicta cited at the Bar. 7. Learned counsel for the petitioner in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022, Ms. Shobha Gupta at the outset submitted that the en- masse remission granted to respondent Nos.3 to 13 by s dated 10.08.2022 has not only shattered the victim-petitioner and her family but has also shocked the collective conscience of the Indian society. That in the present case, the right of the victim and the cry of the society at large have been ignored by the State and Central Governments while recommending the grant of remission to all convicts in the case. 7.1. It was asserted that though the crime was committed in the State of Gujarat, the investigation and trial were carried out in the State of Maharashtra pursuant to the s of this Court. Hence, in view of the unambiguous language of Section 432(7) (b), only the State of Maharashtra would be the appropriate government which could have considered the applications filed 790 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by respondent Nos.3 to 13 seeking remission of their sentences. Learned counsel has placed reliance on the following s to buttress her argument, namely, State of M.P. vs. Ratan Singh, (1976) 3 SCC 470 (“Ratan Singh”); Government of A.P. vs. M.T. Khan, (2004) 1 SCC 616 (“M.T. Khan”); Hanumant Dass vs. Vinay Kumar, (1982) 2 SCC 177 (“Hanumant Dass”) and V.Sriharan. 7.2. According to learned counsel, once a competent Court in the State of Maharashtra had tried and convicted the accused then that State is the ‘appropriate Government’. Therefore, the s of remission passed by the State of Gujarat in respect of respondent Nos.3 to 13 is without jurisdiction and a nullity and thus, are liable to be quashed. 7.3. As regards the applicability of the relevant remission policy, learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that since the ‘appropriate government’ in the instant case is the State of Maharashtra, the remission policy of the State of Maharashtra would be applicable. Thus, the remission policy of the State of Gujarat dated 09.07.1992 would be wholly inapplicable. It was contended that the remission policy dated 09.07.1992 of the State of Gujarat was not even in existence as on the date for consideration of the remission applications as it was scrapped by way of a Circular dated 08.05.2014 pursuant to the letter of the Central Government circulated to all the States/UTs requiring the implementation of the of this Court in Sangeet vs. State of Haryana, (2013) 2 SCC 452 (“Sangeet”), wherein this Court held that before actually exercising the power of remission under Section 432 of the CrPC, the appropriate government must obtain the opinion of the Presiding Judge of the convicting or confirming court and that the remission shall not be granted in a wholesale manner, such as, on the occasion of Independence Day etc.