In that view of the matter, the contentions of the petitioners must succeed and such impositions and imposts must go as being invalid in law so far as industrial alcohol is concerned. We make it clear that this will not affect any impost so far as potable alcohol as commonly understood is concerned. It will also not affect any imposition of levy on industrial alcohol fee where there are circumstances to establish that there was quid pro quo for the fee sought to be imposed. This will not affect any regulating measure as such.” 14. Paragraph 88 lays down the following three principles: a. States do not have the competence to levy tax on industrial alcohol; b. States have the competence to levy tax on potable alcohol; and c. States have the competence to levy fee on industrial alcohol. 15. Justice Oza in his concurring opinion held: a. The legislative entries in List I and List II clearly demarcate the taxing powers of Parliament and State Legislature. Entry 84 of List I covers levy of excise duty on alcoholic liquor for other than human consumption and Entry 51 of List II covers levy of excise duty on alcoholic liquor for human consumption;34 34 (1990) 1 SCC 109 [97] [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1965 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons b. Parliament controls the alcohol industry since Item 26 of IDRA deals with industry based on fermentation and alcohol. The competence of the State Legislature under Entry 8 can only be subject to IDRA;35 and c. The regulation of the State under Entry 8 of List II can only be limited to prevent the conversion of alcoholic liquors for industrial use for human consumption. Regulatory fee can be levied by the State for this limited purpose. iii. The aftermath of Synthetics (7J) 16. Subsequently, the interpretation of the decision in Synthetics (7J) (supra) came up before this Court in numerous occasions. In Shri Bileshwar Khand Udyog Khedut Sahakari Mandali v. State of Gujarat,36 the constitutional validity of Section 58-A of the Bombay Prohibition Act 1949 was challenged. Section 58-A enabled the State Government to direct that “the manufacture, import, export, transport, storage, sale, purchase, use, collection or cultivation of any intoxicant, denatured spiritous preparations, hemp, mhowra flowers or molasses” would be in the supervision of persons appointed by them and the costs of such staff were required to be borne by the person engaged in the activity. This Court rejected the challenge. Relying on Synthetics (7J) (supra), the two-Judge Bench observed that though industrial alcohol is not covered by the regulatory powers under Entry 8 or the taxing power under Entry 51 of List II, the State has powers to ensure that industrial alcohol is not diverted to be used as potable alcohol and this is covered by Entry 33 of List III.37 35 (1990) 1 SCC 109 [100] 36 [1992] 1 SCR 391 : (1992) 2 SCC 42 37 “4. […] Levy as a fee under Entry 8 of List II of Seventh Schedule or excise duty under Entry 51 are different than cost of supervision charged under Section 58-A.