xxx xxx xxx 26. From the scheme of the Constitution, as set out above, it will be seen that though the officers of the subordinate judiciary are basically and essentially government servants, their whole service is placed under the control of the High Court and the Governor cannot make any appointment or take any disciplinary action including action for removal or compulsory retirement unless the High Court is “consulted” as required by the constitutional impact of both the Articles 233 and 234 and the “control” of the High Court indicated in Article 235.” (Emphasis supplied) 118. In High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan v. P.P. Singh & Anr. reported in (2003) 4 SCC 239, it was held that laying down merit criteria for appointment to selection grade was well within the domain of the High Court under Article 235 of the Constitution. The relevant observations read as under: - “18. It is beyond any pale of controversy that the control over the subordinate courts within the meaning of Article 235 of the Constitution of India is that of the High Court. Such control of the High Court includes general superintendence of the working of the subordinate courts, disciplinary control over the presiding officers, disciplinary proceedings, [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1135 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. transfer, confirmation and promotion and appointment etc. Such control vested in the High Court is complete. [...] xxx xxx xxx 24. The submission on behalf of the respondents to the effect that in the matter relating to fixation of criteria for the purpose of appointment to the selection grade, the two- Judge Committee could not be made without consulting all the Judges is stated to be rejected. The said submission is based on a total misconception. Laying down the merit criteria for appointment to the selection grade also was within the domain of the High Court. It could not only lay down such criteria but also amend or modify the same from time to time. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 119. From the aforesaid discussion, it is clear that when it comes to promotion of judicial officers of the District Judiciary, the control vests with the High Court under Article 235 of the Constitution. The High Court being the sole authority in this regard can clearly lay down rules and policies pertaining to promotions which includes the power to specify the criteria and parameters it deems most suitable and appropriate for the purpose of promotion and the manner in which promotion is to be made as long as it is within the contours of what has been laid down in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra). Thus, now the only question that remains to be considered is, what is the meaning assigned to “Merit-cum-Seniority” by All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra). iv. What is ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ for the purpose of Promotion to the cadre of District & Sessions Judges? a. Intention behind the decision in All India Judges’ Association (3). 120. The entire controversy revolves around the interpretation of Rule 5(1) of the 2005 Rules which provides that 65% of the total posts in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge shall be filled by promotion on the basis of the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’.