With hesitation the gates were finally opened. Yesterday evening Srinijan said sorry, he said that he knew nothing about the incident and he was being targeted. Former National Sports Star and present Sports Council President, Sharaf Ali came out with strong stand that; one, Kerala blasters didn’t owe any money. Two, even if they owed money it’s a matter for the sports council to deal with. The most important fact is that there is not any due, because all the grounds belong to the State Sports Council, the District Sports Council doesn’t have any relation. Sharaf Ali also said that P.V. Srinijan doesn’t have a say in it. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1095 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr. There are no arrears in the contract between Kerala Blasters and Kerala Sports Council. The Kerala State Sports Council has informed the Council in writing. The District Sports Council has no right to block. So why did Srinijan do the dirty work, who gave him the right to do so? Today evening another news came out. Including the sports hostel at Ernakulam, Panampalli Nagar and district sports development is being obstructed by Srinijan, the former Sports Council President and the National Sports Star Olympian Mercy Kutty said. The hostel at Panampally Nagar Sports Academy was one of the biggest sports hostels in Kerala. With arrival of Srinijan and the present President the administration got completely changed. After that food was also not served at the hotel. Now vigilance investigation is going on. All the bills are fakes and the Sports Council’s investigation is being piled up. Who should Kerala believe, Sharaf Ali, Mercy Kuttan or Srinijan? Sharaf Ali and Mercy Kuttan have shown their skills. They are national sports stars and are responsible and know how to act according to the situation at hand. They aren’t political, so Kerala is more likely to believe these sports stars. Srinijan is lying, it’s the latest example Srinijan’s dramatic moves to slowly bring it under his control. My question isn’t this, whenever a scandal, corruption or illegal activities take place we will find Srinijan name under it. Srinijan is infamous, still the CPM which made Srinijan a candidate should remember he wasn’t even a communist. He was a leader of the youth congress. The footage of the DYFI demonstration against Srinijan’s relation to corruption and black money transactions are still available. First, CPM gives seat to him. Secondly, the people of the locality elect him. The MLA Post is the best example that the people of Kerala would allow any corrupt and black money dealer to become a leader. By being at the MLA position, Srinijan has only done damage to the state. 1096 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports We know that it is hard for Kerala to invite industries over, because here political parties will raise red flags against it. Therefore, even those industries in Kerala are leaving. There are only a few industries who are born here and pays taxes correctly to the State.