Digital Supreme Court Reports of all persons arrested, the names of the complainants, the offences charged against them, the weapons or property that shall have been taken from their possession or otherwise, and the names of the witnesses who shall have been examined. The Magistrate of the district shall be at liberty to call for and inspect such diary.” 59. It is pertinent to note that during the year 1861, when the aforesaid Police Act, 1861 was passed, the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1861 was also passed. Section 139 of that Code dealt with registration of FIR and this section has also referred to the word “diary”, as can be seen from the language of this section, as reproduced below: “139.Complaint, etc., to be in writing.—Every complaint or information preferred to an officer in charge of a police station, shall be reduced into writing, and the substance thereof shall be entered in a diary to be kept by such officer, in such form as shall be prescribed by the local Government.” (emphasis supplied) Thus, the Police Act, 1861 and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1861, both of which were passed in the same year, used the same word “diary”. 60. However, in the year 1872, a new Code came to be passed which was called the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1872. Section 112 of the Code dealt with the issue of registration of FIR and is reproduced below: “112.Complaint to police to be in writing.— Every complaint preferred to an officer in charge of a police station shall be reduced into writing, and shall be signed, sealed, or marked by the person making it, and the substance thereof shall be entered in a book to be kept by such officer in the form prescribed by the local Government.” [2024] 2 S.C.R. 801 Shailesh Kumar v. State of U.P. (Now State of Uttarakhand) It is, thus, clear that in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1872, a departure was made and the word “book” was used in place of “diary”. The word “book” clearly referred to the FIR book to be maintained under the Code for the registration of FIRs. 61. The question that whether the FIR is to be recorded in the FIR book or in the General Diary, is no more res integra. This issue has already been decided authoritatively by this Court. 62. In Madhu Bala v. Suresh Kumar [Madhu Bala v. Suresh Kumar, (1997) 8 SCC 476 : 1998 SCC (Cri) 111], this Court has held that FIR must be registered in the FIR register which shall be a book consisting of 200 pages. It is true that the substance of the information is also to be mentioned in the Daily Diary (or the General Diary). But, the basic requirement is to register the FIR in the FIR book or register. Even in Bhajan Lal [State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri) 426] , this Court held that FIR has to be entered in a book in a form which is commonly called the first information report.