The GIB is seriously endangered as a species. At the same time, it has emerged in the course of the hearing that there is no basis to impose a general prohibition in regard to the installation of transmission lines for the distribution of solar power in an area about 99,000 square kilometres. There are several reasons due to which it is not feasible to convert all transmission lines into underground power transmission lines: a. In view of the diverse factors responsible for the reduction in the population of the GIB as discussed in the preceding paragraphs, the conversion of overhead into underground transmission lines is not likely to lead to the conservation of the species. Other factors such as low fecundity, fragmentation, habitat loss, predators, and loss of prey must be addressed; b. Underground power transmission cables are available only in 400 kV. The drum size for such cables is 250 m. These cables have a greater number of joints. The current is more likely to leak from joints. For a 1 km stretch, about 4 to 5 joints will be present. When laid for longer distances spanning thousands of kilometres, the number of joints will increase proportionately. As the number of joints increases, there is a corresponding rise in the 1350 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports risk to safety, especially to farmers under whose land the cables are laid. The downtime of electricity plants will also increase. Further, 400 kV lines can be laid for a maximum of 5 to 8 km; c. 220 kV lines have been laid underground in some areas. In those places where they have been laid underground, flag marks were placed to trace the route of the cable and to avoid accidents while digging around the cable. However, such marks do not serve their intended purpose in desert regions because of strong winds which blow and carry sand. The effect is that the landscape and sand dunes change. This may cover or otherwise impact the flag markings. In the absence of functional markings, it is unsafe and impractical to underground high voltage cables in deserts; d. Underground cables do not efficiently transmit AC power. The transmission loss in such cables is higher by about five times; e. It is difficult and time-consuming to detect faults with underground cables. If there is a delay in attending to and repairing problems with such cables, the rise in the temperature of the cable may result in it bursting. This would endanger the safety of GIBs; f. The Electricity Act does not contemplate the acquisition of land. However land may be required to be acquired if cables are to be undergrounded. In contrast, overhead transmission lines require only the right of way; g. Underground cables may give rise to environmental issues for many vulnerable species. They may also result in forest fires or other fires; h. The cost of laying underground cables is prohibitive. It is about four to five times higher than laying overhead transmission lines.