112. Thus, while the word “possession” was originally absent in the unamended Section 15 of the POCSO, the legislature in its wisdom, specifically added the said word in the amended Section 15, whereby now both the storage or the possession of any child pornographic material would be liable to be punished when done with any of the specified intention thereunder. 113. We believe that the change referred to above was not made inadvertently or lightly, but rather was done specifically with the intention of making the provisions of Section 15 of the POCSO more stringent to effectively deter the dissemination and use of child pornography. 114. An important aspect of the jurisprudence on possession as an inchoate crime is the doctrine of constructive possession. Constructive possession extends the concept of possession beyond physical control to situations where an individual has the power and intention to control the contraband, even if it is not in their immediate physical possession. This doctrine is particularly relevant in cases where contraband is found in a location that is not directly under the physical control of the accused, but where the accused has access to and control over the area where the contraband is found. 115. In U.S. v. Tucker reported in 150 F. Supp. 2d 1263 (D. Utah. 2001), the U.S. District Court, Utah, explained and elaborated on the doctrine of constructive possession. In the said case, the defendant therein used to routinely view child pornography, but he never used to keep it stored in his computer, and would often delete any such material and its traces from its computer after he was finished viewing them. When charged with the offence of possession of child pornographic material, he challenged the same, contending that since no material had been stored in his disk, he cannot be said to be in possession of any child pornography. The court held that wherever a person exercises some form or manner of immediate control over any particular material, both tangible or intangible, such material would be said to be in his constructive possession. It observed that the control of a person over such material can be ascertained by seeing whether 230 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports he could manipulate, alter, modify or destroy such material or not, if the answer to any of the above is in an affirmative, such material would be deemed to be in his conscious or constructive possession. 116. Similarly in U.S. v. Romm reported in 455 F. 3d. 990 (9th Cir., 2006), the defendant therein admitted to viewing images of child pornography on the Internet. He would save them to disk, view them for about 5 minutes, then delete them. The Court held that a person can be said to possess child pornography even without downloading or storing it, if he or she seeks it out and exercises dominion or control over it. It observed that this dominion or control may be evident by factors such as when viewing the images on the screen, did the person have the ability to print them, save them, forward them or delete them.