The conditions which are imposed by the court 2 [2020] 11 SCR 117 : (2020) 10 SCC 77 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 667 Sudeep Chatterjee v. State of Bihar & Anr. must bear a proportional relationship to the purpose of imposing the conditions. The nature of the risk which is posed by the grant of permission as sought in this case must be carefully evaluated in each case.” 7. We do not think it necessary to burden this by multiplying the authorities on this subject as the constant and consistent view of this Court on matters granting a prayer for bail under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short ‘the Cr.P.C.’) is that after forming an opinion, taking note of all relevant aspects, that bail is grantable, conditions shall not be put to make it impossible and impracticable for the grantee to comply with. As held by this Court in Parvez Noordin’s case (supra), the ultimate purpose of putting conditions while granting pre-arrest bail is to secure the presence of the accused and thus, eventually to ensure a fair trial and also for the smooth flow of the investigating process. 8. In view of the unfortunate instances imposing very onerous conditions, especially in cases which are nothing but an off-shoot of matrimonial discordance, we would reiterate the view that courts have to be very cautious in imposing conditions while granting bail upon finding pre- arrest bail to be grantable. This is to be done warily, especially when the couple concerned who are litigating in divorce proceedings, jointly though lukewarmly, agreed to attempt to reconcile and re-unite. The impugned itself would reveal that the parties who were about to part company, rethought and expressed their readiness to bury the hatchet and to re-unite and the appellant has also agreed to withdraw the divorce case. One should not be oblivious of the fact that a boy or girl, will be bonded to kith and kins besides parents and siblings and such bonded relationships cannot be severed solely due to affine and affinity towards the affinal as also cognate relationships has to be taken forward with same cordialness. Relation through marriage sans support from both the families may not flourish but may perish. Viewed from any angle, putting conditions as has been done in this case, requiring a person to give an affidavit carrying a specific statement in the form of an undertaking that he would fulfil all physical as well as financial requirements of the other spouse so that she could lead a dignified life without interference of any of the family members of the appellant, can only be described as an absolutely improbable and impracticable condition. The second respondent may 668 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not misuse such a condition. However, giving such a carte blanche, is nothing but making one dominant over the other, which in no way act as a catalyst to create a comely situation in domesticity. On the contrary, such conditions will only be counter-productive.