221. Such judicial restraint becomes all the more necessary while testing the arbitrariness behind a bright-line test. In law, the bright-line test is a clearly defined norm that does not leave a scope of interpretation. For instance, consider a legal requirement stipulating that individuals must be 18 years old to marry. Such a rule leaves no room for interpretation. In this context, it could be argued that if maturity is the rationale behind marriageable age, the use of the bright-line test introduces arbitrariness into legal standards, as a person aged 17.5 years old may in theory be more mature and suitable for marriage than someone aged 18.5 years old. 222. The fallacy in this argument can be elucidated by the Sorites paradox, a logical quandary generated by vague terms, with blurred boundaries of application. To give an oft-quoted example, consider defining the term ‘heap of wheat’ based on the number of 164 Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd. v. Union of India (2020) 17 SCC 324 165 Vivek Narayan Sharma (Demonetisation Case-5 J.) v. Union of India (2023) 3 SCC 1, para 255. 166 K.S. Puttaswamy (Privacy-9J) v. Union of India (2017) 10 SCC 1, para 310. 1094 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports wheat grains. If a collection of N number of grains is called a heap, removing one grain would not alter the assessment because the difference between a heap and non-heap cannot be of one single grain. By the same reasoning, removing two wheat grains would not change the classification. Extending this logic incrementally, by deducting one wheat grain at a time, one could argue that even a heap with N minus N grains would not be a heap, leading to a fallacious conclusion. 223. Applying this paradox to the above illustration, if an individual of 18 years is deemed mature enough for marriage, then logically, someone who is 18 years minus one day should also be considered mature. Following the same reasoning, one could argue that a person who is 18 years minus 365 days, effectively 17 years old, would also meet the maturity criterion and therefore, the stipulation of 18 years as the minimum age appears arbitrary, as it fails to account for the potential maturity of individuals who are younger. As already explained, there exists an inherent fallacy in this argument, and hence, it ought to be rejected. 224. In that sense, every bright-line test, to some extent, is arbitrary. However, not every arbitrariness crosses permissible limits inherent in law. Indeed, the law sometimes prescribes these heuristic devices because the cost of arbitrariness is less than the gains received by prescribing a clear standard instead of keeping it vague. To put it differently, where arbitrariness is necessitated for a legislative distinction, the object of such a legislative act is also to prevent manifest arbitrariness. 225. To explain using another analogy, let us consider the context of setting speed limits. Juxtapose two scenarios: one, where a sign is posted saying “do not drive faster than 60 kmph”; and second, where the sign says, “do not drive fast”.