ix. The units shall ensure environmental monitoring and submission of reports to GPCB at regular intervals. x. The housekeeping shall be improved. xi. The units shall submit a time-bound action plan to comply with the above measures within 30 days.” 5.9 Hence, pursuant to the recommendation of the CPCB, the Court directed the SPCB Chairmen of Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Puducherry, Jharkhand, and Delhi to inspect quartz grinding units and report deficiencies within three weeks. SPCB Chairmen were directed to personally visit units’ post-compliance period and take steps to close non-compliant units. 5.10 The State of Madhya Pradesh had identified 334 silicosis- affected individuals who claimed rehabilitation actions. The District Legal Services Authorities of Jhabua, Alirajpur, and Dhar were directed to verify actual distribution of benefits and submit a report within eight weeks. They were to ensure that no silicosis-affected individual was deprived of benefits. In case of deceased victims, compensation was to be processed as per policy. 5.11 The Court made further observation on the general problems of silicosis in India and observed that the severity of the problems is mainly in the States of Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, and Puducherry. The NHRC had conducted a detailed survey on this issue and submitted a report to the duty holders concerned. But the court noted that no meaningful action has been taken either in any of the prevention and rehabilitation areas. The Court made further observations that vide dated 30th January 2008 in W.P. (C) No. 79 of 2005 titled ‘Occupational Health & Safety Association Versus Union of India & Ors.’ this Court had considered certain aspects on the reduction of occupational hazards of the employees of the Thermal Power Stations in the country and had also issued the following directions: 108 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “i. Comprehensive medical check-up of all workers in all coal-fired thermal power stations by doctors appointed in consultation with the trade unions. The first medical check-up is to be completed within six months. ii. Free and comprehensive medical treatment to be provided to all workmen found to be suffering from an occupational disease, ailment, or accident until cured or until death. iii. Services of the workmen not to be terminated during illness and to be treated as if on duty. iv. Compensation to be paid to workmen suffering from any occupational disease, ailment, or accident in accordance with the provisions of the Workmen’s Compensation Act 1923. v. Modern protective equipment to be provided to workmen as recommended by an expert body in consultation with the trade unions. vi. Strict control measures to be immediately adopted for the control of dust, heat, noise, vibration, and radiation to be recommended by the National Institute of Occupational Health (NIOH), Ahmedabad, Gujarat. vii. All employers to abide by the Code of Practice on Occupational Safety and Health Audit as developed by the Bureau of Indian Standards. viii. Safe methods to be followed for the handling, collection, and disposal of hazardous waste to be recommended by NIOH.