(d) ***” There are also other instances cited in the Memorandum. The Memorandum makes it clear that in such instances a junior drawing more pay than his senior will not constitute an anomaly and, therefore, stepping up of pay will not be admissible. The increased pay drawn by a junior because of ad hoc officiating or regular service rendered by him in the higher post for periods earlier than the senior is not an anomaly because pay does not depend on seniority alone nor is seniority alone a criterion for stepping up of pay. 13. The employees in question are, therefore, not entitled to have their pay stepped up under the said Government because the difference in the pay drawn by them and the higher pay drawn by their juniors is not as a result of any anomaly; nor is it a result of the application of Fundamental Rule 22(I)(a)(1).” 37. Similarly, in the case of Suryanarayana Rao (supra), the Respondent was promoted and he was senior to two other persons, yet his pay was fixed at a lesser scale whereas the pay of the said two persons was fixed on a higher scale for the reason that the said juniors were promoted earlier to the promotional posts on an ad hoc basis. The Court had relied on the ratio laid down in R. Swaminathan (supra) and refused to grant the relief of stepping up. CONCLUSION – 38. In light of the facts and circumstances of the case(s), the discussion laid out above surrounding Rule 21 and a perusal of the authorities elucidated above, we do not find any merit in the contentions of the appellants. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 487 Maheshkumar Chandulal Patel & Anr. v. The State of Gujarat & Ors. 39. We, thus, hold that Rule 21 of the 2002 Pay Rules is inapplicable in the instant case(s) and no relief can be granted to the appellants. The present appeals deserve to be dismissed. It is ed accordingly. 40. Pending applications (if any) are disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Prastut Mahesh Dalvi, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Shadan Farasat, Senior Advocate)