(2) A Consolidation Officer shall be competent to exercise all or any of the powers of a Revenue Officer under the Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887 (Act 17 of 1887), for purposes of compliance with the provisions of sub-section (1).” 5. It seems to us clear from these provisions that till possession has changed under Section 24, the management and control does not vest in the Panchayat under Section 23-A. Not only does the management and control not vest but the rights of the holders are not modified or extinguished till persons have changed possession and entered into the possession of the holdings allotted to them under the scheme. Mr Gossain, the learned Counsel for the State, tried to meet this point by urging that by virtue of repartition under Section 21, the rights to possession of the new holdings were finalised and could be enforced. This may be so; but this cannot be equivalent to “acquisition” within the second proviso to Article 31-A. 6. In the result we hold that the scheme is hit by the second proviso to Article 31 A insofar as it reserves 100 kanals 2 marlas for the income of the Panchayat. We direct the State to modify the scheme to bring it into accord with the second proviso as interpreted by us, proceed according to law. There would be an as to costs.” 49. It can thus clearly be seen that the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bhagat Ram held that, upon reading of Sections 23-A and 24 of the Consolidation Act it was clear that, till possession has changed under Section 24, the management and control does not vest in the Panchayat under Section 23-A of the Consolidation Act. It further held that not only does the management and control not vest but the rights of the holders are not modified or extinguished till persons [2024] 6 S.C.R. 925 Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. have changed possession and entered into the possession of the holdings allotted to them under the scheme. Though the counsel for the State tried to urge that, by virtue of repartition under Section 21, the rights to possession of the new holdings were finalized and could be enforced, this Court held that this cannot be equivalent to “acquisition” within the second proviso to Article 31-A of the Constitution of India. 50. The Full Bench of the High Court in the case of Jai Singh II has drawn a fine distinction between the land reserved for common purposes under Section 18(c) of the Consolidation Act which might become part and parcel of a scheme framed under Section 14, for the areas reserved for common purposes, though they have actually not been put to any common use and may be put to common use in a later point of time on one hand and the lands which might have been contributed by the proprietors on pro-rata basis but have not been reserved or earmarked for common purposes in the scheme.