It cannot be assumed that because there is a stipulation for forfeiture the amount paid must bear the character of a deposit for due performance of the contract.” (Emphasis supplied) 76. In another decision of this Court in Maula Bux v. Union of India reported in 1969 (2) SCC 554, a similar view was reiterated and it was held that forfeiture of earnest money is not a penalty and that Section 74 of the 1872 Act will only apply where the forfeiture is in the nature of a penalty. The relevant observations read as under: - “4. Under the terms of the agreements the amounts deposited by the plaintiff as security for due performance of the contracts were to stand forfeited in case the plaintiff neglected to perform his part of the contract. The High Court observed that the deposits so made may be regarded as earnest money. But that view cannot be accepted. According to Earl Jowitt in “The Dictionary of English Law” at p. 689; “Giving an earnest or 70 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports earnest-money is a mode of signifying assent to a contract of sale or the like, by giving to the vendor a nominal sum (e.g. a shilling) as a token that the parties are in earnest or have made up their minds”. As observed by the Judicial Committee in Kunwar Chiranjit Singh v. Har Swarup: “Earnest money is part of the purchase price when the transaction goes forward; it is forfeited when the transaction falls through, by reason of the fault or failure of the vendee.” In the present case the deposit was made not of a sum of money by the purchaser to be applied towards part payment of the price when the contract was completed and till then as evidencing an intention on the part of the purchaser to buy property or goods. Here the plaintiff had deposited the amounts claimed as security for guaranteeing due performance of the contracts. Such deposits cannot be regarded as earnest money. ... 5. Forfeiture of earnest money under a contract for sale of property — Movable or immovable — If the amount is reasonable, does not fall within Section 74. That has been decided in several cases: Kunwar Chiranjit Singh v. Har Swarup (supra); Roshan Lal v. Delhi Cloth and General Mills Company Ltd. Delhi, ILR 33 All. 166.; Muhammad Habibullah v. Muhammad Shafi, ILR 41 All. 324.; Bishan Chand v. Radhakishan Das, ILR 19 All. 490. These cases are easily explained, for forfeiture of reasonable amount paid as earnest money does not amount to imposing a penalty. But if forfeiture is of the nature of penalty, Section 74 applies. Where under the terms of the contract the party in breach has undertaken to pay a sum of money or to forfeit a sum of money which he has already paid to the party complaining of a breach of contract, the undertaking is of the nature of a penalty.” (Emphasis supplied) 77. In Satish Batra v. Sudhir Rawal reported in (2013) 1 SCC 345, this Court after a review of the entire case law starting from Fateh Chand (supra), Videocon Properties Ltd. v. Dr. Bhalchandra Laboratories & Ors.