Learned counsel relied on Exh.67 dated 25.02.2000 wherein it is recorded that Survey No. 1 fell in a no development zone. Learned counsel relied on the evidence of DW-2-the Special Land Acquisition Officer. Learned Counsel argued that the soil for the wall was obtained from digging the land of the appellant. Learned counsel submits that the appellant in spite of being a developer has not obtained a non-agricultural use permission; learned counsel contends that the land was prone to floods and that the award of Rs. 100/- per sq. ft. in the case of appellant was totally untenable. Learned counsel stated that the map relied upon by the appellant to show that there was a road in between the land of the appellant and river is completely incorrect and that the dotted land denoted the slope. Learned counsel prayed that the map produced during the hearing in this Court should be rejected. 25. Insofar as the issue of ‘Blue Zone’ is concerned, learned counsel contended that it was the duty of the Irrigation Department to draw blue or red line and that the Irrigation Department has done its duty. In the written submission of VIDC, it is categorically averred as follows :- [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2261 Kazi Akiloddin v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. “Mere failure on the part of the Town Planning Department to give effect to it in Development Plan would not have any bearing on the valuation”. 26. Learned counsel submitted that three sale deeds produced in the matter of Bhartiyas (LAC No. 183) were suspicious transactions between related parties, and hence prayed that the Appeals be dismissed. 27. We have also heard Mr. Shrirang B. Varma, the learned counsel for the State who has placed reliance on the affidavit dated 02.04.2024 filed by them pursuant to the of 20.03.2024. We have considered the affidavit in detail hereinbelow. 28. We have given our anxious consideration to the contentions urged by the parties. E. Questions 29. The following questions arise for consideration: (i) What should be the market value of the land of the appellant as on 03.06.1999? To answer this, the following further questions need to be considered. (a) Does the site of the appellant fall within ‘Blue Zone’ as contended by the acquiring body –VIDC? (b) If it falls within the ‘Blue Zone’, what should be the market value for the land? (c) If the land or any part thereof is not to be determined as a ‘Blue Zone’, what was the ‘No Construction Zone’ as per the extant laws and what should be the market value payable for that portion? (d) What should be the market value payable for any portion, falling outside the ‘No Construction Zone’? Reasoning and conclusion: We have considered question no. 1(a) to 1(d) together for convenience. 30. During the course of hearing on 20th March, 2024, we made the following : "1. Arguments by the parties remained inconclusive. Meanwhile, original records have been requisitioned. 2262 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2.