71. It is common understanding that what is conceded once to appease any class cannot be taken back. So are the benefits extended to the 1668 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports reserved category of persons under the constitution. Each concession once made, just goes on swelling like a raisin/balloon. This actually happened with the policy of reservation also. RESERVATION IS ONLY A MEDIUM OF FACILITY BUT ITS EXECUTION REVIVES CASTEISM 72. ‘Reservation’ is one of the modes of helping or uplifting the status of the OBCs/SCs/STs. Anyone who suggests another or a better way of helping the so-called depressed classes or the downtrodden or the marginalised persons of the society is immediately pounced upon as ‘Anti Dalit’. At the cost of being called ‘Anti Dalit’, I quote Nani A Palkiwala from his book ‘We, The Nation, The Lost Decades)21 “The basic structure of the Constitution envisages a cohesive, unified, casteless society. By breathing new life into casteism, the fractures the nation and disregards the basic structure of the Constitution. The decision would revitalise casteism, cleave the nation into two – forward and backward - and open new vistas for internecine conflicts and fissiparous forces, and make backwardness a vested interest. It will undo whatever has been achieved since independence towards creating a unified, integrated nation. The majority s will revive casteism which the Constitution emphatically intended to end; and the pre-independence tragedy would be re-enacted with the roles reversed – the erstwhile underprivileged would not become the privileged.” 73. In fact, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other backward classes simply deserve equality with the other forward classes of people. Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy in K C Vasantha Kumar & Anr. vs. State of Karnataka22 said “they need facility; they need launching; they need propulsion. Their needs are their demands. The demands are matters of rights and not of philanthrophy. They ask for parity and not charity.” 74. In State of Kerala vs. N M Thomas,23 Justice V R Krishna Ayer said “you can’t throw to the winds considerations of administrative 21 NANI PALKIWALA, WE, THE NATION: THE LOST DECADES 179 (Mehta Publishing House 1995) 22 [1985] Supp. 1 SCR 352 : (1985) Supp. SCC 714 23 [1976] 1 SCR 906 : (1976) 2 SCC 310 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1669 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. capability and grind the wheels of Government to a hault in the name of ‘harijan welfare’.” 75. This Court in A. Periakaruppan Chettiar vs. State of Tamil Nadu & Ors.24 observed that reservations should not be allowed to become a vested interest. In Akhil Bharatiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh vs. Union of India & Ors.25 it was observed that efficacy of the reservation policy will depend upon how soon reservations can be done away with. The then Chief Justice of India Y.V. Chandrachud counselled in Vasanth Kumar (supra), “the policy of reservation in employment, education and legislative institutions should be reviewed every five years or so.” 76. Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru in his letter dated 27th June 1961 addressed to all the Chief Ministers of all the States laments upon the habit of giving reservations and privileges to any caste or group and expresses that such practice ought to be given up and emphasis to help the citizens on economic considerations and not on caste basis and that the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes do deserve help but not in the shape of any kind of reservation more particularly in services.