Thereafter, upon considering the evidence on the charge of offence under Section 201, IPC read with Section 34, IPC, the High Court held in paragraphs 111 – 113 of the impugned common thus: - “111. In the result, this Court concludes that based on facts proved by the prosecution, it has succeeded in proving all charges, except the proof of destruction of evidence as regards dead body. 112. Prosecution has failed to prove offence punishable under Section 201 read with Section 34 of Indian Penal Code for causing disappearance of evidence by destroying the dead body of Shyama, incorporated in sixth part of charge framed against accused persons. 113. Based on findings and conclusions recorded in para 112, the accused are acquitted of those charges.” 27. In view of the afore-extracted paragraphs from the impugned common of the High Court as also what is referred from the of the trial Court, it is evident that the contention of the appellant-convicts that there is wholesome acquittal of their conviction under Section 201, read with Section 34 IPC cannot be the correct position. As specifically made clear in paragraph 112 as extracted above, the acquittal under Section 201, IPC was with respect to causing disappearance of evidence by destroying the dead body of Shyama. Therefore, the question as to whether the appellant-convicts concerned still stand convicted on the other count. 28. In the light of the observations and findings in paragraphs 105 to 108 and 112 of the impugned common , and the reversal thereunder of the aforesaid twin foundational findings of the trial Court, the main question to be considered is whether any evidence was available to hold the appellants guilty under Section 304 part-II read with Section 34, IPC. Certainly, the answer to the aforementioned 740 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports question qua Section 201, IPC also would depend upon the outcome of its consideration. Before continuing with such consideration, it is relevant to note that despite such reversal of the findings and observations by the High Court which are fatal to the case of the prosecution regarding custodial death, neither the State nor any relative, who falls within the expression ‘victim’, did not prefer any appeal against the impugned common . 29. There can be no doubt that it is imperative, firstly, to prove homicidal death of the very person whose death was allegedly caused by the accused concerned to hold the accused concerned guilty, either under Section 300, IPC punishable under Section 302, IPC or under Section 304, IPC. In the decision of Harendra Nath Mandal v. State of Bihar,7 this Court held that before an accused is held guilty and punished under first part or second part of Section 304, IPC, a death must have been caused by the assailant under any of the circumstances mentioned in the five exceptions to Section 300, IPC. I shall not be understood to have held that recovery of the dead body of the particular person whose death was allegedly caused by the accused is always required to sustain a charge of murder or that of commission of offence under Section 304, IPC.