(3) The fees in respect of property may be levied out of any proceeds of the sale or transfer thereof or out of any income accrued therefrom or out of any other [2024] 2 S.C.R. 879 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others property belonging to the same enemy and vested in the Custodian under this Act. (4) The fees levied under this section shall be credited to the Central Government.” 10.14 Section 18 deals with transfer of property vested as enemy property in certain cases and the said provision reads as under: “18. Transfer of property vested as enemy property in certain cases.—The Central Government may, on receipt of a representation from a person, aggrieved by an vesting a property as enemy property in the Custodian within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of such or from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette, whichever is earlier and after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard, if it is of the opinion that any enemy property vested in the Custodian under this Act and remaining with him was not an enemy property, it may by general or special , direct the Custodian that such property vested as enemy property in the Custodian may be transferred to the person from whom such property was acquired and vested in the Custodian.” 10.15 Section 18A, Section 18B and Section 18C though related to Section 18, however, are not relevant for the purposes of this case. Section 22 gives overriding effect to this Act and the same reads as under: “22. Effect of laws inconsistent with the Act.—The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force, (including any law of succession or any custom or usage in relation to succession of property).” Section 22A is a validation clause which reads as under: “22A. Validation.—Notwithstanding anything contained in any , decree or of any court, tribunal or other authority,— 880 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) the provisions of this Act, as amended by the Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2017, shall have and shall always be deemed to have effect for all purposes as if the provisions of this Act, as amended by the said Act, had been in force at all material times; (b) any enemy property divested from the Custodian to any person under the provisions of this Act, as it stood immediately before the commencement of the Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2017, shall stand transferred to and vest or continue to vest, free from all encumbrances, in the Custodian in the same manner as it was vested in the Custodian before such divesting of enemy property under the provisions of this Act, as if the provisions of this Act, as amended by the aforesaid Act, were in force at all material times; (c) no suit or other proceedings shall, without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, be maintained or continued in any court or tribunal or authority for the enforcement of any decree or or direction given by such court or tribunal or authority directing divestment of enemy property from the Custodian vested in him under section 5 of this Act, as it stood before the commencement of the Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2017, and such enemy property shall continue to vest in the Custodian under section 5 of this Act, as amended by the aforesaid Act, as the said section, as amended by the aforesaid Act was in force at all material times; (d) any transfer of any enemy property, vested in the Custodian, by virtue of any of attachment, seizure or sale in execution of decree of a civil court or s of any tribunal or other authority in respect of enemy property vested in the Custodian which is contrary to the provisions of this Act, as amended by the Enemy Property [2024] 2 S.C.R.