Consequently, eight persons remained absent and only fourteen members participated i.e. almost one-third of the GEAC did not attend the crucial meeting, the GEAC took into consideration only the recommendations of the Expert Committee constituted few weeks before which had given its recommendations on 08.10.2022 and noting the same, the recommendations were accepted by pursuing the comments received from DBT and DARE. The above is evident on perusal of the Minutes of the 147th Meeting of the GEAC held on 18.10.2022 as well as the Agenda Item No.4 which concerns the application relating to environmental release made by the applicant. Thus, GEAC simply recommended the environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 without any deliberation as such, which recommendation was accepted by the Central Government. As a result, the following consequences are noted: (i) all the previous deliberations and decisions of GEAC as well as the recommendations and suggestions of the sub-committee to GEAC were given a go by and totally ignored. 2106 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) the deferring of the field demonstration between the years 2018 to 2021, which was for valid reasons, was also ignored. (iii) on 25.10.2022, no reason was assigned for the change in stance, insofar as conducting studies on the effect of GE mustard on honeybees and other pollinators post-environmental release. This was contrary to what was decided earlier by GEAC. (iv) thus, on the basis of the opinion of this Expert Committee, GEAC brushed aside its earlier decision taken in the 134th and 136th meetings to undertake field demonstration and restrict the area to only five acres at two to three different locations with a view to generate additional data on honeybees and other pollinators, and on soil microbial diversity, which decision was also put on hold by GEAC. 42.6 There is no reason forthcoming as to why GEAC completely changed its stance in the 147th meeting held on 18.10.2022. This resulted in the decision of the Union Government on 25.10.2022 impugned herein. However, it is apparent that the trigger for this volte-face in the stand of GEAC was the letter dated 10.05.2022 written by Prof. Deepak Pental to the Hon’ble Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change. There is no material put forth for the sudden decision taken by the Union Government on receiving the changed recommendation of GEAC, when earlier, it was submitted before this Court that the Union Government was still deliberating on the matter, which aspect is evident from the s passed by this Court when in fact field demonstration was also put on hold by GEAC. Such being the position from the year 2018 onwards, all of a sudden environmental release of DMH-11 was approved even in the absence of field trials for conducting studies on the impact of honeybees and other pollinators. 42.7 I observe that a statutory functionary entrusted or authorised to carry out certain functions contemplated under a statute must do so in accordance with law and known procedure. Where a statutory authority exercises its jurisdiction, conferred [2024] 7 S.C.R.