This shows utter non-application of mind of the Disciplinary Authority and the is vitiated.” 18. In addition thereto, we have gone through the enquiry report which has been placed on record with the appeal. We find that the very foundation of the impugned action i.e. the enquiry report suffers from a fatal lacuna which goes to the root of the matter thereby vitiating the proceedings. On going through the report, we find that the Enquiry Officer categorically noted (at page No. 39 of the paper- book) that the prosecution neither listed nor produced any witness during regular hearing and that the prosecution case was closed with the consent of the Presenting Officer. 19. Upon a pertinent query being put to Ms. Gusain in this regard, she candidly conceded that no witness was examined on behalf of the prosecution during the course of departmental enquiry which fact is also borne out from the enquiry report (Annexure P-1). 20. This Court in the case of Roop Singh Negi v. Punjab National Bank and Others 2 categorically held that even in a case of ex parte enquiry, it is essential that the department must lead evidence of witnesses to bring home the charges levelled against the delinquent employee. 21. Ms. Gosain feebly tried to convince the Court that the documents (Exhibits 51-53) which were marked in support of the department’s case, conclusively establish the guilt of the charged officer for the charges framed against him. As per Ms. Gusain, these documents were admitted by the charged officer. However, the enquiry report 2 [2008] 17 SCR 1476 : (2009) 2 SCC 570 1182 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports nowhere records that any document was admitted by the charged officer. Since no evidence was led on behalf of the department in the enquiry proceedings, there is no escape from the conclusion that the enquiry report is based on no evidence whatsoever. 22. Consequently, we are of the view that the Tribunal committed no error whatsoever while accepting the original application preferred by the respondent and the learned Division Bench of the High Court rightly refused to interfere in the of the Tribunal. 23. As a result of the above discussion, the appeal is hereby dismissed as being devoid of merit. No as to costs. 24. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain