11.9.4 The mobile tower is bought and brought in the CKD or SKD form from the manufacturers and same is installed at the site by assembling the parts which also consists of MS angles and channels. The tower, after being assembled and fixed to the earth or a building can be dismantled without any change in the nature of the tower, and the tower can be removed and shifted to any other location as per the needs and requirements of the service provider and also can be re-sold in the market in the same form and hence both, the functionality and marketability tests as applied in the aforesaid cases of Solid and Correct Engineering (supra), Triveni Engineering (supra) and Sirpur Paper Mills Ltd. (supra) can be said to be fulfilled in the present case. 1578 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11.9.5 The tower is brought to the site in CKD or SKD form and assembled at the site. If it is to be dismantled, it only involves unbolting of the nuts and bolts. Dismantling the tower may entail some damages, but such damages will be on the cables which may be required to be stripped of but no damage is caused to the tower. If one says that there may be some damage caused, it will be with reference to the BTS which consists of the antenna, connected by cables and other electrical equipment. But there is no damage to the tower per se. Similarly, in case of PFB, there is no damage to it, though damage may be caused to the wiring or cables connecting the various parts of the Base Transceiver System (BTS) or the Base Station Sub-System (BSS). 11.9.6 The tower which is affixed to the earth and thus appears to be immovable, can be dismantled from the existing site and re-assembled without causing any change in its character. It can be moved to any other place and also sold in the market. These attributes negate the permanency test, which is a characteristic of immovable property. The tower when fixed to the earth or the building or the civil foundation by nuts and bolts does not get assimilated with the earth or building permanently. Such affixing is only for the purpose of maintaining stability of the tower and keep it wobble free so that the antenna which is hoisted on it can receive and transmit the electromagnetic signals effectively and without any disturbance. Affixing of the tower to the earth or building is not for the permanent beneficial enjoyment of the land or building, but to make it stable for effective functioning of the antenna for seamless rendering of mobile services by the service provider to the consumers/subscribers. Same is the case with pre-fabricated buildings (PFB). 11.9.7 If we thus apply the functionality test, it can be stated that the attachment of tower to the earth /building is not for the benefit of the land or the building but for better functioning of the antenna which is fixed on the tower.