The petitioner further requested the respondent to share the details of the amount received from the ICCR after the 22% deduction to 88 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports enable them to make the calculations and finalise the payment accordingly. 16. The respondent vide an email dated 28.03.2018 replied to the above email of the petitioner stating that it had received only 61.5% of the claimed amount from the ICCR after quality and TDS deductions. The respondent further mentioned that it was entitled to 15% royalty as opposed to the 10% stated by the petitioner and that it had incurred some incidental expenses for the project. The respondent also stressed on the issue of payment of outstanding royalty and renewal, calling upon the petitioner to address them first. 17. The petitioner replied to the above email on the same day disputing the percentage of royalty fee to which the respondent was entitled. The petitioner further stated that it had no issues regarding the quality deductions made by the ICCR, however it needed to know the exact amount disbursed by the ICCR to the respondent so that it could calculate its share from the same and adjust them towards the pending dues. 18. From the email exchanges placed on record, it is clear that the discussions regarding the non-payment of the amount received from the ICCR came to a halt between the parties on 28.03.2018, however the discussions regarding the renewal of the agreements continued. Finally, on 23.04.2018, the petitioner informed the respondent of its decision to not renew the franchise agreements for the ACE and AELA in light of the dispute regarding the payment for the course executed by the petitioner. However, the agreement for AHNA was renewed and the respondent acknowledged the same vide an email on the same day. 19. After about nine months, the petitioner once again sent an email to the respondent on 29.12.2018, raising the issue of the non-payment of the dues for the ICCR project. Although the said email refers to some phone calls and WhatsApp communication regarding the payment for the course, nothing has been placed on record by the petitioner to that effect. Vide the said email, the petitioner once again requested the respondent to provide accounting details for the expenses incurred and payment received from the ICCR for the course. The petitioner also mentioned that it had incurred expenses amounting to $ 60,000/- on salary, lodging and food for the trainers. 20. As it appears from the record, it is only after a gap of around three years that the petitioner again took up the issue of non- [2024] 3 S.C.R. 89 M/S Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/S Aptech Ltd. payment of dues for the ICCR project with the respondent, vide a legal notice dated 26.08.2021. Through the notice, the petitioner called upon the respondent to pay Rs 73,53,000/- with 18% interest compounded monthly w.e.f. 01.11.2017 within 15 days of the receipt of the notice. The notice further stated that in the event of the respondent failing to comply with the aforesaid demand, the petitioner would file appropriate proceedings before the competent courts including a suit for settlement of accounts for recovery and also by way of damages or otherwise for breach of trust and breach of contract.