294 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 28. The next set of evidences to which our attention has been drawn by Mr. Nataraj are four witness statements, two of whom were originally given the status of protected witnesses. We have referred to their present status earlier in this . The accusations made by the four witnesses in their respective statements placed before us are as follows:- (i) The first protected witness (KW1) statement carries reference to Shoma Sen as having addressed the delegates of the conference of RDF held in April 2012. The relevant part of the said recorded statement reads:- “………Shoma Sen said that we have to understand the essence of the Maoist slogan ‘women hold up half the sky’. To solve the problems women in our country, as well as in other countries, the struggle for New Democratic Revolution is the only way forward. Simply she was advocating women to join CPI Maoist to solve their issues……....” (ii) The statement of KW-2 recorded by the NIA under Section 161 of the 1973 Code on 10.08.2020 reveals alleged presence of the appellant in the office of a co-accused person i.e. Surendra Gadling, when KW-2 purported to have joined the CPI (Maoist) at the instance of Surendra. (iii) A redacted statement of KW-3, who is a protected witness, has been produced by the NIA in its written submissions. This witness, on being asked about senior Naxal members of CPI (Maoist), stated that he first met the appellant in 2007-08, during the classes of communist ideology, revolutionary movement, party working etc. in Nagpur, which were attended by some other individuals. The same witness goes on implicate the appellant in certain message channels working to exchange messages regarding urban work of CPI (Maoist). In this regard, he has stated that:- “……..During year 2017, there were 3-4 message channels were working to exchange message between Deepak and Angela regarding urban work of CPI (Maoist) viz (i) Deepak -Nandu [2024] 4 S.C.R. 295 Shoma Kanti Sen v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. (Myself)- Kalyan Hirekhan-Gadling-Angela; for legal work (ii) Deepak-Nandu (Myself)-Kalyan Hirekhan- Angela Sontakke at Shoma Sen’s house for meeting with Deepak in Nagpur (iii) Deepak-Nandu (Myself)- Arif Shaikh (WCL worker and Journalist)-Vipalav Teltumbde (Nephew of Deepak Teltumbde)-Angela; this was the second option for meeting of Deepak & Angela (iv) Deepak-Nandu (Myself)-Arif Shaikh- NT Maske- Angela Sontakke; alternative meeting channel……...” This statement, however, does not prima facie show any direct involvement of the appellant in the offending acts with which she has been charged vis-à-vis the bail restricting provisions of the 1967 Act. (iv) From the three statements of Kumarasai who was originally identified as “KW-4”, there are only two purported incriminating references to the appellant, in the second and the third ones, recorded on 23.12.2018 and 24.08.2020 respectively. In the former statement, which was recorded by the State Police, he stated that appellant was working along with an intellectual group for solving problems of women and students. In the latter statement, recorded by the NIA, he stated that the appellant was an urban Naxalite working with CPI (Maoist).