8. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at bar and have carefully gone through the impugned s and the material available on record. Discussion and Conclusion:- 9. There is no dispute amongst the parties that penalty which has been imposed upon the appellant is a major penalty as defined in the Rules of 1999. In Rule 37 of the Rules of 1999, under the head of major penalty, the first Sub-Rule refers to withholding of increments with cumulative effect. 10. Therefore, Rule 7 of the Rules of 1999 which prescribes the procedure for imposing major penalty would be applicable in the inquiry to be 7 3. Penalties …. Major Penalties (i) Withholding of increments with cumulative effect; (ii) Reduction to a lower post or grade time scale or to a lower stage in a time scale; (iii) Removal from the service which does not disqualify form future employment; (iv) Dismissal from the service which disqualify from future employment. Explanation- The following shall not amount to penalty within the meaning of this rule, namely: (i) Withholding of increment of a Government Servant for failure to pass a departmental examination or for failure to fulfil any other condition in accordance with the rules or s governing the service; (ii) Stoppage at the efficiency bar in the time scale of pay on account of ones not being found fit to cross the efficiency bar; (iii) Reversion of a person appointed to probation to the service during or at the end of the period of probation in accordance with the terms of appointment or the rules and s governing such probation. (iv) Termination of the service of a person appointed on probation during or at the end of period of probation in accordance with the term of the service or the rules and governing such probation. 1640 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports conducted against the appellant to bring home the charges imputed to him. 11. Rule 7 (vii)8 of the Rules of 1999, clearly stipulates that where a Government servant denies the charge, the Inquiry Officer shall proceed to call the witness proposed in the charge sheet and record their oral evidence in the presence of the charged Government servant who shall be given opportunity to cross-examine such witness. After recording the aforesaid evidence, the Inquiry Officer shall call and record the oral evidence which the charged Government servant desires in his written statement to be produced in his defence. Hence, recording of oral evidence in support of charges against Government servant is a mandate under of Sub-rule (vii) of Rule 7 of the Rules of 1999, when the inquiry being conducted proposes imposition of a major penalty. 12. Learned counsel for the State was ad idem to the submissions of the appellant’s counsel that no witness whatsoever was examined during the course of the inquiry proceedings. On a minute appraisal of the Inquiry Report, it is evident that other than referring to the documents pursuant to the so-called irregular transactions constituting the basis of the inquiry, the Inquiry Officer failed to record the evidence of even a single witness in to establish the charges against the appellant.