Notably, the Board’s Circulars dated 03.06.2009 and 12.10.2015 were issued only because of this doubt being raised in the field that edible oil can also be purchased in small quantities. 43. Small-sized containers are a feature common to both ‘edible oils’ as well as ‘hair oils’. Therefore, there must be something more to distinguish between them for classification of such oil, be it under Chapter 15 or under Chapter 33, other than the size of the packing. Stress was also laid by the Revenue on the fact that Shanti Coconut Oil was marketed in containers depicting a popular film actress with flowing tresses and it was contended that in the light of such marketing, the oil sold was obviously meant for use as ‘hair oil’ and 920 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports not as ‘edible oil’. However, such an advertisement is not conclusive, in itself, to classify the oil as ‘hair oil’. Reference may be made to Meghdoot Gramodyog Sewa Sansthan, U.P. vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, Lucknow,9 wherein this Court held that the mere fact that the product in that case was sold in a packing depicting a lady with flowing hair was not determinative of such product being intended as a preparation for use on the hair. This Court considered the composition and curative properties of the product to ultimately conclude that the product was classifiable as a ‘medicament’ under Heading 3003 in Chapter 30 of the First Schedule. 44. Further, registration of the trademark ‘Parachute’ by M/s. Marico Ltd. for ‘hair oil’ is not sufficient to classify the coconut oil sold by it, in its entirety, as hair oil. As rightly noted in the impugned final s, ‘Parachute’ trademark was also registered by the company for Edible Oil (Class 29), Coffee/Tea (Class 30), Pharmaceuticals (Class 5) and Non-Alcoholic Beverages (Class 32). Therefore, the trademark, by itself, does not indicate that every product sold thereunder is the same and meant only for one use. Significantly, M/s. Marico Ltd. also markets various coconut-based hair oils, containing ingredients such as perfumes, etc., which are manufactured under a separate license obtained under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, and classified as preparations for use on the hair, thereby falling under Heading 3305. 45. The argument of the Revenue that pure coconut oil should invariably be classified under Heading 3305 is, therefore, liable to be rejected. This argument completely loses sight of the General/Explanatory Notes in relation to Chapter Note 3 in Chapter 33 of the HSN and the fact that the said Chapter Note 3 is identical to Chapter Note 3 in Chapter 33 of the First Schedule to the Act of 1985. It is for the Revenue to take a stand by way of legislative action in the event it chooses to treat pure coconut oil marketed in small quantities differently from ‘Coconut oil’ in Heading 1513. Having failed to do so and given the fact that the relevant headings in the First Schedule to the Act of 1985 are corresponding with the entries in the HSN, there can be no distinction drawn between the two and the Explanatory Notes in the HSN would have to be given due effect while interpreting 9 (2005) 4 SCC 15 [2024] 12 S.C.R.