I doubt that the above actions of Shajan Skaria, Smt. Ann Mary George and Shri Riju is a part of their efforts to intentionally destroy the public faith that I enjoy in the society. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1099 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr. The video published through the Online News Channel Marunadan Malayali on 24.05.2023 containing only false news and false averments, is knowingly made with the knowledge that I belong to Scheduled Caste Pulaya community and thus only to deliberately humiliate and ridicule me among the general public. Shajan Skaria, Smt. Ann Mary George, Shri Riju who belongs to Christian Community, knowing it fully well that I belong to Scheduled Caste Pulaya Community, has uploaded and spread the video as aforesaid with the deliberate intention of humiliating, ridiculing me among the general public. The same is an offence and is punishable under Section 3(r) and 3(u) of the Scheduled Caste and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. That I faced severe humiliation, loss and damages due to the aforesaid actions of Shajan Skaria, Smt. Ann Mary George and Shri Riju. Hence it is prayed that necessary legal action be taken against Shajan Skaria, Smt. Ann Mary George and Shri Riju against creating and spreading of false news through online channel and other social media under the Sections of the Scheduled Caste and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, sections of IT Act and Sections of IPC. Sd/xx P.V. Sreenijan Attaching the CD.” 4. On the basis of the aforesaid complaint, FIR No. 899 of 2023 dated 09.06.2023 came to be registered against the appellant and two other persons, who are not parties to the present appeal, for offences punishable under Section 120(o) of the Kerala Police Act (the “KP Act”) and Sections 3(1)(r) and 3(1)(u) respectively of the Act, 1989. 5. A plain reading of the FIR would indicate that the appellant is not a member of the Scheduled Caste and he is alleged to have published and disseminated a video containing disparaging content about the complainant with a view to publicise, abuse and insult the complainant. The complainant has alleged that the video has caused him a lot of humiliation, mental pain and agony. The complainant has also alleged that the video was uploaded by the appellant with 1100 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the intention to humiliate and ridicule him among the general public with the knowledge that the complainant is a member of the Pulaya community, which is a Scheduled Caste. 6. Apprehending his arrest, the appellant went before the Court of Special Judge for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities Act), 1989, Ernakulam Division, praying for grant of anticipatory bail under Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (the “CrPC”). The Special Judge, vide dated 16.06.2023, rejected the anticipatory bail application of the appellant, holding that the allegations in the FIR are prima facie sufficient to attract the offence under the Act, 1989 and the bar of Section 18 of the said Act prohibits the court from exercising powers under Section 438 of the CrPC.