8. Under Section 4(2) of the A.P. Forest Act, a Forest Settlement Officer shall be an officer of the Revenue Department not below the rank of a Revenue Divisional Officer. Wide powers have been conferred upon the State Government to declare any land as a reserved forest, subject to due compliance of the other provisions. This has to be done by a notification published in Andhra Pradesh Gazette and District Gazette under Section 4(1), by declaring its intention through a proposal. 9. The legislature consciously did not confer any role on an officer working under the forest department, by specifically naming an officer of the revenue department with his designation for determining qualification, as Forest Settlement Officer. Such an officer has to exercise quasi- judicial power. 10. After the commencement of proceedings under Section 4 of the A.P. Forest Act, even the Government is restrained from issuing any 96 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports patta to any individual, for the reason that all disputes would have to be adjudicated under the Act, be it one of title under Section 10 or any other limited right as prescribed under Section 11 of the A.P. Forest Act. Under Sections 8 and 9 of the A.P. Forest Act, the Forest Settlement Officer has been conferred with powers of the civil court, as available under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as “the CPC 1908”), for the aforesaid purpose. While exercising power, the Forest Settlement Officer may even admit the claim wholly or in part under Section 10(2) by excluding any extent of land which is in dispute. 11. As per Section 13 of the A.P. Forest Act, an appeal lies before the District Court having territorial jurisdiction, which is to be filed within a period of 90 days from the date of the passed under Section 10 by the Forest Settlement Officer. Thus, anyone who claims a right of ownership under Section 10 or any other limited right as illustrated under Section 11, has to seek an adjudication of his claim before the Forest Settlement Officer. If aggrieved, the remedy lies before the jurisdictional District Court, subject to the limitation as prescribed under Section 13. 12. After completion of the said exercise, the State Government would declare the proposed land as a reserved forest by issuing a notification under Section 15 of the A.P. Forest Act. Thereafter, the vesting of the land takes place by way of a deeming fiction i.e., giving the land the status of a reserved forest. Any right not claimed with respect to the land, shall stand extinguished after the publication under Section 15 as declared expressly under Section 16, by way of a reinforcement. 13. From the abovementioned provisions and their interpretation, it is very clear that the completion of the process as prescribed under Section 15 of the A.P. Forest Act would result in changing the character of land, including a forest land into a reserved forest. Thereafter, there shall be no question of raising any dispute on its character.