163, the original owner Vasant Ramchandra Borkar while transferring land to Dharmadhikari has specifically assigned right to use the said rasta to Dharmadhikari and not to anyone else. The predecessor- in-interest of the Gala’s i.e., Joki Woler Ruzer or Francis Woler never acquired any such right under their sale deed so as to legally transfer it to the Gala’s. DW-1, Sanjay Vasant Borkar, grandson of the original owner of the entire property, clearly deposed that the disputed rasta was only for use by Dharmadhikari as per the sale deed but no such right was sold/assigned to the predecessor- in-interest of the Gala’s. Therefore, the Gala’s cannot acquire easementary right as is enjoyed by Dharmadhikari whose case stand on a totally different footing. 38. It would not be fair on our part if we do not deal with yet one another submission of Shri Ahmadi regarding the powers of the appellate court in disturbing the findings recorded by the court of first instance. The submission made in this context is quite elementary in nature as Section 107 of the Code of Civil Procedure, in unequivocal terms, lays down the powers of the appellate court vis-à-vis to determine the case finally; to remand the case; to frame issues and refer them for trial; and to take additional evidence or to require such evidence to be taken and shall have the same powers to perform duties as nearly as may be that are conferred by the code to the courts of original jurisdiction. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 371 Manisha Mahendra Gala & Ors. v. Shalini Bhagwan Avatramani & Ors. 39. Therefore, on the simple reading of the above provision, it is evident that the first appellate court is empowered to exercise powers and to perform nearly the same duties as of the courts of original jurisdiction. Therefore, the first appellate court has the power to return findings of fact and law both and in so returning the finding, it can impliedly overturn the findings of the court of first instance if it is against the evidence on record or is otherwise based upon incorrect interpretation of any document or misconstruction of any evidence adduced before the court of first instance. 40. In view of the facts and circumstances of the case and the above discussions, we find that none of the contentions raised by Shri Ahmadi, learned senior counsel for the appellants (Gala’s), are of any substance. We do not find any basis to record that the Gala’s have acquired easementary right over the disputed rasta in any manner much less by prescription, necessity or under an agreement. Therefore, the appellate courts and the High Court have not committed any error of law in dismissing Suit No.14 of 1994 of the plaintiffs/ appellants and in decreeing Suit No.7 of 1996 of the defendants/ respondents. 41. The appeals lack merit and are accordingly dismissed. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeals dismissed.