As such, the entire Project is environmentally friendly. 45. The approach of respondent No. 1 appears to be that such a Facility though could be established in the vicinity of the other buildings, it should not be established in their backyard. The Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in the case of Bhavya Height Co-operative Housing Society Ltd. v. Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority and Others16 had an occasion to consider a similar situation, wherein the High Court observed thus: “36. …….. To this affidavit there are sketch plans annexed prepared by the Petitioner’s architects. These propose that the Monorail Station staircase be shifted to a point to the south, directly in front of Rehab Building No. 5. In other words, it would prima facie seem that this is the classic NIMBY principle — Not In My Back Yard. For what the Petitioner seems to be suggesting is that it is perfectly all right if the lives of the residents of the seven-storey slum rehab building (all previously slum dwellers) are endangered by the same staircase, but the Petitioner’s members’ interest must remain paramount. We cannot and do not countenance any such submission.” 46. We agree with the said observations of the High Court. 47. We are therefore of the considered view that the impugned and of the learned Tribunal deserves to be quashed and set aside and the OA of the respondent No. 1 is to be dismissed. 48. In the result, the appeals are allowed. The impugned s and s dated 27th October 2020 passed by the learned Tribunal in OA No. 210 of 2020 and dated 22nd December 2020 in Review Application being No. 49 of 2020 are quashed and set aside. OA No. 210 of 2020 filed by respondent No. 1 is also dismissed. 49. However, before we part with the , we find it necessary to caution the appellant-Corporation as well as the respondent- 16 2019 SCC OnLine Bom 1075 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 395 Pune Municipal Corporation v. Sus Road Baner Vikas Manch and Others Concessionaire that they should take necessary steps so that the residents residing in the nearby buildings do not have to suffer on account of foul odour. The NEERI, in its Report, had made the following recommendations: “Recommendations: Based on the observations and good engineering practices, following suggestions are offered: Plant A: • The slurry making area needs proper cover in the hopper area to reduce odour / foul smell, • A suitable odour control system / misting system (e.g carbon filters, etc) needs to be installed immediately, • Better material of construction and design could be employed to avoid corrosion problems and frequent shut downs, • The space is too congested for capacity enhancement. PMC may think of additional/alternative space, • The food bags need to be stored properly before using them. • Slurry sampling and analysis needs to be done frequently to understand the decomposition of food waste and control it to the level so that maximum methane can be produced in the Talegaon plant.