To sum up this facet, the impugned law is to be tested from the perspective of a person of ‘ordinary intelligence’ from the class to which the law applies. We have also delineated cases where the impugned law operates on a specialized class of persons, such as a Class-I intelligence officer of the Research and Analysis Wing, as seen in Nisha Priya Bhatia (supra), and medical practitioners or doctors as seen in FOGSI (supra). In any case, even if the persons being regulated are not a specialized class of persons, the Court would adopt the standard of an ordinary man of average intelligence, who, though not well versed in law, would have no difficulty in understanding the plain meaning of the words contained in the impugned law, when confronted with it. 263. Given the above, it is observed that the test for striking down a law on the grounds of vagueness can be viewed through two perspectives, both of which are to be taken into account, and the standards for the same have to be satisfied to sustain a challenge on the grounds of a law or provision being void for vagueness. Thus, a statute or its provision can be struck down for vagueness if: i. The authority interpreting and applying the impugned law or provision is not sufficiently guided by such law or provision and is conferred unfettered discretion by virtue of the same; and ii. When confronted with the plain meaning, a person of ordinary intelligence, amongst the persons regulated by the impugned law or provision, faces difficulty in understanding the sphere of their application. 1108 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The extent of review for the test of ‘void for vagueness’ 264. It is also well settled that ordinarily, courts should endeavour to draw a demarcating line and infer some reasonable meaning from an impugned provision, rather than hastening to intervene and striking down the entire provision on the grounds of vagueness. This view was also echoed in K.A. Abbas v. Union of India,179 where a Constitution Bench of this Court dealt with the constitutionality of Section 5B of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and laid down the thresholds for applicability of the vagueness doctrine. It was held that if a law is vague, it should be accorded the interpretation which best suits the legislature’s intention and advances the purpose of the legislation. If that was not possible, and the legislation was marred with uncertainty which prima facie appeared to take away a guaranteed freedom, it could be struck down. However, this Court also cautioned that such recourse be resorted to sparingly, and the Court should instead endeavor to draw the line of demarcation where possible. 265. Similarly, another important principle governing this doctrine is that vagueness ought to be inversely proportional to the gravity of the consequences involved—i.e., the more penal the consequences, the less vague the legislation should be. Vagueness, especially in criminal laws, ought to be used to protect the individual facing penalty.180 Whether Section 6A is void for being vague 266.