(2) The appropriate Government and the local authorities shall take measures and make schemes or programmes to promote healthcare and prevent the occurrence of disabilities and for the said purpose shall— (a) undertake or cause to be undertaken surveys, investigations and research concerning the cause of occurrence of disabilities; (b) promote various methods for preventing disabilities; (c) screen all the children at least once in a year for the purpose of identifying “at-risk” cases; (d) provide facilities for training to the staff at the primary health centres; (e) sponsor or cause to be sponsored awareness campaigns and disseminate or cause to be disseminated information for general hygiene, health and sanitation; (f) take measures for pre-natal, perinatal and post-natal care of mother and child; (g) educate the public through the pre-schools, schools, primary health centres, village level workers and anganwadi workers; (h) create awareness amongst the masses through television, radio and other mass media on the causes of disabilities and the preventive measures to be adopted; (i) healthcare during the time of natural disasters and other situations of risk; (j) essential medical facilities for life saving emergency treatment and procedures; and (k) sexual and reproductive healthcare especially for women with disability.” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2221 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. 51. The United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in its concluding observations on the initial report of India26 has inter alia identified the medical model of disability as a prominent concern. It has stated as follows: “(a) The prevalence of the medical model of disability in legislation, public policies and attitudes concerning persons with disabilities, particularly in the multiple assessments and certification of disability and the requirement for different assessments to access services in the community, and in the misunderstanding of disability, including leprosy, as solely a biological condition requiring prevention and rehabilitation;” (emphasis supplied) 52. The committee has recommended that the concern be remedied with inter alia reforming guidelines assessing persons with disabilities by adopting a human rights model. The recommendation has also opined against the multiplicity of assessments which we have echoed above. The recommendation states as follows: “(b) Reform the guidelines for assessing and certifying disability to bring them into line with the human rights model of disability, ensuring that organizations of persons with disabilities are involved in the reform, that multiple assessments do not create an undue burden for applicants, and that policies and programmes shift from care, treatment and protection towards the removal of environmental and attitudinal barriers, which prevent equality and inclusion;” (emphasis supplied) 53. We have noted above that Disability Assessment Boards must comply with rule of law principles by injecting transparency, fairness and consistency in their approach. The Boards must further elaborate on 26 UN. Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (22nd sess). CRPD/C/IND/CO/1. Concluding observations on the initial report of India : Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Geneva : UN, 29 Oct. 2019. 2222 [2024] 10 S.C.R.