This was done by applying a formula uniformly to the marks secured by all the candidates who appeared in the two main examinations, so that their marks would become comparable and enable preparation of a unified marks list. 27. Significantly, in State of U.P. and others vs. Atul Kumar Dwivedi and others1, this Court had occasion to consider application of moderation/ scaling of marks in a recruitment process and as to when such an exercise would be permissible. It was observed that normalization of marks means increasing and/or decreasing the marks obtained by students in different timing sessions (shifts) to a certain number, as observed by the High Court in its , and it was noted 1 [2022] 1 SCR 28 : (2022) 11 SCC 578 50 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that such normalization techniques help in comparing corresponding normalized values from two or more different data sets in a way that it eliminates the effects of the variation in the scale of the data sets, i.e., a data set with large values can be easily compared with a data set of smaller values and the normalized score/percentile is obtained by applying a formula. This Court, accordingly, concluded that the exercise undertaken in adopting the process of normalization was quite consistent with the requirements of law. This Court further observed that decisions made by expert bodies, including the Public Service Commissions, should not be lightly interfered with, unless instances of arbitrary and malafide exercise of power are made out. 28. On similar lines, in Tajvir Singh Sodhi and others v. State of Jammu and Kashmir and others2, this Court observed that interference in the selection process for public employment should generally be avoided, recognizing the importance of maintaining the autonomy and integrity of the selection process. Noting that Courts would recognize that the process of selection involves a high degree of expertise and discretion and that it would not be appropriate for Courts to substitute their for that of a selection committee, it was observed that it is not within the domain of the Court, exercising the power of judicial review, to enter into the merits of a selection process, a task which is the prerogative of and is within the expert domain of a selection committee, subject of course to a caveat that if there are proven allegations of malfeasance or violations of statutory rules, only in such cases of inherent arbitrariness, can the Courts intervene. 29. The detailed explanation by the experts being rather technical, we do not propose to burden this with the same, but the learned senior counsel/counsel opposing the MPPSC, who also heard the experts, did not bring to our notice any lacuna in the process adopted or the formula applied, whereby injustice was done to any candidate or any arbitrariness crept in. We, therefore, hold that the process of normalization and the consequential merger of the marks secured by the candidates who appeared in the two main examinations cannot be found fault with.