245 Crores, then the differential amounts will be paid by the Resolution Applicant to the Assenting Financial Creditors, which amounts are over and above the amounts reserved for them this Resolution Plan. However, if the CIRP Cost exceeds the current estimates, then the CIRP Costs will be paid by the Resolution Applicant as per actuals in compliance with the provisions of the IBC and commercial proposal for other creditors of the Corporate Debtor will be adjusted accordingly, subject however to a maximum of Rs. 475 Crores. It is clarified that on account of such payments from the amounts infused by the Resolution Applicant in the Corporate Debtor, the pay-outs towards other claimants as currently stated will be reduced proportionately to account for such additional CIRP Costs, subject to a minimum payment of liquidation value to the Operational Creditors and Dissenting Financial Creditors of the Corporate Debtor and subject to a maximum of Rs. 475 Crores. (k) The outstanding CIRP Costs shall be paid by the Resolution Applicant out of funds infused by the 2066 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Resolution Applicant in the Corporate Debtor and as per the Implementation Schedule set out in Clause 7.7 below. […] (m) Priority of Payment CIRP Cost shall be fully paid and discharged after the Effective Date before payment is made to any of the Creditors as per the Resolution Plan. The Resolution Applicant will be entitled and will use funds available with the Corporate Debtor on the Effective Date for making any portion of CIRP payments. (n) The Resolution Applicant has sufficient funds and do not envisage any challenge in terms of source for making such payments. The net worth and financial capabilities of the Resolution Applicant are evident from its financial statements submitted at the time of submitting its EOI. Regarding the Source of Funds, the CIRP Costs shall be met out of funds infused by the Resolution Applicant in the Corporate Debtor. xxx xxx xxx 6.4.2. Treatment of Employees/Workmen dues, including dues of Authorized Representatives of Employees/ Workmen (a) The Resolution Applicant proposes to pay a fixed sum of Rs. 52 Crores to the Workmen/ Employees towards settlement of all the claims made by the Employees and Workmen of the Corporate Debtor, including to the Authorized Representatives of Employees and Workmen as set out in the List of Creditors (“Admitted Workmen and Employees Dues”). (b) The payments towards Admitted Workmen and Employees Dues shall be made out of funds infused by the Resolution Applicant in the Corporate Debtor and as per the Implementation Schedule set out in Clause 7.7 below. The said payment is also being made in priority to the payment to the financial creditors. (c) In any case, if the Liquidation Value due to Operational Creditors (Employees/ Workmen dues, including dues of the Authorized Representatives of Employees/ Workmen) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2067 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. is not “NIL”, then the Resolution Applicant undertakes that the Liquidation Value due to such Operational Creditors (Employees/ Workmen dues including dues of Authorized Representatives of Employees/ Workmen) shall be paid and shall be given priority in payment over Financial Creditors as is already reflected in the Implementation Schedule in Clause 7.7 below.