2317 of 2012 Appearances for Parties Kavin Gulati, Sr. Adv., Yash Pal Dhingra, Mukesh Verma, Pankaj Kumar Singh, Dushyant Sharma, Advs. for the Appellants. Balbir Singh, A.S.G., S. Gurukrishna Kumar, Rana Mukherjee, Sr. Advs., Sunil Kumar Jain, Rajan Kumar Chourasia, Ms. Aakanksha Kaul, Ms. Suhasini Sen, Ms. Gargi Khanna, Rupesh Kumar, Bhuvan Kapoor, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Randhir Singh, Devesh Tuli, Dr. Vijendra Singh, Deepak Goel, Ms. Apurva Singh, Sagar Mehlawat, Kapil Prajapati, Advs. for the Respondents. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 853 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others / of the Supreme Court Nagarathna, J. Leave granted. 2. The present Civil Appeal has been filed by the Lucknow Nagar Nigam (‘Municipal Corporation’) impugning the of the High Court of Allahabad that has allowed the Writ Petition filed by respondent herein (‘the assessee’), thereby holding that the assessee is exempt from payment of property tax under the provisions of the UP Municipal Corporation Adhiniyam, 1959 (hereinafter referred to as “Act of 1959”, for brevity sake). Bird’s Eye View of the Controversy: 3. Whether statutory vesting of property termed as enemy property under the provisions of the Enemy Property Act, 1968 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act” for the sake of convenience) amounts to expropriation which leads to the change of its status inasmuch as its ownership is transferred to the Union of India, is a question that has arisen in the present appeal. If there is a transfer of ownership by its statutory vesting in the Custodian for Enemy Property, whether the Union within the meaning of Article 285 of the Constitution of India would be entitled to exemption from payment of property or other local taxes to Municipal Corporation under the provision of the Act of 1959 is another question that has arisen in the present appeal. Further, despite becoming the property of the Union, whether, clause (2) of Article 285 enables the appellant herein to impose property or other local taxes on the respondent, which is the lessee of the subject property is the third question which arises in this appeal. Relevant Facts of the Case: 4. The subject property is an Enemy Property within the meaning of the Act bearing House No.31/28/04(31/59) located on Mahatma Gandhi Marg, Lucknow, owned by the Raja of Mahmudabad, who migrated to Pakistan in the year 1947. A portion of the property is currently occupied and utilized for profit-generating purposes by the respondent-assessee, in this case. 4.1 Historically, prior to the fiscal year 1998-1999, the appellant- Municipal Corporation imposed and collected taxes in 854 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports accordance with Rule No.174 ‘ka’ of the Act of 1959 from the assessee. However, in the fiscal year 1998-1999, it came to the Municipal Corporation’s attention that the assessee was operating a commercial establishment within the premises. Consequently, the appellant-Municipal Corporation conducted an assessment based on Capital Value and issued a notice to the assessee regarding the assessed Annual Value. 4.2 It is pertinent to note that respondent No.2, Office of the Custodian of Enemy Property for India (for short ‘the Custodian’), under the Ministry of Commerce, Government of India, issued a Certificate on 03.10.2002, stating that the subject property bearing premises No.53-54, Lawrie Building Hazaratganj, Lucknow, is Enemy Property vested with the Custodian.