Item 26 in the First Schedule to the IDR Act must be read subject to Entry 8 and for that matter, Entry 6 in List II. So read, the said item does not and cannot, [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2101 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons deal with manufacture, production of intoxicating liquors. All the petitioners before us are engaged in the manufacture of intoxicating liquors. The State Legislature is, therefore, perfectly competent to make a law prohibiting their manufacture and production in addition to their sale, consumption, possession and transport with reference to Entries 8 and 6 in List-II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution read with Article 47 thereof.” The Civil Appeals were dismissed by this Court. Vam Organic I: 9.10 In Vam Organic I, the Notification dated 18.05.1990 issued by the Excise Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh, was assailed before the High Court and the writ petition was dismissed. By the said Notification, certain amendments were made to the Rules published vide Notification dated 26.09.1910. Section 41 of the UP Excise Act, 1910 gave power to the Excise Commissioner to make Rules, inter alia, for regulating the manufacture, supply, storage or sale of any intoxicant. The earlier Rule 2 was substituted by a new Rule 2 titled “Denaturation of Spirit”. The amended Rule provided for a new licence for denaturation of spirit in a prescribed form to be issued by the Collector to all distilleries situated within his district holding licence PD-1 or PD-2 and persons holding licences FL-16, FL-39, FL-40 and FL-41 to denature the spirit. A licence fee for denaturation of spirit at the rate of 7 paise per litre was levied in advance. The appellants in this case who were manufacturers of vinyl acetate monomer (a basic organic chemical for which “industrial alcohol” was the main feed stock being produced in the distillery) contended that the entire “industrial alcohol” produced was denatured as per the method approved by the State Excise Authorities and was being used in their factory for manufacturing vinyl acetate monomer. The appellants held licences in the form of FL-39 to enable them to use the “industrial alcohol” as the main raw material for their product. The notification was challenged on two grounds: firstly, that the State of Uttar Pradesh has no power to legislate in respect of “industrial alcohol” or to levy taxes in respect thereof. Secondly, that the levy being not based on quid pro quo was otherwise bad. 2102 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9.10.1 In this case, before considering the legal contentions, this Court highlighted the difference between “industrial alcohol”, denatured spirit and potable liquor. Ethyl alcohol was noted to be rectified spirit of 95% v/v in strength. Rectified spirit was highly toxic and unfit for human consumption. However, rectified spirit diluted with water was noted to be country liquor. Rectified spirit, as it was, can be used for manufacture of various other products like chemicals, etc. Rectified spirit, produced for industrial use was required by a Notification issued under the Act to be denatured in to prevent the spirit from being directed to human consumption.