Here whether the sum charged is an overcharge or not is largely dependent upon the peculiar facts, more particularly the number of boxes being booked for carriage. Thus, it can be safely said, that in case of an overcharge, the issue lies in the “charging” whereas in case of an illegal charge, the issue lies in the “charge” itself. 73. Conversely for example, say for a particular route, the chargeable distance as per the law was 100 km, but the railways incorrectly showed the chargeable distance as 120 km in its local rate list. Now ‘A’ books a consignment of iron ore and ‘B’ books a consignment of steel, over the same 120 km distance. Irrespective of the type of goods or the quantity of goods being carried or by whom the consignment has been booked, any amount charged in respect of this incorrect chargeable distance of 120 km is an illegal charge. Here the sum charged as an illegal charge is not dependent upon either the peculiar facts or the parties thereof, the charge is illegal solely because the very charge itself i.e., the chargeable distance of 120 km was in contravention of the law. 74. An Overcharge is effectively concerned with the error in the quantum of what was or should be payable, whereas an illegal charge is solely concerned with whether a particular thing was payable by the law / in conformity with the law or not. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1115 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. 75. Another aspect that distinguishes the two is that, an ‘overcharge’ often stems due to a clerical mistake or mis-interpretation or misapplication of law in a particular case, whereas an ‘illegal charge’ stems from a patent error or inherent error in the charge i.e., in contravention of the law and principles of fair play. In other words, in overcharge, the mistake is in the levying of the charge, whereas in illegal charge the error lies in the very substance of the charge itself which is in contravention of the law, even though the charge per-se is permissible by law. 76. In West Coast Paper Mills (supra), the concerned railway zone therein was charging freight at a flat rate without giving any telescopic benefits to the consignees, which the other railway zones were providing. This denial of telescopic benefit was found to be unreasonable, arbitrary and against fair-play. Thus, the same was held to be illegal by this Court even-though the said charge was payable as per the notified rate. 77. To illustrate, say the chargeable distance as measured by the concerned Zonal Railway Authority for a particular route is 100 km. However, the Station Master whilst making the local distance table records the said distance as 110 km due to a clerical mistake. Thus, because of an error in indicating the actual chargeable distance in the table, the freight for the said route becomes chargeable for 110 km. Although the mistake here is a clerical one, yet because of such mistake, an inherent error has crept into the local distance table.