Malimath, Vol. I March (2003) “14.4 NEED FOR SENTENCING GUIDELINES 14.4.1 The Indian Penal Code prescribed offences and punishments for the same. For many offences only the maximum punishment is prescribed and for some offences the minimum may be prescribed. The Judge has wide discretion in awarding the sentence within the statutory limits. There is now no guidance to the Judge in regard to selecting the most appropriate sentence given the circumstances of the case. Therefore each Judge exercises discretion accordingly to his own . There is therefore no uniformity. Some Judges are lenient and some Judges are harsh. Exercise of unguided discretion is not good even if it is the Judge who exercises the discretion. In some countries guidance regarding sentencing option and sentencing guideline laws are given in the penal code. There is need for such law in our country to minimise uncertainty to the matter of awarding sentence. There are several factors which are relevant in prescribing the alternative sentences. This requires a thorough examination by an expert statutory body. xxx xxx xxx 718 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14.4.5 Sometimes the courts are unduly harsh while at other times they are liberal. We have already adverted to aspects which Supreme Court said are relevant in deciding as to what are the rarest of the rare cases for imposing death sentence. However, even in such matters uniformity is lacking. In certain rape cases acquittals gave rise to public protests. Therefore in to bring about certain regulation and predictability in the matter of sentencing, the Committee recommends a statutory committee to lay guidelines on sentencing under the Chairmanship of a former Judge of Supreme Court or a former Chief Justice of a High Court experienced in criminal law with other members representing the Prosecution, legal profession, Police, social scientist and women representative.” (emphasis supplied) Report of the Committee on Draft National Policy on Criminal Justice, Chaired by Prof. (Dr.) N.R. Madhava Menon, July, 2007 “5.5 PUNISHMENTS AND SENTENCING 5.5.1 Given the limited options in the choice of punishments now available in the statutes and the inadequate deterrence in the sentence often imposed, there has to be some serious rethinking on the philosophy, justification and impact of sentencing in criminal justice administration. The quantums of fines were prescribed more than a century ago. Imprisonment in practice is reduced to a much shorter period through a variety of practices even when it is for life. Equality in sentencing is not pursued vigorously and there is no serious attempt yet to standardize the sentencing norms and procedures. The objects of punishment are not served in many cases as a result of such incoherent sentencing practices. 5.5.2 What are the policy choices in the matter of punishments and determination of its quantum to achieve the goals of criminal justice? Can community service be made an effective punishment and how is it to be organized? How to make probation a dominant part of [2024] 5 S.C.R. 719 Sunita Devi v. The State of Bihar & Anr.