These areas will have to be surveyed and demarcated in a time bound manner. For deletions of such areas from the purview of FC Act the MoEF may consider waiving the condition of compensatory afforestation. The payment of Net Present Value (NPV) may also not be insisted upon I such cases. The I.As. stand disposed of. We expect the State of Rajasthan to comply with the aforesaid three recommendations expeditiously in letter and spirit.” 18. Subsequently, the applicant filed I.A. No. 41723 of 2022 in W.P. No. 202 of 1995, seeking directions to the State of Rajasthan to take steps in accordance with the mandate of this Court’s dated 03.07.2018, for identification, survey, and demarcation of sacred groves such as Orans, Dev-vans, Rundhs, etc. as ‘forest lands’ to be included under the purview of the FC Act, and additionally to declare the 100 Orans identified in the publication ‘Oran Atlas of Rajasthan’ as ‘forest lands’. 19. The State of Rajasthan in pursuance to the dated 03.07.2018 filed an affidavit dated 13th Feb, 2024 and responded as below: (i) Numerous Rundhs have already been documented as forests, and the process of identifying and classifying additional areas is ongoing. 1850 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (ii) To protect Rundhs and other ecologically sensitive areas in Alwar district, the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India, issued the ‘Aravali Notification’ in 1992. This notification imposes restrictions on activities that contribute to environmental degradation in the region. (iii) The Deputy Conservator of Forests has identified several sacred groves, and the Rajasthan Forest Department has issued a notification expressing its intent to classify these areas as ‘deemed forests’. Public objections to this proposal were invited through a newspaper publication. Once these objections are reviewed and the list is finalized, it will be submitted to the State Government for issuing the final notification. 20. The applicant in I.A. No. 41723 of 2022, through the rejoinder statement, submitted that the affidavit filed by the State of Rajasthan is incomplete, vague, and superficial as no concrete steps with respect to the identification of the Dev-vans/Orans have been taken. The applicant pointed out the following inconsistencies in the affidavit filed by the State of Rajasthan: (i) The State has not complied with recommendation (iii), which required the constitution of an expert committee to identify various desert ecosystems for inclusion in the category of ‘deemed forests’. (ii) While the State has documented several Rundhs as forests, some, such as those listed at Sl. Nos. 37 and 38(in the list submitted by the State of Rajasthan), appear to have been allotted or de-notified. Additionally, notes on the village displacement activities in certain Rundhs raise questions about their status as forests. (iii) The State’s district-wise list of Orans to be declared as ‘deemed forests’ is incomplete, covering only approximately 5,000 Orans out of the estimated 25,000. A complete district-wise list is essential before final notification, especially as many Orans are located in the ecologically sensitive Thar Desert. (iv) The Rajasthan Forest Policy, 2023, lacks provisions defining the roles, responsibilities, and rights of local communities in conserving Orans, Dev-vans, and Rundhs.