Since issues were framed and decided against the claimant and in favour of the opposite parties, whether or not such findings were returned after examining such issues on merits it would cause legal trammel in view of the principle of res judicata. We have already found that a decree dismissing a suit on the ground of lack of territorial jurisdiction is not a nullity. Though Section 168, M.V. Act, carrying the caption ‘Award of the Claims Tribunal’ on perusal, at the first blush may appear to mean only a decision of the Claims Tribunal granting compensation to the claimant concerned. However, that certainly is not the correct construction of the said provision. Section 169(2), M.V. Act, clothes a Claims Tribunal with all the powers of a Civil Court. In the decision in Morgan Securities & Credit (P) Ltd. v. Modi Rubber Ltd.6 this Court observed and held that the expression ‘award’ has a distinct connotation and it envisages a binding decision of a judicial or a quasi-judicial authority. That apart, Section 173, M.V. Act, provides an appeal against an award of a Claims Tribunal to the High Court subject to sub-Section (2) thereof, and it entitles any person aggrieved by an award of a Claims Tribunal to prefer it to the High Court. 6 [2006] Supp. 10 SCR 1022 : (2006) 12 SCC 642 1218 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 25. We have already referred to the error, rather an illegality committed by the Claims Tribunal in deciding issues 1 to 4, 6 and 7 against the claimant and in favour of the opposite parties viz., the respondents herein even after making it clear it had no occasion to examine them on merits and solely because it returned a negative finding on the question of its territorial jurisdiction to maintain the subject claim petition. This error or mistake that resulted in great prejudice escaped the attention of the High Court while exercising the power under Section 173, M.V. Act, in the appeal filed by an appellant herein against the award of the Tribunal. 26. In this context, it is to be noted that the materials on record and the discussions of the evidence by the Claims Tribunal would reveal that there was no serious dispute regarding the occurrence of accident in question in which the appellant’s son lost his life and also of the fact that in the said accident involving the vehicle insured with the first respondent-the insurance company. It is true that respondent Nos. 1 and 2 have disputed the nature of its occurrence. There seems to be no dispute regarding the fact that the deceased sustained injuries and succumbed to it instantaneously. We have already noted that it was after keeping the claim petition filed in 2006 for about 4 years i.e. only on 06.10.2010 that it was dismissed on the ground of lacking territorial jurisdiction and that the appeal filed against the same in the year 2010 was dismissed, confirming the award passed by the Tribunal, after about 6 years viz.