In Mehrunissa v. State of Maharashtra [(1981) 2 SCC 709 : 1981 SCC (Cri) 592] it was held that the fact that the detenu was aware of the contents of the documents not furnished was immaterial and non-furnishing of the copy of the seizure list was held to be fatal. To appreciate this point one has to bear in mind that the detenu is in jail and has no access to his own [2024] 9 S.C.R. 325 Jaseela Shaji v. The Union of India & Ors. documents. In Mohd. Zakir v. Delhi Administration [(1982) 3 SCC 216 : 1982 SCC (Cri) 695] it was reiterated that it being a constitutional imperative for the detaining authority to give the documents relied on and referred to in the of detention pari passu the grounds of detention, those should be furnished at the earliest so that the detenu could make an effective representation immediately instead of waiting for the documents to be supplied with. The question of demanding the documents was wholly irrelevant and the infirmity in that regard was violative of constitutional safeguards enshrined in Article 22(5).” [emphasis supplied] 19. It can thus be seen that this Court, in unequivocal terms, has held that the constitutional requirements under Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India are twofold, viz., (1) the Detaining Authority must, as soon as practicable, after the detention communicate to the detenu the grounds on which the of detention has been made, and (2) the Detaining Authority must afford the detenu the earliest opportunity of making the representation against the of detention. It has further been held that the right is to make an effective representation and when some documents are referred to or relied on in the grounds of detention, without copies of such documents, the grounds of detention would not be complete. In unequivocal terms, it has been held that the detenu has the right to be furnished with the grounds of detention along with the documents so referred to or relied on. It has been held that failure or even delay in furnishing those documents would amount to denial of the right to make an effective representation. 20. This Court further went on to hold that it is immaterial whether the detenu already knew about their contents or not. This Court reiterated the position that it being a constitutional imperative for the detaining authority to give the documents relied on and referred to in the of detention pari passu the grounds of detention. It has been held that there is no question of demanding the documents. 21. The High Court in the impugned and has relied on the s of this Court in the cases of Vakil Singh vs. State of J. & K. and another (supra) and L.M.S. Ummu Saleema vs. B.B. Gujaral (supra). 326 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 22. Insofar as the of this Court in the case of Vakil Singh (supra) is concerned, the detention was challenged on the following grounds: (i) The impugned was passed without application of mind; (ii) Neither the grounds of detention nor the confirmation thereof were communicated and explained to the detenu; (iii) The grounds are vague; and (iv) The of detention, assuming it was served, was a colourable act as the petitioner was already in jail.