Thus, the case set up by prosecution that complainant, Chanagouda(PW-1) was an eye-witness to the incident, is totally contradicted by evidence of PW-6 who categorically stated that it was he who had informed the family members, the informant Chanagouda (PW-1) being one of them, about the incident at 6.00 or 7.00 pm and that they responded saying that they would be going to the police station for filing a report. 50. Thus, the claim of complainant(PW-1) that he was an eye witness to the incident is totally contradicted by the statement of PW-6. The conduct of the family members of the deceased and the other villagers in not taking any steps to protect the dead body for the whole night and instead, casually going back to their houses without giving a second thought as to what may happen to the mortal remains of the deceased, lying exposed to the elements is another circumstance which creates a grave doubt in the mind of the Court that no one had actually seen the incident and it was a case of blind murder which came to light much later. As a matter of fact, if at all the sequence of events as emanating from the evidence of the prosecution witnesses was having even a grain of truth, then it cannot be believed that the dead body would be abandoned in this manner or that even the police officials would not put a guard at the crime scene. 196 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 51. Added to that, the version of Medical Jurist(PW-17) who stated in his cross-examination that the dead body of the deceased Malagounda was in a stage of decomposition and that the time of death was more than 24 hours prior to the autopsy done at 9.00 a.m. on 20th September, 2001 creates further doubt in the mind of the Court on the theory of the so called eye witnesses that the incident happened at 4.00 pm on 19th September, 2001. 52. The witnesses Revappa(PW-2), Basagonda(PW-6) and Shankargouda(PW-15) admitted that it had been raining incessantly in the village for almost three days. In such circumstances, the reason assigned by the complainant(PW-1) for the deceased Malagounda and the four servants(PW-2, PW-3, PW-4 and PW-5) to have gone to the agricultural land, i.e., for putting up a bund is totally unacceptable. Since it was raining incessantly, there could not be any possibility for these people to have made an attempt to put up a bund on the land. 53. Thus, there is no logical explanation for the presence of the deceased and the servants in their field on the date and time of the incident. It seems that not only did the complainant party create eye witnesses of the incident but has also suppressed the true genesis of the occurrence. 54. PW-1 and PW-6 admitted that Sangound, son of the accused A-4 had been murdered in front of their house and that the accused party was carrying a grudge that deceased Malagounda had murdered the boy.