Therefore, even if the Petitioners default in making payment by 31st August 2023, no challenge can be laid to the sale of the secured asset to the Auction Purchaser. Further, as per the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1673 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. statement of Mr. Khandeparkar, in the event the Petitioners fail to pay the entire dues of Rs.129 crores to the Respondent Bank by 31st August 2023, vacant, quiet, and peaceful possession of the secured asset would be handed over by the Petitioners to the Auction Purchaser and the Bank would then issue a sale certificate in favour of the Auction Purchaser. When one looks at all these facts, we find that the arrangement referred to above is in the interest of all, including the Auction Purchaser. We say this because, by 31st August 2023, the Auction Purchaser will either get the secured asset free from litigation or will get a refund of the entire amount paid by it to the Respondent Bank for agreeing to purchase the secured asset.” (Emphasis supplied) (iii) Lastly, the High Court whilst permitting the Borrower to redeem the mortgage specifically noted, that in light of its nothing survived in the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 pending before the DRT and that the sale of the Secured Asset shall stand confirmed in favour of the petitioner. Furthermore, the High Court treated the Borrower’s leave to withdraw the aforesaid securitization application and not challenge the validity of the measures taken under the SARFAESI Act as an undertaking to the High Court. The relevant observations read as under: - “15. In light of the foregoing discussion, the following is passed: - xxx xxx xxx (e) In the event the balance amount of Rs. 104 crores are not paid by the Petitioners to the Respondent- Bank on or before 31st August 2023, the Respondent Bank shall then be entitled to appropriate the money from the No Lien interest bearing account towards the dues payable by the Petitioners and the sale of the secured asset shall be confirmed in favour of the Auction Purchaser and a sale certificate shall be issued in their favour. All formalities in relation to 1674 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports registration of that certificate shall also be done by the Respondent-Bank and the Auction Purchaser. (f) In light of this , Mr. Khandeparkar has stated that, nothing would survive in Securitization Application No. 46 of 2022 and/or the Interim Applications filed therein and seeks leave to withdraw the same within a period of one week from today. The said statement is accepted as an undertaking given to the Court. It is needless to clarify that even if the Petitioners do not withdraw the Securitization Application, the same shall stand dismissed in light of this and the Petitioners will not be permitted to litigate any further with the Respondent Bank in relation to the secured asset. In other words, if the Petitioners default in making the balance payment of Rs.104 crores to the Respondent Bank by 31st August 2023, the Auction Purchaser shall get the secured asset free from litigation.