[See C. Natarajan (supra) at Para 20] 63. However, the legislature has consciously provided for only one consequence in the event of failure of the successful auction purchaser in depositing the balance amount i.e., forfeiture and has not provided for imposition of any other stipulation by the secured creditor in the event of a breach. This has been done, keeping in mind the larger object of the SARFAESI Act, which is to facilitate recovery of debt in a time-bound manner by giving teeth to the measures enumerated within Section 13 of the SARFAESI Act, more particularly sale of the secured asset in the event the borrower fails to repay the debt. 64. If Section(s) 73 and 74 respectively of the 1872 Act are interpreted so as to be made applicable to a breach in payment of balance amount by the successful auction purchaser, it would lead to a chilling effect in the following ways: - (i) First, it would be quite preposterous to suggest that in an auction which is a process meant for recovery of debt due to default of the borrower, the balance amount if not paid by the successful auction purchaser, another recovery proceeding would have to be initiated by the secured creditor in terms of Section(s) 73 and 74 of the 1872 Act to recoup the loss and expenditure occasioned to it by the defaulting successful auction purchaser. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 61 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu (ii) Secondly, such an interpretation would allow unscrupulous borrowers being hands-in-glove with the auction purchasers to use subversive methods to participate in an auction only to not pay the balance amount at the very end and escape relatively unscathed under the guise of Section(s) 73 and 74 of the 1872 Act, thereby gaming the entire auction process and leaving any possibility of recoveries under the SARFAESI Act at naught. [See; C. Natarajan (supra) at Para 19] 65. Thus, such an interpretation would completely defeat the very purpose and object of the SARFAESI Act and would reduce the measures provided under Section 13 of the SARFAESI Act to a farce and thereby undermine the country’s economic interest. 66. At this stage, we may also answer the submission of the respondent that the authorised officer under Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules has been conferred with unguided and unfettered power of forfeiture and as such the said rule is liable to be struck down. However, we are not impressed with such submission. First, there was no challenge to the constitutional validity of Rule 9 sub-rule (5) of the SARFAESI Rules. Secondly, even as per Agarwal Tracom (supra) it is always open for a person aggrieved by an of forfeiture under the SARFAESI Rules to challenge the same before the DRT under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. 67. As regards the contention that the SARFAESI Rules being a delegated legislation cannot override the substantive provisions of a statutory enactment more particularly Section(s) 73 & 74 of the 1872 Act, the same was negatived by this Court in C. Natarajan (supra) with the following observations: - “22.