Similarly, the Bombay High Court in Mahinder Bahawanji Thakur v. S.P. Pande 1963 SCC OnLine Bom 28 had held that the minority decision will have a precedential value on a point when the law has not been discussed by the majority in their . Allahabad High Court held a similar view in Sudha Tiwari v. Union of India 2011 SCC OnLine All 253. The logic therefore would be that the opinion of minority judges on a point where the majority is silent, can be followed by the High Courts but in the Supreme Court it will have only persuasive value. The five learned judges in Sanjeev Coke relied upon the decision of the minority judges in Ranganath Reddy as they were persuaded by the logic and the interpretation given by Justice Krishna Iyer to the phrase “material resources of the community”. 32. There is another aspect to the question which is before us today, which is if we today hold that privately owned resources are not a part of “material resources of the community”, we would not only be unsettling Ranganatha Reddy and Sanjeev Coke and all the subsequent decisions of this Court, which followed Sanjeev Coke, but we would also be unsettling the whole body of laws including Constitution Bench decisions of this Court which have held even 300 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports prior to Ranganath Reddy though indirectly that privately owned resources are part of “material resources of the community”. There was a clear presumption in all these cases that privately owned resources are part of “material resources of the community”. What is the most important “material resource” of the community in India? Undoubtedly, it is land. At the time of our independence, inequality in land distribution was evident throughout the country. We had big landlords, on the one hand, and landless masses of poor peasantry on the other, who mostly worked as agricultural labourers on the large farm lands of these landlords. The abolition of zamindars, big landlords and middlemen was a pledge the leaders of the freedom movement had made to the people of this country. This was also now one of the “charters of instructions” for the Government as Dr. Ambedkar would put it under Articles 38 and 39 of the Constitution of India. On September 10, 1949, the then Prime Minister while speaking on Article 2456 before the Constituent Assembly, emphasised the necessity of abolishing the zamindari system. He underlined that this was the pledge they had given to the nation, “and no change is going to come in our way. That is quite clear. We will honour our pledges”.57 Since land was in the State List i.e., List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India, such changes had to be brought in by the State Legislatures. Land reform legislations were thus the first important legislations passed in different States, by and large on the same lines, taking care of the local provisions and local factors. These land reform legislations had to first muster the scrutiny of the respective High Court, where these legislations were challenged by the landlords and zamindars.