10 Gurcharan Singh & Ors. v. New Delhi Municipal Committee & Ors. (1996) 2 SCC 459. 2294 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports writ jurisdiction to annul such illicit benefit received by the similarly placed person.11 31. Third, and most crucially, the illegality, if any, has since been remedied. It could not be disputed before us that the land of Maharaja Harinder Singh ‘Khalaf’ Maharaja Varinder Singh had been subsequently acquired through notifications dated 16.05.2007 and 27.03.2008. The very basis of discrimination, thus, stood denuded of its factual foundation as of the date the High Court passed the impugned judgement on 15.07.2008. The High Court ought to have taken note of this material subsequent event which took place during the pendency of the proceedings before it, considering its serious impact on the outcome of the entire acquisition process. D.3. Events before this Court 32. We may now advert to certain unpalatable events which occurred during the pendency of these appeals before this Court. On 10.05.2023, when the matter was posted for hearing, a joint request was made to list these matters for final hearing on 26.07.2023. On the date fixed, learned Senior Additional Advocate General of Haryana bona fidely conveyed the State’s consent to drop the acquisition process qua the Respondents’ land only, if they were to agree, to provide a part of the subject land for the building of roads and other public amenities free of cost, along with an undertaking that the remaining land shall be utilized only for charitable purposes, i.e., non-commercial activities. Learned Senior Counsel for the Respondents was consequently directed to seek formal instructions in this regard. Respondents meanwhile filed a formal undertaking stating that they would use the land only for non-profit and charitable purposes. 33. On 13.09.2023, we directed the State Government / Appellant to file an affidavit responding to the following queries: (a) Why the State Government is agreeable to release the land of the Respondents from acquisition? 11 Vivek Coop. House Building Society Ltd. v. State of Haryana, 2016 SCC OnLine P&H 15802; Chandigarh Administration v. Jagjit Singh (1991) 1 SCC 745 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2295 Haryana Urban Development Authority v. Abhishek Gupta etc. (b) Whether such release of land will affect the acquisition of adjoining lands or not? (c) Whether the subject-land falls within or near the Sukhna Lake catchment area? (d) Whether the land in dispute falls in any non-construction zone? (e) If not, what type of construction is permissible in and around the area of subject-land? 34. In response thereto, the State of Haryana filed an affidavit stating, inter alia, as follows: (a) The land can be released because the acquisition proceedings for the same were quashed by the High Court and are under abeyance in view of the status quo passed by this Court and because the Respondents undertake to utilize the land for charitable purposes; (b) The present case has unique circumstances; (c) The site does not fall within the Sukhna Catchment Area, however, the exact area that falls under Eco Sensitive Zone would be known once the notification for such zone is finalized; and (d) Construction is permissible in the land.