V.I. Muniswamy Pillai stated, “If there is any labour required for common purposes in the village, this most unfortunate fellow, the Harijan [Scheduled Caste], is always caught hold of to do all menial and inferior service.”110 By the provision, he was confident that the country would be “elevating a community that has been outside the pale of society”. S. Nagappa gave examples of how “begar” was imposed on the Scheduled Castes: “Sir, whenever cattle die; the owner of the cattle wants these poor Harijans to come and remove the dead cattle, remove the skins, tan them and make chappals and supply them free of cost. For this, what do they get? 105 Ibid, pp. 409-410 106 Ibid, p. 410 107 Ibid 108 Anurag Bhaskar, The Foresighted Ambedkar: Ideas That Shaped Indian Constitutional Discourse, Penguin (2024), pp. 176-191. 109 B. Shiva Rao, Framing of India’s Constitution, Vol. 5, pp. 249-257. 110 Constituent Assembly Debates (8 November 1948) 550 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Some food during festival days. Often, Sir, this forced labour is practised even by the government. For instance, if there is any murder, after the postmortem, the police force these people to remove the dead body and look to the other funeral processes. I am glad that hereafter this sort of forced labour will have no place. Then, Sir, this is practised in zamindaries also. For instance, if there is a marriage in the zamindar’s family, he will ask these poor people, especially the Harijans, to come and white wash his whole house, for which they will be given nothing except food for the day… … whenever the big zamindar’s lands are to be ploughed, immediately he will send word for these poor people, the Harijans, the previous day, and say: “All your services are confiscated for the whole of tomorrow; you will have to work throughout the day and night. No one should go to any other work.” In return, the zamindar will give one morsel of food to these poor fellows. Sir, this sort of forced labour is in practice in the 20th century in our so called civilised country.”111 (emphasis added) 71. Another member from the Scheduled Caste community, H.J. Khandekar, expressed his happiness “to see in the Constitution that begar and forced labour are abolished and the curse on untouchables from whom the begar and forced labour were taken has gone”.112 Raj Bahadur also gave examples how “begar” was practiced: “I know how some of the Princes have indulged in their pomp and luxury, in their reckless life, at the expense of the ordinary man, how they have used the down-trodden labourers and dumb ignorant people for the sake of their pleasure. I know for instance how for duck shooting a very large number of people are roped in forcibly to stand all day long in mud and slush during cold chilly wintry days. I know how for the sake of their game and people have 111 Constituent Assembly Debates (3 December 1948) 112 Constituent Assembly Debates (21 November 1949) [2024] 10 S.C.R.