124. As we have specified previously in paragraphs 19 and 22 of this judgement, Article 6 specifies the conditions for granting citizenship to people who have immigrated to India from Pakistan. 125. The language of Article 6 unambiguously suggests that there exist two sets of conditions under this provision: for persons who migrated before 19.07.1948, and for those who migrated after this date. In terms of the former, Article 6 prescribes two further conditions: first, is the condition of birth/descent, mandating that such an individual, or either his parents or his grandparents must have been born in India; and second, is the condition of residence, prescribing that such an individual must have been a resident of India since migration. A third set of conditions is also prescribed for the people who migrated after 19.07.1948. This condition pertains to registration, which requires such individuals to have been registered as Indian citizens by an officer appointed for this purpose by the Government of India. 126. As a corollary to Article 6, and as previously discussed in paragraphs 19 and 22 above, Article 7 prescribes the condition for granting citizenship to people who migrated to Pakistan. 127. Thus, Article 7 mandates that a person who migrated to Pakistan after 01.03.1947 cannot claim Indian citizenship unless they fulfil three conditions: first, the person must have returned to India; second, such return must have been under permit for resettlement or permanent return; and third, that person must satisfy the conditions prescribed in Article 6 for a person migrating to India after 19.07.1948. 128. At this juncture, we may hasten to add that these conditions under Articles 6 and 7 covered both East and West Pakistan. This is [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1065 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 visible from these provisions’ text, which explicitly states “territory now included in Pakistan”. Since Pakistan, at the time of the commencement of the Constitution (i.e., 1950), included both East and West Pakistan, creating any artificial distinction would militate against the text of these provisions. Accordingly, the Respondents’ contention that these Articles would not cover East Pakistan cannot be accepted. 129. While the Respondents have cited the speeches of various members of the Constituent Assembly to argue that Articles 6 and 7 were not intended to apply to East Pakistan, we cannot use the opinion of individual members of the Constituent Assembly to negate the text of the Constitution, which, by itself, is the best manifestation of the Assembly’s intention. While the usage of such external aid might have been possible had the text been ambiguous, it cannot be used in the present context because Articles 6 and 7 leave no room to doubt that that they extend to both East and West Pakistan. 130. Having delineated the scope and ambit of these provisions, it is pertinent to comprehend the criteria outlined in Section 6A for bestowing citizenship upon immigrants from former East Pakistan, which was summarized previously in paragraph 25 of this judgement. 131.