“Reading Down” a provision is one of the many methods, the court may turn to when it finds that a particular provision if for its plain meaning cannot be saved from invalidation and so by restricting or reading it down, the court makes it workable so as to salvage and save the provision from invalidation. Rule of ‘Reading Down’ is only for the limited purpose of making a provision workable and its objective achievable. 101. The High Court in its impugned resorted to reading down Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules not because its plain meaning would result in the provision being rendered invalid or unworkable or the statute’s objective being defeated, but because it would result in the same harsh consequence of forfeiture of the entire earnest-money deposit irrespective of the extent of default in payment of balance amount. 102. However, harshness of a provision is no reason to read down the same, if its plain meaning is unambiguous and perfectly valid. A law/rule should be beneficial in the sense that it should suppress the mischief and advance the remedy. The harsh consequence of forfeiture of the entire earnest-money deposit has been consciously incorporated by the legislature in Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules so as to sub-serve the larger object of the SARFAESI Act of timely resolving the bad debts of the country. The idea behind prescribing such a harsh consequence is not illusory, it is to attach a legal sanctity to an auction process once conducted under the SARFAESI Act from ultimately getting concluded.” (emphasis supplied) 27. Thus, what follows from the above authoritative discussions is this. Whenever a court is seized of a question of vires of a primary 1822 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports legislation/ subordinate legislation or a part of it, a presumption of constitutionality is attached to the impugned provision and the courts would ordinarily strive to save the impugned provision from being declared ultra vires; however, there could be situations where the subordinate legislation (like a rule or a regulation) is challenged on the ground of excessive delegation or is itself violative of the enabling/primary legislation under which it is framed or even breaches constitutional guarantees. ‘Reading down’ of a provision is a subsidiary rule of interpretation of statutes, which the courts tend to employ in situations to save the subordinate legislation like a rule or a regulation, wherever possible and practical, by reading it down by a benevolent interpretation, rather than declaring it as unconstitutional or invalid. However, it has been clarified that it is to be used sparingly, and in limited circumstances. Additionally, it is clear that the act of reading down a provision, must be undertaken only if doing so can keep the operation of the statute “within the purpose of the Act and constitutionally valid”. Whether,a SelectIOn bOard can fIx a hIgher crIterIOn fOr ShOrtlIStIng candIdateS? 28. One would find a catena of decisions answering the question, as posed, and the legal position has never been in doubt.