513 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. 36. Nature and Scope: Rule 90 of XXI deals with cases of setting aside auction-sale on the ground of material irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting such sale. Sub-rule (1) states that where any immovable property has been sold in execution of a decree, any person adversely affected may apply to the court for setting aside sale on the ground of material irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting the sale. Sub-rule (2) is in the nature of proviso to sub-rule (1) and declares that no sale shall be set aside unless the applicant proves substantial injury by reason of such irregularity or fraud. Sub-rule (3) bars the court from entertaining an application for setting aside sale on any ground which the applicant could have taken on or before the date of proclamation of sale. The Explanation to Rule 90 clarifies that mere absence of or defect in, attachment of property sold would be no ground for setting aside sale. 37. XXI of the CPC is exhaustive and in the nature of a complete code as to how the execution proceedings should take place. This is the second stage after the success of the party in the civil proceedings. This Court in many of its decisions has said that this is the second stage after the success of the party in the civil proceedings. It is often said in our country that another legal battle, more prolonged, starts in execution proceedings defeating the right of the party which has succeeded in establishing its claim in civil proceedings. This is the reason why XXI Rule 90 provides that both the conditions enumerated therein should be fulfilled. (See: M/s Jagan Singh & Co. v. Ludhiana Improvement Trust & Ors. reported in (2024) 3 SCC 308) a. Difference between the auction sale conducted by the court in the execution proceedings initiated by the decree holder and the auction proceedings conducted by the State through its revenue authorities like Tahsildar, etc. 38. There is a fine distinction between the auction sale conducted by the executing court under the provisions of the CPC and the auction sale conducted by the State under the provisions of different enactments like Land Revenue Code etc. The whole object behind XXI Rule 90 of the CPC appears to be to discourage the debtors from filing frivolous application complaining about the irregularity or fraud in the conduct of the auction sale. A lot of sanctity is attached to the auction sale conducted by the executing court under the 514 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports provisions of the CPC compared to the auction sale conducted by the State through its authorities. Execution is the enforcement by the process of the court of its s and decrees. This is in furtherance of the inherent power of the court to carry out its s or decrees. XXI CPC deals with the elaborate procedure pertaining to the execution of s and decrees.