Therefore, it was a prudent act on the part of the NIACL to arrive at a calculation on the basis of market value with the applicable rates of depreciation, after informing the 294 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports surveyors that the reinstatement method was not an option any longer. The learned Senior Counsel submitted that the claim was finally assessed by the surveyors, who in their survey report dated 07.12.2002 and after computing the balance life of ten years arrived at the depreciation rate of 60%. Hence, NIACL’s conduct in accepting that report could not be said to be arbitrary. It was argued that there was no disagreement on the surveyor’s report. 21. The learned Senior Counsel emphasized that even today, the Insured has no definite proof available with regard to the actual age of the mill and as to when it was procured from its vendor; or under what circumstances and condition the same was procured and other essential details. In this background, the assessment made by the surveyors, who are experts, could not be said to be illegal or untenable. The learned Senior Counsel further submitted that the recommendation of depreciation at 32% was at the stage when no material was forthcoming and was not supported by any cogent material and clarity on this aspect emerged only on the report of 07.12.2002. According to the learned Senior Counsel, ground (D) in Civil Appeal Nos.5242-5243 of 2009 records an admission of the Insured about the NCDRC rightly proceeding on depreciation basis. 22. Learned Senior Counsel submitted that there was no ambiguity and hence there is no room for the applicability of doctrine of contra proferentem. The survey report of 11.12.2001 was prepared at a premature stage with all relevant disclaimers. Alternatively, it was submitted that under Section 64 UM (2) of the Insurance Act, 1938, the NIACL was entitled to differ from the recommendation of the surveyor. 23. Learned Senior Counsel strongly refuted the reliance placed in the convenience compilation, by the Insured on the in Oswal Plastic Industries (supra). Learned Senior Counsel contended that Oswal Plastic Industries (supra) was not a case with the Reinstatement Value Clause as a special condition. Learned Senior Counsel contended that unlike in Oswal Plastic Industries (supra), Clause 9 had no application to the facts of the present case. That in any event documents were not provided by the Insured to NIACL. Dealing with Regulation 9(3) of the IRDA (Protection of Policyholders’ Interests) Regulations, 2002 [“IRDA Regulations”], learned Senior Counsel submitted that the joint surveyors report dated 07.12.2002 was for all intents and purposes the original surveyors report and as [2024] 5 S.C.R. 295 New India Assurance Company Ltd. Through its Manager v. M/s Tata Steel Ltd. such Regulation 9(3) assuming it to be mandatory had no application. Alternatively, it was contended that Regulation 9(3) is only directory. 24. Insofar as the cross appeal is concerned, the learned Senior Counsel contended that the claim for the base figure as Rs. 28 crores is absolutely unjustified, there being no cogent material to support the same.