7. After passing of the dated 12.12.2023 vide which the High Court directed the suspension of the sentence of the private respondents on payment of ₹ 25 lakhs (Rupees Twenty-Five Lakhs only) to the victim, the amount was not accepted by the victim and the convicts could not be released from the jail. An application for correction2 of the impugned was filed by the private respondents. The infirmity of the court is evident from the fact that despite this development, the High Court went on to modify the earlier dated 12.12.2023 and noted that a Demand Draft having been handed over to the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Meerut the private respondents be released on bail subject to Surety Bonds. It was recorded that, in case subsequently the victim appears in court for release of amount and the validity of the Demand Draft lapses, the private respondents shall get the same revalidated. 8. From the facts it can safely be noticed that there is no question of acceptance of money by the victim as she has challenged the of suspension of sentence of the private respondents. 9. This court had been taking the offence of acid attacks, which are on increase, seriously. It is even to the extent of regulating the sale of the acid with stringent action so that the same is not easily available to the people with perverse mind. Observations made by this court in paragraph 13 of Parivartan Kendra vs Union of India and Others3 being appropriate is extracted below: “13. We have come across many instances of acid attacks across the country. These attacks have been rampant for the simple reason that there has been no proper implementation of the regulations or control for the supply and distribution of acid. There have been many cases where the victims of acid attack are made to sit at home 2 Criminal Misc. Correction Application No. 12 of 2024 3 [2015] 12 SCR 607 : (2016) 3 SCC 571: 2015 INSC 893 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 49 Shivani Tyagi v. State of U.P. & Anr. owing to their difficulty to work. These instances unveil that the State has failed to check the distribution of acid falling into the wrong hands even after giving many directions by this Court in this regard. Henceforth, stringent action be taken against those erring persons supplying acid without proper authorisation and also the authorities concerned be made responsible for failure to keep a check on the distribution of the acid.” 10. In Suresh Chandra Jana vs State of West Bengal and Others4, while rejecting the acquittal of an accused as ed by the High Court in an acid attack case, this Court observed that the acid attack has transformed itself to a gender-based violence, which causes immense psychological trauma resulting in hurdle in overall development of the victim. Paragraph 30 thereof is extracted below: “30. At the outset, certain aspects on the acid attack need to be observed. Usually vitriolage or acid attack has transformed itself as a gender based violence.