30. In the proposed by Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, it has been concluded as under: "e. The State legislatures have legislative competence under Article 246 read with Entry 49 of List II to tax lands which comprise of mines and quarries. Mineral-bearing land falls within the description of “lands” under Entry 49 of List II; f. The yield of mineral bearing land, in terms of the quantity of mineral produced or the royalty, can be used as a measure 1826 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to tax the land under Entry 49 of List II. The decision in Goodricke (supra) is clarified to this extent; g. Entries 49 and 50 of List II deal with distinct subject matters and operate in different fields. Mineral value or mineral produce can be used as a measure to impose a tax on lands under Entry 49 of List II; and h. The “limitations” imposed by Parliament in a law relating to mineral development with respect to Entry 50 of List II does not operate on Entry 49 of List II because there is no specific stipulation under the Constitution to that effect.” 31. In India Cement, the State of Tamil Nadu mainly contended that impugned levy, namely, imposition of cess on royalty under Entry 49 - List II as taxes on lands and buildings and therefore defining “land revenue”, as including royalty on mineral bearing land in exercise of mineral rights by the holder of a mining lease was justifiable. In this regard, reference was made by the State of Tamil Nadu to Raja Jagannath Baksh Singh vs. State of U.P., (1963) 1 SCR 220 (“Raja Jagannath Baksh Singh”), wherein it was indicated that the expression “lands” in Entry 49 - List II is wide enough to include agricultural as well as non-agricultural land. But this contention was repelled by this Court by observing that ‘royalty’ being that which is payable on the extraction of minerals from land and ‘cess’ being an additional charge on the basis of royalty cannot be considered to be a tax on mineral land under Entry 49 – List II. It was observed that there was a clear distinction between tax directly on land and tax on income arising from land such as from minerals extracted from the land. 31.1 In fact, this Court in New Manek Chowk Spinning & Weaving Mills Co. Ltd. vs. Municipal Corporation of the City of Ahmedabad, (1967) 2 SCR 679 (“New Manek Chowk Spinning & Weaving Mills”), had observed that Entry 49 - List II only permitted levy of tax on lands and buildings and not on machinery contents in or situated on the buildings even though the machinery was there for the use of the buildings for a particular purpose. Also construing the said Entry, this Court in Sudhir Chandra Nawn vs. Wealth Tax Officer, Calcutta, (1969) 1 SCR 108 (“Nawn”), observed that [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1827 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr.