(5) The Central Government may, by general or special , issue such directions to the Custodian on the matters relating to disposal of enemy property under sub-section (1) and such directions shall be binding upon the Custodian and the buyer of the enemy properties referred to in that sub-section and other persons connected to such sale or disposal. (6) The Central Government may, by general or special , make such guidelines for disposal of enemy property under sub-section (1). (7) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, the Central Government may direct that disposal of enemy property under sub-section (1) shall be made by any other authority or Ministry or Department instead of Custodian and in that case all the provisions of this section shall apply to such authority or Ministry or Department in respect of disposal of enemy property under sub-section (1). 876 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (8) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- sections (1) to (7), the Central Government may deal with or utilise the enemy property in such manner as it may deem fit. x x x 10A. Power to issue certificate of sale.—(1) Where the Custodian proposes to sell any enemy immovable property vested in him, to any person, he may on receipt of the sale proceeds of such property, issue a certificate of sale in favour of such person and such certificate of sale shall, notwithstanding the fact that the original title deeds of the property have not been handed over to the transferee, be valid and conclusive proof of ownership of such property by such person. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, the certificate of sale, referred to in sub-section (1), issued by the Custodian shall be a valid instrument for the registration of the property in favour of the transferee and the registration in respect of enemy property for which such certificate of sale had been issued by the Custodian, shall not be refused on the ground of lack of original title deeds in respect of such property or for any such other reason.” 10.10 Section 9 states that all enemy property vested in the Custodian under this Act shall be exempt from attachment, seizure or sale in execution of a decree of a civil court or s of any other authority. The same is extracted as under: “9. Exemption from attachment, etc. - All enemy property vested in the Custodian under this Act shall be exempt from attachment, seizure or sale in execution of decree of a civil court or s of any other authority.” 10.11 Section 12 speaks of protection for complying with s of Custodian and the same reads as under: “12. Protection for complying with s of Custodian.- Where any with respect to any money or property is addressed to any person by the [2024] 2 S.C.R. 877 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others Custodian and accompanied by a certificate of the Custodian that the money or property is money or property vested in him under this Act, the certificate shall be evidence of the facts stated therein and if that person complies with the s of the Custodian, he shall not be liable to any suit or other legal proceeding by reason only of such compliance.” 10.12 Section 13 deals with validity of action taken in pursuance of s of Custodian while Section 14 deals with proceeding against companies whose assets vest in custodian, which read as under: “13.