892 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 8. After the appellant was granted anticipatory bail in both the FIRs by the competent courts primarily on the ground that these allegations have been made belatedly, thus throwing doubt on the credibility of these allegations as it appears to be a case of consensual relationship, the appellant approached the Bombay High Court seeking quashing of the FIR being CR No. 302 of 2017 registered with Kharghar Police Station by filing Writ Petition No. 5190 of 2017 which, however, was dismissed by the High Court against which the present appeal has been preferred. 9. While dismissing the petition seeking quashing of the FIR, the High Court noted that: “The petitioner herein denies having any relationship with the Respondent No.2 and it is the case of the petitioner that he has been roped in a false case by the Respondent No.2. In our view, those would be the aspects in respect of the investigation that would be carried out and the offence being one under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code which is considered to be an offence against the society, we do not deem it appropriate to interfere in our writ jurisdiction. The reliance placed on the passed by a Division Bench of this Court sitting at Nagpur does not further the case of the petitioner as the facts involved in the said case stand apart from the facts involved in the present case, as in the said case it appears that the accused had approached the Court on the ground that the relationship between the parties was consensual, such are not the facts in the instant case. The above Writ Petition is accordingly dismissed.” 10. Ms. Mrunal Dattatraya Buva, learned counsel for the appellant submits that the High Court made an error in declining to quash the FIR by ignoring the aspect of consensual sex between the parties which is clearly evident from the factual matrix of the case which would take out the sting of criminal culpability attached to the offence of rape. It was submitted that if the above allegations made in the FIR were examined in the proper context, it would clearly indicate that the sexual relationship between the appellant and the complainant was on the basis of consent, and would not amount to forcible sexual act perpetrated by the appellant as alleged. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 893 Mahesh Damu Khare v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. According to the appellant, the complainant herself admits that she was in a relationship with the appellant since they met for the first time in 2008 which continued till 2017. Though it was alleged that the appellant had sexual relationship with her against her consent, it would be inconceivable that the appellant would force himself upon her for so many years without there being any protest or complaint from the side of complainant (Respondent no. 2). This behaviour of the complainant clearly shows that it was a consensual relationship and the allegation of rape was concocted only after the appellant refused to provide any further financial assistance to her or succumb to her demand of marrying her.