10.6 The Commissioner, however, did not agree with the aforesaid contention that these items form a composite integrated system classifiable under Chapter 85.25 of CETA and held that these goods had independent functions and could not be classified as a single unit. It was the view of the Revenue that all capital goods are not eligible for credit but only those which are used for providing output service would be eligible for credit. Thus, only telecom equipment like BTS, transmitters which are used for providing telecom services alone would be eligible for input credit and the not the other goods as insisted by the Assessee. 10.7 The Assessee appealed to the CESTAT, by which time the Bombay High Court had already rendered its decision in Bharti Airtel (supra), in view of which two members of the Bench of 1552 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the CESTAT rendered two different opinions, hence, it was referred to a larger bench of the CESTAT, which, however, accepted the contentions of Revenue by holding that goods in question were neither “capital goods” and nor “inputs”, leading to the filing of the appeal before the Delhi High Court wherein the Delhi High Court decided in favour of the Assessee. 10.8 In deciding the said appeal, the Delhi High Court framed the following questions of law:- i) Whether the CESTAT was right in concluding that the towers, shelter and accessories used by the Appellants for providing telecom are immovable property? ii) Whether the Appellants are entitled to claim CENVAT credit on the towers, shelter as ‘accessories’ either as capital goods or input goods in terms of Rule 2(a) or 2(k) of the CENVAT Rules? iii) Whether the CESTAT erred in applying nexus test with reference to MS Angles and Channels, whereas according to the Appellants what was brought to the site were towers, shelter and accessories for providing services? iv) Whether the Appellants were justified, in terms of Rule 4 (1) of the CENVAT Rules, in claiming CENVAT credit of excise duty paid by the manufacturer of towers and shelters after receipt of such towers and shelters at their premises (i.e. tower sites)? v) Whether the emergence of immovable structure at an intermediate stage (assuming without admitting) is a criterion for denial of CENVAT credit? 10.9 The Delhi High Court examined the aforesaid issues framed, in the following manner: 10.9.1 As regards the first issue as to whether towers, shelters and accessories used by the Assessee for providing business support services were immovable property or not, the Delhi High Court, after examining the relevant statutory provisions under Section 3(36) of the General Clauses Act, 1897 and Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, elaborately [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1553 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune discussed the concept of immovable property, referring to a number of decisions including in Commissioner of Central Excise, Ahmedabad v. Solid and Correct Engineering Works & Ors (2010) 5 SCC 122; Sirpur Paper Mills Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise, Hyderabad (1998) 1 SCC 400; Narne Tulaman Manufacturers Pvt.