11. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material on record. 12. The main argument advanced on behalf of the appellant is that the High Court in the first round in its dated 30.03.1990 had specifically recorded that the dispute was with respect to 8 cents of land and the construction standing thereon. The Trial Court or the High Court therefore in the present round of litigation could not have confined it only to the construction and not the entire portion of land measuring 8 cents. It is further submitted that under the law of merger, the of the Trial Court and the First Appeal Court in the first round of litigation merged with the of the High Court dated 30.03.1990 and it is that alone which has to be read as final and binding between the parties. It is also submitted that the First Appeal Court in its judgement dated 13.10.2003 in the present round had specifically recorded that the Trial Court had no jurisdiction to go against the judgement of the High Court. The High Court in its impugned judgement has in fact breached the judicial discipline by taking a view contrary to the earlier judgement. 16 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 13. On the other hand, learned Counsel for the respondents submitted that the judgements of the Trial Court and the High Court in the present round is correct in law and facts. The earlier round of litigation initiated by the respondents was only with respect to the constructions raised by the appellant which of course they had lost. The respondents had throughout been in possession of the 8 cents of land. The appellants were never in possession thereof. The judgement of the Trial Court and that of the High Court deserves to be maintained. 14. In the judgement of the High Court in the first round dated 30.03.1990, it is not at one place but at number of places that the High Court has recorded that the suit property comprised of 8 cents of land which was the land purchased by the respondents in 1974. It would be relevant to refer to such facts noted in the said . In the opening paragraph the High Court mentioned as follows: “The suit property is consisting of 8 cents. The defendant was residing in this property even prior to the purchase of this property by the plaintiff.” Then again in paragraph no.2, the High Court records as follows: “The learned counsel appearing for the appellant contended that the suit property is comprised of 8 cents of land and the appellant purchased the same by a sale deed dated 13.03.1974, which is marked as Exhibit A-1”. The above clearly shows that not only the High Court notes that it was 8 cents of land which was in dispute but also the Counsel for the appellants therein (respondents herein) whose submissions are recorded understood it in the same manner. Again, in paragraph no.3, the High Court records as follows: “In the sale deed dated 13.03.1974 (Exhibit A1) there is no mention about the superstructure in which the respondent herein is residing.