The Court referred to the parleys that took place between the Association and the Government of India, the condition to collect funds by the Government, and the MAO College and its properties being vested in the proposed university. The Court notes a variety of factors which led to the establishment of the Aligarh University in 1920 by the 1920 Act. 176. In the next part, the Court refers to the provisions of the 1920 Act to ascertain the character of the AMU when it was established in 1920. The Court refers to a large number of sections, including Section 23, which provided for the ‘Court’ to be a minority body [along with the comment of the Select Committee on the same]. After a detailed analysis of the provisions, Azeez Basha [supra] concludes that the ‘final power in almost every matter of importance’ was not with the minority community. 177. Thereafter, the Court discusses the amendments made to the 1920 Act in 1951 and 1965. It specifically notes the amendments made to Section 9 and Section 23 which deal with Islamic education and the all-Muslim member ‘Court’, wherein the provisions were altered. It noted that the amendments were made in 1951 to specifically bring the 1920 Act in conformity with the provisions of the Constitution and for the benefit of the University so that it could continue to receive aid from the Government. For the 1965 amendments, it was noted that the ‘Court’ under Section 23, ceased to be the supreme governing body and the powers of the Executive Council were correspondingly increased. The constitution of the ‘Court’ was drastically changed making it largely a nominated body. 178. In the next portion, the Court discussed the legal challenge and the position of law under the Constitution. The Court squarely 1998 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports rejects the argument that even though the religious minority may not have established the educational institution, it will have the right to administer it, if by some process it had been administering the same before the Constitution came into force. It held that the ‘minority will have the right to administer educational institutions of their choice provided they have established them, but not otherwise’ and that ‘words “establish and administer” in the Article must be read conjunctively’. The Court then referred to certain observations Durgah Committee, Ajmer v. Syed Hussain Ali, (1962) 1 SCR 383, wherein it was held that even if it be assumed that a certain religious institution was established by a minority community it may lose the right to administer it in certain circumstances. 179. In the next part of the , the Court contextualised the position of educational institutions and specifically Universities in the pre- Constitution and pre-UGC era. The Court notes that a University and a college are different institutions and what distinguishes a university from any other educational institution is that a university grants degrees of its own while other educational institutions cannot. Most critically, the Court noted that at the said time, there was no prohibition against establishment of universities privately however, the degrees of such a “University” would not be recognised by the then British Indian Government.