[2024] 2 S.C.R. 1147 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors 16. The High Court of Punjab and Haryana responded to the communication of the State Government on 22 March 2023, indicating that the appointment to the thirteen posts of Additional District and Sessions Judges which was initiated by way of promotion was sought to be made strictly in terms of Rule 6(1)(a) of the Rules which prescribes merit-cum-seniority read with the criteria laid down by the High Court for assessing the suitability of a candidate for appointment. The High Court further stated that all appointments and promotions concerning the judiciary fall under the control and supervision of the High Court and since the recommendations have been approved by the Full Court, they were binding on the State Government under Article 235 of the Constitution. 17. On 29 March 2023, an advocate by the name of Mr Prem Pal submitted a representation to the Chief Secretary of Haryana seeking the intervention of the State Government in to either reject the recommendations of the High Court or to initiate a fresh process of consultation. The representation stated that the recommendations of the High Court were not binding since the requirement of obtaining 50% marks in the viva voce had not been communicated to the candidates and no minimum cut-off in the viva voce had been prescribed. It is also stated that no criteria had been adopted for conducting the suitability test. 18. Following the receipt of this representation, the State Government sought the opinion of the Union Ministry of Law and Justice. The Union Ministry of Law and Justice tendered its opinion on 26 July 2023, stating that Article 233 of the Constitution which deals with appointments, postings and promotions of District Judges envisages consultation between the State Government and the High Court. The opinion of the Union Ministry was that the modification of the suitability criteria in terms of the Resolution dated 30 November 2021 of the High Court lacked the element of consultation with the State Government and, therefore, did not have a binding effect. 19. A writ petition under Articles 226 and 227 was filed by certain candidates working as Civil Judges (Senior Division) and Chief Judicial Magistrates in the State of Haryana for seeking a mandamus to the State Government to conclude the process of selection and to notify the appointments by way of promotion of candidates selected to the posts of Additional District and Sessions Judge. 1148 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 20. The State of Haryana addressed a communication on 12 September 2023 to the Registrar General of the High Court stating that the State Government had decided not to accept the recommendations for promoting thirteen judicial officers on the ground that the “settled procedure” under Article 233 read with Article 309 and the Rules of 2007 had not been followed. The State of Haryana sought to support its decision on the basis of the legal opinion which was tendered on 26 July 2023 by the Union Ministry of Law and Justice.