In exercise of the powers under the UP Excise Act, the Government of the United Provinces levied vend fee14 on ‘denatured spirit’ from the wholesale dealer of denatured spirit. The UP Excise Act was amended to include Section 24-A. Section 24-A provided that the Excise Commissioner may grant licence for the manufacture or sale of any ‘foreign liquor’. ‘Foreign Liquor’ was defined in the subordinate Rules to include “all rectified, perfumed, medicated and denatured spirit.”15 The constitutional validity of the amendment including Section 24-A was challenged before the Allahabad High Court. The High Court upheld the challenge. The UP State Legislature enacted the U.P Excise (Amendment) (Re-enactment and Validation) Act 1976 including Section 24-A relying on the decisions of this Court (f) for requiring persons engaged in the distribution and trade and commerce in any such article or class thereof to mark the articles exposed or intended for sale with the sale price or to exhibit at some easily accessible place on the premises the price-lists of articles held for sale and also to similarly exhibit on the first day of every month, at such other time as may be prescribed, a statement of the total quantities of any such articles in stock; (g) for collecting any information or statistics with a view to regulating or prohibiting any of the aforesaid matters; and (h) for any incidental or supplementary matters, including, in particular, the grant of issue of licences, permits, or other documents and charging of fees therefor. (3) Where in pursuance of any made with reference to clause (d) of sub-section (2), any person sells any article, there shall be paid to him the price therefor— (a) where the price can consistently with the controlled price, if any, be fixed by agreement, the price so agreed upon; (b) where no such agreement can be reached, the price calculated with reference to the controlled price, if any, fixed under this section; (c) where neither clause (a) nor clause (b) applies, the price calculated at the market-rate prevailing in the locality at the date of sale. (4) No made in exercise of any power conferred by this section shall be called in question in any Court. (5) Where an purports to have been made and signed by an authority in exercise of any power conferred by this section, a Court shall, within the meaning of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), presume that such was so made by that authority. Explanation.—In this section, the expression “article or class of articles” relatable to any scheduled industry includes any article or class of articles imported into India which is of the same nature or description as the article or class of articles manufactured or produced in the scheduled industry.” 13 “UP Excise Act” 14 Vend fee means the fee that is paid by a licenses dealer to sell the products in retain. 15 Section 4(2) of the UP Act provides that the State may declare what shall be deemed to be foreign liquor or country liquor 1960 [2024] 10 S.C.R.