21.4. Learned counsel submits that during the reassessment proceedings assessee sought for return of the books seized by the department. Though some books were returned, the entire seized materials were not returned. As it was an old matter assessee had sought for time to look into the old records and to consult its representative. However, the assessing officer declined to grant time and went ahead and passed the reassessment s ex parte under Section 144/147 of the Act. He submits that the assessing officer made the reassessment on a comparison of the increase in the capital and current accounts of the partners for the period from 1986 to 1993. According to him, the assessing officer could not have done that because the balance sheet for the assessment year 1989 – 1990, which was obtained by the assessing officer from the South Indian Bank, was not prepared on actual and current accounts; that was prepared on provisional and estimate basis in the absence of the account books which were seized by the department, that too, only for the purpose of obtaining credit facilities from the bank. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 657 M/S Mangalam Publications, Kottayam v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kottayam 21.5. It is the submission of learned counsel for the assessee that the High Court has erred in holding that even in the absence of the entire books of accounts, the assessee had not furnished the documents and particulars required under Section 139 (9) (f) of the Act. According to the High Court since the original assessment was completed without the books of account and the details under Section 139 (9) (f) being furnished, therefore, the assessee had not disclosed fully and truly all material facts necessary for completion of assessment. Learned counsel submits that for non-furnishing of particulars under Section 139 (9) (f) the original assessment would be rendered invalid. However, the assessing officer did not adopt the aforesaid course of action but instead proceeded to complete the assessments under Section 143 (3) of the Act. In the circumstances, he submits that non furnishing of details under Section 139 (9) (f) cannot lead to any inference that material facts had not been disclosed so as to justify reopening of assessments that too eight to ten years after expiry of the relevant assessment years. 21.6. Learned counsel asserts that even though the assessee was not maintaining regular books of accounts, all relevant details necessary for making the assessments were furnished before the assessing officer. These included detailed cash flow statements, profit and loss accounts, statements showing the source and application of funds reflecting the increase in the capital and current accounts of the partners of the assessee firm etc. It was thereafter that assessments were completed not only in respect of the assessee for the above three assessment years but also for the partners as well under Section 143(3) of the Act. 21.7. It is contended by learned counsel for the assessee that there was no specific information before the assessing officer wherefrom he could form a reason to believe that income exigible to income tax had escaped assessment for the three assessment years.