4.2 That the original Mining Plan which was submitted by KECML and was approved by the MoC in the year 2004, did not contain any specific provision relating to how the rejects were to be disposed off and nor did the allocation letter issued by the MoC to KPCL state anything in this regard. For this, reliance has been placed on the reply furnished by the Minister of State, MoC, in the Lok Sabha in response to an unstarred question seeking an answer from the Government of India as to whether it had framed any National Policy for exploitation of coal rejects. The reply furnished by the Minister was in the negative along with a clarification given that formulation of a policy of disposal of surplus coal, by-products and middling stock rejects from coal blocks was under the consideration of the Government. 4.3 Citing Clauses 5.2 and 5.2.2 of the FSA dated 09th May, 2007 and the definition clauses in respect of the expressions, “Purchaser” and “specified coal”, it has been urged that none of the clauses in the FSA have stated that KPCL would purchase or claim rights over the rejects and that KECML was to ensure that “shales/stones” are removed from the coal and the quality of coal meets the parameters indicated in Annexure I. 4.4. To fortify the submission that KECML was only required to dispose off the coal rejects in an environment friendly manner and that KPCL would have no right over the rejects or claim any entitlement over them, reference has been made to the decision of the Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court in the case of KPCL v. Aryan Energy Private Limited45 and Others46 and the clause in the Agreement governing KPCL 45 In short ‘AEPL’ 46 COMAP No. 12, 13, 14 and 15 and 2020 decided on 22nd July, 2021 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1199 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation and AEPL to contend that it was similar to the present case inasmuch as like KECML, AEPL was also required to dispose off the rejects in a manner that would satisfy environmental regulations. In the above case the Karnataka High Court has held that the clauses of the Agreement between the parties appearing before it showed that coal rejects were the property of AEPL and KPCL had no claim over it and that the term regarding disposal of coal rejects was imposed by KPCL only to ensure compliance of the environmental regulations. 4.4.1 Notably, the aforesaid judgement of the High Court was challenged by KPCL before this Court by way of petition for special leave to appeal47. The said petition was disposed of by this Court on 26th April, 2024, noting that during the pendency of the petitions, the parties had settled their disputes amongst themselves and part of the decretal amount deposited by KPCL to discharge its liability towards supply of washed coal by AEPL along with interest etc. was directed to be released in favour of AEPL in terms of the Compromise Deed.