Delving deeper into one of the core issues, we encounter the matter of the levy and collection of user fees by NTBCL, which the Appellant claims to be duly authorised under Section 13.1 of the Concession Agreement. NTBCL has further urged that this user fee is being charged in the exercise of powers conferred upon it by NOIDA, pursuant to the Regulations formulated under Section 6A in conjunction with Section 19 of the 1976 Act. 42. Section 13.1 of the Concession Agreement deals with the ‘Collection of Fee.’ It grants NTBCL the right to collect, retain, and appropriate fees from users of the DND Flyway starting from the Commissioning Date. The fee amount is to be determined by the Fee Review Committee. Additionally, NTBCL is empowered to delegate the collection function to the O&M Contractor, who would collect fees on behalf of NTBCL, in accordance with the Rules framed under the 1976 Act. Notably, in contingencies where neither NTBCL nor the O&M Contractor is unable to collect fees as a result of any change in law or any restriction or injunction based on any process of law, NTBCL is entitled to receive compensation from NOIDA in lieu thereof. 43. It thus becomes evident that the authority to collect fees by NTBCL has been purportedly derived from certain Rules that were to be framed by NOIDA. Given this background, it is equally imperative, if not more, to delve into what are the statutory provisions dealing with the levy and collection of such fees; who may collect or levy such fees under the relevant legal framework; whether such authority could be delegated; and if so, by whom? [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2027 Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. v. Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association and Others 44. As on the date of the execution of the Concession Agreement, the 1976 Act was the relevant Statute in vogue. Section 6 thereof outlines the ‘Functions of the Authority’, aimed at ensuring the planned development of Industrial Areas. The Authority means the Corporate Body constituted by the State of Uttar Pradesh. Section 11 of the 1976 Act provides that the Authority may levy taxes to provide, maintain, or continue amenities within the Industrial Development Area, subject to the approval of the State government. More specifically, Section 19(1) of the Act, read with Section 19(2)(e), grants the Authority the power to frame Regulations necessary for the administration of its affairs, including for the levying of fees in the discharge of its functions. Thus, the Authority’s ability to levy and collect fees is traceable in the provisions of the 1976 Act. 45. Thereafter, Section 6A of the 1976 Act was inserted vide the Uttar Pradesh Act No. 2 of 1999, with effect from 14.08.1998. It enumerated that the ‘Authority may by agreement authorise any person to provide or maintain or continue to provide or maintain any infrastructure or amenities, and to collect taxes or fees, as the case may be, levied thereof’. In furtherance of the power conferred under Section 6A, read with Section 19(2)(e) of the 1976 Act, NOIDA framed the Regulations, which came into force in September 1998.