[2024] 2 S.C.R. 1085 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. (iv) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the High Court shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. The High Court is also directed to inform about the steps being undertaken to fill the existing vacancies. 8. Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the Union Territory shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. The Union Territory is also directed to inform about the steps being undertaken to fill the existing vacancies. 8.1 High Court of Bombay (Refer to Serial No. 21.1) 9. National Capital Territory of Delhi -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the Union Territory shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. 1086 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9.1 High Court of Delhi -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of directions contained in para 100.2 and 100.3, there is a contrary stand that conditions in relation to Sections 41 and 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) have been complied with, yet bail has been granted. Therefore, the High Court is directed to inform about clear instances of the same. (ii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.5, there is part compliance as per chart ‘A’, however certain Courts have not complied with the same. Therefore, it is directed that needful be done for complete compliance. (iii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.6, there is part compliance in the districts as per the affidavit.