He did not see what Ram Singh was carrying and did not see any country made pistol in his hand. It would be wrong to say that he had seen country made pistol in the hands of Ram Singh. Sub-Inspector of Police had not questioned him. While he was examined in court, he admitted that there were party politics between the Pradhan of the village who got elected and the accused. He also denied the suggestion that he had not seen any such incident and that no such incident had happened. 12. PW-4 is the Sub-Inspector of Police, B.D. Verma. He stated that while preparing the inquest report, one tikli and 12 pellets were seized from the wound of the deceased. He also seized cans of normal and blood-stained soil and also blood-stained clothes of the deceased. The blood-stained clothes and the cans of soil were sent to the chemical examiner for chemical examination but the report was not received back. He further stated that during preparation of inquest report, one tikli and 12 pellets were seized from the wound of Dulli on the cot. However, in re-examination, he stated that the pellets taken out by the doctor in the hospital were produced in the court. The tikli which was taken out from the body of the deceased in the hospital was with the pellets. 13. PW-5 is Raghu Raj Singh who was the Pradhan of the village. The inquest report was prepared in his presence and had his signature. He stated that blood-stained cot strips, empty cartridge, tikli and pellets were collected from the spot. 13.1. In his cross-examination, he stated that he used to reside at a distance of 150 steps from the house of Dulli. He came to know about Dulli’s death on hearing the sound of firing but he did not come out of his house due to fear. However, he contradicted himself when he stated that he could not tell by the sound of firing that Dulli was killed; rather he came to know about this 10-15 minutes later when one of the villagers [2024] 2 S.C.R. 677 Ram Singh v. The State of U.P. Raja Ram, son of Prahalad Yadav told him while running by. He further compounded the inconsistency by saying that he did not tell the Sub-Inspector about hearing the sound of firing because this did not happen. 14. The doctor who had conducted post-mortem examination, Dr. P.S. Mishra, was examined as PW-6. He stated that the entry wound of the bullet pellet 4cm × 3cm was on the left side of the left breast. The edges were inside with blackening. The wound was bone-deep. Third and fourth ribs on the left side chest were broken. There was laceration on the left lung. Both the lungs had blood. The heart was also lacerated. Semi-digested rice and pulse were found in the stomach of the deceased. He opined that cause of death of the deceased was due to shock and haemorrhage because of the above injuries.