Hence, we direct the CBI to take over further investigation of this case and report to this Court from time to time. Let a report be filed by the CBI within eight weeks. List after report is filed.” Transfer Petition (Crl.) No.192 of 2004, dated 06.08.2004 – transfer of the trial from the competent Court in Gujarat to the Special Court at Mumbai; “We are of the view that on account of the nature and the allegations of the case, session case No.161 of 2004 before the Additional Sessions Judge, Dahod now transferred to Additional Sessions Judge of IVth Court of the City Civil Sessions Court Ahmedabad (CBI Case No.RCZ/S/2004, SCB Mumbai) title CBI vs. Jaswantbhai Chaturbhai &Others be transferred to any competent Court in Mumbai for trial and disposal. This be placed before the Chief Justice of Bombay High Court who shall designate the competent Court as he may deem fit. The transfer petition is accordingly allowed. This is based on the perceptions of the CBI as recorded in its report and should not be taken as a reflection on the competence or impartiality of the judiciary in the State of Gujarat. Having regard to the peculiar facts of this case the State of Gujarat shall bear the expenditure of the defence of the accused in accordance with the provisions of the Section 304 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is made clear that for the purpose of this case the Central Government will appoint the public prosecutor.” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 887 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others Criminal Appeal Nos.727-733 of 2019, dated 23.04.2019 - compensation “The appellant, Bilkis Yakub Rasool, is a victim of riots which occurred in the aftermath of the Godhra train burning incident in the State of Gujarat on February 27, 2002. While eventually, the perpetrators of the crime including the police personnel stand punished, the appellant, who was aged twenty-one years and pregnant at that time, having lost all members of her family in the diabolical and brutal attacks needs to be adequately compensated. Additional facts which we must note are that the appellant was repeatedly gangraped and was a mute and helpless witness to her three-and-a-half-year-old daughter being butchered to death. This factual position is undisputed and unchallenged in light of the findings of the trial court upheld by the High Court and this Court. The appellant, we are informed, is presently about forty years of age and is without any home and lives with her daughter who was born after the incident. She has been coerced to live life of a nomad and as an orphan, and is barely sustaining herself on the charity of NGOs, having lost company of her family members. The gruesome and horrific acts of violence have left an indelible imprint on her mind which will continue to torment and cripple her. We do not have to search and elaborate upon principles of law to come to the conclusion that the appellant deserves to be adequately compensated.