First, as was previously stated, none of these factors individually would be determinative of the minority status; the analysis must be holistic, and the factum of existence must be seen in a continuum instead of fixating on one factor and point of time. In several instances, Courts have clarified that the absence of certain factors, such as the institution not being constructed by the minority community81 or receiving external financial assistance,82 does not negate the minority character of the institution. These decisions reiterate that the presence or absence of a single factor should not alter the Court’s overall conclusion. 143. Second, the analysis concerning who fulfils each individual factor should not aim at creating absolutes, i.e., the Court must not mandate that the minority community must be single-handedly responsible for fulfilling the role prescribed by that factor. It could be the case that the community takes aid of external parties for setting up the institution, but still takes the lead role in such establishment. If we were to hold that such aid would take away the minority character of the institution, we would, in effect, be laying down a requirement that the community must work in silos and that no member belonging to any other community should provide any assistance in achieving its purpose. This would squarely contravene the very spirit of our Constitution, which permits—or rather encourages— other communities to work in tandem with minority communities for their upliftment. In a cohesive society like ours, cooperation for mutual development is a shared moral responsibility. Hence, the 81 Rt. Rev. Dr. Aldo Maria Patroni v. Assistant Educational Officer, 1973 SCC OnLine Ker 60, para 7; A. Raju and Ors. v. Manager, Nallor Narayana L.P. Basic School & Ors., 2019 SCC OnLine Ker 16483, para 6-7; T.M.A. Pai,supra note 3, para 11. 82 Right Rev. Bishop S.K. Patro, supra note 69, para 16; Dipendra Nath Sarkar v. State of Bihar & Ors., 1960 SCC OnLine Pat 205, para 14. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1827 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. mere presence of external aid is a factor which would not obviate the minority character of the institution 144. That being said, the converse must also hold true. If the leading role in establishing an institution is played by an external party, mere contributions from a member of the minority community would not be sufficient to attribute the establishment itself to the minority. To hold otherwise would expose the protection given under Article 30 to potential misuse, allowing institutions established by the majority community to claim minority status based on some insignificant contribution from the minority community. The test should therefore rather focus on who takes a leading and decisive role in fulfilling the relevant criteria for establishing an institution. 145. To determine whether the minority community established the institution, the Court should thus examine whether it was indeed that community which brought the institution into existence. This involves assessing who played the leading role from the institution’s inception, through the process of making its creation a reality, and finally, in making it operational.