Thereafter, the Corporation issued a Show Cause Notice dated 27.08.2015 to the appellant, stating that as on the said date Rs. 16,84,34,431/- along with interest is due and payable towards license fee/advertisement tax. The Show Cause Notice also alleged that the appellant had failed to execute the agreement for street hoardings, which was issued on 29.11.2014 and failed to submit the bank guarantee which was issued on 27.09.2014 and it also alleged that the appellant had illegally shifted several hoardings without the consent of the authority. The show cause notice asserted that in spite of repeated requests and/or reminders, the appellant had failed to make payment and refused and/or neglected to perform the obligations as per the terms and conditions of the tender. The Show Cause Notice further clearly alleged as under: “In view of the aforesaid breach of the terms and conditions of the tender, you are requested to file a show cause as to why befitting action to blacklist you from participating in 194 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports any tender process should not be taken all (sic.) you make the outstanding payment and comply with the terms and conditions of the tender. You are required to submit your reply within 15 days from the date of Receipt of this letter, failing which the authority will take appropriate decision in accordance with law.” 10. By its reply of 15.09.2015, the appellant responded to the Show Cause Notice. The appellant mentioned therein that the tender document did not empower the Corporation to determine the alleged breach on the part of the company arising out of the contract; that in view of the submission made by the Corporation before the Division Bench, it is only the arbitrator in terms of Clause 18 who can decide the dispute mentioned in the Show Cause Notice of 27.08.2015; that Corporation is a party to the proposed arbitration proceeding and it cannot usurp the power of the arbitrator; that the decision to blacklist the appellant without recourse to arbitration proceeding is illegal and that any decision to blacklist before the decision of the arbitrator would be prejudging the alleged guilt without deciding the issue. The appellant prayed that the Show Cause Notice be not given effect to till the disposal of the arbitration proceeding. 11. It further appears that by notice dated 05.10.2015, the appellant invoked clause 18 of the tender document and sought reference to the Joint Municipal Commissioner as arbitrator. Debarment : 12. By an of 02.03.2016, the Corporation debarred the appellant from participating in any tender for a period of five years or till the date of exoneration of the company from the allegation of negligent performance/action and also of nonpayment of huge amount or till the date of payment of entire dues with interest under the direction of any authority/forum/court, whichever is later. The , after recording the history of the dispute and after noticing the fact that at the hearing given, the company took the same plea as stated by them in their reply, observed as under:- “… ….