At least 16 candidates were shortlisted for the interview from the many applicants. In our view, it would not be correct to assume that because one of the unreserved vacancies was a lien vacancy many eligible candidates would not have applied. One vacancy advertised being a regular vacancy, it is fair to assume that the interested candidates would have definitely applied and as such no prejudice has been caused to any person. This fact is reinforced by a perusal [2024] 8 S.C.R. 863 Maitreyee Chakraborty v. The Tripura University & Ors. of the 26th Meeting of the Executive Committee dated 25.11.2016 whereby while offering Mr. Brij Mohan Pandey the regular vacancy, the Appellant at Serial No.2 was offered the lien vacancy which is for the Unreserved Category (UR) with a note that, in case the candidate at Serial No.1 did not take the regular vacancy, the Appellant was to be accommodated against the same. No doubt Mr. Brij Mohan Pandey took the regular vacancy but it could not be disputed that all the candidates were competing against the regular vacancy also. 25. Quite apart from that, Note 19 to the employment notice also indicated that, subject to satisfactory performance and on vacation of lien by the candidate holding the lien the appointee is likely to be regularized. No reasons have been given in the 32nd Meeting of the Executive Council dated 13.12.2018 or in the letter dated 28.12.2018 as to why the Appellant was not confirmed. The liberty reserved in the appointment cannot be exercised in an arbitrary manner. There was no case made out by the University to deny the Appellant, her confirmation. 26. The Appellant went through the normal process of selection. The employment notice set out that appointments made to the posts against LIEN vacancies are likely to be regularized subject to vacation of lien and satisfactory performance. The lien admittedly got vacated. The performance has been satisfactory as nothing adverse had been pointed out and the Appellant is discharging the duties for more than seven years. While approving the panel of names also it was clearly mentioned that in case the candidate at Serial No.1 – Sri. Brij Mohan Pandey did not accept the offer, the Appellant was to be accommodated against the regular vacancy. This clearly demonstrates that all the applicants competed for the regular post also and no one from the open market could have been prejudiced. Most importantly, the offer of appointment also stated that in case the lien was vacated, the Appellant’s service was to be continued further with the approval of the Executive Council of the University. 27. In this background, particularly when the Appellant was put through the fire test of a regular selection, was the University justified in denying her confirmation when all the contingencies were cleared with the vacation of the lien and the performance being satisfactory? We think not. The University cannot be heard to say:- ‘may be the lien is vacated, and your performance is satisfactory, but we do not 864 [2024] 8 S.C.R.