Digital Supreme Court Reports reasons whatsoever, the Appointing Authority aforesaid, shall nominate another person as aforesaid, to act as the Sole Arbitrator. 14.4 Such another person nominated as the Sole Arbitrator shall be entitled to proceed with the arbitration from the stage at which it was left by his predecessor. It is expressly agreed between the parties that no person other than the Appointing Authority or a person nominated by the Appointing Authority as aforesaid, shall act as an Arbitrator. The failure on the part of the Appointing Authority to make an appointment on time shall only give rise to a right to a Contractor to get such an appointment made and not to have any other person appointed as the Sole Arbitrator. 14.5 The Award of the Sole Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties to the Agreement. 14.6 The work under the Contract shall, however, continue during the Arbitration proceedings and no payment due or payable to the concerned party shall be withheld (except to the extent disputed) on account of initiation, commencement or pendency of such proceedings. 14.7 The Arbitrator may give a composite or separate Award(s) in respect of each dispute or difference referred to him and may also make interim award(s) if necessary. 14.8 The fees of the Arbitrator and expenses of arbitration, if any, shall be borne equally by the parties unless the Sole Arbitrator otherwise directs in his award with reasons. The lumpsum fees of the Arbitrator shall be Rs 60,000/- per case and if the sole Arbitrator completes the arbitration including his award within 5 months of accepting his appointment, he shall be paid Rs.10,000/- additionally as bonus. Reasonable actual expenses for stenographer, etc. will be reimbursed. Fees shall be paid stage wise i.e. 25% on acceptance, 25% on completion of pleadings/ documentation, 25% on completion of arguments and balance on receipt of award by the parties. 14.9 Subject to the aforesaid, the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 or any statutory [2024] 12 S.C.R. 159 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad modification or re-enactment thereof and the rules made thereunder, shall apply to the Arbitration proceedings under this Clause. 14.10 The Contract shall be governed by and constructed according to the laws in force in India. The parties hereby submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts situated at Mumbai for all purposes. The Arbitration shall be held at Mumbai and conducted in English language. 14.11 The Appointing Authority is the Functional Director of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited.” 33. Neither the existence nor the validity of the arbitration agreement has been disputed by the appellant. However, the appellant has challenged the allowing of the application for appointment of arbitrator by the High Court on two grounds – (i) the application before the High Court was not maintainable as it was filed for the second time having been withdrawn previously without seeking any liberty to file afresh; and (ii) the application is time-barred for being beyond the time period of three years prescribed under Article 137 of the Limitation Act.