47 of CPC is concerned, it is the settled position of law that the powers of an executing court, though narrower than an appellate or revisional court, can be exercised to dismiss an execution application if the decree put to execution is unmistakably found to suffer from an inherent lack of jurisdiction of the court that made the same rendering it a nullity in the eyes of law – The Executing Court and the High Court were right in holding that the objection raised by the respondents 1 to 3 to the executability of the decree was well-founded – Further, the decision rendered by a court on the merits of a controversy in favour of the plaintiff without first adjudicating on its competence to decide such controversy would amount to a decision being rendered on an illegal and erroneous assumption of jurisdiction and, thus, be assailable as lacking in inherent jurisdiction and be treated as a nullity in the eyes of law; as a logical corollary, the dated 05.08.1991 is held to be ab initio void and the decree drawn up based thereon is inexecutable – That apart, the dated 05.08.1991 does not reveal any adjudication leading to determination of the rights of the parties in relation to any of the matters in controversy in the suit and, therefore, the decree since drawn up is not a formal expression of [2024] 1 S.C.R. 519 Asma Lateef & Anr. v. Shabbir Ahmad & Ors. an adjudication/determination since there has been no adjudication/ determination so as to conform to the requirements of a decree within the meaning of section 2(2) of CPC – Therefore, the trial Court had no authority to decree the suit against S in exercise of its power u/r.10 of Or.VIII, CPC – No reason to interfere with the of the High Court. [Paras 6,20,29,41,50,52] Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – r.10 of Or. VIII – Scope and extent of power – Discussed. [Paras 13, 14, 15, 16, 17] Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – rr. 5, 10 of Or. VIII – When the defendant defaults in filing written statement – What is required by the plaintiff: Held: In a given case, the defendant defaults in filing written statement and the first alternative were the only course to be adopted (pronouncing against defendant), it would tantamount to a plaintiff being altogether relieved of its obligation to prove his case to the satisfaction of the court – Generally, in to be entitled to a in his favour, what is required of a plaintiff is to prove his pleaded case by adducing evidence – Rule 10, in fact, has to be read together with Rule 5 of VIII and the position seems to be clear that a trial court, at its discretion, may require any fact, treated as admitted, to be so proved otherwise than by such admission – Since facts are required to be pleaded in a plaint and not the evidence, which can be adduced in course of examination of witnesses, mere failure or neglect of a defendant to file a written statement controverting the pleaded facts in the plaint, in all cases, may not entitle him to a in his favour unless by adducing evidence he proves his case/claim.