14. Drawing the distinction between a decree holder who himself is the auction purchaser and a third-party auction purchaser, this Court in Binayak Swain (supra) approved an earlier of Privy Council in the matter of Zain-Ul-Abdin Khan vs. Muhammad Asghar Ali Khan10 to reiterate that “great distinction between the decree-holders who came in and purchased under their own decree, which was afterwards reversed on appeal, and the bona fide purchasers who came in and bought at the sale in execution of the decree to which they were no parties, and at a time when that decree was a valid decree, and when the for the sale was a valid ”. It is categorically held that where the decree holder is himself the auction purchaser, the sale cannot stand, if the decree is subsequently set aside. 15. In the matter of Chinnamal (supra), this Court again dealt with the distinction between the decree holder who purchased the property in execution of his own decree, which is afterwards modified or reversed, and a person who is not a party to the decree. This Court held thus in paras 10 and 11: “10. There is thus a distinction maintained between the decree holder who purchases the property in execution of his own decree, which is afterwards modified or reversed, and an auction purchaser who is not party to the decree. Where the purchaser is the decree holder, he is bound to restore the property to the debtor by way of restitution but not a stranger auction purchaser. The latter remains unaffected and does not lose title to the property by subsequent reversal or modification of the decree. The courts have held that he could retain the property since he is a bona fide purchaser. This principle is also based on the premise that he is not bound to enquire into correctness 10 (1888) ILR 10 ALL 166 (PC) 640 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the or decree sought to be executed. He is thus distinguished from an eo nomine party to the litigation. 11. There cannot be any dispute on this proposition, and it is indeed based on a fair and proper classification. The innocent purchaser whether in voluntary transfer or judicial sale by or in execution of a decree or would not be penalised. The property bona fide purchased ignorant of the litigation should be protected. The judicial sales in particular would not be robbed of all their sanctity. It is a sound rule based on legal and equitable considerations. But it is difficult to appreciate why such protection should be extended to a purchaser who knows about the pending litigation relating to the decree. If a person ventures to purchase the property being fully aware of the controversy between the decree holder and debtor, it is difficult to regard him as a bona fide purchaser. The true question in each case, therefore, is whether the stranger auction purchaser had knowledge of the pending litigation about the decree under execution.