The appellant has worked at multiple positions in prestigious Banks and stayed in metropolitan cities with the respondent during the subsistence of the marriage. 38. In compliance of this Court’s dated 23.09.2024, the appellant has also paid Rs. 72 Lakhs as arrears of maintenance in addition to the maintenance already paid by him. 39. It is not disputed that the appellant has the legal obligation as well as the financial capacity to maintain the respondent after dissolution of the marriage. As held by us in Kiran Jyot Maine (Supra), it is also necessary to ensure that the amount of permanent alimony should not penalize the husband but should be made with the aim of ensuring a decent standard of living for the wife. 40. Considering the material on record, the totality of the circumstances and the facts of this case, a one-time settlement amount with provision for the respondent as well as the son, would be a fair arrangement. For the respondent, considering the standard of living enjoyed by her during subsistence of the marriage, the prolonged period of separation, and the appellant’s financial capacity, a one- time settlement amount of Rs. 5 crores (Rupees five crores only), appears to be just, fair and reasonable amount for the respondent to be paid by the appellant towards settlement of all pending claims also. 41. It is also equitable and only obligatory for a father to provide for his children, especially when they have the means and the capacity to do the same. Even though the son is now major and has just finished his engineering degree, the High Court has rightly observed that it is only after completion of a college/ university degree and in some cases, completing a post-graduation/ professional degree, would the child be able to secure employment. In fact, it can safely be concluded that, in today’s competitive world, gainful employment 558 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports may be feasible only after the child has pursued education beyond 18 years of age. Mere completion of his engineering degree does not guarantee a gainful employment, in these competitive times. The appellant herein has sufficient means to support his child, and thus provision should also be made for his maintenance and financial security as well. An amount of Rs. 1 crore (Rupees one crore only) towards the maintenance and care of the son appears to be fair, which he can utilize for his higher education and as security till he becomes financially independent. 42. Therefore, we fix the above mentioned amount as one-time settlement amount to be paid by the appellant to the respondent and his son within a period of four months from the date of this . 43. Consequently, the appeals are disposed of with the above observations and directions to the parties. Accordingly, decree of divorce be granted in exercise of this Court’s power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. Further, the appellant shall pay the amount provided above towards permanent alimony to the respondent and his son within the time stipulated above.