It further contended that the formula was reasonable, ensuring adequate returns for developers, and emphasized that the concession period could not be extended without NOIDA’s consent, thereby preventing indefinite imposition of user fees. Per contra, Respondent No. 1 contended that the continually escalating Total Project Cost and returns have effectively transformed the Concession Agreement into a perpetual arrangement, ensuring that NTBCL would not return the assets to NOIDA even after 100 years. They further argued that such provisions are detrimental to public interest and should be severed from the Concession Agreement without affecting the validity of the contract as a whole. 55. We are of the considered view that this issue hinges on two primary prongs requiring detailed analysis: (i) the reasonableness of the formula outlined in Annexure F, and (ii) the perpetual nature of the Concession Agreement. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2031 Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. v. Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association and Others G.4.1. Reasonableness of the formula in Annexure F 56. NTBCL contended that the formula in Annexure F of the Concession Agreement was reasonable and computed by experts. It asserted that the Concession Agreement was executed after proper application of mind entailing extensive deliberations and consultations over the years between the two State governments and their agencies. It was further explained that the Steering Committee decided the Project to be implemented by NTBCL. Subsequently, the State approved the Project and constituted an Empowered Committee to make recommendations on the Concession Agreement. Finally, the World Bank approved funding for the Project via a line of credit to IL&FS. The rationale behind adopting such a formula was that the Project was the first of its kind in India, interest rates were at an all-time high, and investors had to be guaranteed adequate returns. It was also adopted with the justification that, sans such a formula, no developer would have shouldered the risks of the Project. 57. The High Court while analysing the reasonableness of the formula adopted, held that Article 14 of the Concession Agreement was perpetual in nature and it entitled NTBCL to recover user fees/ toll indefinitely. Such a clause, therefore, being opposed to public policy was unjust and arbitrary and liable to be severed from the Concession Agreement. 58. We find no error in the analysis undertaken by the High Court. It is pertinent to understand that the formula in Annexure F of the Concession Agreement calculates the Total Project Cost and returns. As per the formula, the Total Project Cost is the aggregate of (a) the Project cost; (b) major maintenance expenses; and (c) shortfall in the recovery of returns in a specific financial year. 59. To gain further clarity on the costs and structure of the formula involved, it is essential to consider the figures underpinning the calculation of the Total Project Cost. The original cost as on the Commissioning Date was Rupees 325.99 crores. Operation and Maintenance (O&M) expenses are deducted from the gross revenue, and the Concession Agreement, per Section 1.1, does not specify any cap or detailed guidelines for these expenses.