The Division Bench (review) approached the matter in a similar manner, and concluded that the contumacious conduct alleged was in the nature of a continuing wrong. 70. While we are not in disagreement with the view expressed in Firm Ganpat Ram Rajkumar (supra) because of the special facts and circumstances obtaining therein, the decision of the Division Bench (review) affirming that of the Single Judge is wholly unsustainable in law for a few other reasons. 71. First, it is trite that the court cannot traverse beyond the pleadings and make out a case which was never pleaded, such principle having originated from the fundamental legal maxim secundum 48 [1989] Supp. 1 SCR 223 : (1989) Supp. 2 SCC 418 1116 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports allegata et probate, i.e., the court will arrive at its decision on the basis of the claims and proof led by the parties. The assertion of the contumacious conduct being in the nature of a “continuing wrong/breach/offence” is factual and has to be borne from the pleadings on record. Law is, again, well-settled that when a point is not traceable in the pleas set out either in a plaint or a written statement, findings rendered on such point by the court would be unsustainable as that would amount to an altogether new case being made out for the party. Absent such pleading of there being a “continuing wrong/breach/offence”, the finding returned by the Single Judge, since affirmed by the Division Bench (review), cannot be sustained in law. 72. Even if a point of “continuing wrong/breach/offence” is traceable in the pleadings, the court ought not to accept it mechanically; particularly, in entertaining an action for contempt, which is quasi-criminal in nature, the court should be slow and circumspect and be fully satisfied that there has indeed been a “continuing wrong/breach/offence”. 73. This takes us to the other infirmity in the decision of the High Court inasmuch as it held that the disobedience of the mutation by the appellant was in the nature of a continuing wrong. A reference to section 22 of the 1963 Act would be prudent at this stage. It reads: “22. Continuing breaches and torts - In the case of a continuing breach of contract or in the case of a continuing tort, a fresh period of limitation begins to run at every moment of the time during which the breach or the tort, as the case may be, continues.” 74. While proceeding to examine the nature of the contumacious conduct in question, it is considered apposite to commence the discussion with a reference to Halsbury’s Laws of India (Damages; Deeds and Other Instruments) 49 reading thus: “[115.032] When cause of action is single and continuing - A cause of action may be either single or continuing. When an act is final and complete and becomes a cause of action for injury to the plaintiff, it is single, arises once and for all and the plaintiff is entitled to sue for compensation at one time, for all past, present and future consequences of the 49 Volume 9, First Edition [2024] 7 S.C.R.