(xiv) That, the understanding of the NTCA is that ‘Tiger Safaris’ are merely ‘zoos’ made inside the Tiger Reserve, which is erroneous. (xv) That, the 2019 Guidelines which permit the animals from zoos outside their natural habitat to be relocated in the ‘Tiger Safaris’ situated in the buffer zone, would lead to the risk of zoonotic disease transmission. It is submitted that, if the animals from zoos are allowed into the Tiger Reserves, it will not only cause interference with the natural habitat of the animals, but the onset of zoonotic disease would be highly dangerous to the tigers in the National Park. (xvi) Insofar as existing zoos in the Tiger Reserves are concerned, the said zoos were established much before the creation of the NTCA and the conservation of tigers through Tiger Reserves. (xvii) That, it is necessary to employ the precautionary principle so as to prevent harm that would be caused on account of the relocation of animals from the zoos to the Tiger Reserves/ Safaris. 208 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (xviii) That, the delegation of power by the NTCA to the CZA, which is an expert body only for captive animals in ex situ conservation violates the entire scheme of the WLP Act. (xix) That, the Court must employ the restorative principle to restore the damages caused to the environment when constructions were raised for the Safari. (xx) Mr. Parmeshwar has also given various suggestions for the protection of wildlife and restoration of environmental damages as has been done in the case of the Jim Corbett National Park. 5. The submissions of Mr. A.N.S. Nadkarni could be summarized as under : (i) It is submitted that insofar as the illegal constructions are concerned, the same has already been demolished and even debris has been removed. (ii) That, all illegal construction works of buildings including the Forest Rest House at Mor Ghatti, Pakhrau, Kugadda Forest Camp, and Saneh Forest Rest House were being carried out by the Divisional Forest Officer (“DFO” for short), Kalagarh without the requisite administrative and financial approvals of the Competent Authority. That, the said works were executed solely under the s of the DFO, Kalagarh, who was not competent to sanction the said works. (iii) That, proceedings have been initiated against the erring officials/officers. Immediately Mr. J.S. Suhag, the then Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (“PCCF” for short) Wildlife, since deceased, was suspended; the Field Director of Corbett was transferred and the DFO Kalagarh along with the Range Officer, Kalagarh and several other officials lower in rank were also suspended. (iv) An FIR was also lodged by the Vigilance Department against the DFO Kishan Chand and a Forest Ranger for offences punishable under Sections 420, 466, 467, 468, 471, 409, 120B, 218/34 IPC, Section 26 of the Forest Act and Section 13(1)(a) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. (v) The buffer areas are peripheral to core areas. As per Section 38V(4) of the WLP Act, a lesser degree of habitat protection [2024] 3 S.C.R.