703 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India This is the limitation as to parties. The other limitation as to subject-matter flows from the words “if and insofar as the dispute involves any question (whether of law or fact) on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends”. These words clearly indicate that the dispute must be one relating to a legal right and not a dispute on the political plans not based on a legal right, for instance, to take an example given by Mr Seervai in his well known work on “Constitutional Law of India” at p. 1385: “a claim that a State project should be included in the Five-Year Plan.” The dispute must, therefore, involve assertion or vindication of a legal right of the Government of India or a State. It is not necessary that the right must be a constitutional right. All that is necessary is that it must be a legal right. It is true that in the State of Bihar v. Union of India this Court, while discussing the scope of the dispute which may be determined by the Supreme Court under Article 131, happened to make an observation that “this much is certain that the legal right which is the subject of dispute must arise in the context of the Constitution and the federalism it sets up”. But this observation, Insofar as it suggests that the “legal right” must be one which arises under the Constitution, goes much further than what the language of Article 131 warrants. The Article speaks only of “legal right” and does not qualify it by any other words. It may be noted that the provision in the corresponding Section 204 of the Government of India Act, 1935 was significantly different. It contained a proviso that the dispute must inter alia concern the interpretation of the Government of India Act, 1935 “or of an in Council made thereunder or the extent of the legislative or executive authority vested in the Federation by virtue of the Instrument of Accession of that State”. This provision has been deliberately and designedly omitted in Article 131 and now any legal right can be enforced by a suit in the Supreme Court provided the parties fill the character specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c). The question which therefore requires to be considered in determining the maintainability of the suits is whether any legal right of the States is 704 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports sought to be vindicated in the suits. We shall presently consider this question, but before we do so, we must point out one other error in which, with the greatest respect, the learned Judges who decided the case of State of Bihar v. Union of India seem to have fallen. They held that in a suit under Article 131 the only which the Supreme Court could make was a declaration adjudicating on the legal right claimed in the suit and once such a declaration was given, the function of the Supreme Court under Article 131 was at an end.