We are constrained to think so, as it does not treat a woman as an abettor but protects a woman and simultaneously, it does not enable the wife to file any criminal prosecution against the husband. Indubitably, she can take civil action but the husband is also entitled to take civil action. However, that does not save the provision as being manifestly arbitrary. That is one aspect of the matter. If the entire provision is scanned being Argus-eyed, we notice that on the one hand, it protects a woman and on the other, it does not protect the other woman. The rationale of the provision suffers from the absence of logicality of approach and, therefore, we have no hesitation in saying that it suffers from the vice of Article 14 of the Constitution being manifestly arbitrary.” [Emphasis supplied] 218. Still further, while the test of manifest arbitrariness requires the presence of logicality, such reasoning does not have to be stated explicitly and can be discernable from the facts and circumstances.163 However, it should be noted that the converse may not hold. In other words, even if the reason or rationale behind the impugned provision is expressly stated, it does not automatically guarantee non-arbitrariness. Such reason also needs to align with constitutional morality and public interest, and must bear a nexus with the object of the statute. The aspect of irrationality, as found in the test for ‘manifest arbitrariness’, thus, does not solely imply the absence of reason but also requires alignment with constitutional morality. Hence, the legitimacy of the reason or logic behind the impugned legislation should be viewed from the lens of constitutional ideals. This was so observed by this Court in Joseph Shine (supra), wherein it was clarified that irrationality does not merely denote the absence of reason but also requires that such reasoning be in harmony with constitutionalism. 163 J.S. Luthra Academy v. State of Jammu and Kashmir (2018) 18 SCC 65 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1093 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 219. We may hasten to add that, the legitimacy of the reason behind the legislation that has been impugned must be viewed from the lens of public interest also. This Court, in Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd. v. Union of India,164 struck down Section 87 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, on the ground of manifest arbitrariness by observing that it was against public interest. This was also observed in Manish Kumar v. Union of India (supra), that the golden thread running through this ground, making up the doctrine of manifest arbitrariness, is the absence of public interest. (d) Extent of review under manifest arbitrariness 220. The standard for applying the test of ‘manifest arbitrariness’ is reflected in the word ‘manifest’, which signifies that the arbitrariness should be palpable and visible on the face of it.165 Hence, while examining whether a provision is manifestly arbitrary, Courts should practice judicial restraint and must not substitute their will against that of lawmakers.166 Using this test, Courts cannot question the wisdom of the policy but can only test its legality in terms of the aforementioned grounds.