5.1 The Additional District Munsif, Irinjalakuda, decreed the Suit on 11th April, 2003 in favour of the plaintiff (accused). The Suit in respect of defendant No.4, namely the Manager, South Indian Bank, was dismissed and the Suit was wholly decreed against the remaining defendants. 5.2 Defendant No.1 filed an appeal before the Additional Subordinate Judge, Irinjalakuda in C.M.A.No.6/2006. In its dated 30th January, 2007, the Court observed that “The lower court correctly analysed the facts and arrived at the right conclusion. I find no reason to interfere the of the lower court. Hence I dismissed this appeal.” 6. Therefore, it appears from the record that the very same cheque was in issue before the Civil Court and also the Court seized of the Section 138 N.I. Act complaint. The conclusions drawn by the Courts below, subject matter of the instant lis, are as under: 6.1 The Trial Court convicted the appellant herein to undergo simple imprisonment for one year as well as pay compensation of Rs.2 lakhs in default whereof, he was to undergo further simple imprisonment for six months. The determination of the issues, i.e., whether the decree passed by the Munsif Court would be 5 2nd defendant [2024] 4 S.C.R. 33 Prem Raj v. Poonamma Menon & Anr. binding on it, is of note. It was observed that a Court exercising jurisdiction on the criminal side is not subordinate to the Civil Court. Further, it was held “That was an ex-parte as far as criminal complaint is concerned the of injunction issued cannot be granted and the hands of the criminal court cannot be fettered by the civil court”. 6.2 The First Appellate Court framed primarily one point for consideration – whether the cheque was issued against a legally enforceable debt, thereby attracting the offence under Section 138 of the N.I. Act. This point was held against the appellant and therefore, the conviction handed down by the Court below, accordingly confirmed. 7. The High Court, in revision, observed that no perversity could be indicated in the concurrent findings of the Trial Court and First Appellate Court. The same was dismissed. 8. We find the manner in which this matter has travelled up to this Court to be quite concerning. We fail to understand as to how a civil as well as criminal course could be adopted by the parties involved, in respect of the very same issue and transaction, in these peculiar facts and circumstances. 9. In advancing his submissions, Mr. K. Parameshwar, learned counsel appearing for the appellant, placed reliance on certain authorities of this Court. In M/s. Karam Chand Ganga Prasad & Anr. vs. Union of India & Ors.6, this Court observed that: “…….It is a well-established principle of law that the decisions of the civil courts are binding on the criminal courts. The converse is not true.” In K.G. Premshanker vs. Inspector of Police & Anr7., a Bench of three learned Judges observed that, following the M.S. Sheriff vs. State of Madras8, no straight-jacket formula could be laid down and conflicting decisions of civil and criminal Courts would not be a relevant consideration except for the limited purpose of sentence or damages.