This model will be arbitrary and unreasonable also because the Other Backward Classes which are socially advanced compared to the castes classified as the Scheduled Castes would receive the benefit of reservation but the castes or groups within the Scheduled Castes would not. The castes classified as the Scheduled Castes must be given the opportunity to secure the benefit. If not, the provision would become otiose for their purposes. 183. However, the second variation of the first model is differently placed vis-à-vis the scope of Article 341(2). In the second variation, preference to certain castes is given only over a certain percentage of the seats. Thus, castes for whom preference is not given but which are included in the List of Scheduled Castes will be able to compete for a certain percentage of seats. In addition to those seats, they may get the opportunity to compete for the percentage of seats reserved for the sub-classified caste, if they are left unfilled. Thus, this model does not have the effect of excluding any of the castes in the Scheduled Castes List. 184. The difference between the first and the second model is the method in which unfilled vacancies of the more-backward sub-category are to be filled. In the former, the more backward sub-category only has a preference to a certain percentage of seats while in the latter, a percentage of the seats is exclusively available to them and the unfilled seats, if any, will not be available to be filled by the more advanced category of the class. The State may carry forward the unfilled vacancies to the subsequent year which will be available to the same category for which the seats were reserved. 1432 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 185. Article 16(4-B) provides that the State can consider carrying forward the unfilled vacancies of the year, which were reserved to be filled by classes under Article 16(4) and 16(4-A), to the subsequent year or years. The provision further provides that the unfilled vacancies shall not be considered together with the vacancies of the subsequent year for determining the ceiling of fifty percent reservation on total vacancies for that year. 186. Article 16(4-B) does not make any distinction between a class and sub-classified classes. The provision stipulates that the State can carry forward vacancies of unfilled seats which were reserved to be filled under Articles 16(4) and 16(4-A) of the Constitution. As held in the preceding section, the power of the State to sub-classify within the Scheduled Castes is traceable to Article 16(4). Further, the seats that remain unfilled will not in any manner reduce the seats which are available to the other sub-categories of the Scheduled Castes. The Constitutional validity of Article 16(4-B) was upheld in Nagaraj (supra). Thus, there is no reason to prevent the State from exercising its power under Article 16(4-B) of carrying forward the vacancies which are reserved for a specific sub-category. Such an exercise will be legal and valid. 187. Like the first model, the constitutionality of the exclusive model depends on the percentage of reservation for the sub-categorized castes.