xx xx xx 4.1 The FRANCHISEE shall maintain a suitable establishment for the conduct of its business and the performance of its obligations under this Agreement. The FRANCHISEE shall use its best efforts to actively provide effective ways to market and promote the Pre Paid Services and shall always act in the interest of both BML and the subscribers to the Services of BML. 4.2 As covenanted for in clause 2.4, the FRANCHISEE shall not involve himself in any manner either directly or indirectly in any business or activity which is competitive with the business 1022 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of activities of BML. The FRANCHISEE acknowledges that the adherence to this provision is a material obligation of the FRANCHISEE under this Agreement. xx xx xx 4.4 The FRANCHISEE shall, in the conduct of its business and performing its obligations under this Agreement, conform and adhere to the policies of BML communicated to the FRANCHISEE from time to time. The FRANCHISEE shall not charge the customers of BML for the services anything more than the rates specified by the BML from time to time. 4.5 The FRANCHISEE shall employ adequate employees for performing its obligations under this Agreement and in the promoting and marketing of the Pre Paid Services. All contractual and statutory payments, including wages and salaries to the employees of the FRANCHISEE, shall be the sole liability and responsibility of the FRANCHISEE. 4.6 The FRANCHISEE in respect of its business establishment shall, if so desired by BML, in to effectively project the Franchisee, make alterations, modifications in and install such furniture, fixture and air conditioning equipment, fax, computer, with internet connection as required necessary and mutually agreed upon and the cost of such alterations, renovation shall be borne exclusively by the FRANCHISEE. 4.7 The FRANCHISEE agrees and undertakes to maintain proper and sufficient quantities of the prepaid start up packs and recharge coupons in respect of the Pre Paid service in to meet the market requirements at all times and in accordance with the guidelines and instructions issued by BML from time to time. 4.8 The FRANCHISEE shall use its best efforts and endeavours to market and promote the Pre Paid Services to meet the growing demands of the Subscribers. At no point of time shall any right, title or interest pass to the FRANCHISEE in respect of the Pre-Paid Cards for the Pre Paid Services given to the subscribers for connection [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1023 Bharti Cellular Limited (Now Bharti Airtel Limited) v. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Circle 57, Kolkata and Another to the Service and all right, title, ownership and property rights in such cards shall at all times vest with BML. 4.9 The FRANCHISEE shall seek prior written approval from BML for its promotional literature campaign (including promotional material which bears the Trademarks, logos and trade names of BML) for the Pre Paid Services. BML will not share the expenditure incurred by the FRANCHISEE for such advertising and publicity of the Services unless agreed to earlier in writing.