Likewise, where there was a re-assessment, again such an officer becomes “functus officio”, after such an of re-assessment and a speaking under Section 17(5) of the Customs Act, 1962 is passed. 216. An importer or an exporter aggrieved by such an of reassessment and the speaking is entitled to file an appeal under Section 128 of the Custom Act,1962 before the Appellate Commissioner. Only circumstances, where such an officer who makes an of reassessment can re-visit the re-assessment and/or speaking is under Section 28 (if specifically authorized) or under Section 149 or under Section 154 of the Customs Act, 1962. 217. The power to issue Show Cause Notice whether under Section 28 or under Chapter XIV of Customs Act, 1962 or under any other provisions and to pass s has been by and large exercised by the Superior Officers from Group ‘A’ Cadre Officer of the Custom Department in terms of Notification issued under Section 2(34) of the Act. The Officers from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) being “Officers of Custom” have been recognized as a “Proper Officer” for the aforesaid purpose. 218. The “proper officer” who is/was involved at the stage of assessment under Section 17 of the Act upto 08.04.2011 and reassessment after 08.04.2011 have rarely been involved in collateral adjudication of notices issued under Section 28 of the Act. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 271 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. However, once again at the stage of recovery of duty or penalty under other provision of the Customs Act, 1962 or redemption fine under Section 125 of the Customs Act, 1962, they are authorized. 219. Mostly, at the time of clearance of imported goods or export goods for the purpose of assessment under Section 17 of the Custom Act,1962, it is the Superintendent/Appraisers of Customs from Group ‘B’ Executive - Gazetted Officers who act as “proper officers”. They are merely required to verify the entries made in the Bill(s) of Entry filed under Section 46 of the Act (in case of import) and or Shipping Bill(s) filed under Section 50 of the Act (in case of export). As “proper officers” are required to merely examine or test any imported or export goods or such parts thereof. Such Officer of Customs under the Scheme of the Act and Notification issued thereunder can only re-assess the self-assessment made by the importer or the exporter. 220. Earlier, the Officers from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) were mostly confined with the task of investigation. Over a period of time, they were empowered to issue Show Cause Notices and/or Demand Notices under various provisions of the Customs Act. Adjudication of the Show Cause Notices/Demand Notices were however left to the senior officer of customs from Group ‘A’ cadre of the Customs Department. However, they are empowered to act as “proper officers” not only for issuance of Show Cause Notice and/or Demand Notices but also for adjudication of such Show Cause Notices and/or Demand Notices.” [Emphasis supplied] 88. In case of re-assessment, such a “proper officer” is bound to pass a “Speaking ” to enable the aggrieved party to file an appeal.