343 Vasantha (Dead) Thr. Lr. v. Rajalakshmi @ Rajam (Dead) Thr.Lrs. of evidence documentary as well as oral to enable the defendant to contest the claim against him; secondly to give effect to the principle that law does not assist a person who is inactive and sleeps over his rights by allowing them when challenged or disputed to remain dormant without asseting them in a court of law. The principle which forms the basis of this rule is expressed in the maximum vigilantibus, non dermientibus, jura subveniunt (the laws give help to those who are watchful and not to those who sleep). Therefore the object of the statutes of limitations is to compel a person to exercise his right of action within a reasonable time as also to discourage and suppress stale, fake or fraudulent claims While this is so there are two aspects of the statutes of limitation the one concerns the extinguishment of the right if a claim or action is not commenced with a particular time and the other merely bare the claim without affecting the right which either remains merely as a moral obligation or can be availed of to furnish the consideration for a fresh enforceable obligation. Where a statute, prescribing the limitation extinguishes the right, it affects substantive rights while that which purely pertains to the commencement of action without touching the right is said to be procedural.…” (Emphasis Supplied) 23. Part III of the Schedule to the Limitation Act details the time period within which the declarations may be sought for: (a) declaration of forgery of an instrument either issued or registered; (b) declaring an adoption to be invalid or never having taken place; and (c) to obtain any other declaration. Point (c) or in other words Article 58 governs the present dispute. This Court has in Shakti Bhog Food Industries Ltd. v. Central Bank of India28, (3-Judge Bench) taken note of Article 58 of the Limitation Act 1963 vis-a-vis Article 113(Any suit for which no period of limitation stands provided in the Schedule) and observed that the right to sue accrues ‘from the date on which the cause of action arose first’. In the present case, the suit for declaration was filed in 1993. This implies that the 28 [2020] 6 SCR 538 : (2020) 17 SCC 260 344 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cause of action to seek any other declaration i.e. a declaration of Gopalakrishnan in the property, should have arisen only in the year 1990. There is nothing on record to show any cause of action having arisen at this point in time. The possible causes of action would be at the time of the Second Settlement Deed (1952) or Munusamy’s deed of settlement in favour of Pavunammal(1976) or at the time of Pavunammal’s vesting of the property in favour of Vasantha (1993) or at the death of Pavunammal (2004) where apart from declaration, he ought to have sought the relief of possession as well. It is clear from the record that on no such possible occasion, a declaration was sought, much less within the stipulated period of three years.