[2024] 5 S.C.R. 449 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another incorporation of the VVPAT system fortifies the principle of vote verifiability, thereby enhancing the overall accountability of the electoral process. 76. Nevertheless, not because we have any doubt, but to only further strengthen the integrity of the election process, we are inclined to issue the following directions: (a) On completion of the symbol loading process in the VVPATs undertaken on or after 01.05.2024, the symbol loading units shall be sealed and secured in a container. The candidates or their representatives shall sign the seal. The sealed containers, containing the symbol loading units, shall be kept in the strong room along with the EVMs at least for a period of 45 days post the declaration of results. They shall be opened, examined and dealt with as in the case of EVMs. (b) The burnt memory/microcontroller in 5% of the EVMs, that is, the control unit, ballot unit and the VVPAT, per assembly constituency/assembly segment of a parliamentary constituency shall be checked and verified by the team of engineers from the manufacturers of the EVMs, post the announcement of the results, for any tampering or modification, on a written request made by candidates who are at SI.No.2 or Sl.No.3, behind the highest polled candidate. Such candidates or their representatives shall identify the EVMs by the polling station or serial number. All the candidates and their representatives shall have an option to remain present at the time of verification. Such a request should be made within a period of 7 days from the date of declaration of the result. The District Election Officer, in consultation with the team of engineers, shall certify the authenticity/intactness of the burnt memory/ microcontroller after the verification process is conducted. The actual cost or expenses for the said verification will be notified by the ECI, and the candidate making the said request will pay for such expenses. The expenses will be refunded, in case the EVM is found to be tampered. 77. The writ petitions and all pending applications, including the applications for intervention, are disposed of in the above terms. 450 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Dipankar Datta, J. 1. I have had the privilege of reading the opinion authored by brother Hon’ble Khanna, J. His Lordship, in my opinion, has dealt with the legal and techno-legal issues arising in connection with the challenge to the process of polling of votes through Electronic Voting Machines1 mounted by the writ petitioners and the several intervenors with unmatchable finesse and admirable clarity. I do not recollect any previous decision of this Court having explained the working of the EVMs in such great detail with lucidity and dexterity. The reasons assigned by His Lordship for negating the challenge, without doubt, are cogent and valid. The twin directions in the penultimate paragraph, notwithstanding that the electoral process for constituting the 18th Lok Sabha is in full swing, are in the nature of forward-looking measures to strengthen the electoral system by bringing in more transparency.