Digital Supreme Court Reports when by an under sub-section (1) thereof, the powers and jurisdiction of the CBI are extended to any such area, discharge the functions of a police officer in that area. However, this is again subject to any s which the Central Government may make in this behalf. It is submitted that, perusal of sub-section (3) thereof would reveal that any member of CBI of or above the rank of Sub- Inspector is entitled to exercise the powers of the officer in charge of a police station in that area and when so exercising such powers, shall be deemed to be an officer in charge of a police station discharging the functions of such an officer within the limits of his station. This is again subject to the s which the Central Government may make in that behalf. It is therefore submitted that the provisions of the DSPE Act would reveal that CBI cannot be said to be an instrumentality of a State by giving an expanded meaning to the term ‘State’ in Article 12 of the Constitution but is one of the organs of the Union of India through which it derives powers to investigate offences. 17. It is further submitted that the power available with the Central Government for extension of the jurisdiction of CBI to other areas is subject to the consent of such State Government under Section 6 of the DSPE Act. It is therefore submitted that if consent is given by a State and subsequently withdrawn, then the CBI will not have jurisdiction to exercise the powers in that State. 18. Shri Sibal submitted that grant of consent under Section 6 of the DSPE Act is a privilege. It is the discretion of the State as to whether such a privilege is to be granted or not. He submitted that the cause of action in the present suit is that, after withdrawal of the consent which was granted under Section 6 of the DSPE Act by the plaintiff, the Central Government has no jurisdiction to authorize investigating agency (CBI) to register cases in the State of West Bengal. 19. Shri Sibal further submitted that the interpretation sought to be given by the defendant to the words “subject to the provisions of this Constitution” as appearing in Article 131 of the Constitution is incorrect. It is submitted that the correct interpretation would be that when there is some other provision in the Constitution prohibiting this Court from exercising its jurisdiction, then a suit under Article 131 of the Constitution would not be tenable. He refers to Articles 262 and 279A(11) of the Constitution in this regard. He submits that [2024] 7 S.C.R. 689 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India the words “subject to the provisions of this Constitution” would not make the present suit non-maintainable. 20. Dealing with the arguments of the learned Solicitor General on XXVI Rule 6 of the SC Rules, Shri Sibal submitted that the plaint can be rejected only when it either does not disclose a cause of action or where the suit appears from the statement in the plaint to be barred by any law.