14. The work of a Judge cannot be assessed solely in terms of their duties during court working hours. The State is under an affirmative obligation to ensure dignified conditions of work for its judicial officers and it cannot raise the defense of an increase in financial burden or expenditure. Judicial officers spend the largest part of their working life in service of the institution. The nature of the office often renders the incumbent incapacitated in availing of opportunities for legal work which may otherwise be available to a member of the Bar. That furnishes an additional reason why post-retirement, it is necessary for the State to ensure that judicial officers are able to live in conditions of human dignity. It needs to be emphasized that providing for judges, both during their tenure and upon retirement, is correlated with the independence of the judiciary. Judicial independence, which is necessary to preserve the faith and confidence of common citizens in the rule of law, can be ensured and enhanced only so long as judges are able to lead their life with a sense of financial dignity. The conditions of service while a judge is in service must ensure a dignified existence. The post-retirement conditions of service have a crucial bearing on the dignity and independence of the office of a judge and how it is perceived by the society. If the service of [2024] 1 S.C.R. 339 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors the judiciary is to be a viable career option so as to attract talent, conditions of service, both for working and retired officers, must offer security and dignity. 15. As we shall indicate in the course of this , the allowances which have been provided by the SNJPC are basic allowances, most of which rank on the same scale as what has been made available to officers discharging executive functions in the AllIndia Services. It is a matter of grave concern that though officers in the other services have availed of a revision of their conditions of service as far back as 01 January 2016, similar issues pertaining to judicial officers are still awaiting a final decision eight years thereafter. Judges have retired from service. The family pensioners of those who have passed away are awaiting resolution as well. 16. The second objection which has been raised on behalf of the States is that the rules of the particular State must be followed in each instance. This has again been dealt with in the of this Court dated 19 May 2023. The relevant extract is footnoted below.9 17. This Court has categorically held that there is a need to maintain uniformity in the service conditions of judicial officers across the country. Thus, the plea that rules of each State must govern pay and allowances, lacks substance. 18. The third objection as to the equivalence between judicial officers and other Government officers has been elaborately analyzed in paragraph 1410 of the dated 05 April 2023 and in 9 22.