137. The meaning of the phrase ‘industry’ in Entry 52 will only impact this decision if (a) Entry 52 of List I includes raw materials necessary for the industry; and (b) Entry 8 of List II includes the process of manufacture but does not include the stage anterior to it (that is, raw materials). If an expansive meaning is given to the word ‘industry’, the raw materials to an industry will be covered by Entry 24 of List II and Entry 52 of List I (if it is a controlled industry). It will not be covered by Entry 27 of List II. If Entry 8 of List II does not include raw material but only the process to manufacture and final product, it is only then that the competence to enact laws on the raw material for the industry (in this case, ENA) will lie with Parliament. 138. We are of the opinion that the holding in Tika Ramji (supra) is not relevant to the dispute for the following reasons: a. We have interpreted the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ in Entry 8 to include ENA since it could be noxiously used; and b. Notwithstanding the above, if the ground for overruling the holding in Tika Ramji (supra) is that manufacture/production cannot be disconnected from raw materials, it would equally apply to the industry of intoxicating liquor covered by Entry 8 of List II. In Section C (iii)(a) of this , we have concluded that the words ‘that is to say’ are illustrative. They are not exhaustive of the contents of the Entry. Thus, Entry 8 cannot be interpreted to exclude raw materials used for the production of intoxicating liquor merely because the Entry does not expressly provide for them. On an application of the principle that entries ought to be interpreted widely, the raw materials for the production and manufacture of intoxicating liquor, as interpreted in this will be covered by Entry 8. viii. Section 18G of IDRA and Entry 33 of List III 139. To recall, this Court in Synthetics (7J) (supra) held that the State cannot regulate ‘industrial alcohol’ as a product of the controlled [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2041 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons industry because the Union has occupied the field by Section 18G of IDRA.212 The questions referred by the three-Judge Bench in Lalta Prasad (supra) all relate to the issue of whether Section 18G of the IDRA occupies the field in Entry 33 of List III or whether the field is occupied only when an is notified under Section 18G. There is no necessity to determine the correctness of this observation in this reference since the Legislature of the State will have the competence to regulate denatured alcohol in view of our interpretation of the expression ‘intoxicating liquor’ in Entry 8 of List II. F. Conclusion 140. In view of the discussion above, the following conclusions emerge: a. Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution is both an industry-based entry and a product-based entry.