57. One more aspect that the learned ASG highlighted through his submissions was that, the Circular F.No.AV.14027/17/2018-AT-1 issued by the Office of Director General of Civil Aviation provides certain requirements for undertaking aerial work. Para 6 of the said Circular deals with Security Clearance and the same requires the Applicant or Company and its Board of Directors to obtain Security Clearance from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) if they are foreign nationals. It was submitted that according to the communications dated 09.07.2024 issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation, it had been confirmed that Security Clearance had not been conveyed in respect of Mr. Florian Fritsch. Hence, the threshold requirement of security clearance has not yet been obtained by one of the Resolution [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2099 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. Applicants, who according to Clause 2.1.4 of the Resolution Plan, is the other partner to the Consortium along with Mr. Murari Lal Jalan. The ASG also placed reliance on news items which suggested that Mr. Florian Fritsch is facing money laundering proceedings in three different jurisdictions. The same had been dealt with by the NCLAT summarily in its impugned in Para 125. However, it was wrongly concluded that this was yet another attempt by the Appellants to create roadblocks in the process of implementation of the Resolution Plan. 58. The counsel finally submitted that, since the Airport Dues and the CIRP costs have substantially increased solely on account of the delay, the Court should invoke its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India and direct that the Corporate Debtor be sent to liquidation. C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS 59. On the other hand, Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of Respondent No.1 submitted that Section 62 of the IBC, 2016 requires an appeal to the Supreme Court from an of the NCLAT to be on a “question of law”. He submitted that the present appeal only seeks to challenge the concurrent findings of fact recorded by the NCLT and the NCLAT, with regard to compliance of the Conditions Precedent by the SRA and does not bring out any question of law. To fortify this submission, the counsel placed reliance on the decision of this Court in IFCI Ltd. v. Sutanu Sinha and Others reported in 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1529. 60. The counsel submitted that the directions issued by this Court vide dated 18.01.2024 were interim and not final. The appeals which were decided by this Court arose out of an interlocutory application which was filed by the SRA seeking directions from the NCLAT on the mode of satisfying the conditions in the Lender’s Affidavit dated 16.08.2023. It was submitted that the same is evident from a reading of Para 19 which reads that “.. Observations in the present are confined to the arrangement which must operate during the pendency of the appeal without the court expressing a final view on merits of the appeal, which will fall for consideration before the NCLAT”.