(d) Therefore, the very basis of the determination of jurisdictional fact for exercise of functions under Section 28 has been clarified by us. Thus, we are of the considered view that the challenge to Section 97, on the ground of inability of a validating Act to overrule a finding of fact, is unfounded and liable to be dismissed. 165. While challenging the constitutional validity, it was argued that the insertion of Section 110AA for future actions while validating the past actions (which in words of the writ petitioners was contrary to the intent of Section 110AA) does not create a reasonable classification as there is no intelligible differentia. It was further argued that Section 97 is manifestly arbitrary and fails the test of proportionality under Article 14. In our view, these submissions are not tenable in law for the following reasons: a) It is a settled position of law that matters of economic policy are best left to the wisdom of the legislature and in policy matters, the accepted principle is that the courts should not interfere. This principle has been laid down in the case of Bhavesh D. Parish v. Union and India reported in (2000) 5 SCC 471, wherein this Court held that: “26. The services rendered by certain informal sectors of the India economy could not be belittled. However, in the path of economic progress, if the informal system was sought to be replaced by a more organised system, capable of better regulation and discipline, then this was an economic philosophy reflected by the legislation in question. Such a philosophy might have its merits and demerits. But these were matters of economic policy. They are best left to the wisdom of the legislature and in policy matters the accepted principle is that the courts should not interfere. Moreover in the context of the changed economic [2024] 12 S.C.R. 325 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. scenario the expertise of people dealing with the subject should not be lightly interfered with. The consequences of such interdiction can have large-scale ramifications and can put the clock back for a number of years. The process of rationalisation station of the infirmities in the economy can be put in serious jeopardy and, therefore, it is necessary that while dealing with economic legislations, this Court, while not jettisoning its jurisdiction to curb arbitrary action or unconstitutional legislation, should interfere only in those few cases where the view reflected in the legislation is not possible to be taken at all.” [Emphasis supplied] b) A Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Shri Prithvi Cotton Mills Ltd. and Ors. v. Broach Borough Municipality & Ors., reported in (1969) 2 SCC 283 set out the modus of validation of tax through validating statutes and observed as follows: “4. … Validation of a tax so declared illegal may be done only if the grounds of illegality or invalidity are capable of being removed and are in fact removed and the tax thus made legal.