17. Shri Parameshwar, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-Concessionaire also supported the submissions made on behalf of the appellant-Corporation. He submitted that the respondent-Concessionaire specializes in processing food waste with cutting edge anaerobic digestion technology – a process in which microorganisms break down biodegradable waste to produce biogas and organic manure. He submitted that, when cleaned and purified to 96% purity, Bio CNG/CBG can replace fossil fuels such as LPG, diesel, petrol, etc. It is further submitted that the anaerobic digestion is an efficient and controlled biological process that productively utilises waste in an enclosed space, rather than dumping it in a landfill, which causes environmental harm through leaching, contamination of groundwater, risk of fires, etc. It is further submitted that Indian food waste is unique in its composition, with a high concentration of antibacterial ingredients like turmeric and spices, and greases such as ghee that cannot be broken down using conventional enzymes and cultures. He submitted that the respondent-Concessionaire, through years of research and experience, has successfully developed enzymes, cultures, and processes to biologically break down Indian food. It is submitted that the Project commissioned by the respondent- Concessionaire, as a matter of fact, is environment friendly inasmuch as it converts the food waste into biogas which has also been used to run public transport buses in Pune City. 18. Shri Parameshwar submitted that, in to carry out the conversion of food waste into biogas, the respondent-Concessionaire has established two plants – one in Baner and one in Talegaon. He submitted that the site at Baner is a waste processing facility where pre-segregated, non-compacted organic waste is received from the appellant-Corporation. The waste is segregated again to remove any non-biodegradable materials, and the residual organic waste is crushed to make a slurry. The slurry produced is then transported to a different site in Talegaon, which is about 34 kms away from Pune City, where raw biogas is generated from the slurry. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 385 Pune Municipal Corporation v. Sus Road Baner Vikas Manch and Others 19. Shri Parameshwar submitted that though the reservation in the Draft Development Plan is of 2002 which was sanctioned in 2008, no challenge has been made in the OA challenging the reservation of this Plot as GPP. He therefore joins Shri Nadkarni in submitting that the impugned passed by the learned Tribunal is not sustainable in law. 20. Shri Ninad Laud, learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent No.1 in both the matters submitted that the checklist prescribed by the MPCB in 2003 would also apply to waste processing facility and the same is not restricted to landfill sites. He submitted that, as per the said checklist, no development zone of 500 meters is prescribed for Municipal Solid Waste Processing Plants and Landfill sites. He further submitted that a mere reservation in the municipal land will not absolve the appellant-Corporation of the environmental obligation. He submitted that the appellant-Corporation itself has sanctioned the plans of the buildings where the residents of respondent No.1 reside.