This principle is not intended to arm one party with a weapon of technicality over its adversary but rather serves as a crucial safeguard against the abuse of the judicial process. 31. Nevertheless, we have carefully considered the s issued during the first round of litigation, which are alleged to have been suppressed. Despite reviewing these s, we find no compelling reason to dismiss the appeals based solely on the prior dismissal of appeals filed by some other appellant/authority. F.3 Merger 32. Extensive arguments have been advanced by the parties on the aspect of applicability/non-applicability of the doctrine of merger, either by relying upon or distinguishing the decision in Kunhayammed and 1188 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports others. V. State of Kerala and another,19 rendered by a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court. For the purpose of a decision on these appeals qua cases under Groups A and B.1, we do not consider it necessary to opine either way. 33. However, in the light of the settled propositions on the doctrine of merger and the rule of stare decisis, we respectfully concur with Kunhayammed (supra) and the decisions that have followed the same. We also take notice of the exception carved out by this Court in Kunhayammed (supra), to the effect that the doctrine of merger is not of universal or unlimited application and that the nature of jurisdiction exercised by the superior forum and the content or subject matter of challenge laid or which could have been laid shall have to be kept in view. The exception, in our considered opinion, that has been carved out in Kunhayammed (supra), will only be permissible in the rarest of rare cases and such a deviation can be invoked sparingly only. We, however, hasten to add that among such exceptions, the extraordinary constitutional powers vested in this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, which is to be exercised with a view to do complete justice between the parties, remains unaffected and being an unfettered power, shall always be deemed to be preserved as an exception to the doctrine of merger and the rule of stare decisis. 34. We may now at this stage look back to the Preface of this where we have encapsulated our predicament to not only uphold the law but also to ensure its consistent application. It is our duty to enable consistency, clarity and coherence and strike a delicate balance through harmonious resolutions regardless of the crisis, chaos and confusion created by inconsistent judicial opinions on section 24(2) of the 2013 Act, making the present batch of lis a sui generis dispute. 35. In this regard, it would be worthwhile to notice the conclusions recorded in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra) and what followed in the aftermath thereof. The conclusions read as follows: “Conclusions of the Court 365. Resultantly, the decision rendered in Pune Municipal Corpn. Is hereby overruled and all other decisions in which Pune Municipal Corpn.1 has been followed, are also 19 [2000] Supp.