(3) Where within a period of ninety days from the receipt of the application under sub-section (1) for the grant of no objection certificate,- (a) the Competent authority does not grant such certificates; or (b) where an application has been rejected and the same has not been communicated to the person who has applied for the grant of such certificate, It shall be deemed that the Competent authority has granted a no objection certificate to the applicant. (4) The applicant shall, on the grant of a no objection certificate or where the Competent authority has deemed to have granted the no objection certificate, be entitled to commence and proceed with the establishment of a Minority Educational Institution in accordance with the rules and regulaitons, as the case may be, laid down by or under any law for the time being in force. 65 Mother Provincial (supra) 1720 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports every citizen under Article 19(1)(g) and to minority and non-minority religious denominations under Article 26. The special right that the provision guarantees to religious and linguistic minorities relates to the administration of educational institutions “of their choice”. The expression “of their choice” is of an expansive nature indicating that the choice extends to the full range of educational institutions. 72. Article 30(1) cannot extend to a situation where the minority community which establishes an educational institution has no intention to administer it. A religious or linguistic community may establish an educational institution and yet not administer it. This is evident from Article 28(2) of the Constitution which states that Article 28(1) will not apply to an educational institution which is administered by the State but was established under an endowment or a trust which require religious instruction to be imparted. It is quite possible that a member or a group belonging to the minority community wishes to establish an institution but intends to accept greater State regulation and lesser autonomy for the community. In that case, putting a ‘minority’ tag on such an educational institution merely because it has been established by a person or a group belonging to a religious or linguistic minority would not be permissible under Article 30(1). An educational institution established by a minority, whether linguistic or religious, can give up their right to claim the benefit under clause (1) of Article 30. The right can be given up consciously by waiver. This may occur where administration has been consciously and willingly entrusted to the State. Therefore, to determine whether an educational institution is a minority educational institution, a formalistic test such as to whether it was established by a person or group belonging to a religious or linguistic minority is not sufficient. The tests adopted must elucidate the purpose and intent of establishing an educational institution for the minority. Both the establishment and the administration by the minority must be fulfilled cumulatively for that.66 73. In Azeez Basha (supra), the Constitution Bench referred to the in The Durgah Committee, Ajmer v. Syed Hussain Ali,67 for the proposition that even if a minority established an educational 66 See Section E(v) of this for an expansive elucidation of the indicia.