Set-off of the dues payable by the Corporate 36 AIR 1977 Ker 68. 158 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS Debtor for a period prior to the commencement of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process cannot be made and is not permitted in law from the dues payable to the Corporate Debtor post the commencement of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process.37 Further, a debtor cannot, after notice of assignment of his debt by the creditor, improve his position as regards set-off by acquiring debts incurred by the assignor creditor which are payable to a third party. This will not meet the mandate of mutual dealing. This will be contrary to equity and would amount to misuse of the provision for insolvency set-off.38 One must also be on guard against misuse of insolvency set-off in case of voluntary winding up. 24. Insolvency set-off as a proposition mitigates against the doctrine of pari passu. Insolvency set-off gives primacy and an overriding effect to the creditor who is entitled to set-off mutual credits. When cross demands are set-off, the assets available for distribution amongst the general body of creditors, would be depleted in favour of a single creditor with a set-off entitlement. This consequently results in reduction of the dividend payable. In other words, it puts and grants priority to the creditor, even an operational creditor, to the extent of the set-off. Some jurists have doubted the efficacy of the justification that right to set-off acts as a stimulus to trade and commerce on the ground that rarely any party would treat the possibility of set-off as a form of security. The principle of pari passu though not explicitly mentioned in the IBC, is apparent as the edifice of Section 53 read with Section 52 of the IBC, as these provisions create a liquidation hierarchy with the stipulation that each class of creditors shall rank equally among each other. The same class of creditors should be given equal treatment. As set-offs can mitigate against the pari passu principle, they should be allowed when mandated, or can be justified by law. 25. Apart from the pari passu principle which refers to treating creditors of the same class in the same manner, the United Kingdom insolvency 37 The position may be different where the dues are payable by the debtor to the Corporate Debtor, in which case the liquidator may seek adjustment as a form of payment by the debtor. The reason is that the liquidator is under a statutory obligation to recover the dues from the debtor. Adjustment in such cases is statutory or legal set-off under the IBC/Companies Act. Insolvency set-off in Regulation 29 will not apply for want of mutuality. 38 This will not satisfy the requirements of legal/statutory set-off and equitable set-off under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 159 BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED AND ANOTHER v. VIJAYKUMAR V. IYER AND OTHERS law also relies on the common law principle of anti-deprivation. The principle encapsulates that a person cannot contract to obtain a more beneficial position in the event of bankruptcy, than what the law otherwise provides.