It noted that there was no necessity to reappreciate the evidence de novo since the forums below had properly appreciated the issue in dispute. On the maintainability issue, the NCDRC appears to have mirrored the approach of the District Forum. Instead of examining whether the service obtained by the complainant was for a ‘commercial purpose’, it examined the question of whether the complainant falls within the definition of ‘person’. Neither was such an objection raised by the OP in the version originally submitted before the District Forum nor was such a contention orally taken before the NCDRC. We fail to understand how the NCDRC failed to grasp the exact nature of the maintainability challenge. Be that as it may. 12. It is against the above backdrop that we are called upon to determine the present lis. Instead of remanding the matter back to the Consumer 220 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Forum we intend to decide the maintainability challenge here itself. The question that has eluded three judicial forums has now to be settled once and for all. That question simply is: Whether the service obtained by the complainant was for a commercial purpose? 13. Section 2 (7) of the Act defines a consumer to mean: Section 2 (7) “consumer” means any person who— (i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose; or (ii) hires or avails of any service for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any beneficiary of such service other than the person who hires or avails of the services for consideration paid or promised, or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such services are availed of with the approval of the first mentioned person, but does not include a person who avails of such service for any commercial purpose. Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause,— (a) the expression “commercial purpose” does not include use by a person of goods bought and used by him exclusively for the purpose of earning his livelihood, by means of self-employment; (b) the expressions “buys any goods” and “hires or avails any services” includes offline or online transactions through electronic means or by teleshopping or direct selling or multi-level marketing; [2024] 6 S.C.R. 221 Shriram Chits (India) Private Limited Earlier Known as Shriram Chits (K) Pvt. Ltd v. Raghachand Associates 14. The provision as it stands now (as extracted above) was not how it appeared when it was grafted in the original Act.