Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, the Union Territory is directed to give details of the number of Special Courts constituted and whether any steps are underway for creation of Additional Special Courts and at what stage. 18.1 High Court of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh (Refer to Serial No. 14.1) 1096 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. Union Territory of Lakshadweep -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, the Union Territory is directed to provide the particulars of the First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, the Union Territory is directed to give details of the number of Special Courts constituted and whether any steps are underway for creation of Additional Special Courts and at what stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) The Union Territory is directed to issue directions to Prosecutors to place on record the correct legal position as per Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra), (b) The Union Territory is directed to circulate the in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) to Prosecutors. (c) The Union Territory is directed to train and update the Prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 19.1 High Court of Kerala (Refer to Serial No. 17.1) 20. State of Madhya Pradesh -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. (ii) In terms of the direction contained in para 100.7, the State is directed to give details of the number of Special Courts [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1097 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. constituted and whether any steps are underway for creation of Additional Special Courts and at what stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) The State is directed to issue directions to Prosecutors to place on record the correct legal position as per Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra), (b) The State is directed to ensure circulation of in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) to Prosecutors, (c) The State is directed to provide training and update Prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same 20.1 High Court of Madhya Pradesh -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of the directions issued in para 100.2, it is noted that there is discrepancy insofar as bail is being granted on non- compliance of Sections 41 and 41-A, however, it is also stated that the statutory provisions are being complied with.