Ltd. v. Mumbai Shramik Sangha, (2001) 4 SCC 448 followed in four subsequent Constitution Bench decisions namely Pradip Chandra Parija v. Pramod Chandra Patnaik, (2002) 1 SCC 1; Chandra Prakash v. State of U.P., (2002) 4 SCC 234; Vishweshwaraiah Iron & Steel Ltd. v. Abdul Gani, (2002) 10 SCC 437 and Arya Samaj Education Trust v. Director of Education, (2004) 8 SCC 30. 111. The matter was ultimately placed before a bench of five Hon’ble Judges in to decide that whether the course adopted by the two judge bench, doubting the correctness of a decision rendered by five Hon’ble Judges, was correct. While examining the issue, this Court highlighted the approaches available to the Court in a decision reported in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra and Anr, (2005) 2 SCC 673. 112. On the question of reference, the Court held that when a decision delivered by a Bench of larger strength is binding on any subsequent Bench of lesser or co-equal strength. A Bench of lesser quorum has only two options : a. invite the attention of the Chief Justice and request for the matter being placed for hearing before an appropriate bench or; b. place the matter before a Bench of coequal strength which pronounced the decision laying down the law the correctness of which is doubted. The only exception to the above said rule is the discretion of the Chief Justice in whom vests the power of framing the roster. 113. In extremely rare cases, if the matter has already come up for hearing before a Bench of larger quorum and that Bench itself feels that the view of the law taken by a Bench of lesser quorum needs correction or reconsideration, then by way of an exception and for reasons given by it, it may proceed to hear the case and examine the correctness 1954 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports of the previous decision in question dispensing with the need of a specific reference or the of Chief Justice constituting the Bench and such listing. After discussing the said legal position, this Court in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community [supra], crystallised the law as under : “12. Having carefully considered the submissions made by the learned senior counsel for the parties and having examined the law laid down by the Constitution Benches in the abovesaid decisions, we would like to sum up the legal position in the following terms :- (1) The law laid down by this Court in a decision delivered by a Bench of larger strength is binding on any subsequent Bench of lesser or co-equal strength. (2) A Bench of lesser quorum cannot doubt the correctness of the view of the law taken by a Bench of larger quorum. In case of doubt all that the Bench of lesser quorum can do is to invite the attention of the Chief Justice and request for the matter being placed for hearing before a Bench of larger quorum than the Bench whose decision has come up for consideration.