The argument of the appellant railways is twofold: - (i) First, that the respondent company is not entitled to any refund whatsoever, since the change in chargeable distance was due to a change in the methodology, and that the old chargeable distance was correct as per the old methodology and distance table. (ii) Alternatively, it has been contended that, in the event this Court finds that the respondent is entitled to refund of the difference in chargeable distance, the same would at best be a case of ‘overcharge’ and the claim could be said to be time-barred in terms of Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989. 117. Thus, the primary thrust of the appellant’s contention is that this is neither a case of overcharge nor an illegal charge, as the old chargeable distance was valid as per the old methodology and distance table, thus, the respondent company is not entitled to any refund whatsoever. 118. However, interestingly, despite maintaining the aforesaid stance that no case is made out for a refund, the appellant railway itself during the pendency of the matter before the Railway Claims Tribunal, Ghaziabad granted refund to the respondent company in approx. 45 claims that were made within the 6-month statutory time period 1134 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 119. Prima-facie since the refund was not made by any adjudicatory authority it would have no bearing in the case of the appellant before this Court, however we should be mindful, that the appellant remarkably in its entire pleadings has nowhere explained why the refund was granted in the first place or even remotely indicated that the same had been granted due to a mistake. 120. The appellant despite contending that the old chargeable distance of 444 km was correct and valid as per the old methodology and the old distance table, the appellant has neither provided the complete old distance table nor explained what was the old methodology being used that resulted in a 110 km difference in the chargeable distance. 121. As discussed by us above in this judgement, when a charge is alleged to be illegal, it would be too much to expect a consignee such as the respondent herein to prove that a particular charge is illegal or not. It is only the authority who formulated and prescribed a particular charge that may be capable of establishing that a particular charge is valid or not. The threshold of the ‘burden of proof’ if we may use that term that is required to be discharged, when challenging a particular charge as an “illegal charge”, is only on the preponderance of probabilities, upon which the onus will shift on the authorities to establish how the particular charge is valid. 122. In the instant case, the respondent whilst challenging the validity of the chargeable distance of 444 km has submitted as follows: - a. That, the notification / communication whereby the chargeable distance was reduced from 444 km to 334 km had no bearing with the change in policy in the methodology for calculating the chargeable distance as alleged by the appellants herein.