(2) [Every declaration] shall be published in the Official Gazette, and— (a) in any case where land is to be acquired, shall state the district or other territorial division in which the land is situate and its approximate area; and, where a plan shall have been made of the land, the place where such plan may be inspected; (b) in any case where rights in or over such land are to be acquired, shall state the nature and extent of the rights in addition to the matters relating to the land specified in clause (a); and a copy of every such declaration shall be sent to the State Government concerned. 1926 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. Vesting of land or rights in Central Government.— (1) On the publication in the Official Gazette of the declaration under section 9, the land or the rights in or over the land, as the case may be, shall vest absolutely in the Central Government [free from all encumbrances]. (2) Where the rights under any mining lease granted or deemed to have been granted by a State Government to any person are acquired under this Act, the Central Government shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have become the lessee of the State Government as if a mining lease under the Mineral Concession Rules had been granted by the State Government to the Central Government, the period thereof being the entire period for which such a lease could have been granted by the State Government under those rules. 11. Power of Central Government to direct vesting of land or rights in a Government company.— (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 10, the Central Government may, if it is satisfied that a Government company is willing to comply, or has complied, with such terms and conditions as the Central Government may think fit to impose, direct, by in writing, that the land or the rights in or over the land, as the case may be, shall, instead of vesting in the Central Government under section 10 or continuing to so vest, vest in the Government company either on the date of publication of the declaration or on such other date as may be specified in the direction. (2) Where the rights under any mining lease acquired under this Act vest in a Government company under sub- section (1), the Government company shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have become the lessee of the State Government as if a mining lease under the Mineral Concession Rules had been granted by the State Government to the Government company, the period thereof being the entire period for which such a lease could have been granted by the State Government under those rules; and all the rights and liabilities of the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1927 State of U.P. & Anr. v. Northern Coal Fields Central Government in relation to the lease or the land covered by it shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have become the rights and liabilities of the Government company.” 11.