8. The High Court, in the impugned , has referred to the original complaint filed by the appellant, the restatement of the appellant (Annexure P-6) made before the Dy. S.P., Challakere and the statement of the doctor/Head of the Krishna Nursing Home. After considering the material placed on record, the High Court found that the complainant has totally changed her version of events in her restatement (Annexure P-6) made before the Dy. S.P., Challakere from the statement given in the original complaint filed by her. The learned Single Judge of the High Court has also referred to the report of the medical examination of the prosecutrix dated 19th December 2020. 9. We have also perused the material placed on record along with the charge-sheet. It can be seen that though the initial version of the complainant is that after she became pregnant, she was taken to the Krishna Nursing Home wherein she was compelled to undergo abortion, however, the statement of the doctor/Head of Krishna Nursing Home would show that the version of the complainant that she was brought to the Krishna Nursing Home on 17th August 2020 to abort her six months pregnancy, was completely false. The doctor/ Head of Krishna Nursing Home has denied any acquaintance with the prosecutrix or the accused persons. The doctor/Head of Krishna Nursing Home has also stated that during the relevant period, on account of lockdown due to COVID virus, no patient was admitted in the hospital. It is further to be noted that the complainant, in her restatement (Annexure P-6) made before the Dy. S.P., Challakere, has changed her version and stated that she was not taken to the Krishna Nursing Home. The prosecutrix has stated that she was administered some medicine which was not allopathy which led to the termination of her pregnancy. 10. Even the statement of Anitha (CW-6) would reveal that both the prosecutrix and accused No. 1 had come together to her house and accused No. 1 informed her that the prosecutrix was his relative. According to the statement of Anitha (CW-6), six months prior to the date of recording her statement, accused No. 1 along with the prosecutrix had come to her house in the morning and had taken breakfast. After that, Anitha (CW-6) had left the house leaving both 954 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of them in the house. Anitha (CW-6) stated that when she came back in the room at around 02.00 pm, accused No. 1 and the prosecutrix took their meals and in the evening, they went to Challakere. 11. The issue similar to the one which arises for consideration in the present matter also arose for consideration before this Court in the case of Pramod Suryabhan Pawar v. State of Maharashtra and Another3, wherein this Court observed thus: “18. To summarise the legal position that emerges from the above cases, the “consent” of a woman with respect to Section 375 must involve an active and reasoned deliberation towards the proposed act.