15.7 As already noted, the IDRA is enacted by Parliament under Entry 52 – List I taking control of, inter alia, “Fermentation Industries” as noted in Item 26 of the First Schedule to the said Act. Section 18G deals with any article or class of articles relatable to any scheduled industry i.e. “Fermentation Industries” in the instant cases. The Explanation to Section 18G states that the expression “article or class of articles” relatable to any scheduled industry i.e. “Fermentation Industries” herein includes any article or class of articles imported into India which is of the same nature or description as the article or class of articles, manufactured or produced in the scheduled industry. The explanation is inclusive and not an exhaustive one. For immediate reference Item 26 of the First Schedule of the IDRA pursuant to the 2016 amendment is extracted as under: “26. The fermentation industries (other than potable alcohol): (i) Alcohol (ii) other products of fermentation industries.” The said Item 26 was added w.e.f. 08.05.1952 even prior to the insertion of Section 18G to the IDRA which is w.e.f. 01.10.1953. However, w.e.f. 14.05.2016, Item 26 has been amended to clarify that “Fermentation Industries” refers to industries others than potable alcohol. This is for the reason that “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8 – List II is equated to only 2148 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports potable alcohol and rest of the industry of the “Fermentation Industries” other than potable alcohol is a scheduled industry. 15.8 Once an industry is a scheduled industry under the provisions of IDRA, in the context of Section 18G the Central Government may notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of IDRA by a notified provide for regulating the supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein of a product of scheduled industry. A notified may also provide - (a) for the purpose of controlling the prices at which any such article or class of articles may be bought or sold for; (b) for regulating the licences, permits or otherwise the distribution, transport, disposal, acquisition, possession, use or consumption of any such article or class thereof; (c) for prohibiting the withholding from sale of any such article or class thereof ordinarily kept for sale; (d) for requiring any person manufacturing, producing or holding in stock any such article or class thereof to sell the whole or part of the articles so manufactured or produced during a specified period or to sell the whole or a part of the articles so held in stock to such person or class of persons in such circumstances as may be specified in the ; (e) for regulating or prohibiting any class of commercial or financial transactions relating to such article or class thereof which in the opinion of the authority making the are, or if unregulated are likely to be, detrimental to public interest; (f) for requiring persons engaged in the distribution and trade and commerce in any such article or class thereof to mark the articles exposed or intended for sale with the sale price or to exhibit at some easily accessible place on the premises the price-lists of articles held for sale and also to similarly exhibit on the first day of every month, or at such other time as may be prescribed, a statement of the total quantities of any such articles in stock; (g) for collecting any information or statistics with a view to regulating or prohibiting any of the aforesaid matters; and [2024] 10 S.C.R.