The majority of the Board’s members are elected by Registered Accountants members of the profession from all parts of India. These arrangements have, however, all long been intended to be only transitional, to lead up to a system in which such accountants will, in autonomous association of themselves, largely assume the responsibilities involved in the discharge of their public duties by securing maintenance of the requisite standard of professional qualifications, discipline and conduct, the control of the Central Government being confined to a very few specified matters. 2. The Bill seeks to authorise the incorporation by statute of such an autonomous professional body and embodies a scheme which is largely the result of a detailed examination of the whole position by an ad hoc expert body constituted for the purpose, after taking into account the views expressed by the various Provincial Governments and public bodies concerned.” (emphasis supplied) Therefore, the 1949 Act was enacted with the object of incorporating an autonomous professional body of accountants that would, in respect of discharge of their public duties, provide for uniform regulation of the profession. Thereby, it is apparent that the relationship of the profession to public duty is closely present even in the earliest statutory prescription. 7.2 It is pertinent to note that the long title and preamble of the 1949 Act was amended, w.e.f. 10.05.2022, vide the Chartered Accountants, the Cost and Works Accountants and the Company Secretaries (Amendment) Act, 2022, to substitute “regulation and development” instead of the extant “regulation”. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 821 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others The amended long title and preamble of the 1949 Act reads as under: “An Act to make provision for the regulation and development of the profession of Chartered Accountants.” (emphasis supplied) 7.3 Section 2 of the 1949 Act deals with interpretation and the relevant clauses of Section 2 are extracted as under: “2. Interpretation.- (1) In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,− x x x (b) “chartered accountant” means a person who is a member of the Institute; (c) “Council” means the Council of the Institute; x x x (e) “Institute” means the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India constituted under this Act; x x x (2) A member of the Institute shall be deemed “to be in practice”, when individually or in partnership with chartered accountants in practice, or in partnership with members of such other recognised professions as may be prescribed, he, in consideration of remuneration received or to be received,− (i) engages himself in the practice of accountancy; or (ii) offers to perform or performs services involving the auditing or verification of financial transactions, books, accounts or records, or the preparation, verification or certification of financial accounting and related statements or holds himself out to the public as an accountant; or (iii) renders professional services or assistance in or about matters of principle or detail relating to accounting procedure or the recording, 822 [2024] 6 S.C.R.