The best advantage of one person could be the worst disadvantage to another. Law steps in to iron out such creases and ensures equality of protection 10 (1997) 3 SCC 573 11 2015 SCC OnLine Bom 3173 12 2019 SCC OnLine Chh 209 13 2015 SCC OnLine Ker 39489 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 675 Tirith Kumar & Ors. v. Daduram & Ors. to individuals as well as group liberties. Man›s status is a creature of substantive as well as procedural law to which legal incidents would attach. Justice, equality and fraternity are trinity for social and economic equality… x x x 56. I would hold that the provisions of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 and the Indian Succession Act, 1925 though in terms, would not apply to the Scheduled Tribes, the general principles contained therein being consistent with justice, equity, fairness, justness and good conscience would apply to them. Accordingly I hold that the Scheduled Tribe women would succeed to the estate of their parent, brother, husband, as heirs by intestate succession and inherit the property with equal share with the male heir with absolute rights as per the general principles of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, as amended and interpreted by this Court and equally of the Indian Succession Act to tribal Christians…” 8. Let us examine a few pronouncements on the application of principle of justice, equity and good conscience. 8.1 In M. Siddiq (Ram Janmabhumi Temple-5 J.) v. Suresh Das,14 five learned judges extensively dealt with the concept of justice, equity and good conscience. A few of the relevant paragraphs are as under: “1003. …The modification of general rules to the circumstances of the case is guided by equity, not in derogation or negation of positive law, but in addition to it. It supplements positive law but does not supplant it. In a second sense, however, where positive law is silent as to the applicable legal principles, equity assumes a primary role as the source of law itself. Equity steps in to fill the gaps that exist in positive law. Thus, where no positive law is discernible, courts turn to equity as a source of the applicable law. In addition to these, Derrett notes that 14 (2020) 1 SCC 1 676 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports there is a third sense in which equity or aequitas assumed importance — where established political authority is taken away or is in doubt and the formal sources of law are in doubt, the nature of judicial office requires a decision in accordance with ex bono et aequo. x x x 1019. …There is (at least in theory) a reduced scope for the application of justice, equity and good conscience when doctrinal positions established under a statute cover factual situations or where the principles underlying the system of personal law in question can be definitively ascertained. But even then, it would do a disservice to judicial craft to adopt a theory which excludes the application of justice, equity and good conscience to areas of law governed by statute.