Prasannakumaar’s case (supra). This is because such a course was adopted in R.V. Prasannakumaar’s case (supra) despite the stipulation for payment of compensation at the rate of Rs.3/sq. ft. per month for delayed handing over of possession. It is to be noted that in the case on hand, the stipulation for payment of compensation for delayed handing over of possession is only at the rate of Rs.2/sq. ft. per month. 23. True that the complainants claimed for refund of charge for car parking fee charged, with interest. The same was declined by NCDRC by assigning the reason that the said question was decided in favour of the developer by NCDRC in CC/913/2016 viz., in RV Prassana Kumars 47 Ors. vs. Mantri Castles Pvt. Ltd. was confirmed by this Court in R.V. Prasannakumaar’s case (supra). In that view of the matter, we decline to interfere with the finding of NCDRC on the claim for refund of car parking charge. 24. Paragraph 9 of the impugned would reveal that the prayer for refund of legal fee realised by the developer for execution of conveyance deed was declined by NCDRC on the ground that the complainants had not adduced any evidence based on which legal fee could be determined by it. We are not inclined to interfere with the said finding of NCDRC, as well. The same is the position with respect to the claim for refund of legal fee charge for conveyance on the ground that it was charged excessively. As relates the prayer to provide Green Jogging Track and Convenience Store as promised in the brochure, NCDRC has already issued directions for constructing them within the time stipulated thereunder. 25. In the circumstances, this appeal is allowed in part by modifying the formula formulated under paragraph 8 of the impugned by NCDRC in the matter of payment of compensation for delay in handing over possession of flats and it is ed that the liability [2024] 7 S.C.R. 839 Kaushik Narsinhbhai Patel & Ors. v. M/s S.J.R. Prime Corporation Private Limited of the developer to pay interest at the rate of 6% per annum shall be from the due date for possession fixed as above viz., from September, 2014 till the date on which the respective complainant- buyers are offered possession. 26. Needless to say, that NCDRC in execution of impugned as modified by this , shall verify with reference to each flat purchaser the date on which offer of possession has been made to him/her and fix the liability on the builder in the manner mentioned above. 27. Pending application(s), if any, stands disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal Partly allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Vidhi Thaker, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Kanu Agrawal, Adv.)