Sureshkumar Kharagchand Soni (PW-3), the compounder who treated Shama while he was in police custody, turned hostile but the fact remains that his testimony, for what it is worth, also confirms the injured state of Shama, consequent to the third-degree methods used on him by the appellants. In such circumstances, it can be safely surmised that Shama was in the illegal custody of the appellants since 16.12.1995, at the very least, and suffered prolonged third-degree treatment till 24.12.1995. That being so, it is very difficult to believe the story projected by the appellants that Shama escaped from their custody at about 11:00 PM on 24.12.1995. It is highly improbable that he would have been in a physical state of fitness to flee, by jumping from a moving jeep in a crowded residential area, and evade the police. 2 [1992] 3 SCR 180 : (1992) 3 SCC 249 758 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. Significantly, Shalikram Nimkar (PW-23), being a member of the police force, confirmed in his deposition before the Trial Court that the entry in the police record about the escape of Shama was false. The facts narrated by him were recorded by the Trial Court in para 48 of its . He stated that he was attending to the Station Diary on 24.12.1995 when Manik, Accused No. 1, approached and requested him to make an entry that Shama was reported to have been seen in the railway yard. PW-23 stated that he inquired with Manik as to why such an entry should be recorded when Shama was in police custody. PW-23 admitted that this entry was wrong but, as Manik was his superior, he had to oblige him. 11. ‘Life is the art of drawing sufficient conclusions from insufficient premises’ .3 This art would be all the more essential in the repertoire of a Judge, who may be presented with incomplete and, sometimes, incorrect information, while adjudicating a case. Appearances can be manipulated and may be completely deceptive, by deliberate design. It would be gullible for a Court to accept appearances at face value, however unconvincing they may be, and play into the hands of those who seek to dishonestly deceive it. In the present case, the appellants cleverly concocted the story of Shama escaping from their custody and created a record to buttress it. Not content therewith, the appellants also cooked up what is clearly a fabricated saga of Shama surfacing in Raipur and being convicted by the Railway Court there, on 07.01.1996, for travelling without a ticket. Even if it is assumed for a second that the police version of Shama’s escape is true, it would require another huge leap of faith to believe that Shama, a fugitive from the law, would have willfully refused to pay ₹50/-, while caught travelling ticketless between Gondia and Raipur, and would have preferred to go before the Railway Court to suffer and document a conviction, whereby he had to pay ₹200/- as fine. This convenient story was apparently devised for the purpose of creating a record of Shama being alive on that date.