The offences under the CMRA were further made partially cognizable through an amendment in 1978. Section 15 of PCMA is therefore a welcome step which aims to better enforce the Act. 54. Section 9 of the PCMA prescribes that a man above the age of eighteen, who enters into a marriage with a minor girl is liable to be punished with rigorous imprisonment which may extend to two years or with a fine which may extend to one lakh rupees or both. The court is accordingly empowered to penalise an accused under Section 9 with imprisonment or a fine or both. The court is at liberty to exercise its options of imposing punishment based on the gravity of the offence, the circumstance of the marriage and the socio- economic power of the male over his child bride. In many instances, the marriage between a child bride and aged groom occurs at the instance of the groom incentivising the family of the girl to marry her off. The provision deals with such situations but also recognises the relative lack of involvement of a man who may be a young adult and enters into matrimony with a minor. The option of imprisonment and fine is 89 Section 11, PCMA. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1555 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. a deviation from the other two penal provisions in the PCMA which mandate both, a fine and imprisonment, to be imposed on guilty convicts. The rationale of this option is to allow the judge a degree of latitude in assessing the culpability of the groom under Section 9 and impose a proportionate criminal sentence. 55. Despite the age of majority for a man to enter into a marriage being prescribed as twenty-one under Section 2(a) of the Act, his criminal liability for entering into a child marriage with a minor woman begins at eighteen. Therefore, two positions of law emerge from Section 9. First, a woman, regardless of her age is not liable for entering into a child marriage. Second, a man above the age of eighteen but under the age of twenty one is liable for marrying a girl who is under the age of eighteen. The legislative intent behind making a groom liable for entering child marriage is to recognise the relative control of the agency that a groom may have in relation to his marriage as opposed to a girl. 56. In Hardev Singh v. Harpreet Kaur90 the appellant was under the age of twenty-one and had married a woman who was twenty-three years old. The High Court of Punjab and Haryana directed an FIR to be registered under Section 9 of the PCMA against the wife for entering into a marriage with a man who was a minor under the PCMA. A two-Judge bench of this Court set aside the of the High Court and held that the PCMA does not prescribe any punishment for an adult woman who marries a male child.