The committee reasoned that marriage was an act of public knowledge and many persons had a chance to notice the age of the couple. Its visibility would allow for its regulation. It was also thought that regulating marriages would avoid the irritation that would follow from the strict regulatory interference of consummation within a marital union.61 31. After much debate, the Sarda Bill was enacted as the Child Marriage Restraint Act 1929 and received the assent of the Governor-General on 1 October 1929 and was to come into force on 1 April 1930 throughout British India. The Act applied to all religions. The Act continued to govern the law on the age of marriage till Parliament enacted the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006. 58 Joshi Committee Report, 8. 59 Ibid, 8. 60 Ibid, 196. 61 Ibid, 174, para 379. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1545 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. C. The Child Marriage Restraint Act 1929 32. The law in colonial times had cast a male gaze upon the women and girls of India. It did so by making women the object of the legislation but never its spectator. Women and their bodies were made a subject of legislation without any meaningful attempt to attract the perspectives of women, their experiences or their desires. The law did not concern itself with issues of autonomy, agency and individualised dignity of a woman. This had been manifested from the days of the reform movement on the age of consent laws. As Dr Jaya Sagade argues in her book Child Marriage in India: Socio-legal and Human Rights Dimensions, the law on consent was nailed purely to the physical capability of women and alien from their aspirations or choices. She states that: “It is unfortunate that all opinions agreed on a definition of consent that was nailed to a purely physical capability, entirely dissociated from free issues like choice of partner, sexual, emotional, or mental compatibility or other social considerations such as the girl’s personal development. Consent was made into a biological category, a stage when the female body was ready to accept sexual penetration without serious harm. The only difference lay in when this stage was reached.”62 33. The Child Marriage Restraint Act 192963 was a first to cover all children – male and female – within its gamut. The age of consent laws was enacted through a clause in the penal rape statutes which only sought to legislate on girls. The CMRA on the other hand was applicable to both boys and girls. 34. Section 2(a) of the CMRA stipulated that a “child” means a person who, if male, is below the age of eighteen, and if female, is below the age of fourteen. Section 2(d) defined a “minor” to be any person below the age of eighteen. All marriages in which either of the parties was a ‘child’ under Section 2(a) was stipulated to be a “child marriage” under Section 2(b). The CMRA stipulated that child marriage is an offence punishable with simple imprisonment which may extend to 62 Jaya Sagade.