At the stage of issue of summons, the person cannot claim protection under Article 20(3) of the Constitution, the same being not “testimonial compulsion”. At the stage of recording of statement of a person for the purpose of inquiring into the relevant facts in connection with the property being proceeds of crime, is not an investigation for prosecution as such. The summons can be issued even to witnesses in the inquiry so conducted by the authorized officers. The consequences of Article 20(3) of the Constitution or Section 25 of the Evidence Act may come into play only if the involvement of such person (noticee) is revealed and his or her statements is recorded after a formal arrest by the ED official. In our opinion, the learned counsels for the appellants have sought to reagitate the issues which have already been settled in Vijay Madanlal. 20. Much reliance has been placed by the Learned Counsels for the Appellants on the Annual Report of Ministry of Finance, GOI, which according to them has stated about the Organizational Structure of Directorate of Enforcement, demarcating the territorial jurisdiction of [2024] 9 S.C.R. 133 Abhishek Banerjee & Anr. v. Directorate of Enforcement various Zonal Office of the ED. According to them, such instructions by the Department of Revenue are for exercise of powers of investigation by the ED as mandated by Section 51 PMLA and therefore must be strictly complied with. The said submission also being fallacious cannot be accepted. Apart from the fact that the document relied upon is an Annual Report by the Ministry of Finance, showing the Organizational Structure of the ED, the same could not be construed as the directions issued by the Central Government for the purpose of exercise of powers and performance of the functions by the Authorities as contemplated in Section 51 of the said Act. As stated in the said Report, the said Offices of the Directorate of Enforcement all over India are set up to ensure that the Money Laundering offences are investigated in an effective manner and they act as deterrence for the potential offenders of the Money Launderers. Pertinently, the Headquarters Investigation Unit (HIU) has not been restricted to any territorial jurisdiction in the said Organizational Structure. The present ECIR bearing ECIR/17/HIU/2020 is recorded at the HIU. Further, as per the specific case of the ED in the complaint, filed against the accused persons before the Special Court, PMLA, Rouse Avenue Courts, New Delhi, Rs. 168 Crores were allegedly received by the Inspector Ashok Kumar Mishra from the co-accused Anup Majee to be delivered to his political bosses, and the said Rs. 168 Crores were transferred through vouchers to Delhi and Overseas, which clearly established adequate nexus of the offence and the offenders with the territory of Delhi. We therefore do not find any illegality in the summons issued by the respondent-ED summoning the Appellants to its Office at Delhi, which also has the territorial jurisdiction, a part of the offence having been allegedly committed by the accused persons as alleged in the complaint.