A perusal of the above would show that one of the objects of the 2003 amendment to the Citizenship Act was to exclude illegal immigrants from the benefit of citizenship. Thus, while on the one hand the legislature has gradually moved towards a regime which bars illegal immigrant from the benefit of Indian citizenship, Section 6A, on the other hand, continues to be present on the statute book endlessly, and owing to its abuse-prone and temporally unlimited mechanism, goes against the present-day statutory position and policy with regard to the illegal immigrants. 189. More than 38 years having elapsed since Section 6A came into effect, with the benefit of retrospect, we find force in the submission of the petitioners that Section 6A, which was meant to dispel and discourage incoming illegal immigrants, turned out to be a beacon for the illegal immigrants from Bangladesh to come into Assam, by taking advantage of the poor mechanism which is prone to open abuse. There can be no denying that the provision has far exceeded the time-limit within which it should have been made applicable, and has become vulnerable to misuse owing to the inherent arbitrariness, as pointed above. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1219 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 190. Assam Accord was a one-time political settlement, arrived at in the specific context of widespread violence and agitation in Assam. The extraordinary conditions existing in the years 1979-85 cannot provide a permanent and perennial ground for continuation of a manifestly arbitrary provision, which is uncertain and indeterminable owing to its sui-generis mechanism. 191. I shall now refer to the decision of a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Sarbananda Sonowal (supra), by which the IMDT Act was struck down. One of the primary reasons for which the IMDT Act was struck down was that this Court was of the view that instead of achieving the avowed object of the legislation, the IMDT Act was defeating the very purpose for which it was enacted. Relevant portions of the said decision are reproduced hereinbelow: - "70. As mentioned earlier, the influx of Bangladeshi nationals who have illegally migrated into Assam pose a threat to the integrity and security of North-Eastern region. Their presence has changed the demographic character of that region and the local people of Assam have been reduced to a status of minority in certain districts. In such circumstances, if Parliament had enacted a legislation exclusively for the State of Assam which was more stringent than the Foreigners Act, which is applicable to rest of India, and also in the State of Assam for identification of such persons who migrated from the territory of present Bangladesh between 1-1-1966 and 24-3-1971, such a legislation would have passed the test of Article 14 as the differentiation so made would have had rational nexus with the avowed policy and objective of the Act. But the mere making of a geographical classification cannot be sustained where the Act instead of achieving the object of the legislation defeats the very purpose for which the legislation has been made.