This provision explicitly gives an overriding effect over the provision of sub-Section 3 of Section 319 of CrPC. Another salutary provision is Section 80, which lists the defences that may or may not be allowed in the prosecution under the FSSA. For example, it is provided that it is no defence that the accused had a mistaken but reasonable belief as to the facts that constituted the offence. 14. Therefore, as far as offences relating to food and food safety are concerned, there are very exhaustive provisions made in the FSSA dealing with all aspects of food and food security. 15. In the facts of these cases, the offence under Section 59 of the FSSA is very relevant, which reads thus: “59. Punishment for unsafe food.—Any person who, whether by himself or by any other person on his behalf, manufactures for sale or stores or sells or distributes or imports any article of food for human consumption which is unsafe, shall be punishable,— (i) where such failure or contravention does not result in injury, with [imprisonment for a term which may 754 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports extend to three months and also with fine which may extend to three lakh rupees];7 (ii) where such failure or contravention results in a non- grievous injury, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and also with fine which may extend to three lakh rupees; (iii) where such failure or contravention results in a grievous injury, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six years and also with fine which may extend to five lakh rupees; (iv) where such failure or contravention results in death, with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and also with fine which shall not be less than ten lakh rupees.” Any person, whether by himself or by any other person on his behalf, manufactures or, stores or, sells or imports unsafe food for human consumption, becomes guilty of an offence of dealing with unsafe food. As can be noted, there are different punishments provided, starting from imprisonment for 3 months and extending to imprisonment for life and a fine, depending upon the extent and nature of injury caused by unsafe food. The fine is in the range of rupees three lakh to rupees ten lakh. 16. In these appeals, we are dealing only with Sections 272 and 273 of the IPC. The same read thus: “272. Adulteration of food or drink intended for sale.— Whoever adulterates any article of food or drink, so as to make such article noxious as food or drink, intending to sell such article as food or drink, or knowing it to be likely that the same will be sold as food or drink, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.