Moreover, it would be necessary that this Court is apprised whether the carrying of the pregnancy to the full term would impact upon the physical and mental well being of the minor who is barely fourteen years old. The Medical Board 2 There is an inexplicable inconsistency on the gestational age in the report of the medical board of the Grant Government Medical College & Sir JJ Group of Hospitals, Mumbai dated 28 March 2024. Point 5 and 6 of the report mention the gestational age as 27 weeks, but the opinion of the board in point 7 mentions the gestational age to be 28 weeks. 3 Sion Hospital [2024] 5 S.C.R. 477 A (Mother of X) v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. shall also opine on whether a termination of the pregnancy can be carried out at this stage without any threat to the life of the minor. 6. In this view of the matter, we are of the view that the petitioner’s daughter should be examined afresh by a Medical Board to be constituted at the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital and Lokmanya Tilak Municipal Medical College, Sion, Mumbai tomorrow (20 April 2024). We request the Medical Superintendent of the hospital to constitute a Medical Board for that purpose.” 5. A report has been submitted by the Sion Hospital. The minor was examined by a team of six doctors constituted by the Dean. The composition of the team was as follows: (i) Dr Rajesh Dere, Prof. & Head Dept. of Forensic Medicine; (ii) Dr Anagha Joshi, Prof. & Head Dept. of Radiology; (iii) Dr Amarjitsingh Bawa, Additional Prof. Of Dept. of Gynecology & acting Head of Department; (iv) Dr Nilesh Shah, Prof. & Head Dept. of Psychiatry; and (v) Dr Swati Manerkar, Prof. & Head Dept. of Neonatology; 6. After examining ‘X’, the medical board of the Sion Hospital opined that the gestational age of the fetus was 29.6 weeks and continuation of pregnancy will negatively impact the physical and mental well-being of ‘X’. Further, it opined that the pregnancy can be terminated with a degree of risk not higher than if the pregnancy was taken to term. The medical board reported as follows: “1. Whether carrying of the pregnancy to the full term would impact upon the physical and mental well being of the minor who is barely 14 years? Ans. Yes, continuation of pregnancy against her will may impact negatively on physical and mental well being of the minor who is barely 14 year old. 2. The medical board shall also opine whether termination of pregnancy can be carried out at this stage without any threat to the life of the minor? 478 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Ans. Yes, termination can be carried out at this stage. The threat of life to the patient if termination of pregnancy carried out at this stage is not higher than the risk of delivery at full term of pregnancy. Also in view of minor being barely 14 years, the chances of surgical intervention (Abdominal Surgery) at term or now may be there.” 7.