labelling or re-labelling of containers is one and the other is repacking from bulk packs to retail packs. [Paras 13.2, 13.3] List of Acts Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985. List of Keywords Manufacturing Activity; Re-labelling, CENVAT Credit, Rebate, Indirect Tax. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.1121 of 2016 From the and dated 16.04.2015 of the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal, West Zonal Bench at Mumbai in Appeal No. E/86389/13-MUM With Civil Appeal Nos. 788-790 of 2022 Appearances for Parties Rupesh Kumar, Sr. Adv., Mukesh Kumar Maroria, Keval Babubhai Rathod, Shamik Sanjanwala, Shyam Gopal, Sughosh Subramanyam, Rohit Verma, B. Krishna Prasad, Advs. for the Appellant. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 273 Commissioner of Central Excise Belapur v. Jindal Drugs Ltd. V. Sridharan, Sr. Adv., Prakash Shah, Jas Sanghavi, Jasdeep Singh Dhillon, Prabhat Kumar Chaurasia, Yuganthar Singh Chauhan, Rahul Gupta, Prabhat Chaurasia, Yugantar Singh Chauhan, Anirudh Jamwal, Advs. for the Respondent. / of the Supreme Court Judgement Ujjal Bhuyan, J. Heard learned counsel for the parties. 2. Issue raised in the present batch of appeals is identical. Therefore, the civil appeals were heard together and are being disposed by this common and . 3. However, Civil Appeal No. 1121 of 2016 was argued as the lead appeal. Therefore, for the sake of convenience, we would refer to the facts of this appeal. 4. This is an appeal by the revenue under Section 35L (1)(b) of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (referred to hereinafter as ‘the Central Excise Act’) against the dated 16.04.2015 passed by the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal, West Zonal Bench at Mumbai (briefly ‘CESTAT’ hereinafter) in Appeal No. E/86389/13-Mum. (Jindal Drugs Limited Vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, Belapur). 4.1. By the impugned dated 16.04.2015, CESTAT has allowed the appeal filed by the respondent holding that as per Note 3 to Chapter 18 of the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (referred to hereinafter as ‘the Central Excise Tariff Act’), the activity of labelling amounted to manufacture and hence the activity of the respondent fell within the ambit of the definition of manufacture as per the said Note. Therefore, the respondent was eligible for availing the cenvat credit of the duty paid by its Jammu unit and was also eligible for rebate on the duty paid by it while exporting its goods. CESTAT further held that there was no suppression by the respondent and, therefore, the extended period of limitation was not available to the department (revenue). 5. Though facts lie within a narrow compass, nonetheless it is necessary to make a brief reference to the relevant facts for a proper perspective. 274 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 5.1. Respondent is engaged in the business of exporting cocoa butter and cocoa powder. Its factory at Jammu manufactures cocoa butter and cocoa powder. Respondent has another unit located at Taloja in the State of Maharashtra. Cocoa butter and cocoa powder manufactured at Jammu are received by the respondent’s unit at Taloja. In the Taloja unit, respondent affixed two labels on two sides of the packages of the said goods received from its Jammu factory and cleared the same for export on payment of duty and claimed rebate of the duty paid on the exported goods.