The former indicates that the institution has a pan-India or national character, as opposed to relatively more local or regional institutions. It is indicative of the importance of the institution on the national stage. The latter is evidence of the religious or linguistic background of the founders and the constitutional rights which vest in them. Each term indicates distinct attributes which are not antithetical to one another. A university may well be both national and ergo, of national importance, as well as minority in character. There is no reason why a minority educational institution cannot also be an institution of national importance. Third, Entries 63 and 64 provide Parliament with the power to declare an institution to be of [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1755 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. national importance. An interpretation that an institution of national importance cannot be a minority institution would amount to rendering the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 30(1) subservient to the legislative power of Parliament. Parliament can in terms of Entries 63 and 64 declare any institution to be of national importance.129 If the submission of the respondents is accepted, such a declaration would automatically exclude the institution(s) from the scope of Article 30(1). vii. The decision of this Court in Prof. Yashpal 149. Question (d) formulated in these proceedings requires the Court to assess whether the decision in Prof. Yashpal (supra) has a bearing on the other questions and if so, in what manner. It is therefore necessary to advert to the facts and decision in that case. Various writ petitions challenged certain provisions of the Chhattisgarh Niji Kshetra Vishwavidyalaya (Sthapana Aur Viniyaman) Adhiniyam 2002.130 Section 5 of this statute empowered the state government to incorporate and establish a university by issuing a notification in the Gazette. Section 6 permitted such a university to affiliate any college or other institution or to set up more than one campus with the prior approval of the state government. The state government established more than a hundred universities under the Chhattisgarh Act. 150. The petitioners in that case submitted that: a. The universities established under the Chhattisgarh Act had no buildings or campuses and were running from tenements consisting of a single room or a single floor in a building. Basic infrastructure (such as classrooms, libraries, and laboratories) was absent. Despite this, the universities were empowered to award degrees; b. The state government did not exercise any supervision over these universities and was establishing them in a mechanical manner, without assessing the infrastructure, teachers, or other resources of each of them; 129 See The Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Puducherry Act 2008; The Institutes of Technology Act 1961; The Indian Institutes of Management Act 2017; National Institutes of Technology, Science, Education and Research Act 2007; The Indian Institutes of Information Technology Act 2014; See https://www.education.gov.in/institutions-national-importance 130 “Chhattisgarh Act” 1756 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports c. The UGC was unable to exercise any control over these universities due to the scheme of the Chhattisgarh Act and was made a redundant body; d. These universities were offering courses and degrees which were not a part of the Schedule to the UGC Act.