In such situations, the judge does not have a financial or cause-based interest in the outcome of the dispute but provides benefit to a party by failing to be neutral and impartial. The determination of bias does not depend 177 “AI” 178 “AICL” 179 In re Pinochet (supra) [Lord Browne-Wilkinson held: “My Lords, in my , although the cases have all dealt with automatic disqualification on the grounds of pecuniary interest, there is no good reason in principle for so limiting automatic disqualification. The rationale of the whole rule is that a man cannot be a judge in his own cause. In civil litigation the matters in issue will normally have an economic impact; therefore a judge is automatically disqualified if he stands to make a financial gain as a consequence of his own decision of the case. But if, as in the present case, the matter at issue does not relate to money or economic advantage but is concerned with the promotion of the cause, the rationale disqualifying a judge applies just as much if the judge’s decision will lead to the promotion of a cause in which the judge is involved together with one of the parties. Thus in my opinion if Lord Hoffmann had been a member of AI he would have been automatically disqualified because of his non-pecuniary interest in establishing that Senator Pinochet was not entitled to immunity.”]; Lord Hutton, in his concurring opinion observed: “I am of opinion that there could be cases where the interest of the judge in the subject matter of the proceedings arising from his strong commitment to some cause or belief or his association with a person or body involved in the proceedings could shake public confidence in the administration of justice as much as a shareholding (which might be small) in a public company involved in the litigation.”] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2241 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company upon actual proof of bias but whether there is a real possibility of bias based on the facts and circumstances. 93. In R v. Sussex Justices,180 the applicant was charged with the offence of dangerous driving, which involved a collision with another vehicle. The prosecution brought a case against the applicant before the Magistrate’s court. Simultaneously, the driver of the other vehicle also instituted civil proceedings against the applicant. The solicitor hired by the other driver in civil proceedings was also acting as the Magistrate’s clerk in the criminal proceedings. At the conclusion of the evidence before the Magistrate, the acting clerk retired with the judges to their chambers. The Magistrate convicted the applicant without consulting the clerk. In appeal, the Divisional Court quashed the conviction. Lord Hewart CJ held that the clerk’s involvement in the civil proceedings made him unfit in the circumstances to serve as clerk to the Magistrate in the criminal matter. Lord Hewart CJ observed that the question depended not upon what actually was done but upon what might appear to be done and the judicial proceedings will be vitiated if there is “even a suspicion that there has been improper interference with the course of justice.” 94.