It was thought that the aim of financial inclusion and ready access to credit for small agriculturalists could be achieved by State control of the banking system. Agnostic of immediate profit motive and credit- worthiness, Banks operated and expanded to the “un-banked.” However, in due course, it has been observed that limited competition and poor credit assessment severely hampered the efficiency and health of the banking system. 6.7 Around the 1980s, there had been a rising realization of the cons of protectionist policies and the merits of a market-led economy. Therefore, the sixth five-year plan marked the beginning of economic liberalization in India and outlined a series of measures aimed at boosting the economy’s competitiveness. Notable steps included removal of large-scale price controls, reductions in import duties and the beginning of the end of licence Raj. A significant deviation from the policy of 1956, a joint venture between the Government of India and Suzuki – a Japanese automaker – rolled off the assembly line in 1983, the first Maruti car. In the following years, large-scale efforts were undertaken to usher in information technology and telecom revolutions in the country along with promoting exports and the utility of foreign investment and capital goods. 6.8 The political economy of the country from 1950s till the late 1980s had made apparent that the underlying political current and rhetoric of an idyllic but industrial society based on a socialistic pattern had been failing to deliver on the hopes of a modern lifestyle and Indians’ entrepreneurial spirit. This is despite the five technological missions initiated in mid-1980s. It is not uncertain that the deficit spending of the 80s led by high external debt, double-digit inflation, short-term debt reaching 147% of foreign exchange reserves, etc. shine a light on macroeconomic crisis that India found itself in at the end of the 1980s. In this [2024] 11 S.C.R. 203 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. backdrop, amidst a series of negotiations and policy reforms, Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao spoke to the nation on July 9, 1991 of the impending need to bring in far-reaching changes and reforms that would bolster the economy and take it to a modern globalized world. Recounting the difficulties, he said: “…For the last eighteen months, there has been paralysis on the economic front. The last two governments postponed taking vital decisions. The fiscal position was allowed to deteriorate. The balance-of-payment crisis became unmanageable. Non-resident Indians and foreign leaders became more and more reluctant to lend money to India. Consequently, India’s external reserves declined steeply, and we had no foreign exchange to import even such essential commodities as diesel, kerosene, edible oil, and fertiliser. The net result was that when we came to power, we found the financial position of the country in a terrible mess. …” 6.9 The New Industrial Policy of 1991 put an end to the shackles that bound the Indian industry into inefficiency and non- competitiveness. While the opening up of the economy was gradual, the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices was diluted allowing market players to scale up without government approval and automatic approvals for Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) with majority holding and qualifiable foreign technological agreements were assured along with many other solutions.