are entitled to the benefit of an additional increment? It is the case on behalf of the State that once the concerned Judicial Officer is getting the benefit of ACP, is not entitled to the additional increment on acquiring the additional qualification of LL.M. The aforesaid cannot be accepted. The grant of ACP has nothing to do with the benefit of additional increment on acquiring 13 SLP(C) 1041 of 2020 350 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports theadditional qualification like LL.M. Even otherwise, the issue is squarely covered by the decision of this Court in Bharat Kumar Shantilal Thakkar Vs. State of Gujarat & Anr. (2014)15 SCC 305. In view of the above, there is no substance in the present Special Leave Petition and the same deserves to be dismissed and is accordingly dismissed.” 43. There is no justification for denying the benefit of advance increments at the ACP stage. The object and purpose of ACP is to prevent stagnation. On the other hand, the object and purpose of advance increments for acquiring higher qualifications is to improve judicial performance. Hence, the restrictive condition imposed by the SNJPC in regard to non-extension of advance increments at the ACP stage is not accepted. The advance increments for acquiring higher qualifications shall also be made available to officers who have acquired their degrees through distance learning programmes. 44. Subject to the above clarifications, the recommendation of the SNJPC is accepted. 10. Hill Area/Tough Location Allowance 45. The SNJPC has made the following recommendations: “1. Hill Area/Tough Location Allowance @Rs.5000/- per month shall be paid to the Judicial Officers posted in hill areas/ tough locations. 2. More beneficial provision, if any, already applicable to the officials of the State/UT shall be extended to the Judicial officers. 3. In case of doubt, whether a particular area can be considered to be hilly or tough location area, decision of the High Court shall be followed in relation to the Judicial officers. 4. This allowance shall be available w.e.f. 01.01.2016.” 46. The recommendation is accepted. All High Courts are directed to specify the areas classifiable as hill areas/tough locations within a period of two months from the date of this . [2024] 1 S.C.R. 351 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors 11. Home ly/Domestic Help Allowance 47. The SNJPC has made the following recommendations: “1. The Home-cum-office ly allowance shall be available to the serving Judicial officers at the following rates : District Judges : minimum wages for one unskilled worker in the concerned State/UT subject to minimum of Rs.10,000/- per month Civil Judges : 60% of the minimum wages for one unskilled worker in the concerned State/UT subject to minimum of Rs.7,500/- per month. 2. Judicial officers getting higher allowance on this account by virtue of the s issued by some States, they may continue to draw the same. 3. The allowance at the aforesaid rates shall be available to the Judicial Officers w.e.f. 01.01.2016 in States where they are getting the same prior to 01.01.2016 and in other cases, w.e.f.