Or it was to be established that the writ petitioner was a dishonest business organisation, or irresponsible or wholly lacking in business integrity. The government or a government agency like the respondent- Corporation could not blacklist the writ petitioner without assigning these reasons or reasons akin thereto. There is a civil dispute between the parties. The matter has gone to arbitration. At best, the writ petitioner can be accused of taking the contract, not fully paying for it and not performing it. The respondent Corporation has a monetary claim against the writ petitioner. It does not appear that the writ petitioner has made payment of any significant part of the contract price. It is astonishing that the respondent Corporation did not terminate the contract within the contract period and award hoardings to another party when the writ petitioner made a breach of the payment condition to pay the quarterly licence fee in advance. It waited till after the expiry of 198 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the contract period on 30th June, 2015. Thereafter, they proceeded to show cause the writ petitioner. This shows considerable fault on the part of the respondent Corporation. It also goes to indicate that expressly or impliedly the respondent Corporation had accepted the alleged breach of contract made by the petitioner. Moreover, the defence of the writ petitioner in their written notes of argument is that 174 hoardings which were awarded to them were “non-lucrative”. As the respondent Corporation did not issue a no objection certificate, CESC Limited could not give permission to light the hoardings. The writ petitioner could not put them to any use. If this is the defence raised by the writ petitioner it could not be cast aside as one totally devoid of any merit. Therefore, following the ratio laid down by Mr. Justice Sinha in the case of B.S.N. Joshi & Sons Ltd. v. Nair Coal Services Ltd and another reported in (2006) 11 SCC 548 blacklisting proceeding should not have proceeded with because the writ petitioner in my opinion raised a bona fide dispute. Furthermore, blacklisting ought not to have been made until and unless this dispute was resolved. For all the above reasons, the impugned dated 2nd March, 2016 is set aside. Only the issue of blacklisting is decided by this . Any observation regarding any other dispute between the parties is to be taken as tentative.” 15. The matter was carried in Appeal by the Corporation and by the impugned , the High Court has allowed the same by holding that since the appellant was given a hearing and since the of 02.03.2016 cannot be held to be unreasonable or unfair or disproportionate, there existed sufficient reasons for debarring the appellant. So holding, the Appeal was allowed. The appellant aggrieved is before us in Appeal. This Court while issuing notice in the matter by its of 27.04.2018 stayed the operation of the impugned . Contentions: 16. We have heard Mr. P.S. Datta, learned senior counsel for the appellant and Mr. Sujoy Mondal, learned counsel for the respondent.