This decision of the CESTAT, Delhi has been challenged in CA 1534 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports No.62/2022 (Commissioner Central Excise and Service Tax LTU vs. Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd.) 2. Most of the Assessees before us are mobile service providers (MSPs). The MSPs typically provide sim cards to the subscribers either in physical or electronic form, on activation of which the subscribers are able to enjoy wireless telecommunication service. For rendering these services, the service providers usually own and operate the infrastructure such as cell towers, Base Transceiver System (BTS) along with accompanying network equipment and structures like pre-fabricated building (PFBs), electricity generating sets (gensets), battery back-up and stabilisers for uninterrupted power supply to ensure seamless telecom service to the subscribers. 2.1 Some of the Assessees, on the other hand, are merely providing passive infrastructure support service to the mobile telecommunication companies at telecom sites which consists of towers and other accompanying ancillaries including PFBs as mentioned above. 3. The process of mobile telecommunication begins when a subscriber uses a wireless mobile handset which is also known as Mobile Station (MS) to make a call after activation of the sim card. The mobile handset, which is a radio equipment, performs the signal processing function of digitizing, encoding, error protecting, encrypting and modulating to transmitted signals. When it receives signals from other mobile stations, it performs the inverse functions. The mobile handset sends a signal, an electromagnetic wave, which is a modulated version of the user’s voice or data. The signal emanating from the handset is received by the antenna mounted on the tower. Thereafter, the signal received by the antenna is sent through cables to the Base Station Sub-system (BSS). BSS is a set of base station equipment like Base Transceiver Station (BTS) and Base Station Controller (BSC). BSC essentially controls one or more BTS or BS. Base Transceiver Station (BTS) housed at the base of the tower is kept in secured and safe conditions in the prefabricated house or building (PFB). The BTS then converts the electromagnetic signal into a digital format that can be processed by the network. The processed signal is then transmitted to the mobile switching centre (MSC). The MSC then routes the calls or data to the destination through another tower or series of towers and by a reverse process [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1535 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune of conversion from digital mode to electromagnetic wave, the signal is received at the destination. 3.1 The said activities require constant electricity supply to the equipment to function. To prevent any interruption in the supply of electricity, the MSPs invariably keep electricity generator sets (gensets) and UPS Batteries along with stabilisers etc. which are kept near the base of the tower, usually housed in the portable PFBs to protect from damage. 3.2 From the above, what is evident is that to dispense wireless telecom service, the sim cards, antenna, BTS along with other equipment play a critical role.