5. Both parties filed applications under Section 33 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 19961for correction of the award and for additional arbitral awards. The arbitral tribunal dismissed the application filed by the respondent. It allowed the application filed by the appellant only to the extent of increasing the costs awarded to it by Rs 12,00,000 to reflect the fees paid to the arbitral tribunal subsequent to the parties filing their memo of costs. 6. The respondent challenged the arbitral award under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act and moved an application for stay of execution. The High Court, by its impugned and dated 9 September 2024, granted a stay on the execution of the award conditional on the respondent furnishing a bank guarantee in the sum of Rs 21,07,66,621 within a period of eight weeks. 7. The of the High Court has been assailed by the original claimant of the arbitral proceeding (i.e., the appellant in this case) whose contention is that since the award operates as a money decree under Section 36 of the Arbitration Act, the High Court was not justified in directing merely the furnishing of a bank guarantee in relation to the principal amount. The appellant contends that the respondent ought to have instead been directed to deposit the amount awarded to it as a condition for the grant of a stay on the execution of the award. 1 “Arbitration Act” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1507 International Seaport Dredging Pvt Ltd v. Kamarajar Port Limited 8. Mr Shyam Divan, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, has urged that: (i)A body of precedent has emerged from this Court in terms of which the sanctity of arbitration must be preserved by requiring the deposit of the amount awarded as a condition for the stay on the enforcement of the award; (ii) The amended provisions of the Arbitration Act require that while considering an application for stay of an award for the payment of money, due regard has to be had to the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure 19082; and (iii)The award of Rs 21,07,66,621 covered ten claims of which three were awarded in full and seven in part. The High Courtwhile ing a stay, has essentially furnished only two reasons. The first reason pertains to the question of cess, while the only other reason is that the respondent is not “a fly by operator”. 9. Mr C A Sundaram, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, submits that: (i)The amended provisions of the statute incorporate provisions of the CPC in regard to ing a stay of an award which contains provisions for the payment of money; (ii)Under XLI Rule 5 of the CPC, the requirement is for furnishing of security and the deposit of money should not, therefore, be regarded as a default option; (iii)The High Court had due regard to the fact that the respondent is a statutory body and correctly held that security should be furnished in the form of a bank guarantee; (iv) As such the impugned should not be interfered with under Article 136 of the Constitution; and (v) The body of precedents which Mr Divan relied on pertains to appeals under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act.