(iii) for the aforesaid purposes, GEAC is directed to upload the applicant’s biosafety dossier comprising 3285 pages on its website after prior intimation to the applicant CGMCP, University of Delhi (South Campus) within a period of two weeks from today. This is with a view to bring in transparency in the matter. (iv) The aforesaid biosafety dossier shall remain on the website of GEAC for a minimum period of 30 days from the date it is uploaded so as to enable the stakeholders to respond to the said dossier. On receipt of such response, if any, GEAC shall collate the said responses, and take the same into consideration for its future course of action. (v) In the event, GEAC and MoEF&CC conclude that transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 is a HT crop, then the nature of risk that would be caused by the said plant to the environment including other plants as well as to human beings and animals must be researched and deliberated upon. The deliberations must take into consideration different aspects, such as biosafety, risk assessment, soil health, micro-biology and socio-economic aspects etc. (vi) After taking a decision on the nature and characteristic of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11, the respondent shall take a policy decision in the matter afresh on environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 on receipt of the report from GEAC in future bearing in mind health and environmental aspects of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11. (vii) In the above context, the respondent-Union of India shall also comply with the recommendations made by Technical Expert Committee (TEC) on Agriculture, Science and Technology, discussed above to the extent they are not contrary to the aforesaid directions and if not already complied with. 2140 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (viii) The respondent-Union of India shall also comply with the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Standing Committees (PSCs) on Agriculture and on Science and Technology, Environment and Forest, to the extent they are not contrary to the aforesaid directions if not already complied with. (ix) With regard to import of GM edible oil such as mustard or canola being made, the requirements of Section 23 of FSSA, 2006 in the matter of packaging and labelling shall be complied with by the respondent-Union of India as early as practicable. I also issue certain general directions in relation to GM crops as under: (b) The respondent-Union of India is directed to evolve a National Policy with regard to GM crops in the realm of research, cultivation, trade and commerce in the country. The said National Policy shall be formulated in consultation with all stakeholders, such as, experts in the field of agriculture, biotechnology, State Governments, representatives of the farmers, etc. The National Policy to be formulated shall be given due publicity. (c) For the aforesaid purpose, the MoEF&CC shall conduct a national consultation, preferably within the next four months, with the aim of formulating the National Policy on GM crops. The State Governments shall be involved in evolving the National Policy on GM crops.