With this clear indication, by the Highest Court of the country, I am not persuaded to accept the submission of Mr. Paranjape that an Application under Section 11 of the Act seeking appointment of an Arbitrator is not maintainable. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 151 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad 9. The Petitioner by his invocation notice had triggered the arbitration and accordingly approached the Court seeking appointment of an Arbitrator as the Respondent failed to agree to the appointment of Arbitrator within the period stipulated under Section 11, but instead of prosecuting the said remedy, he chose to adopt the path of initiating the proceedings under the IBC, but unfortunately, remained unsuccessful. It is, thus, imperatively clear that the Petitioner was prosecuting the IBC proceedings before the NCLT or NCLAT, which was a completely wrong forum for him for redressal of his grievance, he was ultimately turned away by the Apex Court on 15.07.2022 by declaring that since the debt which he claims is disputed, he cannot initiate the CIRP. 10. Since he was availing a wrong remedy, he was turned down on 15.07.2022, by availing the liberty conferred, he has filed the Arbitration Petition. Worth it to note that initially when he approached the NCLT, Kolkata, under Section 8 and 9 of the IBC for institution of CIRP process against the Respondent, his claim was entertained and it is only the Respondents, who approached the Appellate Tribunal, the passed by the NCLT in favour of the Applicant came to be reversed. Therefore, it cannot be said that the Petitioner was sitting idle and not taking any steps for recovery of his dues, but it is a case where he was availing remedy for recovery of his dues before a wrong forum and he is entitled to take benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act, 1963. In fact, the NCLT by its dated 28.02.2020, admitted the Application under Section 8 and 9 of the IBC and even declared the said moratorium public announcement and in accordance with Section 13 and 14 of the IBC and Moratorium under Section 14 of the IBC was also imposed. 11. Another point raised by Mr. Paranjape in respect of time barred claim being prosecuted by the Petitioner must also meet the same fate. 152 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The learned counsel would place reliance upon the decision in case of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited and Another vs. Nortel Networks India Private Limited (2021) 5 SCC 738, where it is held that since there is no provision in the 1996 Act specifying the period of limitation for filing an application under Section 11, recourse must be held to the Limitation Act as per Section 43 of the 1996 Act and since none of the Articles in the schedule to Limitation Act provide time for filing such Application, it would be governed by residual provision in Article 137. A reading of the said decision would also disclose that, it has been held that limitation is normally mixed question of fact and law and would lie within the domain of Arbitral Tribunal, but claim is hopelessly barred or a deadwood, in that case, the Court exercising the power under Section 11 may not deem it expedient to refer an exfacie time barred and dead claim to the Arbitrator.