However, there was no reply on the side of the Respondent No.5. Finding no other alternative, the competent authority by exercising powers under section 83 of the Act, passed the dated 31.05.2011 to demolish the said illegal construction raised on the subject property. Thus, from 1990 onwards, though the Respondent No.1 had periodically issued notices for removal of unauthorized constructions, it did not lead to actual removal/ demolition. Despite sufficient opportunities being granted to Respondent Nos.5 and 6 they did not utilize the same and continued the illegality. Such parties cannot plead estoppel. Even otherwise, we are of the view that there cannot be any estoppel against law. The lapses on the part of the authorities will not vest any person with a right to put up construction without planning approval and in violation of the conditions regarding usage. However, the fact that the notices issued by the authorities between 1990 to 2013 did not culminate into demolition, would speak volumes about the lackadaisical attitude of the authorities and that also smacks of collusion with the violators. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1335 Rajendra Kumar Barjatya and Another v. U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad & Ors. Therefore, the fact that the building has stood over 24 years will not clothe the appellants with any right in law and hence we do not find any force in the contentions of the counsel for the appellants alleging delay and latches. 16. As regards the allegation raised by the appellants that without issuing any notice, the of demolition came to be passed against them, the records reveal that before passing the of demolition dated 30.05.2011 by the competent authority, the Respondent No.1 sent show cause notice dated 20.04.2011 to the Respondent No.5 pointing out the raising of commercial construction illegally on the plot allotted for residential use, that too, without sanctioned map/plan and permission accorded. Subsequently, the copy of the notice served on the Respondent No.5 was pasted on the notice board. But the Respondent No.5 failed to appear before the authority concerned to put forth his stand. Therefore, the Respondent No.1 passed the dated 31.05.2011 for demolishing the unauthorized construction, but the same did not take place. 16.1. Even thereafter, the Respondent No. 5 continued to raise illegal commercial construction, which led the Respondent No.1 to lodge a First Information Report on 29.07.2013 and also sought for assistance from Respondent No. 4 for demolition. However, on account of the fact that there was no assistance from the police, the demolition could not be proceeded with. It is thereafter that the Respondent No.1 approached the High Court by filing the writ petition. It is clear from the above narration of facts that there has been no violation of the principles of natural justice and the Respondent No.1 after sending notices to the original allottee i.e., Respondent No.5 took steps to remove the unauthorized construction made on the subject property. Therefore, the action impugned now is not de novo action, but only continuation of the earlier line of events as stated above.