875 Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax were part of trading assets, income by way of interest on such securities could come under section 10 of the Income tax Act 1922. 20. In the light of what we have discussed hereinabove, we find that the assessee's method of accounting does not result in loss of tax/revenue for the department. That, there was no need to interfere with the method of accounting adopted by the assessee-Bank. That, the in the case of Vijaya Bank had no application to the facts of the case. That, having assessed the income under section 28, the department ought to have taxed interest for broken period interest received and the department ought to have allowed deduction for broken period interest paid.” (emphasis added) 13. In the case of Citi Bank NA,3 the question before this Court was whether interest paid for the broken period should not be considered part of the purchase price and whether it should be allowed as revenue expenditure in the year of purchase of securities. In this decision, this Court quoted the above paragraphs from the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of American Express International Banking Corporation.2 This Court expressly approved the conclusions recorded by the Bombay High Court. This Court held thus: “The facts in the present case are similar to the facts in American Express (supra).Agreeing with this view and accepting the distinction pointed out by the Bombay High Court, this Court dismissed the two special leave petitions filed by the revenue, one of which was dismissed by a three Judge Bench. After going through the facts which are similar to the facts in American Express (supra), since the tax effect is neutral, the method of computation adopted by the assessee and accepted by the revenue cannot be interfered with. We agree with the view expressed by the Bombay High Court in American Express (supra) that on the facts of the present case, the in Vijaya Bank Ltd. (supra) would have no application.” 876 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Thus, this Court approved the view taken by the Bombay High Court that the interest paid for the broken period should not be considered as part of the purchase price, but it should be allowed as revenue expenditure in the year of purchase of securities. This Court has reiterated the view taken by the Bombay High Court in the case of American Express International Banking Corporation.2 WHETHER SECURITIES ARE HELD AS STOCK-IN-TRADE 14. In the case of Cocanada Radhaswami Bank Ltd.,4 the Bank had shown interest on securities held by it as a source of income. The Bank claimed loss against other banking activities and set off the interest on securities against the higher amount shown as loss in other banking activities. The department allowed the loss to be set off against the income under the head “business” and disallowed it under the income under the head “interest on securities”. The Appellate Tribunal confirmed the view.