28. Admittedly, the Appellant was able to establish that the signature on the cheque in question was of the Respondent and in regard to the decision of this Court in Bir Singh (supra), a presumption is to ideally arise. However, in the above referred context of the factual matrix, the inability of the Appellant to put forth the details of the loan advanced, and his contradictory statements, the ratio therein would not impact the present case to the effect of giving rise to the statutory presumption under Section 139 of the NI Act 1881. The [2024] 8 S.C.R. 137 Sri Dattatraya v. Sharanappa Respondent has been able to shift the weight of the scales of justice in his favour through the preponderance of probabilities. 29. The Trial Court had rightly observed that the Appellant was not able to plead even a valid existence of a legally recoverable debt as the very issuance of cheque is dubious based on the fallacies and contradictions in the evidence adduced by the parties. Furthermore, the fact that the Respondent had inscribed his signature on the agreement drawn on a white paper and not on a stamp paper as presented by the Appellant, creates another set of doubt in the case. Since the accused has been able to cast a shadow of doubt on the case presented by the Appellant, he has therefore successfully rebutted the presumption stipulated by Section 139 of the NI Act 1881. 30. Moreover, affirming the findings of the Trial Court, the High Court observed that while the signature of the Respondent on the cheque drawn by him as well as on the agreement between the parties herein stands admitted, in case where the concern of financial capacity of the creditor is raised on behalf of an accused, the same is to be discharged by the complainant through leading of cogent evidence. 31. The instant case pertains to challenge against concurrent findings of fact favouring the acquittal of the respondent, it would be cogent to delve into an analysis of the principles underlining the exercise of power to adjudicate a challenge against acquittal bolstered by concurrent findings. The following broad principles can be culled out after a comprehensive analysis of judicial pronouncements: i) Criminal jurisprudence emphasises on the fundamental essence of liberty and presumption of innocence unless proven guilty. This presumption gets emboldened by virtue of concurrent findings of acquittal. Therefore, this court must be extra- cautious while dealing with a challenge against acquittal as the said presumption gets reinforced by virtue of a well-reasoned favourable outcome. Consequently, the onus on the prosecution side becomes more burdensome pursuant to the said double presumption. ii) In case of concurrent findings of acquittal, this Court would ordinarily not interfere with such view considering the principle of liberty enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution of India 1950, unless perversity is blatantly forthcoming and there are compelling reasons. 138 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports iii) Where two views are possible, then this Court would not ordinarily interfere and reverse the concurrent findings of acquittal.