(2) the information memorandum shall contain the following details of the corporate debtor-- [a] assets and liabilities with such description, as on the insolvency commencement date, as are generally necessary for ascertaining their values. Explanation.- Description includes the details such as date of acquisition cost of acquisition, re- maining useful life identification number, depreciation charged, book value, and any other relevant details. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 273 Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority v. Prabhjit Singh Soni & Anr. resolution applicants to submit a resolution plan or plans; and (f) present all resolution plans at the meetings of the COC. 25. The meetings of the COC are to be conducted by the RP. Sub section (3) of Section 2426, inter alia, provides that the RP shall give notice of each meeting of the COC to the operational creditors or their representative(s) if the amount of their aggregate dues is not less than ten percent of the debt. Regulation 19 of the CIRP Regulations, 2016 further mandates the RP to ensure that notice of the meeting is given to every participant. “Participant” is defined in Regulation 2 (l) of the CIRP Regulations 2016 as a person who is entitled to attend a meeting of the COC under Section 24 of the IBC or any other person authorised by the COC to attend the meeting. 26. Based on the information memorandum, when a resolution plan is submitted by a resolution applicant, eligible under Section 29-A of the IBC, the RP is under an obligation to examine whether the resolution (b) the latest annual financial statements; (c) financial statements of the corporate debtor for the last 2 financial years and provisional finan- cial statements for the current financial year made up to a date not earlier than 14 days from the date of the application; (d) a list of creditors containing the names of creditors, the amounts claimed by them, the amount of their claims admitted and the security interest, if any, in respect of such claims; (e) particulars of a debt due from or to the corporate debtor with respect to related parties; (f) details of guarantees that have been given in relation to the debts of the corporate debtor by other persons, specifying which of the guarantors is a related party; (g) the names and addresses of the members or partners holding at least 1% stake in the corpo- rate debtor along with the size of stake; (h) details of all material litigation and an ongoing investigation or proceeding initiated by Govern- ment and statutory authorities; (i) the number of workers and employees and liabilities of the corporate debtor towards them; (j) *******omitted (k)*******omitted (l) other information, which the resolution professional deems relevant to the committee. (3) A member of the committee may request the resolution professional for further information of the nature described in this regulation and the resolution professional shall provide such information to all members within reasonable time if such information has a bearing on the resolution plan. (4) The resolution professional shall share the information memorandum after receiving an undertaking from a member of the committee to the effect that such member or resolution applicant shall maintain confidentiality of the information and shall not use such information to cause an undue gain or undue loss to itself or any other person and comply with the requirements under subsection [2] of section 29.