(6) While applying the rule of audi alteram partem (the primary principle of natural justice) the Court/ Tribunal/Authority must always bear in mind the ultimate and overriding objective underlying the said rule, viz., to ensure a fair hearing and to ensure that there is no failure of justice. It is this objective which should guide them in applying the rule to varying situations that arise before them. (7) There may be situations where the interests of State or public interest may call for a curtailing of 188 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the rule of audi alteram partem. In such situations, the Court may have to balance public/State interest with the requirement of natural justice and arrive at an appropriate decision.” After going through the facts of this case as discussed above, the present case falls within the ambit of the principle laid down in paragraph 33 (3) and (6), of the above case. 43. In the recent decision this Court in State of Uttar Pradesh Vs. Sudhir Kumar Singh & Ors. ; 2020 SCC Online SC 847, in paragraph 39 explaining the principle of natural justice and prejudice theory has been made which is reproduced as thus: - "(1) Natural justice is a flexible tool in the hands of the judiciary to reach out in fit cases to remedy injustice. The breach of the audi alteram partem rule cannot by itself, without more, lead to the conclusion that prejudice is thereby caused. (2) Where procedural and/or substantive provisions of law embody the principles of natural justice, their infraction per se does not lead to invalidity of the s passed. Here again, prejudice must be caused to the litigant, except in the case of a mandatory provision of law which is conceived not only in individual interest, but also in public interest. (3) No prejudice is caused to the person complaining of the breach of natural justice where such person does not dispute the case against him or it. This can happen by reason of estoppel, acquiescence, waiver and by way of non-challenge or non-denial or admission of facts, in cases in which the Court finds on facts that no real prejudice can therefore be said to have been caused to the person complaining of the breach of natural justice. (4) In cases where facts can be stated to be admitted or indisputable, and only one conclusion is possible, the Court does not pass futile s of setting aside or remand when there is, in fact, no prejudice caused. This conclusion must be drawn [2024] 4 S.C.R. 189 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. by the Court on an appraisal of the facts of a case, and not by the authority who denies natural justice to a person. (5) The “prejudice” exception must be more than a mere apprehension or even a reasonable suspicion of a litigant. It should exist as a matter of fact, or be based upon a definite inference of likelihood of prejudice flowing from the non- observance of natural justice.” In view of the foregoing, it is clear that the doctrine of natural justice would not apply as a straitjacket formula, violation of one limb of natural justice that is audi altrem partem can be accepted when the prejudice has been shown to be caused.