The objective of Article 16(4) is to ensure effective representation of the class in the services of the State across posts and grades. Classes which are 227 Also see Nagaraj (supra) where this Court observed that the discretion of the State under Article 16(4) is subject to the existence of “backwardness” which must be based on objective factors and “inadequacy of representation” which must factually exist. 228 See RK Sabharwal v. State of Punjab (1995) 2 SCC 745 [4]; BK Pavitra (II) v. State of Kerala (2019) 16 SCC 129 [107]; Indra Sawhney (1992) Supp (3) SCC 217 [807 and 808] [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1425 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. socially backward occupy the lowest of the social strata primarily because of the traditional occupation accorded to the class by social rules. For example, certain Dalit castes are regarded as scavenger castes. Even with the provision of reservation, it is very difficult for the backward classes to shed the traditional occupation that is ascribed to them by society and optimize the opportunities even at the lowest levels. The struggles that the class faces do not disappear with their representation in the lower grades. The endeavor is to ensure true and effective representation of the socially backward classes across posts. 168. Opportunities for real and effective representation must be created in all posts and grades. The objective of the provision is not to emulate the existing social hierarchy where the low-grade posts are occupied by the socially backward while supervisory and managerial posts continue to be occupied by the advanced classes. If the objective of Article 16(4) is to be achieved in the truest sense, the inadequacy of representation must not be determined only on the basis of the total number of members of the backward class in the services of the State but by assessing the representation of the class across various posts. 169. The meaning of the phrase “adequate representation” fell for the consideration of this Court in Rangachari (supra). Writing for the majority, Justice Gajendragadkar observed that adequate representation means not only numerical representation but qualitative representation as well: “25. […] This condition precedent may refer either to the numerical inadequacy of representation in the services or even to the qualitative inadequacy of representation. The advancement of the socially and educationally backward classes requires not only that they should have adequate representation in the lowest rung of services but that they should aspire to secure adequate representation in selection posts in the services as well. In the context the expression “adequately represented” imports considerations of “size” as well as “values”, numbers as well as the nature of appointments held and so it involves not merely the numerical test but also the qualitative one. It is thus by the operation of the 1426 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports numerical and a qualitative test that the adequacy or otherwise of the representation of backward classes in any service can be judged.” (emphasis supplied) 170.