[2024] 1 S.C.R. 1069 Adv Babasaheb Wasade & Ors. v. Manohar Gangadhar Muddeshwar & Ors. 9. Certain facts are not disputed by the parties. The same are being recorded hereunder: i) 7 Objectors who had filed objections against the Change Report were admittedly defaulters in payment of their annual subscriptions, and were covered by the second part of Section 15 of the Registration Act which stated that no person shall be entitled to vote or be counted as a member whose subscription at the time shall have been in arrears for a period exceeding three months. The 7 Objectors admittedly fell under this category of default. ii) Notice for the meeting fixed for 08.09.2002 was not issued to the 7 Objectors for the reason that they were in arrears and as such would not have the right to vote or be counted as members. iii) All the office bearers holding important posts like President, Vice-President and Secretary had expired prior to request dated 20.08.2002 and no election had been held till then to fill up the said posts. iv) The appellant No.1 was functioning as Working President since 1997 without there being any challenge to such assignment in the Executive Body meeting dated 01.07.1997. v) All the 7 Objectors who had filed objections to the Change Report had died during the pendency of the appeal before the Joint Charity Commissioner. The contesting respondents applied before the Joint Charity Commissioner to be impleaded as respondents. Said request was allowed, despite objections by the appellants that they had no locus as they were neither trustees or members of the Society or the Trust. vi) The appellants are in effective control of the Society and the Trust for the last more than two decades and are being elected during fresh elections held in the last two decades. 10. We have heard Shri Shekhar Naphade, learned Senior Counsel for the Appellants and Shri Narender Hooda, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the private respondents. 11. The arguments of Shri Naphade on behalf of the appellants are briefly summarised hereunder: 1070 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports i) Today none of the 7 Objectors are alive. The private respondents to this appeal having not raised any objections to the Change Report, cannot be heard because they are neither trustees or members of any category of the Society. ii) Consistent finding recorded by the Authorities, the District Judge and the High Court is that the 7 Objectors were in default in payment of their annual subscription and therefore, were not entitled to any notice for the meeting of the elections as they were prohibited from voting and being counted as member under Section 15 of the Societies Registration Act. The Courts below committed an error in holding that due to lack of service of notice, the proceedings of meeting dated 08.09.2002 were vitiated. iii) The appellants are in effective control of the Society as also the Trust and have been functioning in accordance with its bye-laws for more than two decades and they are continuing to hold elections from time to time, and should therefore, not be disturbed.