…” 9. In pursuance of this , the Union of India has filed an additional affidavit and an updated, comprehensive status report. In the course of its affidavit, the Union of India has submitted that: 5 “UNFCCC” [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1331 M K Ranjitsinh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. a. The reduction in the population of GIBs began in the 1960s, much before the electrification of the area and the construction of transmission lines. Research indicates that the reasons for the dwindling population include a low birth rate, poaching, habitat destruction and predation. The use of insecticides and pesticides has resulted in the reduction of locusts and grasshoppers, which form an essential part of the prey of GIBs. The livestock population has also increased due to which there has been overgrazing in the pastures; b. The direction by this Court for laying high voltage, or as the case may be, low voltage lines underground is practically impossible to implement; c. The Union Government has a commitment at the international level to reduce India’s carbon footprint and recourse to renewable sources of energy including solar installations provides the key to the implementation of these commitments; d. The Union of India as well as the concerned state governments are taking comprehensive steps for the conservation and protection of the endangered species of the GIB. They are: i. The GIB is listed in Part III of Schedule I of the Wild Life (Protection) Act 1972. The species listed in Schedule I are granted the highest level of protection from hunting, in terms of this statute; ii. Under the centrally sponsored scheme titled ‘Development of Wildlife Habitats’, financial and technical assistance is being provided to the state governments for the conservation of the habitat of the GIB; iii. The Forest departments of the states of Rajasthan, Maharashtra, and Gujarat, in collaboration with the Wildlife Institute of India,6 Dehradun, are carrying out conservation breeding with the aim of building a captive population of the species for release in the wild and promoting in-situ conservation of the species; 6 “WII” 1332 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports iv. The Government of India has launched a program called the ‘Habitat Improvement and Conservation Breeding of Great Indian Bustard’ in 2016 for in-situ conservation of the GIB. It is being implemented in collaboration with the Government of Rajasthan; v. At present, conservation breeding facilities are operational at Sam and Ramdeora in Jaisalmer. A partial founder population of the GIB consisting of twenty-one individuals and seven chicks has been secured. The chicks were artificially hatched from eggs collected from the wild. Captive breeding has been commenced; vi. The conservation project is being supervised by a team of three scientists, three veterinarians, eighteen project associates, and forty local support staff; vii. The WII has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the International Fund for Houbara Conservation which is dedicated to the conservation of the Houbara Bustard. The MoU outlines various areas of collaboration including training of staff, technical support and advice, and the supply of bird cages and food pellets in the initial stages of the conservation program; and viii.