This, however would not mean that the objection as to admissibility on the ground that the instrument is not duly stamped is judicially decided; it is merely postponed. In such a situation at a later stage before the suit is finally disposed of it would none-the- less be obligatory upon the court to decide the objection. If after applying mind to the rival contentions the trial court admits a document in evidence, Section 36 of the Stamp Act would come into play and such admission cannot be called in question at any stage of the same suit or proceeding on the ground that the instrument has not been duly stamped. The court, and of necessity it would be trial court before which the objection is taken about admissibility of document on the ground that it is not duly stamped, has to judicially determine the matter as soon as the document is tendered in evidence and before it is marked as an exhibit in the case and where a document has been inadvertently admitted without the court applying its mind as to the question of admissibility, the instrument could not be said to have been admitted in evidence with a view to attracting Section 36 (see Javer Chand v. Pukhraj Surana) [AIR 1961 SC 1655] . The endorsement made by the learned trial Judge that ‘Objected, allowed subject to objection’, clearly indicates that when the objection was raised it was not judicially determined and the document was merely tentatively marked and in such a situation Section 36 would not be attracted.” (emphasis ours) [2024] 7 S.C.R. 329 G.M. Shahul Hameed v. Jayanthi R. Hegde 17. The pivotal aspect emerging for consideration on the terms of sections 33 and 34 of the 1957 Act, with which we are concerned, is that whether the Trial Court did judicially determine the question of admissibility. It is here that we need to ascertain the rationale behind the Trial Court’s approach to go behind admission of the GPA in evidence and marking thereof as an exhibit, leading to the under challenge before the High Court. Relevant portions of the of the Trial Court read thus: “2. *** There are two suits before this court, one is the present suit and another suit is OS No. 301/03. In the present suit, the GPA holder of plaintiff filed an affidavit by way of chief examination in the morning session and the documents were marked. While marking the documents he was held up in the court of Civil Judge (Jr. Dn. ), Mangalore and hence no objection regarding the deficiency of stamp duty on GPA could be raised before this court. Accordingly the matter has been adjourned for cross examination of PW1. The alleged GPA is in favour of third party with power to sell the property and hence article 41 of the Karnataka Stamp Act 1957 is applicable and stamp duty on the market value has to be paid on the same. The GPA is executed on a stamp paper of value of Rs.100/- only.