[It was observed: 7. […] whenever an amended Act has to be applied 1682 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by substitution any reference to a legislation must be construed as the legislation as amended by substitution. 58. In Shyam Sunder v. Ram Kumar,115 a Constitution Bench of this Court was called upon to decide the extent of retrospective operation of an amendment by substitution. In that case, the Haryana Amendment Act 1995 substituted Section 15 of the Punjab Pre-emption Act by taking away the right of a co-sharer to pre-empt a sale during the pendency of an appeal. This Court observed that according to 20 Rule 14(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908, the right of pre- emption becomes a vested right and can only be taken away by a known method of law. As regards the retrospective operation of a substituted provision, it was held that “where a repeal of provisions of enactment is followed by fresh legislation by an amending Act, such legislation is prospective in operation and does not affect substantive or vested rights of the parties unless made retrospective either expressly or by necessary intendment.”116 This Court held that the language used by the legislature indicated that it was introduced with prospective effect and could not affect the accrued rights of the co-sharers. The decision of this Court in Shyam Sunder (supra) is an authority for the proposition that an amendment by substitution can have a retrospective effect and affect the vested rights of the parties if the provision is made retrospective either expressly or by necessary intendment. 59. Parliament has often used the legislative process of amendment by substitution in the context of reassessment provisions under the Income Tax Act.In S C Prashar v. Vasantsen Dwarkadas,117 a Constitution Bench of this Court had to decide on the validity of the notices issued under Section 34 of the Income Tax Act 1922. In 1948, Section 34 of the Income TaxAct 1922 was substituted by subsequent to the date of the amendment the various unamended provisions of the Act have to be read along with the amended provisions as though they are part of it. This is for the purpose of determining what the meaning of any particular provision of the Act as amended is, whether it is in the unamended part or in the amended part. But this is the not the same thing as saying that the amendment itself must be taken to have been in existence as from the date of the earlier Act. That would be imputing to the amendment retrospective operation which could only be done if such retrospective operation is given by the amending Act either expressly or by necessary implication.”] 115 [2001] Supp. 1 SCR 115 : (2001) 8 SCC 24 116 Shyam Sunder (supra) [28] 117 [1964] 1 SCR 29 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1683 Union of India & Ors. v. Rajeev Bansal a new provision which provided the following time limits: (i) eight years from the end of the year if there was omission or failure on the part of an assessee to make a return or disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for assessment; and (ii) four years for all other cases.