The actual partition of revenue-paying estates must necessarily be made according to the provisions of the Assam Land Revenue Regulation.” (Emphasis supplied) 54. The position of law on the issue has been explained by the High Court of Gauhati itself in the case of Thanda Bala Choudhury and Anr. v. Birendra Kumar Choudhury reported in 2002 SCC OnLine [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1941 Abdul Rejak Laskar v. Mafizur Rahman & Ors. Gau 26 wherein the issue was regarding the jurisdiction of civil courts for declaration of right, title and interest over the suit property when the case for perfect partition had already been disposed of by the Deputy Commissioner. The Court therein while elaborating on of the Regulation, 1886, held the following: a. First, in cases where the distribution of land has been decided by way of partition, civil courts have the jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the title to the land. This is in consonance with various rulings that conclude that Section 154 cannot deprive a man of his title to the land. The Court held that mere partition of property in dispute by the Revenue authorities does not confer any title on them and it is open to civil courts to determine the right of the parties to the property. b. Secondly, civil courts cannot exercise jurisdiction over matters of perfect partition; only revenue courts are vested with the power to decide on the same. The legal position pursuant to Section 154 as well as Section 62 is that no bar exists over civil courts to declare the rights over a suit property. Additionally, Section 62 specifically vests a right upon parties to approach civil courts for declaration of right, title and interest over the suit property. The relevant paragraphs from the said decision are reproduced hereinbelow: “7. A catena of judicial decisions has been referred by Mr. Katakey to drive home his submission. In Dandiram Nath and v. Mihiram Nath Chamua decided on 13.11.1953 reported in 1 Unreported cases (Assam) 255 this Court speaking through Justice Sarjoo Prasad, C.J, categorically ruled that Section 154 cannot deprive a man of his title to the land. The mere fact that the lands have been distributed or revenue allotted will not confer any title on them and it would be always to the Civil Court to adjudicate upon the question of title irrespective of the provisions of Section 154. Dealing with a case where the Plaintiffs instituted suit for declaration of title and confirmation of possession or in the alternative recovery of possession, the Court in paragraph-3 of the said ruling observed as follows:- 1942 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “3. On behalf of the appellants, however, it has been argued that Section 154(1)(f) of the Assam Land and Revenue Regulation is a bar to the institution of the suit. Section 154 says that except where otherwise expressly provided in this Regulation or in Rules framed thereunder, no Civil Court shall exercise jurisdiction in any of the matters enumerated in the various clauses of the section, one of them being Clause (f) which relates to the distribution of land or the allotment of the revenue on partition.