The procedure for direct recruitment is spelt out in Rule 7. The procedure for regular promotion, on the other hand, is provided in Rule 8 which contemplates the assessment and testing of the merit and suitability of a member of the Judicial Branch in Rule 6(1)(a). The purpose of the objective test of 75 marks and the viva voce carrying 25 marks is to ascertain and examine legal knowledge and efficiency in the legal field. Besides this, the ACRs of the preceding five years of the officer are taken into reckoning. Since the candidates who are evaluated for promotion under Rule 6(1)(a) read with Rule 8 are in- service candidates, the selection is based on a test (comprising of the written and the viva voce) and due consideration of the service records as borne out by the ACRs. 35. Recruitment by promotion under Rule 6(1)(b) is “strictly on the basis of merit through the limited competitive examination” and a 5-year qualifying service requirement. Under Rule 6(1)(b), the limited competitive exam is of a competitive nature where members of the Service compete inter se, as opposed to the direct recruitment exam, which is open in nature. The limited competitive exam under Rule 6(1)(b), according to Rule 9, comprises of a 600-mark written examination. In addition, 150 marks are assigned to the assessment of the records and 250 marks are assigned to the viva voce. The proviso to Rule 9 indicates that the High Court shall, in addition to the competitive examination, take into account any of the criteria specified in Rule 8 which apply to the normal procedure for promotion. The limited competitive examination under Rule 6(1)(b) read with Rule 9 cannot be equated with the procedure for promotion for assessing merit and suitability under Rule 6(1)(a) read with Rule 8. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1159 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors 36. The scope of recruitment through regular promotion under Rule 6(1) (a) read with Rule 8 is different from recruitment through promotion based on limited competitive examination under Rule 6(1)(b) read with Rule 9. As we have already noted, the purpose of a limited competitive examination, as set out in the of this Court in All India Judges’ Association (supra), was to provide an avenue for in-service officers to compete inter se for accelerated promotion on fulfilling a higher benchmark of competition based on merit. Moreover, this Court also recognised that the criteria and method of testing the suitability of judicial officers should be different: “27. [...] Furthermore, there should also be an incentive amongst the relatively junior and other officers to improve and to compete with each other so as to excel and get quicker promotion. In this way, we expect that the calibre of the members of the Higher Judicial Service will further improve. In to achieve this, while the ratio of 75 per cent appointment by promotion and 25 per cent by direct recruitment to the Higher Judicial Service is maintained, we are, however, of the opinion that there should be two methods as far as appointment by promotion is concerned : 50 per cent of the total posts in the Higher Judicial Service must be filled by promotion on the basis of principle of merit-cum-seniority.