The provision confers it with the power to do the following by an in writing: a. Call upon the service provider to furnish in writing such information or explanation relating to its functions to access the performance of the service provider; b. Appoint persons to inquire into the affairs of a service provider; 11 AERA Act; proviso to Section 13(1A) 12 AERA Act; Section 13(3) 1414 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c. Direct the inspection of book of accounts or other documents of any service provider; and d. Issue directions to monitor the performance of service providers. 8. The service provider is bound to produce all books of account and documents relating to the subject matter of the inquiry and furnish such statement or information. Section 15 confers AERA with the power to issue directions to service providers to discharge its functions under the Act.13 9. Section 17 provides that TDSAT established under the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act 1997 will be the Appellate Tribunal for the purposes of the AERA Act. TDSAT exercises original jurisdiction and appellate jurisdiction under the Act. Section 17(a) confers TDSAT with the original jurisdiction to adjudicate any dispute that arises between (a) service providers; or (b) service providers and consumers. The proviso to the Clause states that TDSAT can obtain the opinion of AERA on any matter relating the above disputes. Section 17(b) confers TDSAT with appellate jurisdiction over “any direction, decision or ” of AERA.14 13 “15. Power of Authority to issue directions.- The Authority may, for the purpose of discharge of its functions under this Act, issue, from time to time to the service providers, such directions, as it may consider necessary.” 14 “Appellate Tribunal.- The Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal established under section 14 of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997 (24 of 1997) shall, on and from the commencement of Part XIV of Chapter VI of the Finance Act, 2017 (7 of 2017), be the Appellate Tribunal for the purposes of this Act and the said Appellate Tribunal shall exercise the jurisdiction, powers and authority conferred on it by or under this Act] to— (a) adjudicate any dispute— (i) between two or more service providers; (ii) between a service provider and a group of consumer: Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may, if considers appropriate, obtain the opinion of the Authority on any matter relating to such dispute: Provided further that nothing in this clause shall apply in respect of matters— (i) relating to the monopolistic trade practice, restrictive trade practice and unfair trade practice which are subject to the jurisdiction of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission established under sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969); (ii) relating to the complaint of an individual consumer maintainable before a Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum or a Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission or the National Consumer Redressal Commission established under section 9 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (68 of 1986); (iii) Which are within the purview of the Competition Act, 2002 (12 of 2003); (iv) relating to an of eviction which is appealable under section 28K of the Airports Authority of India Act, 1994 (55 of 1994).