Thus, the State legislature was empowered to levy tax on the sale of goods provided there was a sale within the meaning of the Sale of Goods Act. A necessary ingredient of the sale of goods is the transfer of property in the goods subject matter of sale from the seller to the buyer. The essential ingredient of such a sale is handing over possession of the goods and transferring the property in the goods to the buyer. Under Entry 92A of List-I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India, even the Central legislature is empowered to levy tax on the sale and purchase of goods other than newspapers where such sale or purchase occurs during the course of inter-state trade or commerce. 20. Thereafter, the 46th Amendment to the Constitution of India was made. By the said amendment, Clause 29A was added to Article 366 with effect from 2nd February 1983. Clause 29A reads thus: “(29A) “tax on the sale or purchase of goods” includes— (a) a tax on the transfer, otherwise than in pursuance of a contract, of property in any goods for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration; (b) a tax on the transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some other form) involved in the execution of a works contract; (c) a tax on the delivery of goods on hire-purchase or any system of payment by instalments; (d) a tax on the transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose (whether or not for a specified period) for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration; (e) a tax on the supply of goods by any unincorporated association or body of persons to a member thereof for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration; 13 AIR 1965 SC 1082 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 501 M/s. K.P. Mozika v. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. and Ors. (f) a tax on the supply, by way of or as part of any service or in any other manner whatsoever, of goods, being food or any other article for human consumption or any drink (whether or not intoxicating), where such supply or service, is for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration, and such transfer, delivery or supply of any goods shall be deemed to be a sale of those goods by the person making the transfer, delivery or supply and a purchase of those goods by the person to whom such transfer, delivery or supply is made.” (underline supplied) In this case, we are concerned with sub-clause (d) of Clause 29A. Sub-clause (d) essentially defines “tax on the sale or purchase of goods”. Sub-clause (d) provides that tax on the sale or purchase of goods includes a tax on the transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose. We will have to interpret the statutory provisions in the light of sub-clause (d) of Clause 29A of Article 366. The amendment came into force on 2nd February 1983. 21.