12.6 In the case of (i) above, FSI or TDR would be equal to the gross area of the surrendered plot, and for (ii) above i.e. for construction of the amenity, the extent of the FSI or TDR would be equivalent to the area of the construction/development made on the land. 12.7 That Regulation 34 made provisions for transferability of the development rights and Appendix-VII referred to in Regulation 34 provided for the extent of FSI or TDR admissible under the two heads. That the expression “equivalent to the area” of the construction or development made on the surrendered land in Para 6 of Appendix-VII would mean “equivalent to the area of construction/development”, that is to say, the additional DR would be the same in area as the amenity constructed/developed on the surrendered land. Hence, there cannot be a differentiation in the grant of additional TDR on a variable and sliding scale [2024] 9 S.C.R. 863 Kukreja Construction Company & Others v. State of Maharashtra & Others on the surrendered land for amenities constructed on the basis of the Circular issued by the Municipal Commissioner. Also, the Circular cannot override the provisions of the Regulations. It was further observed that the expressions “against the area of the land surrendered free of cost” and “against the development or construction of amenity on the surrendered land” would mean “in exchange for, in return for; as an equivalent or set-off for; in lieu of, instead of”. Section 126(1)(b) was a recompense to the landowner proportionate to the area of development or construction of the amenity on the surrendered land. Thus, in Para 5 of Appendix-VII to the Regulations, the expression “equal to the gross area of reserved plot” was relatable to the bare land and in Para 6 of the Appendix, the expression “equivalent to the area of the construction/development” would mean that “the area of construction or development” is the measure of equivalence. Therefore, there could be no other basis for determining the equivalence. Hence, the Circular was held to be without authority of law. Natwar Parikh & Co. Pvt. Ltd.: 13. Prior to the impugned s of the High Court, in Natwar Parikh & Co. Pvt. Ltd., a writ petition was filed before the Bombay High Court seeking a direction for grant of additional TDR/development rights certificate (DRC) for the balance 75% area as set out in the Schedules annexed to the writ petitions. In that case also, admittedly, the respondents therein had been granted 25% TDR/DRC in lieu of the construction of the specified DP Road and there was no challenge about the actual work done at the relevant time. Subsequent to the of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I, the petitioner therein filed the petition. The respondent Mumbai Municipal Corporation sought to deny the same on a twofold contention: firstly, there was delay and laches; and, secondly, an attempt was made to reopen the issues on facts about the construction of the DP Road. The same were repelled by the High Court by holding that already 25% TDR had been granted and therefore, there could be no reopening of the controversy on that basis and the only question which remained was the entitlement of the petitioner to remaining 75% TDR/DRC as prayed.