A similar principle, as applicable to Judges appointed from the Bar, must be applied for computing the pension of a member of the district judiciary who is appointed to the High Court. Any other interpretation would result in a plain discrimination between the Judges of the High Court based on the source from which they have been drawn. Such an interpretation would do disservice to the importance of the district judiciary in contributing to the judiciary of the nation, and would be contrary to the overall scheme and 10 2024 INSC 219 : [2024] 3 SCR 848 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1057 Justice Shailendra Singh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. intendment of Chapter III of the statute. It would go against the anti-discriminatory principles stipulated by this Court in so far as Judges drawn from various sources are concerned.” emphasis supplied 29. This leaves the Court with the task of interpreting the provisions of Section 20 of the Act of 1954. The substantive part of Section 20 stipulates that every Judge shall be entitled to subscribe to the General Provident Fund (Services). The expression ‘every’ coupled with the expression ‘shall’ underlines the mandatory character of the provision which does not brook any exception. However, what the proviso does is to deal with the case of a Judge who has held any other pensionable civil post under the State or Union. In terms of the proviso, such a Judge shall continue to subscribe to the provident fund to which the Judge was subscribing before appointment as a Judge. Properly construed, the proviso was not intended to be restrictive in nature. Provisos can either be treated as exceptions or in the nature of an explanation to the main provision. The proviso, in the present case, is more in the nature of an explanation so as to allow a Judge who holds a pensionable post under the Union or a State and who is subscribing to provident fund to continue to do so even after appointment as a Judge of the High Court so as to ensure that the benefits which have already accrued would not be disrupted. 30. The Attorney General placed reliance on the proviso to contend that Judges of the district judiciary who are appointed after 1 April 2004, are governed by the New Pension Scheme. 31. At this stage, it would be necessary to clarify that in the course of these proceedings, we are not adjudicating on any issue pertaining to the applicability or the validity of the New Pension Scheme since that issue is pending before this Court in independent proceedings. 32. The simple issue before this Court is whether a member of the district judiciary, upon appointment as a Judge of the High Court, would be entitled to the benefit of the General Provident Fund which is available to all High Court judges under Section 20. 1058 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 33. Unlike the payment of pensions where, as already noticed, there are different provisions in Sections 14 and 15 of Chapter III of the Act of 1954, there is only one specific provision in regard to the payment of provident fund which is contained in Section 20.