The document would show that the witness PW-2 had signed just below that endorsement and only thereafter, the signature of the defendant no. 1 is seen subscribed. Ordinarily, in any agreement witnessing payment of money, the party signs first and the witness(s) puts his signature(s) below that endorsement. However, in the case in hand, the witness has signed just below that endorsement and only thereafter, the defendant no. 1 is seen subscribing to the endorsement. In the suit notice exhibit B-1 also, there is no mention of payment of a definite sum paid as advance sale consideration nor existence of any endorsement has been mentioned therein. The amount of Rs. 15,00,000/- (Fifteen Lakhs only) so received subsequent to exhibit A-1 agreement of sale, as stated in the second notice and also in the plaint and so reflected in exhibit A-1(a) endorsement is not stated in exhibit B-1 suit notice. There is no reason why payment of such substantial amount of Rs. 15,00,000/- (Fifteen Lakhs only) would be missing in the suit notice. The only possible reason for this could be that the advocate who prepared the notice was not apprised of this fact. If such was the case, plaintiff’s statement in Court, without any further corroboration, is not believable and the High Court has rightly found that the case of the plaintiff as to the subsequent payment of Rs. 15,00,000/- (Fifteen Lakhs only) is not established by positive evidence. 12. We have considered the entire evidence to examine the correctness of the findings recorded by the High Court and we fail to persuade ourselves to reach to any other conclusion than the one reached by the High Court holding that the plaintiff has proved payment of advance sale consideration of Rs. 3,00,000/- (Three Lakhs only) at the time of execution of the agreement. 28 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. In view of the foregoing, we find no substance in this appeal which deserves to be and is hereby dismissed. 14. The parties shall bear their own costs. Result of the case: Appeal dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey