Over the course of time, the English courts have preferred the test of real likelihood to determine bias. In R v. Barnsley Licencing Justices,181 Devlin LJ observed that “real likelihood” depends on the impression that the court gets from the circumstances in which the justices were sitting. However, in Metropolitan Properties Company v. Lannon,182 Lord Denning expressed the test of the real likelihood of bias as being whether a reasonable person would think it “likely or probable” that a judge or member of a tribunal was biased. 95. In Regina v. Gough,183 the House of Lords observed that the probability standard laid down by Lord Denning in Metropolitan 180 [1924] 1 KB 256 181 (1960) 2 Q.B. 187 182 [1968] EWCA Civ 5 [Lord Denning observed: “It brings home this point: in considering whether there was a real likelihood of bias, the Court does not look at the mind of the Justice himself or at the mind of the Chairman of the Tribunal, or whoever it may be, who sits in a judicial capacity. It does not look to see if there was a real likelihood that he would, or did, in fact favour one side at the expense of the other. The Court looks at the impression which would be given to other people. Even if he was as impartial as could be, nevertheless if right-minded persons would think that, in the circumstances, there was a real likelihood of bias on his part, then he should not sit.”] 183 [1993] UKHL 1 2242 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Properties (supra) was “too rigorous a test.” It reconciled the real likelihood of bias test by grounding it in terms of possibility rather than the probability of bias. Therefore, it restated the test in terms of the real danger of bias: “[…] having ascertained the relevant circumstances, the court should ask itself whether, having regard to those circumstances, there was a real danger of bias on the part of the relevant member of the tribunal in question, in the sense that he might unfairly regard (or having regarded with favour), or disfavour, the case of a party to the issue under consideration by him.” The House of Lords observed that the court “personifies the reasonable man” to ascertain the relevant circumstances from the available evidence. The real danger of the bias test was criticized by courts in other jurisdictions such as Australia and South Africa for emphasising the court’s view of the circumstances rather than the public perception of the bias.184 96. In Locabail (UK) Ltd. v. Bayfield Properties Ltd.,185 the Court of Appeal observed that the test of real danger of bias could reach the same results as the test of real possibility of bias since the court is taken to personify the reasonable man. It further listed a few circumstances which might give rise to real danger of bias: “By contrast, a real danger of bias might well be thought to arise if there were personal friendship or animosity between the judge and any member of the public involved in the case; or if the judge were closely acquainted with any member of the public involved in the case, particularly if the credibility of that individual could be significant in the decision of the case; or if, in a case where the credibility of any individual were an issue to be decided by the judge, he had in a previous case rejected the evidence of that person in such outspoken terms as to throw doubt on his ability to approach such person’s evidence with an open mind on any later occasion; or if on 184 Webb v. The Queen (1994) 181 CLR 41.