The approach of contemnor-respondent No. 7 in first granting police custody of the petitioner on a clearly frivolous and mala fide remand application filed by Investigating Officer (contemnor-respondent No. 4), and in trying to justify the same in her reply affidavit, that it was based on so called prevalent practice in the State of Gujarat cannot be countenanced. It is noteworthy that despite the period of police custody remand having come to an end on 16th December, 2023, the accused petitioner was further detained till 18th December, 2023 on which date, he was released on bail upon furnishing fresh bail bonds, which is clearly in teeth of this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023. The contemnor-respondent No. 7 has clearly stated in the reply affidavit that no was passed remanding the accused-petitioner to judicial custody. In this background, detention of the accused till 18th December, 2023 was absolutely unconstitutional and contrary to the letter and spirit of Articles 20 and 21 of the Constitution of India. This Court has placed the individual freedom and right to liberty at the highest pedestal in numerous decisions. Reference in this regard may be to the decision of this Court in the case of Rekha v. State of T.N.,5 wherein it was held as under:- 5 [2011] 4 SCR 740 : (2011) 5 SCC 244 278 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “14. Article 21 is the most important of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of India. Liberty of a citizen is a most important right won by our forefathers after long, historical and arduous struggles. Our Founding Fathers realised its value because they had seen during the freedom struggle civil liberties of our countrymen being trampled upon by foreigners, and that is why they were determined that the right to individual liberty would be placed on the highest pedestal along with the right to life as the basic right of the people of India.” (emphasis supplied) 47. If the granting police custody remand was passed bona fide based on some misconception, then, the contemnor-respondent No. 7 should have ensured that the accused-petitioner be released from custody immediately at the end of the period of police custody remand without imposing any further conditions and without any delay. The special leave petition filed on behalf of the petitioner had not been finally decided and was still pending adjudication, when the remand application was entertained and hence, there was no occasion for the 6th ACJM (contemnor-respondent No. 7) to have proceeded to interpret this Court’s in a fanciful manner and that too while acting on a tainted remand application filed by the Investigating Officer. 48. Criminal jurisprudence requires that before exercising the power to grant police custody remand, the Courts must apply judicial mind to the facts of the case so as to arrive at a satisfaction as to whether the police custody remand of the accused is genuinely required. The Courts are not expected to act as messengers of the investigating agencies and the remand applications should not be allowed in a routine manner.