The effective implementation of the PCMA also falls within the subject matter of the NCPCR and SCPCRs. Over time, the commissions have collected data and reviewed the progress of the implementation of the PCMA. The operative directions and guidelines that we shall issue in this shall also stipulate the further and specific role that we envision for the NCPCR and SCPCRs to perform in the prevention and elimination of child marriages. 93. The MWCD and the NCPCR have been actively engaged in raising awareness about the negative consequences of child marriage and strengthening the enforcement of the PCMA. In recent years, the NCPCR has conducted multiple review meetings and collaborated with a broad spectrum of stakeholders, including District Magistrates, CMPOs, CDPOs, CWCs, and Anganwadi Workers.128 These initiatives have aimed to create a coordinated approach to tackling child marriage at the grassroots level. 94. The NCPCR has also concentrated on identifying children at risk by compiling school-wise data on those who have dropped out or exhibit irregular attendance. In 2023-2024, the NCPCR identified 645,673 children across India who were either out of school or at risk of early marriage. The Commission directed district authorities to pinpoint vulnerable children from this list, prevent their marriages, and ensure proper rehabilitation for those affected. While these awareness campaigns and data-driven interventions have been vital, it is evident that awareness alone is not enough to prevent child marriages effectively. Enforcement of laws, community engagement, and support systems for vulnerable children are equally crucial. 128 ‘AWWs’ 1572 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports E. The Legal Services Authorities Act 1987 95. The Legal Services Authorities Act 1987 was enacted to constitute legal services authorities at the National, State and District levels to provide free and competent legal services to the weaker sections of the society. The constitution of the authorities is aimed at ensuring that opportunities for securing justice are not denied to any citizen by reason of economic or other disabilities. 96. Section 12(c) of the Act stipulates that any child who has to file or defend a case is entitled to legal services.129 The Legal Services Authorities are therefore under an obligation under the Act to assist minors who file cases under the PCMA to exercise their statutory rights. The National Legal Services Authority,130 State Legal Services Authority,131 District Legal Services Authorities,132 Taluk Legal Services Committees, High Court Legal Services Committees, and Supreme Court Legal Services Committee have formulated various schemes to be followed while they deal with legal services to children.133 We shall make further directions in this regard to legal services authorities in the operative portion of this . F. Policies formulated by the Union Government 97. In addition to the legislative apparatus outlined above, the Union has submitted that the MWCD proposed a National Strategy on Child Marriage on 14 February 2013. This strategy emphasized linking with Integrated Child Protection Scheme134 structures and statutory bodies to ensure early detection and swift referral of cases needing care and protection. One of its strategic directions was to ensure that children already in child marriages should not face discrimination in accessing health, nutrition, education, and employment services.