Secondly, the reading of the said document would clearly indicate that what has been emphasized there is with regard to the Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes persons migrating from the State of his origin to another State, to which he has migrated. There is no reference whatsoever to a case where a person claiming to be a Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe migrating from a State to a Union Territory as such. By that logic, it would not imply that a person who is recognized as a Scheduled Tribe in a State has to be Scheduled 388 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Tribe in an U.T. also wherein he migrates and can rely on his status in the State of his origin. The said letter is also contrary to Article 342 of the Constitution and the spirit of the dictum of this court in the case of Marri Chandra Shekhar Rao and, therefore, the same would hold no water. Merely because in the said letter there is no reference to migration of a person claiming to belong to Scheduled Tribe in a State to a Union Territory, it does not, by that logic mean that such a person would be entitled to claim benefit on the basis of his status as a Scheduled Tribe in the State of his origin. For immediate reference, letter dated 25.11.1985 is extracted as under– “No. BC-12017/9/85-SC&BCD.I Government of India/Bharat Sarkar Ministry of Welfare/Kalyan Mantralaya New Delhi: 25th November, 1985. To The Chairman, Chandigarh Housing Board, 8-Jan Marg, Sector–9, Chandigarh – 160009 Subject : Entitlement of Scheduled Tribe persons for allotment of houses by the Chandigarh Housing Board – Clarification of - … Sir, I am directed to invite your attention to the Ministry of Home Affair’s letter of even number dated 21st May 1985 on the above subject and to say that the contents appearing at the end of line 23 to 28 i.e. “It has ……………… migrated.” may please be read as under: “It has also been made clear in the latter that the migrated person will be entitled to derive benefits admissible to the Scheduled Castes/ Tribes from the State of his origin only and not from the State to which he has migrated.” 2. A copy of the Ministry of Home Affairs letter No. BC- 16014-I/9/82-SC&BCD.I dated 22.2.85 containing the instructions about issue of certificates to the migrants has [2024] 2 S.C.R. 389 Chandigarh Housing Board v. Tarsem Lal already been sent to you with our letter dated 21.5.85 referred to above. Yours faithfully, Sd/- (Y.P. MARWAHA) Assistant Director” 28. It is also unclear whether the aforesaid letter was at all marked in evidence in the Suit. 29. In view of the s of this Court in the aforesaid cases, we hold that insofar as a person claiming benefit having regard to his status as a Scheduled Tribe in a State, when he migrates to a Union Territory where a Presidential has not been issued at all insofar Scheduled Tribe is concerned, or even if such a Notification is issued, such an identical Scheduled Tribe does not find a place in such a Notification, the person cannot claim his status on the basis of his being noted as a Scheduled Tribe in the State of his origin.