40. To fortify the charge of conspiracy, the prosecution has further relied on the fax message (Exhibit-6) regarding the threat to the life of Brij Bihari Prasad. This fax message would not help the prosecution implicate the accused persons – Suraj Bhan Singh (A-1), Mukesh Singh (A-2), Lallan Singh (A-3) and Captain Sunil Singh (A-5) (since deceased) – on the charge of criminal conspiracy. Discrepancy regarding the presence of Rajan Tiwari (A-9) 41. As noticed above, Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) in his deposition had categorically stated that Rajan Tiwari (A-9) was not present with the other accused who had murdered Brij Bihari Prasad and Lakshmeshwar Sahu. Even though Mahanth Ashwani Das (PW-25) had referred to the presence of Rajan Tiwari (A-9), given the discrepancy in the statement of the two eye-witnesses, we feel that the benefit of doubt must be given to Rajan Tiwari (A-9). 1342 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Conclusion 42. Even if we completely exclude the testimony of Shashi Bhushan Singh (PW-42), the depositions of Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1), Mahanth Ashwani Das (PW-25) and, to some extent of Rama Devi (PW-24) and Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10) with other evidence and material are conclusive enough to prove the charge against Mantu Tiwari (A-4) and Vijay Kumar Shukla @ Munna Shukla (A-8). Bhupendra Nath Dubey and Captain Sunil Singh (A-5) are no more, and, therefore, we need not consider the evidence against them. Similarly, we need not examine the depositions implicating Shashi Kumar Rai (A-7), who died during the pendency of the present appeals. 43. Regarding the question of conspiracy and the evidence against Suraj Bhan Singh (A-1), Mukesh Singh (A-2), Lallan Singh (A-3) and Ram Niranjan Chaudhary (A-6), there is no direct ocular evidence implicating them through the testimonies of Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) and Mahanth Ashwani Das (PW-25). Since the charge of conspiracy is not substantiated, we will not interfere with the of the High Court acquitting them, and they are entitled to the benefit of the doubt. 44. In light of the above discussion, we hold and direct as under: a) The charge under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the IPC against Mantu Tiwari (A-4) and Vijay Kumar Shukla @ Munna Shukla (A-8) for the murders of Brij Bihari Prasad and Lakshmeshwar Sahu is proven and established beyond reasonable doubt. b) The charge under Section 307 read with Section 34 of the IPC against Mantu Tiwari (A-4) and Vijay Kumar Shukla @ Munna Shukla (A-8) for attempting to murder, as held in paragraph 34 above, is proven and established beyond reasonable doubt. c) The conviction and sentence awarded to Mantu Tiwari (A-4) and Vijay Kumar Shukla @ Munna Shukla (A-8) by the trial court under Sections 302 and 307 read with Section 34 of the IPC are affirmed and restored. d) Consequently, Mantu Tiwari (A-4) and Vijay Kumar Shukla @ Munna Shukla (A-8) shall have to undergo imprisonment for [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1343 Rama Devi v. The State of Bihar and Others life with a fine of Rs.