It has been contended by the respondent that due to the ambiguity in tender as regards placement of advertisements, many interested bidders might not have been able to submit their bids. Thus, the respondent formed the view that if the ambiguity is corrected a higher license fee could be fetched. 111. However, we are not impressed with the above submission. As discussed in the preceding paragraphs of this , nothing to this effect is even remotely indicated from the internal file notings of the respondent or the materials on record. There is nothing to suggest that there was a technical fault in the tender resulting in financial losses or that there was a possibility of fetching higher license fees. On the contrary, it can be seen that the respondent itself was of the opinion that the tender for work was financially beneficial to it. This further undermines the claims of technical faults or potential financial losses, and suggests that the decision to cancel the tender was not 602 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports based on genuine financial concerns but rather on other, possibly extraneous factors. 112. Even assuming for a moment that there was a technical fault in the tender, which if rectified had the possibility of generating more revenue, the same by no stretch could be said to be a cogent reason for cancelling an already existing tender. In this regard reference may be made to the decision of this Court in Vice Chariman & Managing Director, City & Industrial Development Corporation of Maharashtra Ltd. & Anr. v. Shishir Realty Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. reported in (2021) SCC OnLine SC 1141 wherein it was held that mere possibility of more money in public coffers does not in itself serve ‘public interest’. A blanket claim by the State claiming loss of public money cannot be used to forgo contractual obligations, especially when it is not based on any evidence or examination as the larger interest of upholding contracts is also in the play. The relevant observations read as under: - “58. When a contract is being evaluated, the mere possibility of more money in the public coffers, does not in itself serve public interest. A blanket claim by the State claiming loss of public money cannot be used to forgo contractual obligations, especially when it is not based on any evidence or examination. The larger public interest of upholding contracts and the fairness of public authorities is also in play. Courts need to have a broader understanding of public interest, while reviewing such contracts.” (Emphasis supplied) 113. In Vasantkumar Radhakisan Vora (Dead) by His LRs. v. Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay, reported in (1991) 1 SCC 761, this Court held that wherever a public authority seeks to resile or relive itself from the enforcement of a promise made or obligation undertaken in the name of public interest, it is legally bound to first show the material or circumstances by which public interest would be jeopardised if such enforcement is insisted.