If an accused appears pursuant to a summons issued on the complaint, 886 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports he is not in custody. Therefore, there is no question of granting him bail. Moreover, even if the accused who appears before the Court does not offer to submit bonds under Section 88 of the CrPC, the Court can always direct him to do so. A bond furnished according to Section 88 is an undertaking to appear before the Court on the date fixed. The question of filing bail bonds arises only when the Court grants bail. When an accused furnishes a bond in accordance with Section 88 of the CrPC for appearance before a Criminal Court, he agrees and undertakes to appear before the Criminal Court regularly and punctually and on his default, he agrees to pay the amount mentioned in the bond. Section 441 of the CrPC deals with a bond to be furnished by an accused when released on bail. Therefore, in our considered view, an accepting bonds under Section 88 from the accused does not amount to a grant of bail. 16. Now, we deal with a contingency where after service of summons issued on a complaint under the PMLA, the accused does not appear. One category of such cases can be where the accused appears on the returnable date of the summons and subsequently does not appear, notwithstanding the furnishing of bonds under Section 88. The other category of cases is where, after the service of summons is made on the complaint, the accused does not appear. This category will also include a case where the accused appears on returnable date, but on a subsequent date fails to appear. In the first contingency, where the accused does not appear in breach of the bond furnished under Section 88, Section 89 of the CrPC confers sufficient powers on the Court to take care of the situation. Section 89 reads thus: “89. Arrest on breach of bond for appearance.—When any person who is bound by any bond taken under this Code to appear before a Court, does not appear, the officer presiding in such Court may issue a warrant directing that such person be arrested and produced before him.” The warrant contemplated by Section 89 can be a bailable or non- bailable warrant. 17. Even if a bond is not furnished under Section 88 by an accused and if the accused remains absent after that, the Court can always issue a warrant under Section 70 (1) of the CrPC for procuring the [2024] 6 S.C.R. 887 Tarsem Lal v. Directorate of Enforcement Jalandhar Zonal Office presence of the accused before the Court. In both contingencies, when the Court issues a warrant, it is only for securing the accused’s presence before the Court. When a warrant is issued in such a contingency, it is not necessary for the accused to apply for bail. Section 70, which confers power on the Court to issue a warrant, indicates that the Court which issues the warrant has the power to cancel it.