In view of the above, they were acquitted of all the charges. 4. The Appellant, after being selected, was required to submit an Affidavit disclosing criminal antecedents, if any. The Appellant submitted the affidavit on 30.10.2004, wherein, he inter alia, stated that no criminal case, cognizable or non-cognizable, has ever been registered against him. 5. Thereafter, he was asked to report for training and when he reported, he was not sent for training on the ground that there was a character verification pending. Subsequently, on 12.04.2005, he was given the following letter cancelling his selection: “It is to inform that you have been selected on the post of Recruit Constable PAC by the Selection Committee, 8th Battalion PAC, Bareilly after the examination. After selection, you submitted affidavit dated 30.10.2004, in which, you have mentioned that no criminal case/case, cognizable or non cognizable, has never been registered against you and no challan and police investigations are pending against you. On getting made your character verification from the Superintendent of Police of your Home District Deoria, this fact has come in light that a Crime No.95/04 under Section 324/504 and 352 I.P.C. was registered against you at the Police Station - Gauri Bazar, District Deoria discharged you from the charge in question on 13.09.2004. It is clear from the above that you have concealed the above offence and filed false affidavit. Therefore, due to producing false affidavit, your selection on the post of Recruit Constable in PAC is hereby cancelled.” 726 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. The case of the Department was that, under Clause 9 of the recruitment notification dated 20.01.2004, if any fact is concealed in the affidavit by the candidate, his candidature is liable for cancellation. Clause 9, being relevant, is extracted herein below: “9. Character Verification: Character verification of all the candidates found eligible as above will be done as per the government rules prevailing at that time. In character verification, eligible candidates will have to furnish an affidavit in the prescribed format on a non-judicial stamp paper duly attested by a public notary. The format of the affidavit will be made available by the Selection Committee to the candidates finally selected in the interview. If it is found through the character verification or any other means that facts have been concealed in the affidavit by the candidate, not only will the selection of the candidate be cancelled but legal action can also be taken against him. No candidate/person/ organization will have the right to protest in any court in case the selection is cancelled due to false facts being mentioned in the affidavit or not providing the prescribed required information.” 7. The multiple Clauses of the Affidavit, verified on 30.10.2004, namely, Clause 4, 5, 6, 7 and 11 read as under: “4. That to the best of my knowledge, no criminal case/ matter (cognizable or non-cognizable) has ever been registered against me, nor has the police challaned me in any such criminal case, nor is any police investigation pending against me.