As per which, commissioning of the ACC Unit was planned on 31 March 2014. In furtherance thereof, Enexio received 10% of the price in advance on 4 July 2013, and another 10% on 23 July 2013. Both the advance payments were received from Gita Power (R-2). (f) While the work was in progress, in July 2013 OPG issued two s replicating those that were issued by Gita Power (R-2) with insignificant variation. (g) As per the Supply Purchase , payments were to be made in the following : Payments: (i) 10% of Price as advance money on submission of request for advance and advance payment bank guarantee for 10% of the Price, valid until completion of supply; (ii) 10% against approval of Engineering Documentation; (iii) 65% of the Price on Pro Rata basis along with 100% taxes after receipt of material at site; (iv) 5% of the Price upon submission of (a) invoice, and (b) certificate on completion of punch points duly signed by Parties; (v) 5% of the Contract Price upon submission of (a) invoice, (b) take over certificate of Equipment issued by Purchaser; and (iii) warranty bond for 10% of the contract valid up to the end of warranty period; (vi) 5% of the Contract Price upon submission of (a) invoice, (b) certificate of completion of performance test of equipment by purchaser; [2024] 9 S.C.R. 559 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. (vii) Payments to be made within 25 days of submission of invoice/ request for payment and other documents (h) Annexure A of the Supply Purchase carried commercial conditions, inter alia, providing for Performance Guarantee Test in the following terms: (1) The Performance Guarantee Test of the equipment shall be carried out immediately after takeover of the equipment but in no case later than two months from the date of takeover. (2) Performance guarantee test will be carried out by the representatives and manpower of the purchaser under the supervision of the supplier’s engineer. (3) In case the performance guarantee test is not carried out due to reasons outside supplier’s control within 180 days from the date of takeover, the guaranteed performance shall be deemed to have been achieved and all liabilities of supplier with respect to the performance guarantee test shall be over. Within these said 180 days, the supplier remains liable for the guaranteed performance of the equipment. (4) The Erection Purchase repeated most of the clauses of the supply purchase and provided for payment in the following manner: Payment (i) 80% against progress of work on pro rata basis and against certification by site officials. (ii) 10% after mechanical completion / Punch list. (iii) 10% of the contract price after Commissioning against bank guarantee in favor of the owner for equivalent value and valid for the entire warranty period. (j) Enexio (R-1) asserted that it finished its work under the contract on or about February 2015. However, on 12 March 2015, OPG complained to Enexio in writing that certain work remained and, therefore, Enexio must instruct its team to complete the pending work.