Whichever or wherever the instrument, interpretation is the exclusive province of the Court.26 The principle is aptly enunciated as: “The Court has the function of authoritatively construing legislation, that is, determining its legal meaning so far as is necessary to decide a case before it. This function is exclusive to the Court, and a meaning found by any other person, for example an authorising agency, an investigating agency, an executing agency, a prosecuting agency, or even the legislature itself, except when intending to declare or amend the law, is always subject to the determination of the court. 25 Keshavji Ravji & Co. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, [1990] 1 SCR 243 : (1990) 2 SCC 231 26 Dr. Major Meeta Sahai v. State of Bihar [2019] 15 SCR 273 : (2019) 20 SCC 17 [2024] 4 S.C.R. 683 Pernod Ricard India (P) Ltd. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. It is usually said that the making of law, as opposed to its interpretation, is a matter for the legislature, and not for the courts, but, in so far as that legislature does not convey its intention clearly, expressly and completely, it is taken to require the court to spell out that intention where necessary. This may be done either by finding and declaring implications in the words used by the legislator, or by regarding the breadth or other obscurity of the express language as conferring a delegated legislative power to elaborate its meaning in accordance with public policy (including legal policy) and the purpose of the legislation. Whichever course is adopted, in accordance with the doctrine of precedent the court’s operation influences the future legal meaning of the enactment by producing what may be called sub-rules, which are implied or expressed in the court’s .”27 28. Subordinate legislation, by its very nature, rests upon the executive’s understanding of the primary legislation. When a Court is of the opinion that such an understanding is not in consonance with the statute, it sets it aside for being ultra-vires to the primary statute. 29. We will now examine if there is anything repugnant to the subject or context to disapply the mandate of Section 31 of M.P. General Clauses Act, 1957, to the construction of the 1996 Rules. If the subject and context guide us in coming to that conclusion, we will not extend the effect of repeal in Section 10 of the MP General Clauses Act, 1957 to the repealed Rule 19. On the other hand, if the subject and context have no bearing on the construction of the Rule, then we will give effect to Section 10 and apply the repealed Rule to the liability incurred by the appellant during the license year 2009-10 and allow the imposition of four times the duty as penalty. 30. The 1996 Rules regulate the grant of license for manufacture and bottling of foreign liquor, procurement of spirit, storage, quality and control, sale, export, verification etc. Rule 19 provides for penalties for contravention of any of the Rules or provision of the Act.