25. As for the observations made by the learned Single Judge that the respondent was a young man and his indiscretion ought to be [2024] 7 S.C.R. 931 Union of India and Others v. Shishu Pal @ Shiv Pal condoned by imposing a minor penalty upon him instead of removing him from service, the answer lies in the following observations made in Bhupendra Yadav (supra): “24.…..The yardstick to be applied in cases where the appointment sought relates to a Law Enforcement Agency, ought to be much more stringent than those applied to a routine vacancy. One must be mindful of the fact that once appointed to such a post, a responsibility would be cast on the respondent of maintaining law and in the society, enforcing the law, dealing with arms and ammunitions, apprehending suspected criminals and protecting the life and property of the public at large. Therefore, the standard of rectitude to be applied to any person seeking appointment in a Law Enforcement Agency must always be higher and more rigourous for the simple reason that possession of a higher moral conduct is one of the basic requirements for appointment to a post as sensitive as that in the police service.” CONCLUSION 26. Given the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the present case, we are of the firm view that there was no occasion for the learned Single Judge to have interfered in the s dated 24th June, 2014 passed by the Disciplinary Authority terminating the service of the respondent, duly upheld by the Appellate Authority vide dated 23rd September, 2014. The Appellate Court fell into the same error when it observed that it was incumbent for the appellants to have proven the fact that pendency of the criminal case was within the knowledge of the respondent and the said information had been deliberately withheld by him. The records speak to the contrary and make short shrift of such a plea taken by the respondent. The respondent does not deserve any latitude as it has been established beyond doubt that he was all along aware of the FIR registered against him with Barnhal Police Station, Mainpuri, Uttar Pradesh and the ensuing criminal cases. Not just that, the respondent failed to disclose that he had remained in judicial custody and on moving an application, was released on bail by the trial Court along with other co-accused. 932 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 27. In our opinion, the appellants have exercised their discretion as employers in a reasonable manner. On receiving a complaint against the respondent, not only was a show cause notice issued to him, all the relevant information was also furnished. On receiving his categorical denial in reply, the appellants proceeded with disciplinary proceedings against the respondent. The said proceedings were conducted in a fair manner and taken to their logical conclusion. Only thereafter did the Disciplinary Authority pass an terminating the services of the respondent which was upheld by the Appellant Authority, for just and valid reasons.