11. Though notice was served on complainant (Respondent no. 2), no one appeared on her behalf and only the State-respondent appeared and contested without filing any counter affidavit. 12. It was contended on behalf of the State-respondent that whether the said relationship was consensual or not is a matter of fact which will come out during the course of investigation and trial and it is not a fit case where this Court should intervene with the criminal process initiated against the appellant and consequently, the decision of the Bombay High Court in refusing to quash the FIR does not warrant interference. 13. In to appreciate the rival contentions of the parties, it would be necessary to revisit the relevant laws. As far as the scope of Section 482 of CrPC which has been invoked by the appellant for quashing the FIR is concerned, it is a saving clause which deals with the inherent powers of the High Court to pass any as may be necessary to give effect to any under the CrPC, or to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice. 14. Law relating to quashing of FIRs has already been well-settled as reiterated by this Court in the State of Haryana and Ors. vs. Bhajan Lal and Ors.1 in which this Court held as below: “102. (1) Where the allegations made in the first information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their 1 [1992] Supp. 3 SCR 735 : (1992) Supp. 1 SCC 335 894 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports face value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first information report and other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by police officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an of a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2). xxxxxxxxxx (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide and/or where the proceeding is maliciously Instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge. 15. It is to be noted that while considering these aspects, the Court does not have to go in detail by way of minute examination about the correctness or otherwise of the facts alleged and the Court has to examine the same by taking a prima facie view of the matter based on the materials on record and if on consideration of the factual matrix of the allegations, no prima facie case is made out of commission of any offence of which cognizance can be taken, the High Court would be within its power to intervene and quash any such complaint or FIR in exercise of the inherent power under Section 482 CrPC. In this regard, one may also refer to the decision of this Court in R.P.