Such arrack either in sealed bottled condition or in sealed polythene sachets are then sold in retail by the excise contractors in the area or areas allotted to them. Therefore, by the process of auction etc., the excise contractors are only shortlisted and conferred the right to retail vend of arrack in their respective areas. It cannot be said that by virtue of the auction, certain quantities of arrack are purchased by the excise contractors. Thus, at this stage there are two transactions, each distinct. The first transaction is shortlisting of excise contractors by a process of auction etc. for the right to retail vend. The second transaction, which is contingent upon the first transaction, is obtaining of arrack for retail vending by the excise contractors on the strength of the permits issued to them post successful shortlisting following auction. Therefore, it is evidently clear that arrack is not obtained by the excise contractors by way of auction. What is obtained by way of auction is the right to vend the arrack on retail on the strength of permits granted, following successful shortlisting on the basis of auction. Thus, the first condition under clause (iii) is satisfied. 15.1. In Om Parkash (supra), this Court considered the issue of tax collection at source in respect of the liquor trade under Section 206C of the Income Tax Act and as to whether a licensee who 312 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is issued a licence by the government permitting him to carry on the liquor trade would be a “buyer” as defined in Explanation (a) to Section 206C (11) of the Income Tax Act. This Court held that “buyer” would mean a person who by virtue of the payment gets a right to receive specific goods and not where he is merely allowed/permitted to carry on business in that trade. On licences issued by the government permitting the licensee to carry on liquor trade, provisions of Section 206C are not attracted as the licensee does not fall within the concept of “buyer” referred to in that section. This Court emphasized that a buyer has to be a buyer of goods and not merely a person who acquires a licence to carry on the business. 15.2. After the arrack is obtained in the above manner by the excise contractor, the requirement of the second condition under Explanation(a)(iii) is that he has to sell the same in the area(s) allotted to him at the sale price fixed as per Rule 4 of the 1967 Rules. The language of the second condition is that the sale price of such goods to be sold by the buyer is fixed by or under any state statute. As already noted above, Rule 4 of the 1967 Rules enables the excise contractor to sell the arrack in retail at a price within the range of minimum floor price and maximum ceiling price which is fixed by the Excise Commissioner. A minimum price and a maximum price are fixed within which range the arrack has to be sold by the excise contractor.