Supreme Court Reports the first time. The Court considered the argument presented by the State’s counsel, which outlined three conditions necessary to avail the protections and privileges under Article 30(1): i. The presence of a minority community; ii. The initiation of the right to establish an educational institution by one or more members of that community ‘after the commencement of the Constitution’; iii. The establishment of the educational institution for the benefit of members of the minority community. During its examination of these arguments, the Court dismissed the notion that the institution must be established only after the commencement of the Constitution, affirming that institutions established prior to this could still claim such rights. Additionally, the Court clarified that admitting non-minorities into the institution would not alter its minority character. 129. Moreover, while discussing the matter, the Court observed that Article 30(1) confers two distinct rights upon minorities: the right to establish and to administer. This clarification by the Court does not negate the remaining arguments presented by the State, which assert that the establishment of an institution by the minority is essential to assert rights under Article 30. The relevant paragraph of the said , which has been read by both sides in the present case, to further their respective arguments, deserves to be quoted in toto as under: “22. We now pass on to the main point canvassed before us, namely, what are the scope and ambit of the right conferred by Article 30(1). Before coming to grips with the main argument on this part of the case, we may deal with a minor point raised by learned counsel for the State of Kerala. He contends that there are three conditions which must be fulfilled before the protection and privileges of Article 30(1) may be claimed, namely, (1) there must be a minority community, (2) one or more of the members of that community should, after the commencement of the Constitution, seek to exercise the right to establish an educational institution of his or their choice, and (3) the educational institution must be established for the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1963 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. members of his or their own community. We have already determined, according to the test referred to above, that the Anglo-Indians, Christians and Muslims are minority communities in the State of Kerala. We do not think that the protection and privilege of Article 30(1) extend only to the educational institutions established after the date our Constitution came into operation or which may hereafter be established. On this hypothesis the educational institutions established by one or more members of any of these communities prior to the commencement of the Constitution would not be entitled to the benefits of Article 30(1). The fallacy of this argument becomes discernible as soon as we direct our attention to Article 19(1)(g) which, clearly enough, applies alike to a business, occupation or profession already started and carried on as to those that may be started and carried on after the commencement of the Constitution.