But this is only for a limited purpose, to “contradict” such a witness. Even if the defence is successful in contradicting a witness, it would not always mean that the contradiction in her two statements would result in totally discrediting this witness. 834 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports It is here that we feel that the learned judges of the High Court have gone wrong.” (emphasis supplied) 79. Moreover, the statements of the two independent witness i.e., Ramesh Yadav and Barelal recorded on 25.10.2008 by the IO at Dakshin, Firozabad, implicating the respondent no. 1, cannot be taken as a gospel truth either, especially when they were not examined in the Session Trial Nos. 753 and 753A of 2008 respectively which resulted in the conviction of the accused Ashok Dixit. Therefore, we are a bit hesitant to rely on the version of events as stated under these statements recorded under Section 161 CrPC at this stage. It would be best left for the Trial Court to decide the truthfulness and veracity of these statements which allegedly prove the case of the prosecution. 80. Furthermore, the respondent no. 1 has contended that no departmental inquiry was ever initiated against him in relation to the registration of Case Crime No. 967 of 2007. However, the Trial Court in its dated 10.07.2015 has made an observation that the respondent nos 1, 3, 4 and 5 respectively were suspended and also subjected to an inquiry. Whether the departmental inquiry was initiated against all the accused respondents or just some of them and the exact findings of the inquiry is also an aspect where there exists some ambiguity. 81. Having said so, on the other hand, the respondent nos. 3, 4 and 5 respectively have also not adduced any credible evidence before us to prima facie establish that it was Ashok Dixit who was arrested at 09:30 am at Murar, Gwalior; that the illegal liquor carried by him was seized, and that he was later released from the Murar Police Station on the directions of SHO, D.S. Khushawa upon furnishing a surety. It is true that the offence contemplated under Section 34 of the Excise Act is bailable and that any accused under the said offence would be entitled to be released on bail from the police station. However, bearing in mind that there exist serious suspicion as to whether an arrest was ever made to begin with and if made, whether it was Ashok Dixit who was indeed arrested, we find ourselves unable to arrive at an appropriate decision at this stage due to lack of reliable and credible evidence to verify the same. The respondent nos. 3, 4 and 5 respectively have stated that the accused had identified himself to be Ashok Dixit upon arrest and it is unclear whether the identity of the said accused was further duly verified while the case was [2024] 12 S.C.R. 835 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. registered under the Excise Act.