1561 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. List II pertains to taxes on mineral rights would not preclude the State legislature to use the measure of mineral value or mineral produce under Entry 49 List II – State legislature has legislative discretion to determine the appropriate measure for the purposes of quantifying taxes, so long as there is a reasonable nexus between the measure and the nature of the tax – Measure does not determine the nature of the tax – Lands under Entry 49 List II includes mineral bearing land – Mineral produce is the yield from a mineral bearing land – Since royalty is determined on the basis of the mineral produce, royalty can also be used as a measure to determine the tax on royalty – Fact that the State legislature uses mineral produce or royalty as a measure does not overlap with Entry 50 List II. [Paras 291, 294, 302, 341] Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 – Mineral bearing land – Decoupling of minerals from land – When: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) Minerals are decoupled from land only upon the exercise of mineral rights by the lessee – Although the title to minerals vests in the State Government, the mining lease transfers the interest in the mineral from the State Government to the mining lessee – During the whole process, minerals continue to remain embedded in the earth, either over or above – Thus, there is no decoupling of minerals from land – When a mining lease is granted, the lease holder necessarily has to occupy the surface rights of the area specified in the lease – Leaseholder has rights to both the minerals and surface during the subsistence of the mining lease – It cannot be said that the mineral rights are transferred from the State to the mining lessee only upon the extraction of minerals – Once the lease deed is signed, the interest in the minerals is transferred from the State Government (in case the minerals vest in the State Government) to the lessee – Interest of the lessee in the minerals continues until the determination of the lease deed – It is only upon the exercise of mineral rights by the lessee, that is removal or consumption of minerals, that the lessee is required to pay royalty – Thus, the transfer of interest in the minerals is distinct from the exercise of the mineral rights. [Paras 323, 324] 1562 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 – ss.2, 4, 9, 9A, 9B, 9C, 13, 15, 25 – Royalty under the MMDR Act – Explained. (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.)