(Emphasis supplied) 164. In Bhola Singh v. State of Punjab reported in (2011) 11 SCC 653 this Court while placing reliance on the decision in Noor Aga (supra) reiterated that the statutory presumption envisaged in Section 35 of the NDPS Act will only come into play after the prosecution had discharged its initial burden to prove certain foundational facts. It observed that the applicability of such statutory presumption is dependent upon the facts as spelt out by the prosecution, after which the burden would shift onto the accused to establish otherwise. It held that in the absence of any foundational facts pertaining to the alleged offence, no presumption can be drawn. The relevant observations read as under: - “10. While dealing with the question of possession in terms of Section 54 of the Act and the presumption raised under Section 35, this Court in Noor Aga v. State of Punjab while upholding the constitutional validity of Section 35 observed that as this section imposed a heavy reverse burden on an accused, the condition for the applicability of this and other related sections would have to be spelt out on facts and it was only after the prosecution had discharged the initial burden to prove the foundational facts that Section 35 would come into play. 11. Applying the facts of the present case to the cited one, it is apparent that the initial burden to prove that the appellant had the knowledge that the vehicle he owned was being used for transporting narcotics still lay on the prosecution, as would be clear from the word “knowingly”, and it was only after the evidence proved beyond reasonable doubt that he had the knowledge would the presumption under Section 35 arise. Section 35 also presupposes that the culpable mental state of an accused has to be proved as a fact beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established by [2024] 10 S.C.R. 259 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. a preponderance of probabilities. We are of the opinion that in the absence of any evidence with regard to the mental state of the appellant no presumption under Section 35 can be drawn. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 165. In Baldev Singh v. State of Haryana reported in (2015) 7 SCC 554 this Court held that the presumption of culpable mental state contained in Section 35 of the NDPS Act would come into play once the possession of the contraband in question by the accused has been established by the prosecution, whereafter, the onus would be on the accused to rebut the said presumption. It further held, that such presumption may be rebutted by the accused by either raising doubts in the prosecution’s case and the material relied upon it for establishing the possession or that it may adduce any other evidence to rebut the same. In the last, it also held that where the prosecution is unable to establish the possession or where the court has doubts over the prosecution’s case, the said presumption would automatically be discharged.