(c) All costs and expenses for amendment of the Aurosagar Lease Deed in accordance herewith, including without limitation, fee charged by attorneys and other advisors/consultants, stamp duty and registration charges shall be borne by AMP Group. 2.1.6 Exit of JRS Group and SRG from Deegee Software (a)Within 30 (thirty) days from the Trigger Date (“Deegee Transfer Date”), Parties shall and shall ensure that SRG executes duly stamped agreement(s) to record their understanding with regards to exit of JRS Group and SRG from Deegee Software, including (i) transfer of all shares held by JRS Group and SRG in Deegee Software (“AMP Deegee Transfer”); (ii) resignation of directors appointed by JRS Group/SRG from the board of directors of Deegee Software; and (iii) repayment of loan by Deegee Software to its lenders including the interest accrued thereon in the manner set out in Schedule 8 ((i), (ii) and (iii) are collectively referred as “Deegee Exit”) 906 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) AMP Group shall complete due diligence of Deegee Software within 20 (twenty) Business Days from the Execution Date, in the event, there are any findings requiring indemnity by AMP Group from JRS Group and/or SRG the same will be mutually agreed between the parties. (c) Parties shall co-operate with each other for any actions required to be undertaken or documents required to be executed for giving effect to the actions contemplated under this Clause, including but not limited to exercising their voting rights to provide necessary board or shareholders’ approval, execution and stamping of share transfer forms, endorsement of share certificates, filing forms with the registrar of companies and the Reserve Bank of India, making entries in statutory registers, providing all necessary information and documents necessary for preparing necessary documents, etc required to be complied by Deegee Software under Applicable law. AMP Group shall be responsible for all compliances/filings under foreign exchange laws of India in relation to the AMP Deegee Transfer. xxx xxx xxx SCHEDULE 7 MILLENIUM EXIT In connection with Millenium Exit, the Parties have agreed the following: 1. AMP Group will exit from Millenium. The total value of Millenium has been fixed at INR 130,00,00,000 and AMP Group’s share of 36% out of total value of Millenium will be INR 46,80,00,000. 2. Phase–1 - SRG will purchase approx. 11% shares of AMP Group post receipt of Balance JRS Purchase Price in the JRS Designated Bank Account. JRS Group proposes to provide necessary funding to SRG for purchasing shares held by AMP Group in Millenium. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 907 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. 3. Phase 2 - Millenium will buy back the balance shares of AMP Group i.e., approx. 25% from the funds to be received from Deegee Software. Any tax in relation to such buyback to be borne by AMP Group. 4. Phase 3 - within 12 months from execution of relevant documents in respect of Millenium Exit, Millenium will separate out the Class “B” shares being residential flat owners in a separate co-operative society.