It is absolutely necessary that there must be clarity and certainty in the position of law that would govern proprietary interests of parties involving interpretation of Section 14. 4. In this view of the matter, we have directed the Registry to place our along with the appeal paper book before the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India for referring the matter to an appropriate larger bench. In to assist the Hon’ble CJI, we have reviewed the precedents that have caused some inconsistencies and uncertainties. 5. Before we examine the precedents in detail, the short facts involved in the present appeal are as under: 6. The appellant before the court is the purchaser of the suit scheduled property under a sale deed dated 02.03.1981 executed by the wife of one Kanwar Bhan, the testator, who was the original owner of the property. Mr. Kanwar Bhan during his lifetime executed a will dated 03.03.1965 in favour of his wife. The will created a life estate in favour of his wife. The relevant portion of the will creating the life estate is as under: “After my death, whatever rights I will be having in my above said property, in that eventuality, out of the land situated at village Nalvi Kalan, my wife Smt. Lachhmi Bai shall be having ownership of land measuring about 2½ Acre comprised in Rectangle No.4, Killa No.17/2, 18, 19/1, 23/1, and she will be entitled to maintain herself out of the proceeds from the same. She will not be entitled to mortgage or sell the said land. Of the remaining property, my son Shri Mool Chand will be owner to the extent of 1/2 share and Ram Kishan and Nand Lal sons of Shri Mool Chand (my grand-sons), will be absolute owners of 1/2 share in equal shares. My wife Smt.Lachhmi Bai will be owner, of the houses situated at village Kunjpura and she will be entitled to reside in the said house or to rent out the same. She will not be able to mortgage or sell [2024] 12 S.C.R. 505 Tej Bhan (D) Through Lr. & Ors. v. Ram Kishan (D) Through Lrs. & Ors. the same. After her death, my son Shri Mool Chand will be absolute owner of the same to the extent of 1/2 share and my grand-sons Shri Ram Kishan Lal and Nand Lal to the extent of 1/2 share.” 7. After the execution of the above referred will, the testator Kanwar Bhan died on 11.10.1965. As indicated earlier, his wife executed a sale deed in favour of the appellant herein leading to the son and grandson of Tej Bhan instituting a suit for declaration that the sale deed in favour of the petitioner is void and also sought delivery of possession. 8. In its dated 31.01.1986, the Trial Court relied on decision in Tulsamma’s case and held that the property given to the wife of Kanwar Bhan is in the nature of maintenance and such a pre-existing right shall enlarge into full estate.