The witness stated that at 4.00 p.m., his father went to a meeting with appellant no. 2, as his father was an influential leader of Congress. Therefore, assuming that the deceased was last seen with appellant no. 2 at 4.00 p.m., the deceased thereafter attended a meeting of Congress. Thus, after 4.00 p.m., the deceased was also in the company of other persons. 13. Now, coming to evidence of PW-4, he claims that he saw eight to ten persons, including appellant no. 2, appellant no. 4, and the acquitted accused, assaulting the deceased by using a dao. He stated that he and PW-9 raised a hue and cry after which the accused left. The witness was contradicted by suggesting that he did not tell the police that about eight to ten people were assaulting the deceased by surrounding him. On this aspect, in the cross-examination, the Investigating Officer stated thus: “PW4 Saidar Ali has stated before me that he saw hulla near L.P. School while he was returning from the market. This witness has not stated before me that he alongwith Ainul were going in a motor cycle. This witness has not stated before me that he saw accused Alaluddin, Nur Islam, Nurul, Kadir and Jilani assaulted Sahabuddin by means of dao. This witness has not mentioned the name of Abdul Kadir Jilani before me. This witness has stated before me the name of Rustam, Mamrus and Tahiruddin. This witness has not stated before me that kadir surrendered before police station.” (emphasis added) 34 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Thus, there are material omissions which affect the reliability of the witness. Thus, it is very doubtful whether PW-4 had seen the assault on the deceased. 14. PW-5 stated that at about 8.00 p.m., he saw the deceased, appellant nos. 2, 3 and 4, conversing on the road near Bhojkhowa Girl’s School. The deceased requested him to carry his bag as the deceased stated that he was going to campaign for the election. The witness was confronted in his cross-examination with a suggestion that he had not told the police that at 8.00 p.m., while he was going back to his house, he saw the accused conversing with the deceased. PW-11, the Investigating Officer, admitted that PW-5 did not state before him that at about 8.00 p.m., while he was coming from Bhojkhowa, he saw the deceased conversing with the accused. Thus, the material part of the testimony of PW-5 is a significant omission which amounts to contradiction. 15. PW-6 is the wife of the deceased, who is neither an eyewitness nor a witness on the point of last seen together. However, she stated that her deceased husband had filed a complaint against the accused on the allegation that the accused had dispossessed him. 16. PW-7 stated that at 8.10 p.m., on the fateful day, while he was ready to go to his house to bring food, he noticed appellant no. 2 was riding on the pillion of the deceased’s motorcycle.