The relevant observations read as under: - “12. [...] Once the physical possession of the contraband by the accused has been proved, Section 35 of the NDPS Act comes into play and the burden shifts on the appellant- accused to prove that he was not in conscious possession of the contraband. [...]The Explanation to sub-section (1) of Section 35 expanding the meaning of “culpable mental state” provides that “culpable mental state” includes intention, knowledge of a fact and believing or reason to believe a fact. Sub-section (2) of Section 35 provides that for the purpose of Section 35, a fact is said to be proved only when the court believes it to exist beyond a reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of the probability. Once the possession of the contraband by the accused has been established, it is for the accused to discharge the onus of proof that he was not in conscious possession. Burden of proof cast on the accused under Section 35 of the NDPS Act can be discharged through different modes. One of such modes is that the accused can rely on the materials available in the prosecution case raising doubts about the 260 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports prosecution case. The accused may also adduce other evidence when he is called upon to enter on his defence. If the circumstances appearing in the prosecution case give reasonable assurance to the court that the accused could not have had the knowledge of the required intention, the burden cast on him under Section 35 of the NDPS Act would stand discharged even if the accused had not adduced any other evidence of his own when he is called upon to enter on his defence.” (Emphasis supplied) 166. What can be discerned from the above is that the idea behind providing for a statutory presumption of culpable mental state is in view of the exigency posed by the difficulty that often exists in establishing certain types of offences such as inchoate offences due to its clandestine nature. Such presumptions are in essence an exception to the cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence that the act does not make a person guilty unless the mind is also guilty. 167. Traditionally, it is the prosecution who bears the burden of proving every element in a particular offence, including the accused’s mental state, beyond a reasonable doubt. In to establish the commission of any offence, the prosecution must stand on its own legs i.e., the onus lies on the prosecution to prove beyond reasonable doubt not just the wrongful act but also the wrongful intention of the person in doing such an act. However, in certain offences particularly economic offences or inchoate offences like possession of child pornography where apart from the actus reus there exists no other material to depict or demonstrate the mens rea, it is too difficult for the prosecution to look into the mind of the accused to cull out with certainty what his intention was or could have been for doing a particular act let alone cogently establish the same beyond a reasonable doubt.