It was contended that under the said provision, if the land which is reserved for Public Purpose is not utilized/acquired by the Government within 3 years of the reservation, the same stands released automatically from reservation. 10. It was submitted that the suit property in the present case was reserved for ‘public purpose’ in the year 1978 in the Layout, which reservation was continued in the year 1981. However, since thereafter, no steps were taken by the Municipality for putting up the 1678 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports suit property for public purpose and in fact, the said land was lying as vacant land, for which the owners were paying tax also. It was urged that as such, by virtue of Section 38(b) of the Act, the suit property is deemed to be released from the Development Plan of the Municipal Council and there is no question for the owners to obtain any permission before selling the suit property. It was submitted that the above provision came into force even before the notifying of the Master Development Plan for Mayiladuthurai Municipality; later the modified Master Development Plan for Mayiladuthurai Municipality, which was notified by the State Government in GO(Ms) No.100 issued by the Housing and Urban Development Department dated 21.03.2005. 11. It was argued that in the present case, the suit property has not acquired the character of public property so as to be owned by all the public of Nachimuthu Nagar but the same was reserved for “Public Purpose” in the Layout Plan by the Municipality. As such the ownership of the property always remained with the family of Nachimuthu Mudaliar and they always had the right to sell the same, after the suit property was deemed to be released under Section 38(b) of the Act. It was contended that seeking permission is a mere administrative act and seeking such permission is not made mandatory by the Act. 12. Next, it was submitted that Section 38 of the Act is a directory provision and not obtaining previous permission of the Municipal Authorities would not render the Sale Deeds in question invalid. Since, no consequence is provided in Section 38 or any other provision in the Act to treat the transaction in violation of Section 38 as void, the transfer in favour of Appellants no.2 to 10 cannot be regarded as ineffective or invalid. Such a transfer would at best be voidable, that too only at the instance of the Municipality concerned and none else. 13. It was submitted that respondents have no right or interest in the suit property as the same is still a private property in the hand of the original owners, even though reserved for Public Purpose at one point of time. And admittedly, till date the suit property was/is not utilised for Public Purpose (even after a lapse of more than 30 years) by the Municipality concerned. Therefore, reservation in respect of the same stood lapsed long back in terms of Section 38 of the Act.