Where a court considering an application for bail fails to consider relevant factors, an appellate court may justifiably set aside the granting bail. An appellate court is thus required to consider whether the granting bail suffers from a non-application of mind or is not borne out from a prima facie view of the evidence on record. It is thus necessary for this Court to assess whether, on the basis of the evidentiary record, there existed a prima facie or reasonable ground to believe that the accused had committed the crime, also taking into account the seriousness of the crime and the severity of the punishment.” [2024] 5 S.C.R. 53 Shivani Tyagi v. State of U.P. & Anr. 13. The impugned passed by the High Court is perused. Specifically the dated 21.02.2024 passed in the Correction Application. The does not suggest that there was any consideration of the parameters laid down by this court for grant of bail or suspension of sentence. Instead, the High Court had noticed and directed that the convicts have offered to pay compensation to the victim for grant of suspension of sentence, which when she refused to accept, was directed to be deposited in the court. It was in a way kind of “Blood Money” offered by the convicts to the victim for which there is no acceptability in our criminal justice system. 14. This Court in Gian Singh vs State of Punjab and Another7 while dealing with an issue regarding quashing of criminal proceedings on the ground of settlement between the offender and victim, observed that even if settlement or payment of compensation is pleaded in a heinous crime, still the same should not be quashed as the crimes are acts which have harmful effect on the public and in general the well-being of the society. It is not safe to leave the crime-doer on the plea of settlement with victim. Relevant paragraph 58 thereof is extracted below: “58. Where the High Court quashes a criminal proceeding having regard to the fact that the dispute between the offender and the victim has been settled although the offences are not compoundable, it does so as in its opinion, continuation of criminal proceedings will be an exercise in futility and justice in the case demands that the dispute between the parties is put to an end and peace is restored; securing the ends of justice being the ultimate guiding factor. No doubt, crimes are acts which have harmful effect on the public and consist in wrongdoing that seriously endangers and threatens the well-being of the society and it is not safe to leave the crime-doer only because he and the victim have settled the dispute amicably or that the victim has been paid compensation, yet certain crimes have been made compoundable in law, with or without the permission of the court. In respect of serious offences like murder, rape, dacoity, etc., or other offences of mental 7 [2012] 8 SCR 753 : (2012) 10 SCC 303 : 2012 INSC 419 54 [2024] 5 S.C.R.