Digital Supreme Court Reports and all other related acts, laws, rules and regulations prevalent in India. The Procurer/Authorised Representative shall not entertain any request for clarifications from the Bidders regarding the same. Non-awareness of these laws or such information shall not be a reason for the Bidder to request for extension of the Bid Deadline. The Bidder undertakes and agrees that before submission of its Bid all such factors, as generally brought out above, have been fully investigated and considered while submitting the Bid.” Press Release of 1.10.2009 7. When the matter stood thus, a Press Release was issued by the Press Information Bureau, Government of India under the heading “Modification of Mega Power Policy”. It will be safer to extract the entire Press Release as this is the fulcrum on which the entire case of the appellant revolves. The Press Release with certain portions emphasized by us, is extracted hereinbelow: “PRESS INFORMATION BUREAU GOVERNMENT OF INDIA Press Release Thursday, October 01, 2009 Modification of Mega Power Policy The Union Cabinet today approved modifications in the existing mega power policy. This would encourage setting up of mega power plants to take advantage of economies of scale and improve their viability. It will simplify the procedure for grant of mega certificate and encourage capacity addition. It will also encourage technology transfer and indigenous manufacturing in the field of super critical power equipments. The mega Power Policy was introduced in November 1995 for providing impetus to development of large size power projects in the country and derive benefit from economies of scale. These guidelines were modified in 1998 and 2002 and was last amended in April 2006 to encourage power development in Jammu & Kashmir and the North Eastern region. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 457 Nabha Power Limited & Anr. v. Punjab State Power Coroporation Limited & Anr. In to rationalize the Mega Power Policy and bring it in consonance with the National Electricity Policy 2005 and Tariff Policy 2006, the following modifications of the existing Mega Power Policy have been envisaged: (i) The existing condition of privatization of distribution by power purchasing states would be replaced by the condition that power purchasing states shall undertake to carry out distribution reforms as laid down by the Ministry of Power. (ii) The conditions requiring inter-state sale of power for getting mega power status would be removed. (iii) The present dispensation of 15% price preference available to the domestic bidders in case of cost plus projects of PSUs would continue. However, the price preference will not apply to tariff based competitively bid projects of PSUs. A Committee would be set up under the Planning Commission, with DHI, MoP and DoR as members which would suggest options and modalities to take care of the disadvantages suffered by the domestic industry related to power sector keeping all factors in view. (iv) The benefits of Mega Power Policy will also be extended to supercritical projects to be awarded through ICB with the mandatory condition of setting up indigenous manufacturing facility provided they meet the eligibility criteria.