7.1. Learned senior counsel submits that the assessing officer had issued notices to the assessee and had also verified relevant materials. Thereafter, the assessing officer held that the sale price of liquor was not fixed. What was fixed was only the range of minimum and maximum selling price. As per the gazette notification furnished by the Excise Department of the State of Karnataka for the year 2000, the minimum and maximum selling price was fixed at Rs. 55/- and Rs. 85/- per bulk litre respectively. Nowhere did it mention that liquor had to be sold at a specific fixed price. The contractors were at liberty to sell the liquor at any rate between the minimum and maximum price. There being a wide range within which the sale of liquor could be affected, the assessing officer has rightly held that the sale price of liquor was not fixed. 7.2. Learned senior counsel further submits that the assessing officer was right in taking the view that the excise vendors had obtained goods by way of auction because the goods(arrack) were obtained only on production of permits which were available on successful bidding in the auction. 7.3. Thus, the liquor contractors clearly came within the ambit of the meaning of “buyer” under Explanation(a) to Section 206C of the Income Tax Act. Therefore, Mysore Sales was under an obligation to deduct income tax at source(TDS) from the liquor contractors. Since it failed to do so, the assessing officer was fully justified in passing the s dated 17.01.2001 under Section 206C(6) of the Income Tax Act. 7.4. Learned Single Judge had elaborately examined the entire gamut of the issues and rightly affirmed the s dated 17.01.2001. Similarly, the Division Bench also made a threadbare examination of the entire issues and, thereafter, came to the conclusion that the assessing officer was fully justified in passing the s dated 17.01.2001. That being the position, there is no reason why, at this stage, the concurrent findings of the assessing officer as affirmed by the Single and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 299 The Excise Commissioner Karnataka & Anr. v. Mysore Sales International Ltd. & Ors. Division Benches of the High Court should be disturbed. As such, the civil appeal should be dismissed. 8. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties have received the due consideration of the Court. 9. Before we proceed to Section 206C of the Income Tax Act, we may have a broad overview of the excise law framework in the State of Karnataka relevant for the purpose of the present lis. As already noted above, the parent enactment is the Excise Act which is an Act to provide for an uniform excise law in the State of Karnataka. It covers the entire spectrum from production to sale of liquor and intoxicating drugs and the levy of excise duty thereon. Section 2 defines various words and expressions used in the Excise Act. Section 2 (2) defines the expression “to bottle” to mean transferring liquor from a cask or other vessel to a bottle, jar, flask, polythene sachet or similar receptacle for the purpose of sale, whether any process of manufacture be employed or not and includes re-bottling.