We are informed that on account of directions issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the final development plan which is presently at the stage of ‘draft notification’ could not be published. We are further informed by the learned Advocate General for the State of Himachal Pradesh that 97 objections have been received to the draft development plan. 2. In light of the facts and circumstances of these cases, we find that it will be appropriate, that the State Government decides the objections received to the draft development plan and after considering the same issue a final development plan. 3. We, therefore, direct the State of Himachal Pradesh to consider the objections to the draft development plan, decide them and publish the final development plan within a period of six weeks from today. 4. We further clarify that after the final development plan is published, it would not be given effect to for a period of one month from the date of its publication. 5. It is further directed that no construction should be permitted on the basis of the draft development plan. 6. Learned counsel appearing for the impleadors submits that certain constructions are being carried out without there being a sanctioned plan. 7. If any such construction is carried out without there being a sanctioned plan, indisputably, such a construction would be an unauthorized construction. 8. We, therefore, grant liberty to the applicant(s) to take recourse to the remedy available under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and bring unauthorized constructions to the notice of the High Court. 9. Needless to state that on such petitions being filed, the High Court would decide such petitions with due urgency that the issue requires. 10. List these matters on 12.07.2023.” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1025 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another 99. In pursuance of the aforesaid directions, the Town and Country Planning Department, Government of Himachal Pradesh had notified the final development plan on 20th June 2023. 100. It could thus be seen that when the second of NGT was passed, the writ petition challenging the interim dated 12th May 2022 was very much pending before the High Court. Not only that, two other writ petitions being CWP Nos. 23 and 37 of 2022, challenging the draft development plan, were also pending before the High Court. It is thus clear that the High Court was in seisin of the matter related to finalization of the draft development plan. 101. A Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of L. Chandra Kumar v. Union of India and Others30 was considering the issue regarding ouster of jurisdiction of this Court and the High Courts under Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution of India as was provided under the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 (for short, “AT Act”). The AT Act was constituted under the enabling provisions of Article 323-A of the Constitution of India. Sub-clause (d) of Clause (2) of Article 323-A specifically enables the Parliament to legislate a law for establishment of AT Act and also provides for exclusion of jurisdiction of all the Courts except jurisdiction of this Court under Article 136 with respect to disputes or complaints referred to in Clause (1).