03.06.1999 there was no published notice of draft regional plan or draft development plan. The attempt made is to rely on the letter of the Executive Engineer of 18.01.1999 containing proposals for demarcation of red and blue lines. The affidavit further avers that on 03.06.1999 the statutory scheme that was in force was the Standardized Building Byelaws and Development Control Rules for ‘B’ and ‘C’ Class Municipal Councils of Maharashtra which were applicable for the outside Municipal limits as per Government resolution dated 02.04.1974. The affidavit avers that according to Rule No. 17.1.2 no permission to construct a building on a site shall be granted, if “the site is within 9 (nine) meters of the highest water mark, and if there be major water course nearby the distance of the plots from the same shall be 9 m. from average high flood mark or 15 mt. from the defined boundary of water course whichever is more.” 38. The appellant has filed a response to the affidavit on 15.04.2024. The appellant has pointed out that the map annexed to the Engineer’s letters as produced by the State Government in its affidavit of 02.04.2024 is at variance with Exh.141 produced before the Reference Court and submits that either of them cannot be correct. The appellant [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2267 Kazi Akiloddin v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. also controverts the fact that the land was outside the municipal limits and relies on the letter of 25.02.2000 issued by the Deputy Director, Town Planning indicating that the land was within the municipal limits. The appellant avers that as on date of the acquisition admittedly none of the sanctioned development/regional plan demarcated the whole area of survey no. 1 as No Development Zone. The appellant also relied on the Standardized Building Byelaws and Development Control Rules for ‘B’ and ‘C’ Class Municipal Councils of Maharashtra referred to in the affidavit of the State Government. 39. In the written submissions of the appellant, it is submitted that since there is no valid document determining the flood mark, the no construction zone will have to be determined with reference to the defined boundary of the major water course. According to the appellant, as per the Joint Measurement Report submitted by the respondent-Irrigation Department, the distance between the land of the appellant and the defined boundary of the water course is 15 to 20 meters. The appellant disputes the explanation of the VIDC that the dotted lines indicate the curved bank of the river. 40. Be that as it may, the appellant submits that as per the Joint Measurement Map, the width of the appellant land is between 50 to 55 meters. The appellant submits that the extant rules declare that only in land up till 15 meters from the defined boundary of the water course shall fall in the no development zone and as such the whole land could not have been considered as falling under no development zone. 41. Having considered the facts and circumstances including the affidavit of the State filed before us, we are constrained to hold that the High Court was not justified in declaring the entire land of the appellant as falling within the blue zone.