The child would be questioned by the judicial officer in to satisfy himself or herself that the child understands that he or she is under a duty to speak the truth or understands the import of the oath. Regrettably this questioning, although well-meaning, is often theoretical in nature and may increase the child’s sense of confusion and terror. The child may wonder why he or she is being subjected to this questioning. That is not all. xxx xxx xxx 104. If the child decides to speak, then the prosecutor will take him or her through his or her evidence. The questioning 208 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of a child requires special skills, similar to those required to run day care centres or to teach younger children. Questioning a child in court is no exception: it requires a skill. Regrettably, not all of our prosecutors are adequately trained in this area, although quite a few have developed the necessary understanding and skill to question children in the court room environment…” (Emphasis supplied) 73. If the questioning by the public prosecutor is not skilled, like in the case at hand, the result is that the State as a prosecuting agency will not be able to elicit the truth from the child witness. It is the duty of the court to arrive at the truth and subserve the ends of justice. The courts have to take a participatory role in the trial and not act as mere tape recs to record whatever is being stated by the witnesses. The judge has to monitor the proceedings in aid of justice. Even if the prosecutor is remiss or lethargic in some ways, the court should control the proceedings effectively so that the ultimate objective that is the truth is arrived at. The court must be conscious of serious pitfalls and dereliction of duty on the part of the prosecuting agency. Upon failure of the prosecuting agency showing indifference or adopting an attitude of aloofness, the trial judge must exercise the vast powers conferred under Section 165 of the Evidence Act and Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. respectively to elicit all the necessary materials by playing an active role in the evidence collecting process. (See: Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh & Anr. vs. State of Gujarat & Ors., (2004) 4 SCC 158). 74. The judge is expected to actively participate in the trial, elicit necessary materials from the witnesses in the appropriate context which he feels necessary for reaching the correct conclusion. The judge has uninhibited power to put questions to the witness either during the chief examination or cross-examination or even during re-examination for this purpose. If a judge feels that a witness has committed an error or slip, it is the duty of the judge to ascertain whether it was so, for, to err is human and the chances of erring may accelerate under stress of nervousness during cross-examination. (See: (para 12) of State of Rajasthan vs. Ani alias Hanif & Ors., AIR 1997 SC 1023).