1 and 6 before the Additional Commissioner were not maintainable under Section 247 of the Revenue Code. 19. It was submitted that the suit property was purchased by the appellant in the year 2008 by depositing the amount of Rs. 55 lakhs in accordance with the valuation report prepared by two government approved valuers. It was pointed out that thereafter, the appellant put up a huge industrial unit for the purpose of manufacturing oxygen cylinders. Various permissions and licences from the Central Government were obtained for the purpose of setting up the oxygen cylinder plant. It was also pointed out that as on date more than two hundred workers are employed in the appellant company. 20. In such circumstances referred to above, Mr. Patwalia, the learned Senior Counsel submitted that if the appellant is asked to hand over the possession of the entire suit property at this point of time, he would incur irreparable injury, which cannot be compensated in terms of money. 21. It was submitted that ordinarily the court should not disturb the sale by auction unless it is an evident case of mala fide or a result of fraud. According to Mr. Patwalia, sometime back his client had also offered to pay to the lenders the market value of the suit property. However, such proposal was not entertained by the bankers. 22. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned senior counsel prayed that there being merit in his appeals, those may be allowed and an appropriate may be passed protecting the interests of all the parties to this litigation. C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT NO. 6/ Asset Reconstruction Co. (India) Ltd. (ARCIL) 23. Mr. Amar Dave, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondent No. 6 made the following submissions: a. The entire transaction on the basis of which the suit property was taken over by the appellant was nothing but absolute fraud perpetrated in collusion with each other. b. The entire process initiated by the Tahsildar was by supressing various critical facts from time to time from the Additional [2024] 7 S.C.R. 495 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. Collector who under the scheme of the Act was to approve the process of any such auction and pursuant thereto to confirm any such sale under the auction. c. The sequence of events clearly indicate that the Tahsildar did not disclose to the Additional Collector at the relevant time that there were objections already received from one of the banks/financial institution i.e., IFCI and the said objections were summarily rejected solely on the ground that the sale process in pursuance of the auction was being undertaken as per law. In this regard, the provisions of Section 208 of the Revenue Code are extremely vital in so far as the same contemplates that even if there is no challenge by any other party, the collector himself can set aside any such sale or not approve the same for valid reasons.