Adv., Ms. Ekta Choudhary, Divyank Dutt Dwivedi, Ms. Jeba Khan, Advs. for the Appellants. Jaideep Gupta, Sr. Adv., Kunal Chatterjee, Advs. for the Respondent. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2371 Life Insurance Corporation of India & Ors. v. Om Parkash / of the Supreme Court Hrishikesh Roy, J. 1. Heard Mr. Kailash Vasudev, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant(s). Also heard Mr. Jaideep Gupta, learned Amicus Curiae assisted by Mr. Kunal Chatterjee, learned counsel for the respondent. 2. The challenge here to the and dated 26.06.2008 in the LPA No.6/2003 of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh whereunder, the of the learned Single Judge dated 21.05.2003 was upheld by the Division Bench. Through the said , the termination of the respondent ed by the appellant(s) on 25.06.1996 was found to be unsustainable on the ground of not providing due opportunity to the delinquent. The learned Single Judge set aside the penalty of removal from service granting all consequential benefits to the delinquent. The Court however observed that the employers were at liberty to proceed to conduct inquiry on the charges in terms of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Regulation, 1960 (for short “LIC Staff Regulation”, and take necessary action. 3. The disciplinary authority while ing removal from service of the respondent through the dated 25.06.1996 (Annexure P-1) considered the absence from duty by the respondent to be a case of abandonment of service under Regulation 39(4)(iii) read with Explanation 1 of the LIC Staff Regulation. The notes that the delinquent failed to respond to the notice(s) issued to him. Moreover his whereabouts were not known for over 90 days, as specified in the LIC Staff Regulation. The respondent who was serving as an Assistant Administrative Officer in the LIC, since 25.9.1995 absented himself from duties without informing his employer. The LIC’s letters addressed to him to resume duties remained unanswered by the delinquent. Then the chargesheet-cum-show cause notice was issued on 14.02.1996 proposing his removal from service. But the same was also not answered. 4. The Authority therefore considered it to be a case of abandonment of service and by invocation of powers under Regulation 39(4)(iii) ed from removal of the delinquent. The relevant part of the Regulation reads as under:- 2372 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “39 (4) (iii) Where an employee has abandoned his post, the disciplinary authority may consider the circumstances of the case and pass such s thereon as it deems fit. Explanations: 1. For the purpose of this regulation, an employee shall be deemed to have abandoned his post if he absents himself from duty without leave or overstays his leave for a continous period of ninety days without any intimation therefore in writing. 2. All communications under this regulation and copies of s passed there under may be delivered personally to the employee if he is attending office; otherwise they shall be sent by registered post to the address noted in the service record. Where such communications or copies of s cannot be served on him personally or by registered post, copies thereof shall be affixed on the notice board of the office in which the employee is employed, and on such affixing such communications and s shall be deemed to have been properly served on him.” 5.