[2024] 12 S.C.R. 1733 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. (ii) Secondly, the Subsequent Transferee vide its letter dated 05.10.2023 even asked the Sub-Registrar Office, Nerul Thane not to entertain any request of the petitioner regarding the transfer of the Secured Asset. (iii) The self-serving stance of the Borrower to initially contend that it no longer had any role or authority over the secured asset in view of its transfer and thus, cannot handover the physical possession and the original title deeds to the same, yet in the same breath filing an application seeking stay of the notice for obtaining physical possession of the Secured Asset. (iv) The police complaint lodged by the Subsequent Transferee against the Bank by distorting the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals and to thwart the attempts for its implementation. (v) The patently false contention of the Subsequent Transferee that it instituted the suit to prevent its unlawful dispossession of the Secured Asset due to the alleged illegal attempts of the petitioner to take the same forcefully yet, in the said suit instead of seeking permanent injunction, the Subsequent Transferee not only sought the relief of declaration of title in its favour but also the invalidation of the Sale Certificate issued to the petitioner, contrary to the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals. 208. In the facts of the case, we are convinced that both the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee have committed contempt of this Court’s and dated 21.09.2023 in the Main Appeals. The aforementioned acts of the contemnors are nothing more than a gamble on their part to circumvent and undermine the findings and directions passed by this Court in the Main Appeals. Similarly, the lame excuses offered by them for explaining their conduct are also nothing more than a calculated attempt in the hope that they would get away with legitimizing the illegal Assignment Agreement even after the decision of this Court, and is equally contemptuous. 209. However, on an overall conspectus of the facts of the present case, while the initial acts of the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee are in violation of this Court’s and dated 21.09.2023, yet the efforts on their part to take steps and make amends by withdrawing the Special Civil Suit No. 5 of 2024 along with their belated unconditional undertaking to comply with any further 1734 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports that this Court may deem fit and proper to pass, demonstrates their effort and willingness to purge themselves of their contemptuous conducts. Thus, we are inclined to provide one last opportunity to the Borrower herein and the Subsequent Transferee to abide by the judgement and dated 21.09.2023 passed by this Court and further comply with the directions issued in the present contempt petition, and thus, deem it fit not to hold them guilty of contempt for the present moment. iv. Circumstances when a sale of property by auction or other means under the SARFAESI Act may be set-aside after its confirmation.