Given the delays presently endemic in the justice delivery system if a creditor is disallowed even from proving the indebtedness of a recalcitrant debtor SICA company, it would cause unjustified hardship. Whichever way we look at the matter, there can be no logic in denying legal recourse to a party for proving its debt. In the event that at least the principal [2024] 5 S.C.R. 369 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited amount, or a substantial part of it stands admitted, either in the suit or by means of a mention in the Scheme placed before the BIFR, the aggrieved party must be permitted to prove its claim. In holding so, the only prejudice that we can conceive of is incurring expenditure in legal fees. When this is weighed against the interests of a person claiming that the company is indebted to it, the balance tilts in favour of the latter. A holistic reading of Section 22(1) of SICA makes it manifestly clear that Parliament’s intention was to insulate sick companies only against proceedings for winding-up or for execution, or distress or the like or for enforcement of any security or guarantee. In the case in hand, despite several opportunities granted to the Appellant, it has miserably and perhaps deliberately failed to substantiate that the claim mentioned in the Suit has been reflected in the Scheme placed before the BIFR but even more poignantly, that a scheme was, in fact, pending before BIFR. If an Appeal is pending, has BIFR failed to grant or has withdrawn registration under SICA. We see the conduct of the Appellant as nothing more than an abuse of SICA. 7. The Apex Court has in Deputy Commercial Tax Officer v. Corromandal Pharmaceuticals, (1997) 10 SCC 649 enunciated the law in the context of SICA to be that a cessation of legal proceedings would be justified only if the dues in respect of which adjudication is ongoing is also included in or within the contemplation of the Scheme presented to BIFR. Their Lordships had analysed and distinguished its previous decisions in Gram Panchayat v. Shree Vallabh Glass Works Limited, (1990) 2 SCC 440 as well as Maharashtra Tubes Ltd. v. State of Industrial and Investment Corporation of Maharashtra Ltd., (1993) 2 SCC 144 on the reasoning that in those cases the liability of the sick company had arisen for the first time after the sanction of the Scheme by BIFR…. 8. In Sirmor Sudburg Auto Ltd. v. Kuldip Singh Lamba, [1998] 91 Comp. Cas. 727, R.C. Lahoti, J., as the Learned Single Judge of this Court then was, opined that to be entitled to a stay of legal proceedings under Section 22 370 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the Act, a mere pendency of the enquiry would not suffice; the claimed dues must be reckoned or included in the sanctioned scheme. A suit for eviction against a sick industrial company is not liable to be stayed under Section 22(1) of the SICA.