I have already referred to Dr. Ambedkar’s speech about the introduction of the said provisions. He, however, stated that if any elimination was to be made from the list so notified or any addition was to be made then they must be made by Parliament and not by the President. He stated that the object behind the same was to eliminate any kind of political factors having play in the matter. 189. As already discussed herein above, the question insofar as identification of Other Backward Classes is concerned, was left to the State. Insofar as the identification of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes is concerned, the same was complete at the stage of enactment of the Constitution in view of Articles 341 and 342 and any addition or alteration to the said notified list was permissible only by an Act of Parliament. It is further to be noted that the foundation of the Presidential List issued under Articles 341 and 342 finds place in the 1936 issued under the provisions of the 1935 Act. 190. No doubt that by the Constitution (One hundred and Second Amendment) Act, 2018, Article 342A regarding socially and educationally backward classes has been inserted. Clause (26C) in Article 366 of the Constitution of India has also been inserted by the said Amendment insofar as socially and educationally backward classes are concerned. It was sought to be argued before us that in view of the Constitution (One hundred and Second Amendment) Act, 2018, read with the law laid down by this Court in the case of Indra Sawhney regarding Other Backward Classes, the of this Court in E.V. Chinnaiah needs a relook. 191. I do not find it necessary to go into that aspect of the matter, since I find that E.V. Chinnaiah does not correctly consider the provisions of Articles 46, 335, 14, 15 and 16 of the Constitution of India, as have been interpreted by the earlier precedents of this Court. I have discussed hereinbelow in depth as to how E.V. Chinnaiah incorrectly interpreted the earlier precedents. 192. This Court in E.V. Chinnaiah in paragraph 13, while considering the effect of Article 341 of the Constitution, held that there can be [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1559 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. only one list of Scheduled Castes in regard to a State and that list should include all specified castes, races or tribes or part or groups notified in that Presidential List. It is further observed that any inclusion or exclusion from the said list can only be done by Parliament under Article 341(2) of the Constitution. This Court held that there is no reference to any sub-classification or division in the said list in any of the provisions of the Constitution except, maybe, for the limited purpose of Article 330, which refers to reservation of seats for Scheduled Castes in the House of the People. This Court held that it was clear to it that the Constitution intended all the castes including the subcastes, races and tribes mentioned in the list to be members of one group for the purpose of the Constitution and this group could not be subdivided for any purpose.