The report also stressed the importance of addressing the compounded discrimination that arises when disability intersects with these other factors. It called for a more inclusive approach that takes into account the multiple dimensions of vulnerability and disadvantage, ensuring that policies and practices do not overlook these intersections. 47. The report pointed out that inaccessibility often leads to compounded discrimination, creating additional layers of disadvantage for PWDs, particularly when these individuals are also subject to other forms of marginalisation. The findings emphasised the need for a 43 Ability Development and Inclusion (AADI), Muskaan, Action for Autism, National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled, and Surbhi Meshram facilitated the filing of affidavits by individuals with cerebral palsy, intellectual disabilities, autism, and sickle cell disease. 994 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports comprehensive and intersectional approach to accessibility that recognizes and addresses these overlapping challenges. 48. The report found the following with regard to compliance in various sectors: a. Accessibility in Courts – NALSAR- CDS engaged Ms. Roma Bhagat and Associates for a pilot survey assessing accessibility in all High Courts. No responses were received from the High Courts of Allahabad (both at Allahabad and Lucknow), Madhya Pradesh (all benches), and Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh (Srinagar). The Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) replied after the data analysis, and Delhi High Court data remained unvalidated. Out of thirty High Court benches analysed, findings showed that accessibility for locomotor disabilities was relatively better.44 However, only two courts had tactile guiding strips and interpreters for the hearing impaired. Awareness for intellectual and developmental disabilities stood at just 6.6%. The report also referenced a separate study by Mr Rajesh Deoli on accessibility within the courts of Uttarakhand, highlighting additional challenges and needs. Moreover, suggestions provided by Mission Accessibility were also noted, offering recommendations on how courts could be made more accessible for all individuals, including those with disabilities.45 b. Accessibility in Prisons – The report found that most states claimed to provide wheelchairs, crutches, Western toilets, prosthetics, and medical referrals to civil hospitals, with some offering special diets and counselling. However, these facilities were mainly available in central and women’s prisons, while district and sub-jails were less equipped. Key systemic issues identified include several shortcomings. First, many states do not officially recognize all categories of disabilities as defined in the RPWD Act, leading to underreporting and insufficient provision of services. Second, District and Sub Jails are significantly underserved. Third, there is a severe shortage of mental health 44 Roma Bhagat and Associates-Accessibility of Courts in India. 45 Rajesh Deoli - The Court System Accessibility and Echoes from the Mountains Districts of Uttarakhand; Mission Accessibility - Addressing the need for Accessibility for Persons with Disabilities along with Access to Justice Checklist. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 995 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. professionals in prisons. While at least 1,146 psychologists/ psychiatrists should be employed, only 69 positions have been sanctioned, and just 25 are filled.46 c. Accessibility in Educational institutions – A survey involving 947 parents of children with disabilities across twenty three states highlighted significant educational access challenges.47 While 56% of children were enrolled in primary classes, enrolment dropped sharply in higher grades.