8 of 64 inasmuch as the plaintiff-appellant was independently claiming rights over 0.30 acres of suit land whereas the Cantonment Board, Ramgarh was claiming rights over 2.55 acres of the land which formed part of the Estate of Raja without asserting that the land settled in its favour is the same as claimed by plaintiff-appellant or that there was any encroachment upon the land settled in its favour. Even assuming that there was some inter se conflicts between the co-defendants with regard to the suit land, the adjudication of the said conflict was not necessary for granting any relief to Maharani who was the plaintiff in the suit. Since she was claiming the entire Estate of 5.38 acres of land and her claim was defeated as she was unable to prove the grant of the said land in her favour with no specific finding by the court regarding the claims set up by the co-defendants, the inter se dispute of the co-defendants as raised in the present suit never came to be adjudicated. Thus, none of the conditions as laid down in Govindammal (supra) between co-defendants stood fulfilled for applying res judicata. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, we are of the opinion that the principle of res judicata would not be attracted as the issue in the present suit was neither directly or indirectly in issue in the previous suit and there was no conflict of interest between the co-defendants in the said previous suit which if any never came to be adjudicated upon. Accordingly, the suit as filed 3 [2018] 11 SCR 1092 : (2019) 17 SCC 433 38 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by the plaintiff-appellant claiming title over the suit land against the Cantonment Board, Ramgarh is not barred under Section 11 CPC. 26. Having said so, we proceed to examine the respective claims of the parties on merits, treating the suit as maintainable and not barred by res judicata. 27. The plaintiff-appellant has set up his claim over the suit land as described in Schedule ‘A’ to the plaint. The said schedule mentions 0.12 acres of land of plot No.432 and 0.18 acres of land of plot No.438 totaling 0.30 acres of land situate in village Ramgarh. There is no dispute that during the said period the Estate of the Raja was under the management of Court of Wards, its manager had acquired 5.38 acres of additional land including the suit land and the same was added to the Estate of the Raja. In the year 1942, the Raja had settled the aforesaid land in favour of the plaintiff-appellant on 18.10.1942. It was followed by Hukumnama dated 07.04.1943 (Exh.9) which confirmed the above settlement. 28. The above settlement was confirmed by the Additional Collector, Hazaribagh on enhancement of rent @ Rs.2/- per decimal some time in the year 1963 and had started realizing rent from the plaintiff- appellant accordingly. 29. There is no dispute by any person claiming rights under the Raja that the aforesaid land was not so settled in favour of the plaintiff- appellant.