I.S. Sikandar (supra) was followed by this Court in Mohinder Kaur v. Sant Paul Singh23 where, on facts, it was also held that the relief of specific performance being discretionary in nature, the respondent cannot be held to have established his case for grant of such relief. 24. However, in the interregnum, I.S. Sikandar (supra) was also considered by this Court in A. Kanthamani v. Nasreen Ahmed24 and it was held that the former decision turns on the facts involved therein and is, thus, distinguishable. In the latter decision, this Court also held that it is a well-settled principle of law that the plea regarding the maintainability of suit is required to be raised in the first instance in the pleading (written statement) and then only such plea can be adjudicated by the Trial Court on its merits as a preliminary issue under 14 Rule 2 CPC. Once a finding is rendered on the plea, the same can then be examined by the first or/and second appellate court. It is only in appropriate cases, where the court prima facie finds by mere perusal of plaint allegations that the suit is barred by any express provision of law or is not legally maintainable due to any legal provision, a judicial notice can be taken to avoid abuse of judicial process in prosecuting such suit. However, such was not the case therein. 25. What follows from A. Kanthamani (supra) is that unless an issue as to maintainability is framed by the Trial Court, the suit cannot be held to be not maintainable at the appellate stage only because appropriate declaratory relief has not been prayed. 23 (2019) 9 SCC 358 24 [2017] 2 SCR 610 : (2017) 4 SCC 654 1122 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports On incOnsistent clauses in an agreement 26. It is not an infrequent happening that two or more clauses in a contract could, in some measure, be inconsistent with each other, - the inconsistency arising because the clauses cannot sensibly be read together. Lord Wrenbury in Forbes v. Git 25 applied the following principle: “The principle of law to be applied may be stated in a few words. If in a deed an earlier clause is followed by a later clause which destroys altogether the obligation created by the earlier clause, the later clause is to be rejected as repugnant and the earlier clause prevails. In this case the two clauses cannot be reconciled and the earlier provision in the deed prevails over the later. Thus if A covenants to pay … 100 and the deed subsequently provides that he shall not be liable under this covenant, that later provision is to be rejected as repugnant and void, for it altogether destroys the covenant. But if the later clause does not destroy but only qualifies the earlier, then the two are to be read together and effect is to be given to the intention of the parties as disclosed by the deed as a whole.