(x) The two entry operators namely Rajendra Bansal and Jivendra Mishra had expressed a fear that Shri Satyendar Kumar Jain being an influential politician will create danger to them. (xi) The mandatory twin conditions of Section 45 of PMLA having not been satisfied, the appellant should not be released on bail. 9. So far as the appellants Ankush Jain and Vaibhav Jain are concerned, the Learned Senior Advocate Ms. Menakshi Arora with Learned Advocate Mr. Sushil Kumar Gupta made the following submissions: - (i) The Scheduled offence in the present case i.e. the disproportionate assets case under Section 13(1)(e) of the PC Act is a period specific offence and gets accomplished only at the end of the check period (14.02.2015 to 31.05.2017). As stated in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), the proceeds of crime is indicative of criminal activity related to a scheduled offence already accomplished, and therefore the offence of money laundering can be initiated only after the Scheduled Offence is accomplished. However, in the instant case, the appellants have been roped in for benami transactions from 2015-2016 which was well before the end of check period i.e 31.05.2017. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 791 Satyendar Kumar Jain v. Directorate of Enforcement (ii) The offence of money laundering against the appellants is attributed to their act of filing IDS on 27.09.2016 much before the end of check period i.e. 31.05.2017. Hence, the same cannot be considered as an act of assisting someone in the offence of money laundering as the proceeds of crime could have been generated after the end of the check period and not before that. (iii) The act of declaring IDS by the appellants in respect of undisclosed income for the period from 2010-2011 to 2015-2016 cannot be considered as an act of assisting Satyendar Jain in committing the offence of money laundering, in as much as the possession of unaccounted property acquired by legal means may be actionable for tax violation, but cannot be regarded as the proceeds of crime unless the concerned tax legislation prescribes such violations as an offence and such an offence is included in the Schedule of the PML Act. In the instant case, the total amount of 16 crores has not been considered as the proceeds of crime as the ED is relying on the accommodation entries received during the check period. (iv) The IDS filed u/s 183 of the Finance Act, 2013 was declared void u/s 193 of the said Act by the Income Tax authorities. Hence, the said act of the appellants filing the IDS cannot be construed as basis for levelling charges under Section 3 of PMLA. Reliance is placed on Karnail Singh vs. State of Haryana and Another2 for understanding the meaning of “void.” (v) It is not made clear by the ED as to the declaration of which IDS, whether the one filed by Vaibhav Jain or that filed by Ankush Jain has led to the assistance of Satyendar Jain for making out the offence under PMLA. Since the allegations are vague, the benefit of the same should go to the accused.