Notably, 4% never attended school despite being enrolled, due to reasons like schools asking them not to come or inaccessible transport. Only 2% of students could access school toilets, and many could not participate in assemblies or receive mid-day meals. Just 17% were provided with learning materials and 64% faced barriers due to inaccessible formats. These issues contribute to children with disabilities feeling marginalized and overlooked, even when physically present in schools. d. Accessibility in Employment – NALSAR-CDS relied upon a report from Enable India which highlights barriers to employment for PWDs, including those with benchmark disabilities and high support needs.48 These barriers occur both pre- and post- employment and vary based on geographic location and the nature of impairments. Key barriers include inaccessible job portals, lack of accessible educational facilities, and inconsistent implementation of accessibility standards. Specific issues for various impairments include: 1) Visual impairments: Inaccessible job portals and complex application processes; 2) Hearing and speech impairments: Lack of sign language recognition and inaccessible application methods; 3) Locomotor disabilities: Physical infrastructure barriers and non-compliance with accessibility standards; 46 Murali Karnam- Access to Prisons. 47 ASTHA -Present but Forgotten: CDS Report on Access to Education of Children with Disabilities in Government Schools in India, In Coodination with 40 Organizations. 48 Enable India-Accessibility of Employment and Allied Areas of Persons with Disabilities. 996 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4) Neurodevelopmental diss and learning disabilities: Rigid selection criteria and inaccessible assessment methods; 5) Multiple disabilities: Need for inclusive recruitment processes and practical assessments; 6) Acid attack survivors: Attitudinal barriers and lack of sensitization. e. Accessibility in Buildings and Transport – The report emphasizes that freedom of movement, a fundamental right, relies on both accessible transport and buildings. Accessibility in transport is essential for disabled individuals to access education, employment, healthcare, and social participation. For example, in Delhi, 3,775 low-floor CNG buses make transport accessible to wheelchair users, whereas Tamil Nadu has only 1,917 accessible buses out of 21,669.49 Accessible transport, such as buses with audio systems, enhances daily activities like healthcare appointments for visually impaired individuals. In contrast, inaccessible infrastructure, such as pothole-filled footpaths, hinders mobility and safety. In terms of building accessibility, a study by Dr Suman Kalani on Mumbai’s infrastructure found mixed results.50 Newer facilities, like Andheri Metro Station, meet accessibility standards, but older buildings, such as the Bombay Art Gallery, lack basic features like accessible restrooms. This disparity affects the ability of disabled individuals to move freely and access opportunities. For example, the Andheri Metro Station provides independent commuting, while the inaccessible entrance of Krishna Curve Shopping Mall in Santa Cruz limits business and employment opportunities for PWDs. f. Right to form relationships – The report highlights the emotional and relational challenges faced by PWDs, particularly regarding access to love, desire, and intimacy. Abhishek Annica, a disability activist, emphasized that disabled life is often lonely and alienating, with public discourse on accessibility ignoring 49 Yes to Access, The Association of People with Disability -Accessibility in Transportation Systems 50 Dr.Suman Kalani, SVKM’s Pravin Gandhi College of Law-A study of Lego/ Framework and its Implementation About Accessibility of Public Buildings in Mumbai [2024] 11 S.C.R.