This Court held that the Act recognises women as a vulnerable class and seeks to punish adult men who marry child brides. The Court further rejected the literal interpretation of Section 9 which would make a man between the ages of eighteen and twenty one who marries an adult woman liable for child marriage. Therefore, no child as defined in Section 2(a) of the PCMA is liable under Section 9 for marrying an adult person. 57. Section 10 of PCMA stipulates that a person who performs, conducts, directs or abets any child marriage shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment which may extend to two years and shall be liable to a fine which may extend to one lakh rupees. The provision, unlike 90 [2019] 14 SCR 120 : (2020) 19 SCC 504 1556 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 9, does not allow the court to choose the option of imposing a fine or sentencing a term of imprisonment or both. A court adjudicating under Section 10 is mandated to impose a sentence of imprisonment as well as impose a fine. 58. The provision is expansive and would govern any accomplice to the commission of child marriage. This would include the priest who performs the marriage, any family member, relative or person at whose direction the marriage takes place or anyone who abets it. The provision stipulates a defence available to any accused under Section 10 which is that a person must demonstrate that he had reasonable belief that the marriage was not a child marriage. The inbuilt defence stipulated in the provision is to safeguard any person who may unwittingly become a part of the commission of the offence of child marriage. 59. Section 11 of the PCMA is a catchall provision against the promotion or permitting of child marriage by those in charge of a minor party to the marriage. The provision reads as follows: “11. Punishment for promoting or permitting solemnisation of child marriages.— (1) Where a child contracts a child marriage, any person having charge of the child, whether as parent or guardian or any other person or in any other capacity, lawful or unlawful, including any member of an organisation or association of persons who does any act to promote the marriage or permits it to be solemnised, or negligently fails to prevent it from being solemnised, including attending or participating in a child marriage, shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment which may extend to two years and shall also be liable to fine which may extend up to one lakh rupees: Provided that no woman shall be punishable with imprisonment. (2) For the purposes of this section, it shall be presumed, unless and until the contrary is proved, that where a minor child has contracted a marriage, the person having charge of such minor child has negligently failed to prevent the marriage from being solemnised.” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1557 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors.