[2024] 1 S.C.R. 731 T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others and fauna of the park to exist). It is recognised that it is difficult to value an ecosystem, since it possesses a large number of characteristics, more than just market-oriented ones. It also leads to the need to carry out a biodiversity valuation both in terms of its market linkages and the existence value outside the market as considered relevant by a set of pre-identified stakeholders. It is, however, evident that while working out the biodiversity valuation, it is not trees and the leaves but is much more. Various techniques for valuing biodiversity that have been developed to assess the value of living resources and habitats rich in such resources have been considered by the author for her case study while considering the aspect of value, their nature and stakeholders’ interest. Insofar as the value of ecology function in which the stakeholders or scientists, tourists, village residents, non-users, the nature of value is — regulation of water, nutrient cycle, flood control. These instances have been noted to highlight the importance of the biodiversity valuation to protect the environments. The conclusions and the policy recommendations of the author are: “Biodiversity valuation has important implications for decision- making with respect to alternative uses of land, water and biological resources. Since all value does not get reflected in markets, its valuation also raises methodological problems regarding the kinds of value that are being captured by the particular technique being used. Simultaneously, in the context of a developing country, it is important to evolve methods of management that enable self-financing mechanisms of conservation. This implies that biodiversity value for which a market exists must be taken note of, while simultaneously making sure that the natural capital inherent in biodiversity-rich areas is preserved and values which are crucial for some stakeholders but cannot be expressed in the market are reflected in societal decision-making. A focus on both the above aspects is necessary. It is important to take note of the nature of market demand for aspects of biodiversity that stakeholders, such as tourists, express a revealed preference for by way of paying a price for it. Simultaneously, it is important to examine the extent to which a convergence or divergence exists between value perceptions 732 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of this and other categories of stakeholders. It is in this spirit that two alternative methodologies are used here to arrive at an economic valuation of biodiversity in Keoladeo National Park. The travel-cost methodology captures the market-linked values of tourism and recreation. It throws up the following policy implications: 1. Keeping in mind the location of the park and the consequent joint product nature of its services, cost incurred locally is a better index of the price paid by tourists. It is found that demand for tourism services is fairly insensitive to price. A redistribution of the benefits and costs of the park through an increase in entry fee would not affect the demand for its services.