… Mutation of a property in the revenue record does 26 [1996] Supp. 5 SCR 165 : (1996) 6 SCC 223 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 945 Mansoor Saheb (Dead) & Ors. v. Salima (D) By Lrs. & Ors. not create or extinguish title nor has it any presumptive value on title. It only enables the person in whose favour mutation is ed to pay the land revenue in question. ...” In Jitendra Singh v. State of M.P. & Ors.27 – “7. Right from 1997, the law is very clear. In the case of Balwant Singh v. Daulat Singh (D) By Lrs., reported in (1997) 7 SCC 137, this Court had an occasion to consider the effect of mutation and it is observed and held that mutation of property in revenue records neither creates nor extinguishes title to the property nor has it any presumptive value on title. Such entries are relevant only for the purpose of collecting land revenue. Similar view has been expressed in the series of decisions thereafter.” This position was recently reiterated by this Court in P. Kishore Kumar v. Vittal K. Patkar.28 36. Proceeding to the factual circumstances of the case, the primary requirement of ‘declaration of clear and unequivocal intention’ is not proved. The testimonies of the witnesses, DW2 (Rasoolsab) and DW3 (Gulabsingh), examined by the original defendants/appellants, do not offer any relevant details which can show that the donor, Sultan Saheb, possessed the requisite intent and with that intent, he made a declaration in favour of his sons. Having considered the material on record, we do not find any reason to take a view differing from the Trial Court and High Court in disbelieving the testimonies of these witnesses. A perusal of the Trial Court lends credence to this conclusion for the testimonies as extracted therein are nothing but vague, it seems that the witnesses were trying desperately to make relevant testimony grasping at strands of fading memory. That apart, there is no mention of these witnesses in the Mutation Entry. Even though the other two requisites, i.e. acceptance and possession, may have been proved, the essential requirement of the declaration made with clear and unequivocal intention remains unfulfilled, which is of significance. When neither the words of the Mutation Entry nor the Entry itself support the claim of the original- 27 2021 SCC OnLine SC 802 28 [2023] 14 SCR 796 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1483 946 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports defendants/appellants in any manner, for neither can it be a gift nor does the Mutation Entry mean that any title rests with them, the case of the original-defendants/appellants necessarily has to fail. The oral gift made by Sultan Saheb in favour of his sons cannot be held to be a valid gift. 37. The questions of law are answered accordingly. 38. As a result of our discussions in the foregoing paragraphs, we do not find any fault with the reasoning given by the Trial Court and the High Court qua the questions of gift and partition.