41. A notification being Gazette No. 85-B was published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette on 11.11.1971 by the State Government, under Section 15 of the A.P. Forest Act, declaring the land, which was part of the earlier proceedings of the revenue department dated 17.11.1960, as reserved forest. It was done on the premise that the lands were forest lands and, therefore, they were accordingly declared as reserved forest. 138 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 42. Rather strangely, the application so filed by the Plaintiff was rejected by the Revenue Authority only on 10.01.1975. The revision filed by him was allowed by remitting the matter to the Joint Collector. Suffice it is to state that despite the findings rendered, neither the Forest Department nor the Forest Settlement Officer was arrayed as a party to these proceedings before the revenue department. It is also seen that the of the Revenue Authority and the Revisional Authority were passed much after the declaration under Section 15 of the A.P. Forest Act, vesting the lands in the State by giving them the status of a reserved forest. 43. On 07.07.1981, the Joint Collector, Warangal allowed the application of the Plaintiff. Realising that the said will not give the Plaintiff benefit of any sort, he filed an application before the Government seeking denotification of the land declared as reserved forest’, which was rightly dismissed on 01.09.1984. 44. A suit was filed by the Plaintiff on 23.04.1985 in OS No. 56 of 1985 on the file of I Additional Sub-Judge, Warangal seeking a declaration of title and permanent injunction. In the said suit the Defendant no. 1 was the District Collector representing the Revenue Department with the Defendant no. 2, Forest Officer representing the Forest Department. Quite surprisingly, neither the Forest Settlement Officer nor the State of Andhra Pradesh, Forest Department was made a party defendant. The trial court while granting title to the plaintiff declined the incidental relief of injunction. 45. On appeal, the High Court, by giving adequate reasons reversed the said finding of the trial court qua the declaration, and confirmed the findings on injunction by dismissing the suit in toto. Ultimately, it was held that the suit property is forest land. The proceedings concluded under the A.P. Forest Act, though not specifically challenged, and that too without the proper and necessary parties, were found to be just and proper. 46. The trial court and the High Court in first appeal have given factual findings against the plaintiff. Only two witnesses were examined, one on each side. The trial court took note of the fact that there is material evidence to show that the suit land is a part of the reserved forest. The plaintiff was not at all in possession of the suit land. The suit was also held as barred under Section 5 of the A.P. Forest Act. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 139 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. 47. The High Court, being the final court of fact and law, went ahead and held that the plaintiff had miserably failed to show his title to the suit property.