Further, it was noted that the reasons given for justifying the invocation of the urgency clause had not been examined in the context in which they were made, and also the decision of this Court in the case of Nand Kishore Gupta and Others v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others.13 was not considered. 22. The Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court while delivering the in Kamal Sharma, validated the acquisition proceeding in question and granted an enhanced compensation of 64.7% to the landowners. 23. During the course of arguments, this Court was apprised of the fact that out of total 410 writ petitioners(landowners) before the High Court, only 96 have challenged the in Kamal Sharma by filing civil appeals @ special leave petitions in Batch No. 1. 24. It is in this backdrop of the conflicting decisions rendered by the Division Benches of the Allahabad High Court, that the two batches of civil appeals @ special leave petitions i.e. Batch No.1 and Batch No.2, have been preferred by the landowners and YEIDA before this Court. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF LANDOWNERS (APPELLANTS IN BATCH NO. 1): - 25. Learned counsel representing the landowners implored the Court to grant relief in favour of the appellants as prayed for in Batch No.1 wherein lead matter is “Kalicharan and others v. The State of Uttar Pradesh and others14” and negate the challenge to the in 13 [2010] 11 SCR 356 : (2010) 10 SCC 282; hereinafter referred to as ‘Nand Kishore’ 14 supra 1076 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Shyoraj Singh. They advanced the following pertinent submissions for assailing the questioned land acquisition proceedings:- (i) That the Division Bench of Allahabad High Court, while rendering the dated 26th May, 2023 in Kamal Sharma, in effect sat in appeal over the dated 24th April, 2017 in Shyoraj Singh rendered by a coordinate bench of the same High Court which dealt with an identical controversy both in facts and law. It was fervently contended that the Division Bench of Allahabad High Court, while dealing with the subsequent batch of writ petitions in Kamal Sharma should have followed the passed in Shyoraj Singh as a matter of judicial discipline. (ii) That if at all the Division Bench in Kamal Sharma was of a view that Shyoraj Singh did not lay down the correct position of law, then the question of law should have been referred to a larger Bench rather than taking a divergent view in a Bench with a composition of same number of Judges. (iii) That the land acquisition notifications under Sections 4 and 6 of the Act were dated 26th February, 2009 and 19th February 2010, respectively. The above-mentioned dates demonstrate that about one years’ time was taken by the State Government for issuance of the final declaration notification under Section 6 after the proposal under Section 4 of the Act was issued and thus, there was pre and post notification delay which could not have been ignored and had to be taken into account.