On the other hand, a separate mention of ‘medium goods vehicle’, ‘medium passenger vehicle’, ‘heavy goods vehicle’ and ‘heavy passenger vehicle’ as incorporated in the Section 10 would suggest that it is primarily targeted towards ‘Transport Vehicles’ as opposed to a ‘Light Motor Vehicle’, which as earlier noticed could also be a ‘Non-Transport Vehicle’. The emphasis in the second part of Section 3 should therefore be understood in relation to Medium and Heavy Vehicles in the statutory scheme even prior to the 1994 amendment. The reasonable interpretation of the second part of Section 3 should therefore pertain to a driving license for those driving ‘medium goods vehicle’, ‘medium passenger vehicle’, ‘heavy goods vehicle’, and ‘heavy passenger vehicle’. Such an interpretation and understanding would be logical because medium and heavy vehicles would require greater maneuverability and skill as compared to drivers of the LMV class. The subsequent amendment in Section 10 makes this position even clearer. The relevant portion of the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Amendment Act 54 of 1994 may also guide us here and is reproduced below: "(a) The introduction of newer type of vehicles and fast increasing number of both commercial and personal vehicles in the country. (b) Providing adequate compensation to victims of road accidents without going into longdrawn procedure; 586 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (c) Protecting consumers’ interest in Transport Sector; (d) Concern for road safe ty standards, transport of hazardous chemicals and pollution control; (e) Delegation of greater powers to State Transport Authorities and rationalising the role of public authorities in certain matters; (f) The simplification of procedures and policy liberalisation in the field of Road Transport; (g) Enhancing penalties for traffic offenders. The Bill inter alia provides for – (a) modification and amplification of certain definitions of new type of vehicles ; (b) simplification of procedure for grant of driving licences; (c) putting restrictions on the alteration of vehicles; (d) certain exemptions for vehicles running on non- polluting fuels; (e) ceilings on individuals or company holdings removed to curb “benami” holdings; (f) states authorised to appoint one or more State Transport Appellate Tribunals; (g) punitive checks on the use of such components that do not conform to the prescribed standards by manufactures, and also stocking / sale by the traders; (h) increase in the amount of compensation of the victims of hit and run cases; (i) removal of time limit for filling of application by road accident victims for compensation; (j) punishment in case of certain offences is made stringent; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 587 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. (k) a new pre-determined formula for payment of compensation to road accident victims on the basis of age/income, which is more liberal and rational.” [emphasis supplied] 42. The classes of ‘medium goods vehicle’, ‘medium passenger vehicle’, ‘heavy goods vehicles’, and ‘heavy passenger vehicles’ as earlier noted in the table, were subsumed under the class of ‘Transport vehicle’. It can logically be inferred that the term ‘Transport Vehicle’ primarily targets vehicles exceeding 7,500 kgs, for the purpose of license regime.