Alcohol can however be used for industrial purposes even without denaturing it. To say that the States step in only when alcohol becomes potable and not before it, creates a doubt and enough room for abuse apart from difficulties of supervision and regulation, such as, in the matter of licensing such industries — whether the Centre alone or the States or both should do it. Therefore, notices were issued to all the State Governments as well as Union of India and the interplay between the Entries of Lists I, II and III which are under consideration here and which are extracted above, were discussed. 9.8.2 It was opined that Entry 51 - List II and Entry 84 - List I complement each other inasmuch as both provide for duties of excise. However, Entry 51 - List II empowers the State to levy duties of excise on alcoholic liquors for human consumption, which is expressly excluded from Entry 84 - List I. Therefore, alcoholic liquors may be used for several purposes, one of which is meant for human consumption. It was further observed that Entry 8 – List II does not use the expression “alcoholic liquors for human consumption” but employs the expression “intoxicating liquors” and significantly, the words “for human consumption” is conspicuous by its absence. According to Jeevan Reddy, J., this is for the obvious reason that the very word “intoxicating” signifies “for human consumption”. Thus, Entry 8 - List II emphasizes all aspects of “intoxicating liquors” within the State’s sphere, i.e., to say production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of “intoxicating liquors”. In this context, Entry 6 - List II was relied upon to observe that the said Entry, which, inter alia, deals with “public health”, has a close nexus to prohibiting or regulating consumption of “intoxicating liquors”. 9.8.3 It was next opined that clause (a) in Entry 33 – List III is also significant. That though the control of certain industries may have been taken over by the Union by virtue of a declaration made by Parliament in terms of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2093 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Entry 52 - List I, yet the “trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of the products of such industry” is placed in the Concurrent List. According to Jeevan Reddy, J., this would mean that it could be regulated by both by the Union as well as by the States, subject, of course, to Article 254 of the Constitution. 9.8.4 It was observed that insofar as the field is not occupied by the laws made by the Union, the States are free to legislate. It was further observed that Entry 24 - List II is in the nature of a general Entry. It deals with industries but is made expressly subject to Entries 7 and 52 - List I. That by making a declaration in terms of Entry 52 - List I in Section 2 of the IDRA, the Union has taken control of the several industries mentioned in the Schedule to the Act.