Sabharwal. Holding so, the additions to the tune of Rs. 8,14,230/- was deleted. No further comments were given by the Tribunal in regard to this addition/deletion. 13. Thereafter, on the issue of appellant Puneet Sabharwal having received funds from the Morni Devi Brij Lal Trust which was held to belong to appellant R.C. Sabharwal, it was found that since Morni Devi Brij Lal Trust was a separate entity and since the appellant Puneet Sabharwal was running its business, its income could not be added in the hands of the appellant R.C. Sabharwal. The Tribunal also considered the additions/deletions with regard to various other firms and assessees which we do not seek to set out herein for the purposes of brevity. 14. Ultimately, only on the aspect of deposits in the joint bank accounts of minors, so far as it fell within the limitation period, the Tribunal restored the matter back to the Assessing Officer for deciding the issue afresh and the appeal of the revenue was allowed to that limited extent. Holding so, the appeals were disposed of. Consequently, on 30.12.2009, the Assessing Officer passed an assessment [2024] 3 S.C.R. 689 Puneet Sabharwal v. CBI accepting the explanation of the assessee on the aspect remitted and the income of the assessee Puneet Sabharwal was fixed at Rs. 67,550/-. Proceedings in the High Court: 15. These s which came subsequent to the s of the Trial Court were placed before the High Court. It was contended that in view of the s made by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal in the reopening proceedings, which reopening was based on the search conducted by the CBI, there is absolutely no ground to proceed with the criminal trial. It was further argued, with respect to the appellant Puneet Sabharwal, that he was a minor for a large portion of the check period and therefore could not be made an accused. 16. Repelling the contentions, the High Court held as follows: (i) Simply because for a large part of the period of investigation, the appellant Puneet Sabharwal was a minor, would not by itself be a reason to disregard the fact that at least for the seven years of the investigation period he was a major; (ii) Under Section 3(2) of Special Bearer Bonds (Immunities and Exemptions) Act, 1981, the immunities under the Act are inapplicable to offences committed under the Prevention of Corruption Act or similar offences; (iii) Prosecution has sought to rely upon statements of several witnesses; (iv) In State of Karnataka v. Selvi J. Jayalalitha & Ors. (2017) 6 SCC 263, this Court had held that income tax assessment s are apropos tax liability on income and they do not necessarily attest to the lawfulness of the sources of income; (v) That what was relevant was whether there was a strong suspicion that the accused has committed the offence and that in the view of the High Court there was indeed a case for trial. Holding so, the Writ Petitions were dismissed.