Thus, the notified rate would be an illegal charge and not an overcharge. This is because the error here lies in the very substance or genesis of the charge that was notified i.e., the charge which is sanctioned and permitted to be levied by the law, but in contravention of the law i.e., in contravention of the Zonal Authority’s calculation. 78. We are conscious of the fact that this Court in Rajasthan State Electricity Board (supra) had directed the refund of excess freight charged by misapplication of the law despite the claim being time- barred under Section 106(3), however, a closer reading would reveal that the refund had been directed in view of the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case. Even otherwise, the court in the said decision whilst directing the refund completely missed to advert to either the bar under Section 106(3) or whether the excess freight would be an ‘overcharge’. Nevertheless, the distinction between an 1116 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ‘overcharge’ and an ‘illegal charge’ has been acknowledged by this Court in its subsequent decisions in West Coast Paper Mills (supra) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation (supra), thus, we need not dwell any further on the decision of Rajasthan State Electricity Board (supra). 79. Further, a sum paid in excess of what was required to be payable as per law, must assume the character of an ‘overcharge’ on the date when the payment was made or when the charge was levied. To explain this in detail we may refer to the decision of the Calcutta High Court in Suresh Kumar v. Board of Trustees for the Port of Calcutta reported in (1988) SCC OnLine Cal 420. 79.1 In the said decision, the issue pertained to the provision of Section 55 of the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963 (for short, the “Ports Act”), which is analogous to Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989, inasmuch as both the provisions provide that for a claim of refund of an ‘overcharge’ a notice of claim must be made within 6-months from the date of payment. 79.2 The facts of Suresh Kumar (supra) were as follows: there was a delay in custom clearance, because of which the goods had to be warehoused at the port. Due to this, the goods incurred heavy demurrage charges. The petitioner therein requested the custom authorities that since the delay was to no fault of its own, he may be issued an exemption certificate for the said demurrages. During this period, since the goods continued incurring demurrage charges, the petitioner therein paid the same under protest. Subsequent to the payment of the said charges, he was issued exemption certificates, whereby a portion of the demurrage charges stood abated. Accordingly, a claim for refund was made, however the same inter-alia came to be rejected in view of being time-barred as per Section 55 of the Ports Act. 79.3 The Calcutta High Court observed that, although this was in essence a refund for an overcharge, as by virtue of the exemption certificates, a sum excess than what was required by law had been paid, yet, it would not be hit by Section 55 of the Ports Act, as the excess sum only assumed a character of an overcharge, subsequent to the date of payment, when the exemption certificates were issued.