28. Reference was also made to Santosh Hazari vs. Purushottam Tiwari (Deceased) by LRs6, wherein this Court held that a first appeal is a valuable right and unless restricted by law, the whole case would be open for rehearing before it, both on questions of fact and law, and, therefore, the of the first appellate Court must reflect conscious application of mind and it must record findings supported by reasons on all the issues arising, along with the contentions put forth and pressed by the parties for decision of the said Court. It was further observed that, while reversing a finding of fact, the first appellate Court must come into close quarters with the reasoning of the Trial Court and then assign its own reasons for arriving at a different finding. This, per this Court, would satisfy the requirement of 41 Rule 31 CPC. 29. However, in Laliteshwar Prasad Singh and others vs. S.P. Srivastava (Dead) thru. Lrs.7, this Court, while affirming the aforestated principles, observed that it is well settled that the mere omission to frame the points for determination would not vitiate the of the first appellate Court, provided that the first appellate Court recorded its reasons based on the evidence adduced by both parties. 30. Thus, even if the first appellate Court does not separately frame the points for determination arising in the first appeal, it would not prove fatal as long as that Court deals with all the issues that actually arise for deliberation in the said appeal. Substantial compliance with the mandate of 41 Rule 31 CPC in that regard is sufficient. In this regard, useful reference may be made to G. Amalorpavam and others vs. R.C. Diocese of Madurai and others8, wherein this Court held as under: - 6 [2001] 1 SCR 948 : (2001) 3 SCC 179 7 [2016] 11 SCR 1 : (2017) 2 SCC 415 8 [2006] 2 SCR 899 : (2006) 3 SCC 224 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 617 Mrugendra Indravadan Mehta and Others v. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation ‘9. The question whether in a particular case there has been substantial compliance with the provisions of 41 Rule 31 CPC has to be determined on the nature of the delivered in each case. Non-compliance with the provisions may not vitiate the and make it wholly void, and may be ignored if there has been substantial compliance with it and the second appellate court is in a position to ascertain the findings of the lower appellate court. It is no doubt desirable that the appellate court should comply with all the requirements of 41 Rule 31 CPC. But if it is possible to make out from the that there is substantial compliance with the said requirements and that justice has not thereby suffered, that would be sufficient. Where the appellate court has considered the entire evidence on record and discussed the same in detail, come to any conclusion and its findings are supported by reasons even though the point has not been framed by the appellate court there is substantial compliance with the provisions of 41 Rule 31 CPC and the is not in any manner vitiated by the absence of a point of determination.