In such circumstances, the mere statement in suicide note dated 23.10.2004, ‘Shri Ram Babu Sharma, Secretary, Mandi Samiti, Puwaya will be responsible for his suicide’ would not be a ground at all to issue summons to the respondent No.2 to face the trial for the offence under Section 306, IPC. The principles enunciated in Madan Mohan Singh’s case (supra) and Netai Dutta’s case (supra), on application to the facts obtained in this case would also justify the interference by the High Court with the subject summons. 25. In the case on hand, the undisputable position is that at the time of the commission of suicide, the deceased was not working in the office of Mandi Samiti, Puwaya where the respondent No.2 was working as Secretary and when the former committed the suicide he was attached to the office of the Mandi Samiti, Jalalabad and was working in Sub-Mandi, Alhaganj. 26. In Madan Mohan Singh’s case (supra), the salary of the deceased, who was allegedly abetted to commit suicide, for 15 days was deducted by the accused. That apart, in that case also a suicide note was left by the deceased, which in so far as it is relevant was quoted in paragraph 7 of the said decision thus: - “I am going to commit suicide due to his functioning style. Alone M.M. Singh, DET Microwave Project is responsible for my death. I pray humbly to the officers of the Department that you should not cooperate as human being to defend M.M. Singh. M.M. Singh has acted in breach of discipline disregarding the norms of discipline. I humbly request the enquiry officer that my wife and son may not be harassed. My life has been ruined by M.M. Singh”. 27. Paragraph 13 and 14 of the said , in so far as they are relevant are also worthy to be extracted. They read thus: - [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1239 Vikas Chandra v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. “13…… In fact, there is no nexus between the so-called suicide (if at all it is one for which also there is no material on record) and any of the alleged acts on the part of the appellant. There is no proximity either. In the prosecution under Section 306 IPC, much more material is required. The courts have to be extremely careful as the main person is not available for cross-examination by the appellant- accused. Unless, therefore, there is specific allegation and material of definite nature (not imaginary or inferential one), it would be hazardous to ask the appellant-accused to face the trial. A criminal trial is not exactly a pleasant experience. The person like the appellant in the present case who is serving in a responsible post would certainly suffer great prejudice, were he to face prosecution on absurd allegations of irrelevant nature… 14. As regards the suicide note, which is a document of about 15 pages, all that we can say is that it is an anguish expressed by the driver who felt that his boss (the accused) had wronged him.