The said provision clearly indicates the legislative intent that if there are valid legal objections (which in the present case was clearly on the record in so far as IFCI had already raised issues with regard to the mortgage of the land) and therefore in terms of the said provision the collector was obliged in law to factor the said objections and could have examined the issue and not approved the sale. However, it is apparent that the Tahsildar kept the office of the Additional Collector in dark about the said objection and hence the entire process was clearly vitiated. d. The Tahsildar, with an oblique motive, initiated proceedings for confirmation of the sale without following the mandatory process as laid under the scheme of the Act. In fact, the sale was confirmed on 03.12.2008 even without ensuring whether the complete payments in respect of the sale proceed had been fully realised or not. More surprisingly, the perusal of the affidavit filed by the Tahsildar in the High court (in the first round of litigation filed by Prestige) clearly indicates that the attempt was to suppress the fact to the extent that one of the cheques had been realised after the sale confirmation 03.12.2008. The cheque was actually realised on 04.12.2008. No public authority can confirm a sale without even realizing the entire consideration and any such attempt is clearly indicative of the fraudulent and collusive nature of the proceedings in question. e. That the so-called reliance on the letter of ‘No Objection’ being the entire basis of the starting of the final auction proceeding 496 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is clearly indicative of the fraud perpetuated more particularly when the respondent No. 1 company, i.e., Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. clearly declared that no such ‘No Objection’ letter was ever signed by it. Even otherwise the sequence of events including the newspaper advertisements clearly indicate that such a plea of taking “no objection” from the owner and then subsequently asking the owner to make payment before the due date is indicative of the nature of fraud perpetuated in the present proceedings. f. The record reveals that the entire valuation of the immovable as well as the movable properties were done in a self-serving manner, and the same was done only to benefit the appellant. In this regard, the pleadings clearly reflect that the movable properties itself were almost having a market value of around Rs. 3 Crore (if not around Rs. 1 crore as per depreciated value reflected in the books). In spite of such valuation, the valuer had assigned only around Rs. 75, 000 for the entire machinery and shown the same as scrap. That apart, even the valuation of the immovable property was completely incorrect and therefore in the teeth of these glaring facts, the entire transaction seems to have been engineered in a fraudulent manner. The appellant cannot be termed as bona fide purchaser. g. As per the law laid down in the decision of Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar reported in 2014 (5) SCC 610, it is now well settled that 30 days’ sale notice is mandatory.