6. ⁠I⁠n view of the aforesaid proposed settlement, the parties shall jointly request the Hon’ble NCLAT on 31 July 2024 to suspend the of admission of Think & Learn Pvt. Ltd passed by the NCLT until 09 August 2024. 7.⁠ ⁠Further, once the payment of complete INR. 158 crores to BCCI is made, BCCI shall make statement to withdraw the Company Petition and take necessary steps towards the same.” 17. It is common ground that on 31 July 2024, when the parties sought to place the settlement on record, although CIRP had been initiated and an IRP had been appointed, the CoC had not been constituted. Before the NCLAT, the second respondent stated that in view of the money being generated in India and coming through a banking channel, it shall be accepted and was in favour of the withdrawal of CIRP. The appellant, however, raised several objections, including inter alia that the alleged payment made by Riju Raveendran would constitute a preferential payment to an operational creditor. Further, the appellant contended that the source of the funds is not clear, and the amount being offered by Riju Raveendran to settle the debt of the second respondent would constitute an act of round-tripping. The appellant apprehended that the funds of Byjus’s Alpha Inc. were being offered to settle dues in India, in contravention of the preliminary injunction issued by the Delaware Court on 18 March 2024. 18. On 1 August 2024, an affidavit was filed along with an undertaking by Riju Raveendran. The affidavit of Riju Raveendran could purportedly not be filed in time as he was not in India and thus, the undertaking was filed through an authorized representative. In the undertaking, Riju Raveendran affirmed that (i) the money being offered for settlement between the Corporate Debtor and the second respondent was being paid from his personal funds, including the sale of shares held by 1816 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports him in the Corporate Debtor; (ii) the money was generated in India and is not linked to the money involved in the proceedings pending in the Delaware Court; (iii) the first respondent (Byju Raveendran) has not transferred any money or extended any security towards raising the sums for payment of the settlement amount. The undertaking reads as follows: “… 3. I state and confirm that no part of the Settlement Amount is being paid in violation of any passed by any court or tribunal, including s passed by the Delaware Bankruptcy Court. 4. I have not received any portion of the USD 533 million that are the subject matter of the proceedings before the Delaware Bankruptcy Court and, accordingly, no part of those funds have been, or will be, used to pay the BCCI. In fact, the funds forming part of the Settlement Amount are being paid out of my personal funds, as explained in paragraph 8 below. 5. To clarify, under the terms of the Credit Agreement dated 24 November 2021 (the “Credit Agreement”), a group of lenders represented by GLAS Trust LLC (GLAS) disbursed an amount of USD 1.2 billion to Byju’s Alpha, Inc. (a step-down subsidiary of Think & Learn Pvt.