The High Court also in its routine course had sent up the first 15 names to the Government for appointment. Thereupon the Chief Secretary to Government, Haryana wrote to the Registrar of the High Court on May 4, 1971 as follows: “I am directed to refer to Haryana Government endst No. 1678-1 GS, II—71/3802, dated April 22, 1971, on the subject noted above, and to say that after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Punjab and Haryana High Court for appointment of first fifteen candidates to the Haryana Civil Service (Judicial Branch), [2024] 2 S.C.R. 233 Sushil Kumar Pandey & Ors. v. The High Court of Jharkhand & Anr. the State Government have taken the view that it would be appropriate that only the first seven candidates should be appointed to the Haryana Civil Service (Judicial Branch) and a notification has been issued accordingly. The reason is that in the opinion of the State Government, only those candidates who obtained 55% or more marks in the Haryana Civil Service (Judicial Branch) Examination, should be appointed as that will serve to maintain a minimum standard in the appointments to the Service. It may be mentioned that the last candidate appointed against un-reserved vacancies out of the merit list prepared on the basis of the Haryana Civil Service (Judicial Branch) Examination held in May 1969, secured 55.67% marks. The State Government have also received information that the Punjab and Haryana High Court themselves recommended to the Punjab Government that in respect of P.C.S. (Judicial Branch) Examination held in 1970, candidates securing 55% marks or more should be appointed against un-reserved vacancies. Thus, the decision taken by Haryana Government is in line with the recommendations which the High Court made to the Punjab Government regarding recruitment to the P.C.S. (Judicial Branch) on the basis of the Examination held in 1970, and a similar policy in both the cases would be desirable for obvious reasons.” 12. It was, however, contended by Dr Singhvi on behalf of the respondents that since Rule 8 of Part C makes candidates who obtained 45% or more in the competitive examination eligible for appointment, the State Government had no right to introduce a new rule by which they can restrict the appointments to only those who have scored not less than 55%. It is contended that the State Government have acted arbitrarily in fixing 55% as the minimum for selection and this is contrary to the rule referred to above. The argument has no force. Rule 8 is a step in the preparation of a list of eligible candidates with minimum qualifications who may be considered for appointment. The list is prepared in of merit. The one higher in rank is deemed to be more meritorious than the one who 234 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is lower in rank. It could never be said that one who tops the list is equal in merit to the one who is at the bottom of the list.