Simplicity, informality and expedition are hallmarks of arbitration. Arbitrators are required to be impartial and independent, adhere to natural justice, and follow a fair and just procedure. Arbitrators are normally experts in the subject and perform their tasks by referring to facts, evidence, and relevant case law.”] 300 Eurasian Equipment & Chemicals Ltd. v. State of West Bengal (1975) 1 SCC 70 [17]; Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. International Airport Authority of India (1979) 3 SCC 489 [12] [12. It must, therefore, be taken to be the law that where the Government is dealing with the public, whether by way of giving jobs or entering into contracts or issuing quotas or licences or granting other forms of largesse, the Government cannot act arbitrarily at its sweet will and, like a private individual, deal with any person it pleases, but its action must be in conformity with standard or norms which is not arbitrary, irrational or irrelevant. The power or discretion of the Government in the matter of grant of largesse including award of jobs, contracts, quotas, licences, etc. must be confined and structured by rational, relevant and non-discriminatory standard or norm and if the Government departs from such standard or norm in any particular case or cases, the action of the Government would be liable to be struck down, unless it can be shown by the Government that the departure was not arbitrary, but was based on some valid principle which in itself was not irrational, unreasonable or discriminatory.] 301 LIC v. Consumer Education & Research Centre (1995) 5 SCC 482 [23] 2274 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports arbitration proceedings to the prejudice of the other party. Resultantly, unilateral appointment clauses fail to provide an effective substitute for judicial proceedings in India. Further, a unilateral appointment clause is inherently exclusionary and violates the principle of equal treatment of parties and procedural equality. 163. Unilateral appointment clauses in a public-private contract fail to provide the minimum level of integrity required in authorities performing quasi-judicial functions such as arbitral tribunals. Therefore, a unilateral appointment clause is against the principle of arbitration, that is, impartial resolution of disputes between parties. It also violates the nemo judex rule which constitutes the public policy of India in the context of arbitration. Therefore, unilateral appointment clauses in public-private contracts are violative of Article 14 of the Constitution for being arbitrary in addition to being violative of the equality principle under the Arbitration Act. H. Necessity of maintaining the principle of minimum judicial interference 164. In re Interplay Between Arbitration Agreements under Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 and the Stamp Act 1899,302 a seven judge Bench of this Court emphasized the importance of minimal judicial interference by the courts at the Section 11 stage. This Court held that the scope of the proeceeding under Section 11 must be confined to the existence of an arbitration agreement. The Court further observed: “165. The legislature confined the scope of reference under Section 11(6-A) to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement.