The said cancellation as such is per se in violation of the principles of natural justice and is illegal. 21. Learned counsel for the appellant-Bank, relying upon Union Bank of India v. Rajat Infrastructure Private Limited and Others,7 had submitted that the statutory period prescribed under Rule 9(4) is not liable to be extended by this Court even in exercise of powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. In the said case, this Court accepted that though the plenary powers of the Supreme Court under Article 142 of the Constitution are inherent which are of very wide amplitude but the said power cannot be used to supplement the substantive law by ignoring the express statutory provision. The aforesaid authority cited on behalf of the appellant-Bank is not of any help to it in this case as we are not providing for any new period of limitation for depositing the balance sale consideration or extending the time period provided under the Rules. We are simply holding that the period to deposit the balance sale consideration, as provided under the Rules, is not sacrosanct and is extendable with the consent in writing of the parties and that Rule 9(4) will only come into play when there is default on part of the party i.e. the auction 7 [2023] 14 SCR 666 : (2023) 10 SCC 232 1380 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports purchaser to deposit the amount and will not apply where there is no default or that the default, if any, lies upon the auctioneer i.e. appellant-Bank in the case at hand. 22. Accordingly, we are of the considered opinion that the High Court has not committed any error of law in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case in holding that the appellant-Bank manifestly erred in cancelling the auction sale dated 10.04.2018 and in directing to issue sale certificate/register the sale deed in favour of the respondents after getting the balance auction amount deposited within a period of four weeks. 23. In view of the foregoing,the civil appeals are dismissed with no as to costs. 24. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeals dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey