215 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal the Gram Sabha concerned and for that purpose, within the limits of any sanctuary,— (a) may construct such roads, bridges, buildings, fences or barrier gates, and carry out such other works as he may consider necessary for the purposes of such sanctuary : Provided that no construction of tourist lodges, including Government lodges, for commercial purposes, hotels, zoos and safari parks shall be undertaken inside a sanctuary except with the prior approval of the National Board; (b) shall take such steps as will ensure the security of wild animals in the sanctuary and the preservation of the sanctuary and wild animals therein; (c) may take such measures, in the interests of wild life, as he may consider necessary for the improvement of any habitat; (d) may regulate, control or prohibit, in keeping with the interests of wild life, the grazing or movement of livestock.” [emphasis supplied] 23. Section 35 of the WLP Act deals with “Declaration of National Parks”, which reads thus : “35. Declaration of National Parks.—(1) Whenever it appears to the State Government that an area, whether within a sanctuary or not, is, by reason of its ecological, faunal, floral, geomorphological or zoological association or importance, needed to be constituted as a National Park for the purpose of protecting, propagating or developing wild life therein or its environment, it may, by notification, declare its intention to constitute such area as a National Park : Provided that where any part of the territorial waters is proposed to be included in such National Park, the provisions of Section 26A shall, as far as may be, apply 216 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in relation to the declaration of a National Park as they apply in relation to the declaration of a sanctuary. (2) The notification referred to in sub-section (1) shall define the limits of the area which is intended to be declared as a National Park. (3) Where any area is intended to be declared as a National Park, the provisions of Sections 19 to 26-A [both inclusive except clause (c) of sub-section (2) of Section 24)] shall, as far as may be, apply to the investigation and determination of claims, and extinguishment of rights, in relation to any land in such area as they apply to the said matters in relation to any land in a sanctuary. (3A) When the State Government declares its intention under sub-section (1) to constitute any area as a National Park, the provisions of Sections 27 to 33-A (both inclusive), shall come into effect forthwith, until the publication of the notification declaring such National Park under sub- section (4). (3B) Till such time as the rights of the affected persons are finally settled under Sections 19 to 26A [both inclusive except clause (c) of sub-section (2) of Section 24], the State Government shall make alternative arrangements required for making available fuel, fodder and other forest produce to the persons affected, in terms of their rights as per the Government records.