[2024] 9 S.C.R. 675 In Re: Remarks By High Court Judge During Court Proceedings 13. Bearing in mind the apology which has been tendered by the Judge of the High Court in the course of open court proceedings on 21 September 2024, we consider it in the interest of preserving the dignity of the institution to not pursue these proceedings further. However, before concluding the proceedings, it would be necessary for this Court to make some observations having a bearing on what has transpired.. 14. The prevalence and reach of social media encompasses the live reporting of court proceedings. Most High Courts in the country have adopted rules for live streaming and for the extension of video conferencing facilities for hearing of cases. While it emerged as a necessity in the course of the Covid-19 pandemic, video conferencing, together with live streaming of proceedings, has emerged as an important outreach facility for courts to promote access to justice. Live-streaming has provided fresh sunlight. The answer to sunlight is to provide more sunlight. All stake holders in the judicial system, including judges, lawyers and parties in person, have to be conscious of the fact that the reach of judicial proceedings extends beyond those who are physically present. The reach of judicial hearings extends to audiences well beyond the physical precincts of the court. This places an added responsibility on judges and lawyers as well as litigants who appear in person to conduct the proceedings conscious of the wide and immediate impact of casual observations on the community at large. 15. Judges need to be conscious of the fact that each individual bears a certain degree of accumulated predispositions, based on their experiences of life. Some may be early experiences. Others are gained later. Every Judge should be aware of those predispositions. The heart and soul of judging lies in the need to be impartial and fair. Intrinsic to that process is the need for every Judge to be aware of their own predispositions. Awareness of these predispositions is the first step in excluding them in the decision making process. It is on the basis of that awareness that a judge can be faithful to the fundamental obligation to render objective and fair justice. Every stake holder in the administration of justice has to understand that the only values which must guide decision making are those which are enshrined in the Constitution of India. 16. Casual observations often reflect individual bias, particularly, when they are likely to be perceived as being directed against a particular 676 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports gender or community. Courts, therefore, have to be careful not to make comments in the course of judicial proceedings which may be construed as being misogynistic or, for that matter, prejudicial to any segment of our society. 17. The report which has been submitted by the Registrar General would amply indicate that the observations which were made in the course of the proceedings before the High Court of Karnataka were unrelated to the course of the proceedings.