This discrepancy casts a serious doubt on the prosecution story regarding recovery of bag and articles contained therein at the behest of the Appellant in the presence of PW18 and that too on 27.08.1989. 19. As regards the discovery of blood stains, cloth stained with blood and coconut scrapper (MO 20) from the house of Accused No. 02 in the presence of of the three witnesses i.e., PW-26 to 28 is concerned, none of them have categorically stated that the police has seized anything in their presence, rather to the contrary they have stated that they were not taken to the spot and were only shown the cotton swabs stained with blood and other clothes which were said to have been recovered from the house of Accused No. 02. PW27-M. Muhammed in his statement stated that police showed him the coconut scrapper and cotton swab and he was told that same were taken from the rooms of Accused No. 02’s house. A similar statement was made by PW28, V. Dasan, who stated that he did not know where the police obtained these material objects from. 20. When the evidence, as has been presented by the prosecution is tested on the standard of proof and parameters discussed above, we are unable to accept the conclusions as reached by the courts below while convicting and sentencing the Appellant. 21. As regards Accused No. 01-the Appellant, the first and foremost evidence which is required to be established is with regard to his presence in the house of Accused No. 02 at the time when deceased Gouri was also there. It is then and only then that it would have been possible for the Appellant to have committed murder of Gouri. Apropos, Gouri’s presence in the house of Accused No. 02, there [2024] 11 S.C.R. 507 Karakkattu Muhammed Basheer v. The State of Kerala is ample evidence to that effect, including the statements of PW10 and PW11, both children of Accused No. 02, who were very much present in the house. Their evidence, which has gone unchallenged clearly establishes the factum that deceased Gouri had left the house at around 9:00 PM on 16.08.1989. Nothing has come on record which would indicate to the contrary, that is with regard to she having returned or continued to stay back at the house of Accused No. 02. 22. The evidence which has been brought on record by the prosecution in the form of statement of PW14, who has claimed to have seen the Appellant entering the house of Accused No. 02 at 11:30 PM on 16.08.1989, belies the aspect of the Appellant having committed the murder of deceased, as prior thereto, the deceased had already left the house in question. Another aspect which needs to be pointed out is that this witness has not come face to face with the Appellant rather he stated that he had only seen the back of the Appellant. This witness acknowledges that he assumed that the person he had seen on the date of incident entering the house of Accused No.