13. Learned counsel submitted that the learned Single Judge has erroneously relied on Ved Prakash Gupta (supra) to hold that since there was an absence of power to appoint, dismiss or hold disciplinary enquiry against other employees, the same indicated that the respondent did not belong to the managerial capacity as the observation therein was not a water-proof compartment to hold that the respondent was a “workman”. Mr Singh urged that the impugned deserved to be set aside. SUBMISSIONS BY THE RESPONDENT-IN-PERSON 14. The respondent, who appeared in person, vehemently opposed the instant appeal. He submitted that the arguments advanced on behalf of the appellant are without any basis. He submitted that before the learned Single Judge and the learned Division Bench of the High Court, he had succeeded in establishing that he was a “workman” based on the nature of duties performed by him. Further, he contended that the Labour Court had ignored the fact that there was enough oral and documentary evidence showing the nature of duties performed by him, which was ignored in a hyper-technical manner on the ground that specific pleading that he was a “workman” was missing in his Statement of Claim. It was his stand that only because of his designation and salary, it was held that he was not a “workman” which was an incorrect approach by the Labour Court. He submitted that the proceedings before the Labour Court do not require strict compliance of Rules of Evidence, Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 and Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. He canvassed that basically it is the rules of natural justice which have to prevail. It was further argued that in the Statement of Claim, the expression “workman” was not expressly used as he had engaged the services of an advocate to draft such claim and was also because of inadvertence and sheer oversight. The respondent urged that the same cannot be held to be against him as he has mentioned in sufficient detail, the duties performed by him and nature thereof, which are neither managerial [2024] 4 S.C.R. 113 M/S Bharti Airtel Limited v. A.S. Raghavendra nor supervisory but, as per him, purely clerical. He reiterated that the appellant had obtained his resignation under coercion, and he was removed from his services wrongfully/unlawfully and virtually at gunpoint. He submitted that the resignation was not out of his free will as he had pleaded for alternative job/employment with the appellant and had stated the reason for resignation. 15. It was submitted that the appellant is a telecommunications enterprise and offers telecom-related products and services to individuals and entities as also to Government Departments and participates in government tenders. The respondent stated that the appellant has a separate division called “Government Vertical Division/Department” which has to liaison with Government Departments by collecting information and passing it on to the superior officers/management in the Company. The Respondent states that he was working in such vertical division and thus his duties were clerical in nature. 16. Continuing, the respondent stated that he had no decision-making knowledge, and/or qualification, and/or powers and nobody reported to him.