As the Rules were promulgated by the Chief Justice without competence, at best, they amounted to inputs to the State Government. The State Government was free to constructively consider the desirability of the Rules within its own decision-making apparatus. Therefore, the High Court acted beyond its jurisdiction under Article 226 by frequently summoning officers to expedite the consideration of the Rules and issuing 230 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS directions to notify the Rules by a fixed date, under the threat of criminal contempt. III. Criminal Contempt cannot be initiated against a party for availing legal remedies and raising a legal challenge to an 31. The Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 defines ‘civil contempt’ and ‘criminal contempt’ in the following terms: 2. Definitions. — In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, — [...] (b) “civil contempt” means wilful disobedience to any , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court; (c) “criminal contempt” means the publication (whether by words, spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representations, or otherwise) of any matter or the doing of any other act whatsoever which— (i) scandalises or tends to scandalise, or lowers or tends to lower the authority of, any court; or (ii) prejudices, or interferes or tends to interfere with, the due course of any judicial proceeding; or (iii) interferes or tends to interfere with, or obstructs or tends to obstruct, the administration of justice in any other manner; 32. The Act makes a clear distinction between two types of contempt. ‘Wilful disobedience’ of a judgement, decree, direction, , writ, or process of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court amounts to ‘civil contempt’. On the other hand, the threshold for ‘criminal contempt’ is higher and more stringent. It involves ‘scandalising’ or ‘lowering’ the authority of any court; prejudicing or interfering with judicial proceedings; or interfering with or obstructing the administration of justice. 33. In the second Impugned , the High Court held that the actions of the officials of the Government of Uttar Pradesh constituted criminal contempt as there was no “valid reason” to not comply with the earlier . Even if the High Court’s assessment is assumed to be [2024] 1 S.C.R. 231 THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. v. ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED SUPREME COURT AND HIGH COURT JUDGES AT ALLAHABAD & ORS correct, non-compliance with the First Impugned could at most, constitute civil contempt. The High Court failed to give any reasoning for how the purported non-compliance with the First Impugned was of the nature to meet the standard of criminal contempt. The High Court acted in haste by invoking criminal contempt against the officials of the Government of Uttar Pradesh and directing for them to be taken into custody. 34. In our considered opinion, however, even the standard for civil contempt was not met in the facts of the present case. In a consistent line of precedent, this Court has held that while initiating proceedings of contempt of court, the court must act with great circumspection.