Mere death of the deceased being unnatural in the matrimonial home within seven years of marriage will not be sufficient to convict the accused under Section 304B and 498A of IPC.” 802 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Similarly, in the case at hand, it has not been proved by the prosecution that the deceased was subjected to cruelty soon before her death in connection with the demand of dowry and hence we are of the opinion that this is not a case of dowry death under Section 304B of the Indian Penal Code. PW-1 and PW-3 had only stated that deceased used to tell them about her torture. PW-4 (mother of the deceased) did not speak about any demand of dowry after marriage. Moreover, this witness had said that appellant no.2 used to assault her deceased daughter as the deceased had objections to the illicit relation of appellant no.2 with another woman. PW-16, who is the cousin of the deceased, had deposed in court almost a year after the testimony of PW-1, 3 & 4 and his deposition regarding the physical assault of the deceased in connection with the demand of dowry is also not believable. Considering the aforesaid, in our view, the trial court erred in raising a presumption under Section 113B of the Indian Evidence Act, even though the demand for dowry was not established. 8. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the State of West Bengal would rely on two s of this Court, seeking appellants’ conviction under Section 304B of IPC, both of which were decided by Three Judges’ Bench of this Court: Rajinder Singh vs. State of Punjab (2015) 6 SCC 477 and State of Madhya Pradesh v. Jogendra & Anr. (2022) 5 SCC 401. The facts in Rajinder Singh (Supra) were entirely different. In that case, the deceased had died due to consumption of poison and there were specific allegations against in-laws in the form of evidence from the deceased’s father, who had given credible evidence that the in-laws were demanding money for the construction of the house. There was also evidence of giving a she-buffalo to pacify the in-laws. Father of the deceased therein further deposed how the Sarpanch and Ex-Sarpanch of their village went to the matrimonial home of the deceased for reconciliation where the father of deceased had promised to give money after harvest of crops. Jogendra (Supra) was decided by taking into account the peculiar facts of that case where the evidence of PW-1 therein contained specific allegations of constant demand for dowry. It was stated that deceased was asked to raise Rs.50,000 for the construction of house. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 803 Chabi Karmakar & Ors. v. The State of West Bengal He further stated that there was even an attempt by the ‘people of society’ to settle the matrimonial discord between the parties. In paragraph 9 of Rajinder Singh (Supra), this Court had discussed the ingredients of Section 304B of IPC as follows: “9. The ingredients of the offence under Section 304-B IPC have been stated and restated in many s. There are four such ingredients and they are said to be: (a) death of a woman must have been caused by any burns or bodily injury or her death must have occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances; (b) such death must have occurred within seven years of her marriage; (c) soon before her death, she must have been subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband; and (d) such cruelty or harassment must be in connection with the demand for dowry.” The evidence placed before us, in the case at hand, is not sufficient to prove the fourth ingredient i.e.