1191 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze arbitration proceedings and the tribunal. This would be irrespective of the fact that the obligations to be performed under the contract were to be performed either at Mumbai or at Kolkata, and only arbitration is to take place in Delhi. In such circumstances, both the courts would have jurisdiction i.e. the court within whose jurisdiction the subject-matter of the suit is situated and the courts within the jurisdiction of which the dispute resolution i.e. arbitration is located. 97. The definition of Section 2(1)(e) includes “subject- matter of the arbitration” to give jurisdiction to the courts where the arbitration takes place, which otherwise would not exist. On the other hand, Section 47 which is in Part II of the Arbitration Act, 1996 dealing with enforcement of certain foreign awards has defined the term “court” as a court having jurisdiction over the subject-matter of the award. This has a clear reference to a court within whose jurisdiction the asset/person is located, against which/ whom the enforcement of the international arbitral award is sought. The provisions contained in Section 2(1)(e) being purely jurisdictional in nature can have no relevance to the question whether Part I applies to arbitrations which take place outside India. xxx Only if the agreement of the parties is construed to provide for the “seat”/“place” of arbitration being in India — would Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 be applicable. If the agreement is held to provide for a “seat”/“place” outside India, Part I would be inapplicable to the extent inconsistent with the arbitration law of the seat, even if the agreement purports to provide that the Arbitration Act, 1996 shall govern the arbitration proceedings. xxx 117. It would, therefore, follow that if the arbitration agreement is found or held to provide for a seat/place 1192 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of arbitration outside India, then the provision that the Arbitration Act, 1996 would govern the arbitration proceedings, would not make Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 applicable or enable the Indian courts to exercise supervisory jurisdiction over the arbitration or the award. It would only mean that the parties have contractually imported from the Arbitration Act, 1996, those provisions which are concerned with the internal conduct of their arbitration and which are not inconsistent with the mandatory provisions of the English procedural law/curial law. This necessarily follows from the fact that Part I applies only to arbitrations having their seat/place in India.” (Emphasis supplied) Thus, this Court held that Part I of the Act, 1996 is only applicable to arbitrations that take place in India and as such the decision of this Court in Bhatia International (supra) and Venture Global (supra) are no longer a good law. However, to avoid the chaos that might ensue upon arbitrations agreements and proceedings thereto which are already underway pursuant to the ratio of Bhatia International (supra) and Venture Global (supra), this Court held that the law declared by it will only apply prospectively to all arbitration agreements that have been executed on or after 06.09.2012 i.e., the date of pronouncement.