We are now tasked to decide on which side the Court should lean. 4. The quest for primacy between private interest and public interest has been a matter of debate for years together; the scales, however, seem to have tilted, ever so slightly, in favour of the latter. Yet, between the devil and the deep sea, we endeavour to construct a bridge—a ‘setu’—to strike a harmonious balance for the greater good; all, while adhering to the enduring Latin dictum “salus populi suprema lex esto”, a principle that reinforces the paramountcy of the people’s welfare as the supreme law. 5. There is one other aspect which needs emphasis. Justice, alone of all virtues, implies a notion of duty. As Judges of this Court, we are duty-bound to not only uphold the law but also ensure its consistent application. In navigating through the crisis, chaos, and confusion presented by the several sets of appeals before us, we are committed to ensure consistency, clarity, and coherence and strike a delicate, yet, necessary balance to arrive at a harmonious resolution. In the course of rectifying the aftermath of rulings and overrulings, and grappling with complexities surrounding questions of limitations, maintainability, merger doctrine, etc., our commitment to justice remains resolute. 6. With these prefatory words, we now proceed to decide the various sets of appeals before us. B. BRIEF RESUME OF FACTS 7. While there are multiple civil appeals, which we are tasked to decide, a particular SLP2 was referred to a Bench of three Judges by a Bench of two Judges vide dated 21st July, 2022. In view of grant of leave by us, this would be treated as the lead matter. 8. We place on record that it is pursuant to the said dated 21st July, 2022 that all these appeals have been listed before us, in deference to s made by the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India. 2 Diary No. 17623/2021 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1169 Government of NCT of Delhi & Anr. v. M/s BSK Realtors LLP & Anr. 9. Before delving deep into the intricacies presented by these civil appeals, it would be apposite to trace the factual trajectory of the lead matter culminating in the present stage: a) The facts are noticed from the Civil Appeal3 arising out of the Writ Petition4 instituted before the High Court of Delhi (“High Court”, hereafter) by the first respondent, M/s BSK Realtors LLP. Land acquisition proceedings had been initiated under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (“1894 Act,” hereafter) to acquire several parcels of lands. Land belonging to M/s BSK Realtors LLP comprised in Khasra No.623(5-10) measuring 5 bighas 10 biswas in Chattarpur village also formed part of the proceedings. The High Court vide its and dated 11th January, 2016 allowed the writ petition. In so allowing, it relied on the decision of this Court in Pune Municipal Corporation and another v. Harakchand Misirimal Solanki and others5 and similar line of decisions. It was held in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) that if any one of the two ingredients of section 24(2) of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (“2013 Act”, hereafter) was attracted, i.e., either the physical possession of the land was not taken or the compensation was not paid, as the case may be, the acquisition proceedings under challenge would be deemed to have lapsed.