14 (2002) 257 ITR 202 (Guj.). 1016 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of Director, Prasar Bharati v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Thiruvananthapuram15, this Court has observed that the explanation appended to Section 194-H of the Act defining the expression ‘commission or brokerage’ is an inclusive definition giving wide meaning to the expression ‘commission’. The second decision is in the case of Singapore Airlines Limited v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi16, which we shall refer to subsequently in some detail as to its exact purport and ratio. However, at this stage, we would like to examine in some detail commercial relationships in the nature of an independent contractor, that are legally, principal to principal dealings. 14. The passage from Bhopal Sugar Industries Limited (supra) highlights the principles and the complexities involved in determining the correct nature of the legal relationship between a principal and an agent. Law permits individuals to enter into complex contracts incorporating multiple rights and obligations. The relationships between contacting parties have become multi-dimensional, which may not strictly fall within an employer-employee, principal-agent or principal-principal relationship. A singular contract may create different legal relationships and obligations. Independent contractors on occasion act for themselves, and at other times may be creating legal relations between their employers and third persons. For example, a solicitor may start by giving advice (independent contractor), and then as a consequence make a contract for his employer with another person (agent). 15. In Labreche v. Harasymiw17, Valin J. delineated the question of what an agency involves, stating that: (i) it refers to the power of the agent to affect the principal’s position. However, this is not the sole test, though it still remains one of the main criteria in determining whether someone is an agent. There are several features in the definition of an agent18. There can be several situations where one person represents or acts for another, but this does not create the relationship of principal and agent. It is only when the representation 15 [2018] 3 SCR 287 : (2018) 7 SCC 800. 16 [2022] 9 SCR 1 : (2023) 1 SCC 497. 17 (1992) 89 DLR (4th) 95 at 107. 18 See ¶8 of the . [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1017 Bharti Cellular Limited (Now Bharti Airtel Limited) v. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Circle 57, Kolkata and Another or action on another’s behalf affects the latter’s legal position, that is to say his rights against, or his liability towards, other people, that the law of agency applies; (ii) the second feature is the importance of the way in which law regards the relationship which is created. The effect of the law is that it regulates the way in which parties conduct themselves. The conduct of the parties is considered in terms of law, regardless of the language or nomenclature used by the parties. The true factual position must be investigated to determine whether a relationship of agency has come into existence between a set of parties or individuals. 16. The significant observation in the aforesaid is that all kinds of interactions with third parties or interested parties, resulting from the introduction of the third parties with one who wishes a particular undertaking to be performed, may not be a result of an agency.