The break arises when the recipient uses the supplier’s output to make non-taxable transactions for which GST is not payable by the recipient. In such a case, credit cannot be utilised in the subsequent leg of the transaction from where the break in the chain took place. Several illustrations have been given in support of this submission. It was submitted that there is no break in the chain at any of the levels, starting from the sub- contractor to the main contractor and the petitioner, since all three entities are liable to output GST, and therefore, in such a case, denial of credit cannot be justified; d. It is submitted that even assuming that coming into existence of an immovable property is an intelligible differentia, it has no nexus with the objects of the CGST Act. The reason is that denying credit in such cases essentially perpetuates and continues the cascading effect of tax, contrary to the very object of the CGST Act of eliminating the cascading effect of tax and achieving tax neutrality. For example, if a manufacturer hires a contractor to build a factory building through a works contract, the manufacturer would have to pay GST for the services rendered by the contractor. If the manufacturer is not permitted to avail ITC for the GST so paid, the GST would be included in the cost of the output product price, upon which further GST would be levied, leading to tax on tax. If what is being supplied by the seller is a service, it has to be necessarily received as a service by the buyer; [2024] 10 S.C.R. 803 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. e. Section 17(5)(c) and (d) remain vague due to the absence of definitions of the expressions “on its own account” and “plant or machinery”. The distinction between the expression “plant and machinery” used in Section 17(5)(c) and the expression “plant or machinery” used in Section 17(5)(d) has not been clarified by the Government. Therefore, the provisions suffer from vagueness. It is submitted that if a provision is very vague, it can be struck down, as held in the case of Shreya Singhal v. Union of India.3 f. It is submitted that ITC is the bedrock of the GST framework. The right to avail of ITC is a statutory right in terms of Section 16 of the GST Act. The receipt of rental income and tax payable are direct consequences of the construction undertaken. By blocking the ITC on the rentals collected by the assessee who has constructed the building, the State is unjustly enriching itself and violating the right to avail ITC flowing from Section 300A of the Constitution of India. Reliance is also placed on a decision of this Court in the case of Union of India v. Bharti Airtel Limited & Ors. ;4 and g. Reliance has been placed on numerous decisions concerning the principles for examining the constitutional validity of taxation statutes.