563 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Explanation.- For the purposes of (d) no donation exceeding this section, “political party” means two thousand rupees is an association or body of individual received by such political citizens of India registered with the party otherwise than by an Election Commission of India as a account payee cheque drawn political party under paragraph 3 of on a bank or an account the Election Symbols (Reservation payee bank draft or use of and Allotment) , 1968, and electronic clearing system includes a political party deemed to through a bank account or be registered with that Commission through electoral bond. under the proviso to subparagraph Explanation.- For the purposes (2) of that paragraph. of this proviso, “electoral bond” means a bond referred to in the Explanation to sub- section (3) of section 31 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934; Provided also that such political party furnishes a return of income for the previous year in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (4B) of section 139 on or before the due date under that section. Section 31, Reserve Bank of India Act 1931 Prior to Amendment by the Finance Upon Amendment by Section 11 of Act, 2017 the Finance Act, 2017 31. Issue of demand bills and 31. Issue of demand bills and notes. notes. 1) | No person in India other than 1) | No person in India other than the Bank or, as expressly the Bank or, as expressly authorized by this Act, the authorized by this Act, the Central Government shall Central Government shall draw, accept, make or draw, accept, make or issue any bill of exchange, issue any bill of exchange, hundi, promissory note or hundi, promissory note or engagement for the payment engagement for the payment of money payable to bearer of money payable to bearer on demand, or borrow, owe on demand, or borrow, owe or take up any sum or sums or take up any sum or sums of money on the bills, hundis of money on the bills, hundis or notes payable to bearer on or notes payable to bearer on demand of any such person: demand of any such person: [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Ethat chequese or drafts, Provided that cheques or drafts, including hundis, payable to bearer including hundis, payable to bearer on demand or otherwise may be on demand or otherwise may be drawn on a person’s account with drawn on a person’s account with a banker, shroff or agent. a banker, shroff or agent. 2) Notwithstanding anything 2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Negotiable contained in the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, no Instruments Act, 1881, no person in India other than person in India other than the Bank or, as expressly the Bank or, as expressly authorised by this Act, the authorised by this Act, the Central Government shall Central Government shall make or issue any promissory make or issue any promissory note expressed to be payable note expressed to be payable to the bearer of the instrument.