I may be an idiot”; “For Salim to know, even if I am not there, you shall always be in my eyes”. Near to that it was written “night =12 O’clock, I am at the house of Latha” in two lines. Below that it was written “6 to 7= Finishing”; “I have no role in the looting of 6 lakhs. I was present in the said vehicle. This is true” and near to that it was written “for police to know where I was for all these days, no child knows”. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 925 Navas @ Mulanavas v. State of Kerala Specimen of these writings was taken and referred to the handwriting expert. The Handwriting Expert produced P-42 report. PW-32, the Investigating Officer spoke about the seizure of a mirror, a samaya quartz clock and the November-December, 2005 page of Guruvayur Cooperative Urban Bank Calendar. All these items had writings on them at the scene of the crime. Twenty black and white photographs of the handwritings were taken. These were termed ‘question’ writings and marked by the Handwriting Expert in the report for his reference as Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4, Q5, Q5A, Q6, Q6A to Q6P. The Expert was also furnished with the ‘standard’ writings by Appellant marked by the Expert for his reference as S1 to S49. In Ext. P-42, the Handwriting Expert concludes that, on comparison, the ‘question’ and ‘standard’ writings are by the same person. He concluded that they agree in general writing characteristics such as skill, speed, spacing, relative size and proportionate spelling errors. The Expert opined that similarities found between the question and standard writings are significant and numerous and there did not exist any material differences. Only with regard to the signature stamp in Q6(q), the expert concluded that it was not possible to arrive at any definite conclusion regarding the authorship for want of sufficient data on that score. With regard to all others, it was concluded that the person who wrote the blue enclosed writings stamped and marked as ‘standard’ writings also wrote the red enclosed ‘question’ writings. The High Court has found that this aspect of handwriting was not even seriously challenged by the accused. Mr. Renjith B. Marar, learned counsel, contended that the handwriting expert had not been examined. In support thereof, he relies on the of this Court in Padum Kumar v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2020) 3 SCC 35. The submission flies in the face of Section 293 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Exhibit P-42 Report is prepared by Dr. K.P. Jayakumar, Joint Director (Research), Forensic Science Laboratory, Thiruvananthapuram. The report is duly marked and exhibited and proved as Exhibit P-42. The Joint Director who occupies a position above the Deputy Director and Assistant Director, is encompassed in the phrase “Director” used in Section 293(4)(e). This position is expressly settled by the of this Court in Ammini & Others v. State of Kerala, (1998) 2 SCC 301. The relevant para of which is extracted hereinbelow: “11.