Section 13(2) provides as under: “13(2) Failing any agreement referred to in sub-section (1), a party who intends to challenge an arbitrator shall, within fifteen days after becoming aware of the constitution of the arbitral tribunal or after becoming aware of any circumstances referred to in sub-section (3) of section 12, send a written statement of the reasons for the challenge to the arbitral tribunal.” Section 13(4) next states that if a challenge to an arbitrator under 13(1) or 13(2) is not successful; the tribunal shall continue with the proceedings. 30. Section 14 is titled ‘Failure or impossibility to Act’. It provides for the termination of an arbitrator’s mandate if he, de facto or de jure, becomes unable to perform his functions or for other reasons, fails to act without undue delay. Unless agreed otherwise, one can apply to ‘Court’ to decide on the termination of a mandate. It is crucial to note that the term ‘Court’ herein is not the Section 11 Court. 31. Section 15 is titled ‘Termination of mandate and Substitution of Arbitrator’. Section 15(1) states that in addition to the circumstances mentioned in Section 13 and 14, the mandate of an arbitrator shall [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2289 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company terminate when he withdraws from office for any reason, or by (or pursuant to) an agreement of the parties. Section 31 provides for the form and contents of the arbitral award. Section 32 provides for the termination of the arbitrator’s mandate, either by delivery of a final award or any of the circumstances mentioned in Section 32(2) such as withdrawal of the claim by the claimant, agreement between parties to terminate proceedings, or continuation of proceedings having become unnecessary or impossible. 32. What follows from the above is that if the Arbitrator has any relationship with any of the parties that raises a reasonable apprehension of bias, such an arbitrator can anyway be de jure barred under Sections 12 and 14, read with the Fifth and the Seventh Schedules of the Arbitration Act. Post-appointment also, a challenge can be made under Section 13(2) of the Arbitration Act against appointment. It is also possible to finally set aside an award for procedural violations, under Section 34(2)(iii) or 34(2) (v) of the Arbitration Act. 33. Importantly, the Arbitration Act does not per se prohibit unilateral appointment of arbitrators. If those nominated in the panel fit into the limiting factors, underscored in Section 12(5) read with the Fifth and Seventh Schedule of the Act, the same will not upset the level playing field to be provided to the arbitrating parties. The 2015 Amendment, addressed specific concerns regarding fairness, potential advantage to one party as well as independence and impartiality of an unilaterally appointed arbitrator under the IBA Guidelines. An eligible arbitrator, not otherwise disqualified under Schedule VII of the Act, can be appointed unilaterally, and courts should refrain from imposing their own opinion countermanding the clear intent of the parties.