693 M/s Siddamsetty Infra Projects Pvt. Ltd. v. Katta Sujatha Reddy & Ors. proceedings taken by them in that context. But it is in the pleading and in the evidence of DW-1 at the earliest part of time that they have obtained these documents. But from the later part of evidence of DW-1 by filing further chief examination affidavit and from the cross-examination of DW-1 to 3 it is made out the defendants have not obtained and they are not informed to the plaintiff and that they have secured such certificates.” (emphasis supplied) 39. In the appeal, the High Court categorically noted that the above finding of the trial court was not challenged: “40. It is also pertinent to note about categorical admission by the defendants 6 & 8 that they have not obtained certificates and documents for completing the sale transaction. But the defendants 6 & 8 pleaded that they have obtained necessary documents both in the written statements and also in the evidence. In the cross-examination that version of D.W.1 is dismantled and trial Court also comes to the conclusion that the defendants without obtaining documents and certificates simply pleaded that they are ready with the certificates. However, that finding is not attacked in this appeal, which goes to show that the defendants are at fault in not obtaining certificates for fulfilling their part of the contract, though, the plaintiff paid 90% of the sale consideration requesting the defendants 6 & 8 to receive balance sale consideration.” (emphasis supplied) 40. The of this Court in paragraph 67 only refers to the deposition of DW-1 without referring to her cross-examination or the fact that the respondents did not challenge the finding of the Trial Court on this aspect. This is another error apparent on the face of the record. 41. Having held that the basis of the reasoning of this Court on whether the petitioner was willing to perform the contract has an error apparent on the face of the record, we are required to decide the issue of whether 694 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the petitioner was ready and willing to perform the contract. We are of the considered opinion that the petitioner was ready and willing to perform the contract in terms of Section 16(c) of the Specific Relief Act. The first agreement to sell noted that the purchaser paid a sum of Rs.11,30,00 as earnest money. Subsequently, the petitioner paid Rs. 13,00,000 on the same day by cheque and paid another Rs. 5,00,000 by Demand Draft on 9 April 1997. If the petitioner was unwilling to perform the contract, he would not have paid nearly 75 percent of the sale consideration. Thus, the petitioner with the payment of the additional sum above the earnest money, has proved his readiness and willingness to perform the contract. Further, this aspect must be analysed in the backdrop of the explanation to Section 16(c) of the Specific Relief Act which states that if the contract involves the payment of money, it is not necessary that the plaintiff actually tenders the money.