Law reflects the outlook of its wielder. A parochial legal system will create laws which result in maldistribution of life chances and opportunities. In India, we have adopted an emancipatory Constitution premised on the fundamental virtues of equal dignity and access. The wielder of the law, therefore, is rooted in a progressive grundnorm which seeks to eschew from societal prejudices and biases. 42. The window to these progressive virtues is envisioned in the preamble to the Constitution. The preamble, along with justice, liberty and equality, seeks to secure to all citizens - “FRATERNITY assuring the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the Nation.” The fundamental postulate of dignity which inheres in all people is intrinsic to the idea of fraternity and national integration. Fraternity, far from being mere collegiality among citizens, imagines a holistic sharing of goals and aspirations. It recognizes that to progress together we must join forces in our mutual advancement and emancipation. The framing of the preambular virtue of fraternity identifies the dignity of all individuals as a pre-condition. Dignity of the individual is assured when they are given equal opportunity and the freedom to contribute to the society - shoulder to shoulder with fellow citizens. 43. No nation can truly progress until all her people realize a stake in their collective outcome. In one sense discrimination excludes the aggrieved from the collective imagination of the nation. In another sense the nation is deprived of the expertise and brilliance of those who are discriminated. We aspire to have institutions and systems which reflect the rich diversity of our country. The aspiration is one rooted in our commitment to the nation. Diverse institutions are vital to ensure the governance of a diverse nation. When persons with disabilities are discriminated against, it not only affects their individual aspirations and dignity - it strikes a blow to the entire nation and the collective goal of integration and fraternity. 44. Justice PB Sawant concurring with the decision of the nine-Judge bench of this Court in Indra Sawhney v. Union of India,23 has opined that inequality ill-favours fraternity. Without equality of opportunity 23 [1992] Supp. 2 SCR 454 : (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 2216 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports there can be no fraternity. Justice Sawant has articulated his holding as follows: “411. The aim of any civilised society should be to secure dignity to every individual. There cannot be dignity without equality of status and opportunity. The absence of equal opportunities in any walk of social life is a denial of equal status and equal participation in the affairs of the society and, therefore, of its equal membership. The dignity of the individual is dented in direct proportion to his deprivation of the equal access to social means. The democratic foundations are missing when equal opportunity to grow, govern, and give one’s best to the society is denied to a sizeable section of the society. The deprivation of the opportunities may be direct or indirect as when the wherewithals to avail of them are denied.