While the Appellant urged that the UOI and the Learned Attorney General for India are obliged to defend the 1981 Amendment Act, the Respondent maintained that such support would run antithetical to constitutional values. 188. We have pondered over the submissions and are of the view that the controversy has been rendered academic. In our considered opinion, all the legal issues, including those relating to constitutional interpretation have already been answered effectively. In all fairness, the parties also rendered their full assistance in the context of the factual issues as well, especially in terms of whether or not AMU is entitled to the protection of Article 30 of the Constitution. This second limb of the controversy however, will be resolved by the Regular Bench, and to this extent we are respectfully in tandem with the opinion rendered by Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India. V. Areas of divergence 189. In light of the above discussion, we find ourselves at variance with Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India on the following issues: 189.1. Whether the opinion of the seven-judge bench in Kerala Education Bill (supra) which according to Hon’ble the Chief Justice, 1846 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports was followed by a six-judge Constitution bench in Rev. Sidhajbhai Sabhai v. State of Bombay,120 has been overlooked in Azeez Basha (supra)? a. In Kerela Education Bill (supra), this Court, in no uncertain terms opined that: (i) “there is no reason why the benefit of Article 30(1) should be limited only to educational institutions established after the commencement of the Constitution. The language employed in Article 30(1) is wide enough to cover both pre-Constitution and post-Constitution institutions.”; and (ii) “Article 30(1) gives two rights to the minorities, (1) to establish and (2) to administer educational institutions of their choice. The right to administer obviously cannot include the right to maladminister. The minority cannot surely ask for aid or recognition for an educational institution run by them in unhealthy surroundings, without any competent teachers, possessing any semblance of qualification, and which does not maintain even a fair standard of teaching or which teaches matters subversive of the welfare of the scholars…” b. In Sidhajbhai Sabhai (supra), the challenge was laid to a government directing that “80% of the total number of seats in non-Government Training Colleges should be reserved for School Board teachers deputed by the Government…” In this regard, the six-judge Constitution Bench held that “unlike Article 19, the fundamental freedom under Clause (1) of Article 30, is absolute in terms; it is not made subject to any reasonable restrictions of the nature the fundamental freedoms enunciated in Article 19 may be subjected to. All minorities—linguistic or religious—have, by virtue of Article 30(1), an absolute right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice; and any law or executive direction which seeks to infringe the substance of that right under Article 30(1) would to that extent be void. This, however, is not to say that it is not open to the State to impose regulations upon the exercise of this right...” c. What comes to light in Sidhajbhai Sabhai (supra) is that the bench therein did not rely upon the opinion delivered by 120 Rev.