In to persuade us to accept this contention, the learned senior counsel for the appellant has relied on the decision in Board of Trustees of Chennai Port Trust v. Chennai Container Terminal Private Ltd. (2014) 1 CTC 573 wherein it was contended that the petitioner therein had granted licence to Respondent No. 1 therein for the development and maintenance of Chennai Container Terminal in terms of Licence Agreement entered into between parties in 2001. Contentions were raised that pre-contractual correspondence cannot be relied upon as the correspondence fructified into a contract. It was held that while English jurisprudence is clear on the aspect of pre-contractual correspondence losing its significance once the contract comes into existence, a straightjacket formula cannot be applied in India as there may be people from different states and different languages as [2024] 3 S.C.R. 7 Rajesh Monga v. Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited & Ors. their mother tongue whose wishes culminate into a contract which is drafted and concluded in a foreign language. 10. Having perused the precedents on which reliance was placed, we are of the opinion that the same does not come to the aid of the appellant. In the instant case, at the outset, it is to be noted that the respondent No.1 being a NBFC and as a corporate body would be bound by its policies and procedures with regard to lending and recovery. In that regard, the applicability of the rate of interest to be charged is also a matter of policy and cannot be case-specific unless the individual agreement entered into between the parties indicate otherwise. 11. In that backdrop, a perusal of the fact situation in the instant case will disclose that the appellant filed the loan application on 16.09.2005. It was indicated therein that the ‘Rate option’ is ‘Adjustable’, which discloses that, what was opted is an Adjustable Rate of Interest, which will depend on the increase or decrease of the rate of interest. The issue however is as to whether such an Adjustable Rate of Interest will apply based only on the rate of interest being fixed/ altered by RBI or as to whether the Rate of Interest fixed/ altered by Respondent No.1 - HDFC will apply in respect of the loan transaction. It is in that regard contended that respondent No.2, representing respondent No. 1 - HDFC had made a tabulation comparing the rate of interest to represent that it is beneficial to the appellant and had explicitly indicated in the email dated 05.10.2005 that- “PLR is decided by RBI, whereas FRR is decided by the individual Bank, HDFC is the only Institution working on PLR”. It also indicated that in other banks like ICICI there is a clause that the change in FRR is on sole discretion of the bank. 12. The agreement dated 01.11.2006 executed between the parties inter alia provides as follows; “1.1 (e). The expression ‘rate of interest’ means the Rate of interest referred to in Article 2.2 of this Agreement and as varied from time to time in terms of this Agreement.