Thus, the State Act equated “industrial alcohol” to non-potable alcohol and not fit for human consumption. To ensure the denaturation of “industrial alcohol” under Section 41 of the 1910 Act, Rules were made in the year 1976. It was contended by the appellant State that the word “industry” has been construed by the Constitution Bench of this Court in ITC Ltd. vs. Agricultural Produce Market Committee (2002) 9 SCC 232 (“ITC Ltd.”) to mean only manufacture and production. Therefore, the State was competent under Entry 33 - List III to regulate the products of an industry which was declared to be a controlled industry under Entry 52 - List I. Since there was no Central legislation occupying the field, the State law must be held to be valid. 9.14.1 Referring to Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), it was observed that since the coming into force of the IDRA on 08.05.1952, the State Legislatures are constitutionally incompetent to levy tax on “industrial alcohol”. This principle was reiterated in Modi Distillery wherein it was held that the State’s power to levy excise duty was limited to alcoholic liquors for human consumption which means, that liquor which, as it is, is consumable in the sense that it is capable of being taken by human beings as such as a beverage or drink. Therefore, even if ethyl alcohol (95 per cent) could be used as a raw material or input, after processing and substantial dilution, in the production of whisky, gin, country liquor etc. nevertheless, it was not “intoxicating liquors” which expression meant only that liquor which was [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2107 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons consumable by human beings as it was. Therefore, the State could not legislate on “industrial alcohol” despite the fact that such “industrial alcohol” has the potential to be used to manufacture alcoholic liquors for human consumption. 9.14.2 Ultimately, in paragraph 43 of the , it was pithily observed as under: “43. Considering the various authorities cited, we are of the view that the State Government is competent to levy fee for the purpose of ensuring that industrial alcohol is not surreptitiously converted into potable alcohol so that the State is deprived of revenue on the sale of such potable alcohol and the public is protected from consuming such illicit liquor. But this power stops with the denaturation of the industrial alcohol. Denatured spirit has been held in Vam Organics I to be outside the seisin of the State Legislature. Assuming that denatured spirit may by whatever process be renatured (a proposition which is seriously disputed by the respondents) and then converted into potable liquor, this would not give the State the power to regulate it. Even according to the demarcation of the fields of legislative competence as envisaged in Bihar Distillery industrial alcohol for industrial purposes falls within the exclusive control of the Union and according to Bihar Distillery “denatured rectified spirit, of course, is wholly and exclusively industrial alcohol” (SCC p. 742, para 23).” Analysis of Judicial Dicta: 10.