The Madarsa Act divests students of equal opportunity in relation to future employment opportunities (Articles 14, 15, 16) and the right to practice any profession, occupation, trade or business of their choice (Article 19(1)(g). It creates two classes of children — the first, who receive secular, mainstream education, and the second, who receive religious instruction, which prohibits them from even attempting to adopt professions which are easily available for the former class. This deprivation of choice also violates the constitutional value of dignity and deprives students of the liberty of thought and expression protected under Article 19; c. The Madarsa Act violates the constitutional value of ‘fraternity’ as the dissemination of Madarsa education creates intellectual 394 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and outlook barriers, which prevent students from integrating into a pluralistic society; d. The definition of “Madarsa Education” in Section 2(h) indicates that the focus on “other branches of learning” is only tertiary. The focus of the statute and the competence of the Board is restricted to religious instruction; e. The Board is disproportionately populated by persons whose competence is in the field of religious instruction. As decisions of the Board are taken by a majority of members, present and voting, the views of the “non-secular” members would prevail and the curriculum is likely to be skewed in favour of religious education. The functions of the Board delineated in Section 9 also indicate disproportionate weightage to religious instruction; and f. The qualifications for teachers in the Madarsas laid down in the regulations are not adequate to ensure quality education. The qualifications are rooted in the “same Madarsa echo chamber”, and the minimum requirements for teaching in regular educational institutions are not prescribed. 36. The National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) supported the arguments of the respondents and assailed the constitutional validity of the Madarsa Act. D. Secularism and regulation of minority educational institutions 37. The preamble to the Constitution enshrines the declaration to constitute India into a sovereign, socialist, secular, democratic, republic. The 42nd Amendment to the Constitution incorporated the expression ‘secular’ in the preamble. However, the constitutional amendment merely made explicit what is implicit according to the scheme of the Constitution.28 a. Secularism in the constitutional context 38. Articles 14, 15, and 16 mandate the State to treat all people equally irrespective of their religion, faith, or belief.29 Article 14 provides that 28 S R Bommai, [304] Justice BP Jeevan Reddy (for himself and Justice Agrawal) 29 S R Bommai (supra) [304] (Justice BP Jeevan Reddy) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 395 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. the State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or equal protection of laws within the territory of India. Article 15 provides that the State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them. Article 16 mandates that there shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to public employment or appointment to any office under the State.