Supreme Court Reports institutions may appear on paper to be established under a statute, only a thorough analysis of their backgrounds can illuminate whether they belong to the second category—i.e., where the statute merely operationalizes the institution or to the third category—where their very existence is attributable to legislative action. Depending on such analysis, the Court can conclude whether the institution meets the establishment prong under Article 30 or not. 170. To sum up the entire discussion on the spectrum of legislative interference pictorially: I.2. Establishment shall be for the benefit of the community 171. There can hardly be any quarrel that, for fulfilling the establishment prong, it is not sufficient that the institution was brought into existence by the community, but it must be further proved that it was for the benefit of that community. For this purpose, it is essential to analyse the overall functioning of the institution and the primary [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1839 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. objective for which it has been established. For instance, where the institution admits members of other communities; also teaches secular courses;97or if it is working merely as a commercial entity that does not admit students of its own community; or working primarily towards the development of its community, it would be antithetical to the very purpose of Article 30 to grant such an institution minority status. 172. This has been clarified by various judgements of this Court, which held that the purpose of Article 30 is to ensure the upliftment of the minority community by providing them with a congenial atmosphere for education.98If the institution is not aligned with this purpose, it would not be covered under the purview of Article 30 and would not enjoy extra administrative autonomy, even if its existence is owed to a minority community. 173. To conclude the discussion on the meaning of ‘establish’, for an institution to fulfil the establishment prong under Article 30, it is necessary for it to have been brought into existence by the minority community and must be working towards the benefit of that community. J. Issue V: What is the meaning of ‘administer’ in Article 30? 174. The parties are not unanimous on the meaning of the term ‘administer’ as contained in Article 30 of the Constitution. The Appellant sought to assail that the term ‘administer’ essentially refers to who has overall control over the university. The parties argued that the mere fact that the State regulates the institution does not take away the ‘administration’ from the community. The Respondents, on the other hand, proffered that the ‘administer’ prong requires the minority community to control essential factors of the institution, such as admission to the institution, fee structure, appointment of teachers, etc. 175. Before venturing onto understanding what is included in administration, it is necessary to first understand what it does not include. Various judicial precedents, including the decision in TMA Pai (supra), have 97 In Re: The Kerala Education Bill, supra note 58; para 23; Rev.