List of Keywords Bail; Bail denied; Under-trial prisoner; Accused not convict; Article 21 of the Constitution of India; Speedy trial; Fundamental right of accused to speedy trial; Seriousness of crime; Nature of crime serious; Accused presumed to be innocent until proven guilty; Criminal jurisprudence; Criminal law. Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 2787 of 2024 From the and dated 05.02.2024 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in CRLA No. 1060 of 2023 Appearances for Parties Sherali S. Khan, Sushant Kumar Yadav, Ankur Yadav, Advs. for the Appellant. Abhikalp Pratap Singh, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Bharat Bagla, Ms. Aagam Kaur, Aditya Krishna, Ms. Preet S. Phanse, Ms. Yamini Singh, Adarsh Dubey, Kartikey, Shubhendu Anand, Siddharth Sinha, Madhav Sinhal, Amit Sharma B, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Advs. for the Respondents. 994 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court 1. Leave granted. 2. This appeal arises from the passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay dated 5th February 2024 in Criminal Appeal No 1060 of 2023 by which the High Court declined to release the appellant on bail in connection with his prosecution under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967 (for short ‘UAPA’). 3. When this matter was taken up for hearing, both, the counsel appearing for the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as well as the counsel appearing for the State prayed for time. Having regard to the fact that the appellant is in custody past four years, we declined to adjourn the matter and proceeded to hear the same on merits. 4. It appears from the materials on record that on 9th February 2020 at about 9.30 am, on the basis of some secret information, the appellant herein was apprehended by Mumbai Police of the DCB CID Unit VIII from a bus stop at Terminal II Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, Andheri. The search of the person of the appellant was undertaken. The appellant had a bag with him and from the bag 1193 numbers of counterfeit Indian currency notes of the denomination of Rs 2,000 were recovered. The counterfeit notes were seized and the appellant herein was arrested. The First Information Report was registered at the Sahar Police Station for the offences punishable under Sections 489B, 489C, 120B read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code. 5. It is the case of the prosecution that the consignment of the counterfeit notes was smuggled from Pakistan to Mumbai. Having regard to the nature of the crime as alleged, the investigation was ultimately taken over by the NIA. As a result, Case No RC/03/20/NIA/Mumbai came to be registered for the offences enumerated above. The investigation further revealed that on 6th February 2020, the appellant visited Dubai, and while he was in Dubai, he is said to have received the counterfeit notes from one of the absconding accused persons. On 9th February 2020, he is said to have returned to India. 6. The materials on record further reveal that two co-accused were arrested in connection with this offence and both are on bail as on [2024] 7 S.C.R.