Mr. Nielsen mentioned that as per his understanding, it was a case of segmental construction. […]” (emphasis supplied) 20.2 The Committee noted that the point at which the cable was going to be suspended with the pylon was crucial. It observed that the height at which the suspension took place was 77 metres, whereas, it was supposed to be 40 metres. The relevant paragraph is as follows: “6.2 The drawing No.A104-DWG-MB-FD-1301 REV. 1 dated 28th May, 2009 [Annexure H-01(ii)] shows that the lateral spans P3-P4 as well as [2024] 6 S.C.R. 369 United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. M/s Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. Ltd. & Ors. P2-P3, should have been completed and external tendons tensioned before the first stay cable was installed. The steel box for anchoring the first stay cable was to be placed in the pylon at the height of 33.30m. Also, the first cantilever segment towards the river side from P4 was to be constructed only after the lateral spans P3-P4 and P2-P3 had been completed and fully prestressed. It is seen that this sequence was changed in the actual construction. Further, drawing No.A104-DWG-MB-FD-846 REV. 2(c) dated (?? )/07/09 [Annexure H-01(ii)] specifically mentions that “tendons tensioning on span P2-P3 must be performed before pouring segment S10”. This requirement was also changed during actual construction. […] 6.3…This implies that the height of the pylon should have been about 40 m at the time of tensioning of first stay cable at cantilever segment S10. However, it is seen that at the time of casting of segment S10, the free-standing pylon had already been constructed to a height of 77 m.” (emphasis supplied) 20.3 The other relevant portions cited to us from the Committee’s Report include para 6.5, which speaks about the changes in the sequence of construction without consulting or informing the design consultants of the project. Para 6.8 was relied on to highlight further discrepancies between the approved drawing plans and the actual construction. Concrete batching plants involved were of a lower capacity, leading to delays in construction of the lateral spans. Para 8.1.2 (iii) was also brought to our notice, as it spoke about the changes which were brought about without a proper technical review. The conclusions of the committee have already been quoted by us in paragraph 7 above, and it was found that: a) a combination of factors such as lack of stability and robustness in the structure, shortfall in design, lack of quality workmanship have all contributed to the collapse; 370 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b) the primary responsibility lies with the contractor, M/s Hyundai and Gammon (JV) who are responsible for allowing the structure to reach a vulnerable stage without taking adequate precautions and there is a shortfall in the design; c) there were shortcomings in the design for the bridge prepared by M/s SYSTRA and the responsibility for the design lies with M/s SYSTRA; d) M/S COWI, the supervision consultants have not highlighted the shortfall in the design.