What we have directed and the option given by us ensures that the resolution plan meets the mandate of the Code and does not violate the rights given to the secured creditor, who cannot be treated as worse off/ inferior in its claim and rights viz an operational creditor or a dissenting financial creditor.” 40. One of the contentions raised by the respondent no. 2 - the CoC is that Section 30(2)(b)(ii) refers only to Section 53 of the Code and not to Section 52. We find it difficult to accept the said submission to read down Section 30(2)(b)(ii) of the Code. Reference to Section 53 of the Code in Section 30(2)(b)(ii) is made with a specific purpose and objective and accordingly, we have to understand and give a cogent and effective meaning to the words to effectuate the intent. Section 53 of the Code refers to Section 52 thereof. We would not isolate Section 53, when we refer to Section 30(2)(b)(ii) and make it meaningless and undo the legislative intent behind the amended provision, which is clear and apparent. Whenever required, in a reference made to Section 53 of the Code, we would have to refer to Section 52 to give meaning to Section 30(2)(b)(ii) of the Code. A dissenting financial creditor is entitled to not partake the proceeds in the resolution plan, unless a higher amount in congruence with its security interest is approved in the resolution plan. The “amount” to be paid to the dissenting financial creditor should be in accordance with Section 53(1) in the event of liquidation of the corporate debtor. In other words, in our opinion, the dissenting financial creditor is entitled to a minimum value in monetary terms equivalent to the value of the security interest. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 137 DBS BANK LIMITED SINGAPORE v. RUCHI SOYA INDUSTRIES LIMITED AND ANOTHER 41. The submission that the secured creditor’s entitlement to distribution under Section 53(1)(b)(ii) is applicable where the secured creditor relinquishes its security interest under Section 52 of the Code, and, therefore, is not applicable to dissenting financial creditors like the appellant is erroneous and unacceptable. 42. Apart from the reasons stated above, a dissenting financial creditor, as held in Jaypee Kensington (supra) is only entitled to the monetary value of the assets. The dissenting financial creditor loses the security interest, that is, it relinquishes the security interest. Dissenting financial creditor, therefore, cannot enforce the security interest. It is necessary to clearly state this position, as in case a dissenting financial creditor enforces the security interest, the resolution plan itself may fail and become unworkable. The dissenting financial creditor has to statutorily forgo and relinquish his security interest on the resolution plan being accepted, and his position is same and no different from that of a secured creditor who has voluntarily relinquished security and is to be paid under Section 53(1)(b)(ii) of the Code. 43. The reasoning also takes care of the argument that the Explanation to Section 53 incorporates the principle of pari passu distribution into Section 53(1) with each class of creditors mentioned therein.