Judges are supposed to be men of fortitude, able to thrive in a hardy climate.” [Douglas, J., Craig v. Harney, 1947 SCC Online US SC 79, para 14 : 91 L.Ed. 1546 : 331 US 367 (1947) at p. 376]] but to inspire confidence in the sanctity and efficacy of the judiciary [ “… The object of the discipline enforced by the Court in case of contempt of court is not to vindicate the dignity of the court or the person of the Judge, but to prevent undue interference with the administration of justice.” [Bowen, L.J. – Helmore v. Smith (2), [L.R.} 35 Ch. 449 at p. 455 (CA)]], though they do not and should not flow from the power to punish for contempt. They should rest on more surer foundations. The foundations are – the trust and confidence of the people that the judiciary is fearless and impartial.” (emphasis added (Also refer: Parashuram Detaram Shamdasani v. King-Emperor15 and Chairman, West Bengal Administrative Tribunal and Another v. SK. Monobbor Hossain and Another16) 15 (1945) A.C. 264 16 (2012) 11 SCC 761 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 431 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others N. MEANING OF THE EXPRESSION “WILFUL DISOBEDIENCE” 30. What does the expression “wilful disobedience” used in defining “civil contempt” in Section 2(b) of the Act, mean? The expression “civil contempt” has been defined in Section 2(b) as follows : “civil contempt” means wilful disobedience to any , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court”. 31. It can be discerned from the aforesaid definition that there are three sets of pre-conditions for holding a person as guilty for committing civil contempt, i.e., (a) there must a judgement, decree, direction, , writ or other process of a Court; (b) there must be disobedience of such a judgement, decree, direction, , writ or other process of a Court; (c) such a disobedience to a judgement, decree, direction, , writ or other process of a Court must be wilful. The fourth is the circumstance where an undertaking is given to the Court and there is a breach of such an undertaking. (Refer : Patel Rajnikant Dhulabhai and Another v. Patel Chandrakant Dhulabhai and Others17). 32. In Rama Narang v. Ramesh Narang and Another,18 this Court expounded on the interpretation of Section 2(b) of the Act and observed that the said provision can be divided into two neat compartments. The first compartment is of cases where there is willful disobedience of a Court process and the second one is where there is willful breach of an undertaking given to a Court. We may gainfully extract the following para for ready reference : “18. The Act has been duly widened. It provides inter alia for definitions of the terms and lays down firmer bases for exercise of the court’s jurisdiction in contempt.