Substantiating this, they made the following submissions: On maintainability of challenge against the acquisition proceedings a) It was explained that the respondent-tenure holders fall into four categories: (i) those who lodged objections and contested the acquisition; (ii) those who did not lodge objections but contested the acquisition; (iii) those who initially objected but later accepted compensation; and (iv) the subsequent purchasers. It was urged that the respondents falling in the second, third, and fourth categories, namely, those who did not object, accepted compensation, or are subsequent purchasers, do not have locus standi and/or have waived their right to challenge the subject acquisition. b) NOIDA has already disbursed a compensation amount of INR 147,72,68,871 (approximately INR 147 crores) and nearly 1010 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 185 out of total 210 affected land-owners have accepted such compensation. Additionally, INR 72,56,43,151 (approximately INR 72 crores) have been distributed to the farmers as no litigation bonus. Consequently, the challenge brought in by a miniscule group of land-owners ought not to have been entertained. c) Moreover, post the acquisition, NOIDA has incurred a huge expenditure of INR 202.17 crore (approximately) on subsequent developments at the site. Hence, the annulment of acquisition process at this juncture defeats the bona fide public purpose and public interest. On the effectiveness of hearing under Section 5A d) It was then argued that the High Court fell in grave error in holding that the landowners were deprived of the opportunity to present evidence. Once an objector had submitted the objection in writing, no further oral hearing was obligated to be accorded. In this instance, affidavits were duly filed supporting the objections presented through legal counsels and thus the statutory requirements prescribed for an administrative enquiry as contemplated under Section 5A have been substantially complied with. e) Relying upon Sam Hiring Company v. A.R. Bhujbal,1 it was canvassed that the Land Acquisition Officer functions as an administrative authority and not as a judicial or quasi-judicial forum. That the Act mandates consideration of objections by affording an opportunity of hearing, if it is so requested by the aggrieved persons. However, in this case, no such opportunity was sought by the landowners from the Collector. f) Narayan Govind Gavate v. State of Maharashtra 2 was pressed into aid to submit that Section 5A mandates an expeditious enquiry, focusing on objections lodged by landowners challenging the ‘public purpose’ behind the acquisition. The objections that are personal to the objectors would be irrelevant to such enquiry. In the instant case, since the objections did 1 [1996] 1 SCR 475 : 1996 (8) SCC 18 2 [1977] 1 SCR 763 : 1977 (1) SCC 133 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1011 New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Darshan Lal Bohra & Ors. not assail the genuineness or nature of the public purpose of acquisition, the personal claims did not warrant any one-to-one adjudication through the summary enquiry. g) The objections raised by the respondent-landowners, seeking exemption of their land owing to it being within village ‘abadi’, are wholly misconceived.