57. By referring to the above agitations, disturbances, violence, litigation and shortcomings, I do not to intend to suggest that the task of 1664 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports upliftment of the downtrodden be brought to an end or that the government should give up the reservation policy. But the issue is how to carry out the process to bring about equality and development of all, the manner of identification of the so-called depressed classes or the downtrodden and the form/nature of steps to be taken for their upliftment. The Government has used caste as the basis for the upliftment rather than identifying the class of people on the basis of vocation or their social and economic conditions who actually requires help to be promoted to the level of the forward class. It is for this reason, today we are grappling with a situation of sub-classification of the castes notified for the purpose of reservation. The experience shows that the better of the class amongst the backwards eats up most of the vacancies/seats reserved leaving the most backward with nothing in their hands. 58. This may be illustrated and better explained by taking three students namely ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’. Both ‘A’ & ‘B’ are equals in every manner as they come from well-to-do family having same kind of status, family background, education and financial capacity. ‘A’ being a general category candidate, qualifies for admission in higher education on merits whereas ‘B’ who belongs to a backward class competes and qualifies for admission in the reserved category. The student ‘C’ who is also of the backward class but has no advantage as that which is available to both ‘A’ and ‘B’, despite competing in the backward category remains unsuccessful. He continues to remain unsuccessful in the following years as well, as again and again backward category candidates having the status equivalent to that of a forward class or that which is available to ‘A’ and ‘B’ keeps on qualifying leaving the most backward of the backwards far behind. In this manner, the most backward of the backward category loses the battle even with the backward classes who are practically enjoying the status of the forward class people. CASTELESS SOCIETY-CASTE SYSTEM VIS-À-VIS THE VARNA SYSTEM 59. The Constitution virtually visualises a casteless society and a unified society but in the name of ‘equality’ to accord facility and privileges to the depressed class/downtrodden, it is said that we have continued with the so-called Manuwadi System of caste. I am not an expert of religious scriptures nor do I claim that I have any knowledge of any one of them though I may have gone through [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1665 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. Bhagwad Gita and Ramcharit Manas some times. According to my limited understanding of the scriptures specially the Gita, I am of the firm view that in primitive India there was no existence of any caste system rather there was categorisation of the people according to their profession, talent, qualities and nature.