surroundings, the lawyers frequently navigate through complex legal landscapes shaped by diverse factors. (xi) One of the primary distinctions of legal profession is the in- herent complexity of legal issues. Lawyers must grapple with intricate statutes, case laws and regulatory frameworks, which often lack definitive answers. Legal disputes frequently involve multiple parties with conflicting interests, further complicating the matters. Unlike some other professions where problems may have more straightforward solutions, the lawyers often face ambiguity and uncertainty in their work, making control over outcomes elusive. (xii) The adversarial dynamics have an element of unpredictability, as outcomes depend not only on the lawyer’s skill and knowledge but also on the strategies employed by opposing counsel and the decisions of judges. (xiii) Lawyers are bound by ethical and professional obligations that constrain their autonomy and control over their work. Adherence to the codes of conduct, client confidentiality, and obligations to the court limit the freedom of lawyers to act solely in their own interest or according to their preferences. (xiv) Unlike any other profession, where professionals are in control of their surrounding fully, legal profession is the sole profession, where advocates have no control over their en- vironment. The environment they work in is controlled by the presiding Judge. (xv) The Bar Council of India Rules prescribe at least four sets of duty that a lawyer has to oblige, viz., Duty to the Court, Duty to the Client, Duty to Opponent and Duty to Colleagues, in no particular . These duties are sometimes conflicting in nature, however whenever a conflict arises, the duty to court is considered to be paramount. (xvi) Unlike the medical profession, where scientific standards exist to decide the standard of care, there is no universal standard of care or objective test that exists or can be prescribed as the threshold in the case of legal profession to adjudicate upon the question of abdication of duty to care. 498 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (xvii) Distinguishing the decision of this Court in Indian Medical Association vs. V.P. Shantha & Others1, it was sought to be submitted that there is a fundamental difference between the practice of law and the practice of medicine, as also the difference in the nature of professional-client relationship. The complexity of legal issues, and the diversity of legal contexts also would take the legal services rendered by the Advocates outside the purview of the services defined under the CP Act. 6. The learned Senior Advocate Mr. V. Giri - Amicus Curiae, submitted that the Advocates can be broadly classified into two categories based on the terms of their engagement and the nature of work being done by them for their clients – (1) Advocates engaged by clients to conduct their cases and then represent them before any court, tribunal or other forum, on the strength of a vakalatnama and (2) Advocates engaged by clients to provide their professional expertise for providing legal opinions, issuing legal notices, drafting agreements, etc. He submitted that the first category of advocates would not come within the purview of a service provider under the CP Act, as in that case the advocate acts as a representative or agent of the client.