Rathi Steels Limited and Others Venidas 23 held that the fact that the view of the law taken in a has been altered by a subsequent decision of a superior court in another case, is not a ground for review of such . On the contrary, in Thadikulangara Pylee’s Son Pathrose v. Ayyazhiveettil Lakshmi Amma’s son Kuttan 24 law was laid down that the fact that a subsequent binding authority took a different view of the law from what had been taken in the decision sought to be reviewed, was a good ground for review. Upon consideration of these decisions, the Law Commission had recommended as follows: “Recommendation It is felt that the position should be settled on this point. If the law is altered by judicial pronouncement of a higher court, the party affected should not, in our opinion, have a right to get the reviewed. An amendment adopting the Kerala view will create a serious practical problem. It will keep alive the possibility of review indefinitely. Under the Limitation Act, the period of limitation for an application for review has been prescribed, but the delay can, ‘for sufficient cause’, be condoned by the Court under that Act. Where an application for review is made on the ground of a later binding authority, the party applying for review will usually be able to plead ‘sufficient cause’, because it is only when the superior court has made a pronouncement that he will have a ground for review; and he can, therefore, argue with considerable force that there was ‘sufficient cause’ for his not making the application earlier. Recommendation We, therefore, recommend that the following Explanation should be added below 47/XLVII Rule 1.” 25 23 AIR 1972 Gujarat 229 24 AIR 1969 Kerala 186 25 “Explanation.— The fact that the view taken on a question of law in the of a Court has been reversed or modified by the subsequent decision of a superior court in another case is not a ground for review of the .” 980 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 46. A comparative study of the terms of the Explanation recommended by the Law Commission and the Explanation, which ultimately had the approval of the Parliament and came to be inserted in XLVII are not in variance except alteration of some words. 47. It is of some worth to note that even prior to the decisions of the Oudh, Punjab and Gujarat High Courts considered by the Law Commission in its 54th report, two chartered high courts of the country had taken the same view. The High Court at Calcutta way back on 15th February, 1927 in Sudananda Moral v. Rakhal Sana ,26 considering the decision of the Privy Council in Rajah Kotagiri Venkata Subbamma Rao v. Raja Vellanki Venkatrama Rao ,27 opined that reversal of a relied-on decision subsequent to the decree in the suit was not a ground for review of the . Also, the High Court of Madras in Ravella Krishnamurthy v. Yarlagadda 28 observed that for review on the ground of discovery of new and important matter, such matter must be in existence at the date of the decree.