Mr. Anubhav Yadav, learned AOR represented by the learned senior advocate Mr. Siddharth Dave, also tendered unconditional apology. 15. The passed on 09.09.2024 reads as under: - “1. Heard the learned senior counsel/ learned counsel appearing for the parties. We have also perused the explanations tendered by the Registry pursuant to this Court’s dated 28.08.2024. 2. Today, Ms. Rinki, daughter of petitioner-Bhagwan Singh, and the wife of Mr. Sukh Pal, is present in the Court. 3. She states that she used to talk to her father, petitioner-Bhagwan Singh, very often from the below mentioned numbers; a. 9027068541- her own mobile number. b. 6399367927- mobile number of her husband c. 8077687246- mobile number of her brother-in-law, Dhaalu. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 789 Bhagwan Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors. 4. She further states that, 05-06 months back she and her husband, Mr. Sukh Pal, met with her father, petitioner-Bhagwan Singh, at Budaun, Uttar Pradesh, who handed over her the vakalatnama signed by him, and the said vakalatnama was handed over by Mr. Sukh Pal to Mr. Karan Singh, Advocate, who is practicing in the High Court of Allahabad. 5. Mr. Sukh Pal, who is also present in the Court affirms/supports the statement made by Ms. Rinki, her wife. 6. However, the petitioner-Bhagwan Singh, who is also present in the Court, refutes the said statement made by Ms. Rinki, her daughter and reiterates that he had neither met his Daughter, Rinki or his son-in-law, Mr. Sukh Pal since the year 2013, nor he had any contact with her telephonically or by way of other means at any given point in time. 7. Learned Advocates, Mr. Karan Singh and Mr. R.P.S. Yadav, reiterates what they have said in earlier occasions and stand by it today also. 8. Mr. Amar Nath Singh, Notary is represented by Mr. Sanjay R. Hegde, learned senior counsel, who relies on the affidavits filed by him and apologies for notarizing the documents produced in the SLP paperbooks, in the absence of the petitioner-Bhagwan Singh. 9. Mr. Anubhav, learned Advocate on Record, who is represented by Mr. Siddharth Dave, learned senior counsel, also reiterates what he had stated on earlier occasions, and tenders unconditional apology for attesting and certifying the signatures of petitioner-Bhagwan Singh on the vakalatnama filed in the present Special Leave Petition, though petitioner-Bhagwan Singh was not present before him, nor he knew petitioner-Bhagwan Singh. 10. Having recorded the above submissions/ statements, the matter is reserved for s”. 790 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. So far as affidavits filed in the present appeals are concerned, the Respondent No.2- Mr. Ajay Katara has filed his counter-affidavit dated 26.07.2024 resisting the present proceedings on the ground of delay and on merits. While narrating the history of the case to show as to how he was falsely implicated, he has stated as under: - “5. That, in to appreciate the facts of the present case it is necessary to give a brief background history of the answering respondent.