(2) Subject to the provisions of section 18, no person under the age of twenty years shall drive a transport vehicle in any public place. (3) No learners licence or driving licence shall be issued to any person to drive a vehicle of the class to which he has made an application unless he is eligible to drive that class of vehicle under this section.” [emphasis supplied] 48. Section 5 deals with the ‘Responsibility of owners of motor vehicles for contravention of Section 3 and 4’ and declares that: “No owner or person in charge of a motor vehicle shall cause or permit any person who does not satisfy the provisions of section 3 or section 4 to drive the vehicle.” 49. At this stage, we must also note the penal provisions i.e. Section 180 and Section 181 of Chapter XIII which deals with ‘Offences, Penalties and Procedure’: “180. Allowing unauthorised persons to drive vehicles.— Whenever, being the owner or person in charge of a motor vehicle, causes, or permits, any other person who does not satisfy the provisions of section 3 or section 4 to drive the vehicle shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 595 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. “181. Driving vehicles in contravention of section 3 or section 4.—Whoever, drives a motor vehicle in contravention of section 3 or section 4 shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, or with both.” 50. Section 6 deals with ‘Restrictions on the holding of driving licenses’ and imposes, inter alia, general restrictions to prevent individuals from allowing others to use their driving license. Section 7(1) is important and provides that a Learner’s license for a transport vehicle can only be issued to a person who has held a driving license for a Light Motor Vehicle for atleast one year. The amended section reads as under: “7. Restrictions on the granting of learner’s licences for certain vehicles.— [(1) No person shall be granted a learner’s licence to drive a transport vehicle unless he has held a driving licence to drive a light motor vehicle for at least one year:] [Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply to an e-cart or e-rickshaw.] (2) No person under the age of eighteen years shall be granted a learner’s licence to drive a motor cycle without gear except with the consent in writing of the person having the care of the person desiring the learner’s licence.” [emphasis supplied] 51. Section 8 deals with the ‘Grant of Learner’s license’. The requirement of medical certificate is contained in Section 8(3), Section 15 and Rule 5 of the MV Rules. Sub-section (3) of Section 8 as amended mandates that an application for a Learner’s License for a Transport Vehicle must be accompanied by a Medical Certificate by a registered medical practitioner.