And if so, whether such foundational facts had been laid in the proceedings initiated? Or such fraud, if any, has been committed by the writ petitioners or attributed to 296 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports them under the show cause notices has also been examined. The foundational facts narrated herein above, at the cost of repetition requires to be noticed namely the report or the communication of the Lekhpal dated 13.06.2007 forwarded to the Tehsildar. Perusal of the same does not even suggest or indicate of such fraud having occurred or alleged against writ petitioners. However, in the report dated 18.06.2007 submitted by the Tehsildar to the District Magistrate, it has been stated therein that subject land had been preserved for Panchayat Ghar and it is based on the information furnished by the peshkar working in the office Sub-District Magistrate who is said to have intimated that the file does not bear the signature of the then Sub-District Magistrate and the Tehsildar is also said to have found certain irregularities. In other words, on the basis of such presumed irregularities he has jumped to the conclusion that allotment was irregular, against law and approval of allotment was on the basis of forged signature of Sub-District Magistrate. However, the basis of such conclusion namely signature of the Sub-District Magistrate having been forged is not specified or in other words report is silent. It is also interesting to note that no allegation of whatsoever nature has been attributed to the allottees of they having forged the signature/s. In this background, we are of the considered view that the principles enunciated by this Court in Ibrahimpatnam’s case (supra) would be squarely applicable to the facts on hand and as such the impugned herein cannot be sustained. 17. We also make it clear that though the power of the Collector is available to initiate suo moto action for cancellation of allotment under sub-section (6) of Section 122-C in case of fraud and such foundational facts would disclose the same, it would suffice to initiate the proceedings as fraud vitiates all proceedings as held in Akhalaq Hussain’s case referred to supra. By making this position of law explicitly clear and in the facts and circumstances of the present case as unfolded which is discussed in detail herein above disclosing same not being laid in show cause notices, we are of the considered view that impugned as well as the s impugned before the writ court would not be sustainable. 18. Yet another factor which has swayed in our mind to quash the impugned is the fact that pursuant to the allotment made on 27.06.1994 the allottees who are poor rustic villagers have constructed their houses and the allotment was made based on the [2024] 6 S.C.R. 297 Smt. Shyamo Devi and Others v. State of U.P. Through Secretary and Others approval granted by the then Sub-District Magistrate and they have been residing in the residential buildings so constructed by them for the last several years and to unsettle the same would result in heaping injustice to those poor hapless persons and particularly when the subject land has been utilized for allotment to the poor and houseless persons.