Only if the candidates from these categories are available, the seats would go to these categories. On account of non-availability of the candidates from these categories, the seats would fall into the other categories of the Scheduled Castes. 258. I find that, as has been observed by this Court in various s, it is the duty of the State to give preferential treatment to the backward class of citizens who are not adequately represented. If the State while discharging that duty finds that certain categories within the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are not adequately represented and only the people belonging to few of the categories are enjoying the entire benefit reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, can the State be denied its right to give more preferential treatment for such categories? In my view, the answer would be in the negative, since the same would not amount to tinkering with the Presidential List. 259. No doubt that if the State decides to provide 100% of the reservation for Scheduled Castes to one or more categories enlisted in the Presidential List in that State to the exclusion of some categories, it may amount to tinkering with that list because, in effect, it would amount to denial of benefit of reservation to those Scheduled Caste categories which have been excluded. In my view, that would, in effect, amount to deletion of the said categories from the Presidential List notified under Article 341 of the Constitution, which power is exclusively reserved with Parliament, in my opinion, such an exercise would not be permissible. 260. In this respect, I may take support from the observations made by Sawant, J. in Indra Sawhney. He held that if the reservation is provided only for the more or most backward classes, then the people belonging to higher echelons would grab the open seats whereas the people from more or most backward classes would eat up the entire reservation, leaving the other backward classes high and dry. He therefore held that the sub-classification of backward classes would be permissible provided the reserved seats are available for backward classes as well as more or most backward classes. I am therefore of the considered view that merely because more preferential treatment is provided to the more backward or more inadequately represented among the Scheduled Castes, it would not amount to tinkering with the Presidential List. In my view, the same would be [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1573 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. permissible in view of the law laid down by the 9-Judge Bench in the case of Indra Sawhney. 261. The ground realities cannot be denied. Even among the Scheduled Castes, there are some categories who have received more inhuman treatment for centuries and generations as compared to the other categories. The hardships and the backwardness which these categories have suffered historically would differ from category to category. In my view, therefore, merely because they are part of a single or a combined Presidential List, it cannot be said that they form part of a homogeneous group.