Explanation. — For the purposes of this section, -- (a) where mortgage land is in the possession of the mortgagee, the receipt of the rent or produce of such land shall be deemed to be a payment; (b) ‘debt’ does not include money payable under a decree or of a court. 75 See Footnote 83 76 See Footnote 84 572 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports specific sum as being the price of goods or price of the work done, neither Article 14 nor Article 18 will apply, but only Article 55, which provides for all actions ex contractu (i.e., based on a contract) not otherwise provided for, would apply.77 92. Article 55, which is a combination of erstwhile Articles 11578 and 11679 of the First Schedule to the 1908 Act, is a residuary Article in respect of all actions based on a contract not otherwise specially provided for. For the applicability of Article 55, four requirements should be satisfied, namely, (1) the suit should be based on a contract; (2) there must be breach of the contract; (3) the suit should be for compensation; and (4) the suit should not be covered by any other Article specially providing for it. 93. A breach of a contract may be by non-performance, or by repudiation or by both.80 In Anson’s Law of Contract (29th Oxford Edition), under the heading ‘Forms of Breach Which Justify Discharge’, it is stated thus: “The right of a party to be treated as discharged from further performance may arise in any one of three ways: the other party to the contract (a) may renounce its liabilities under it; (b) may by its own act make it impossible to fulfil them, (c) may fail to perform what it has promised. Of these forms of breach, the first two may take place not only in the course of performance but also while the contract is still wholly executory i.e., before either party is entitled to demand a performance by the other of the other’s promise. In such a case the breach is usually termed an anticipatory breach. The last can only take place at or during the time for performance of the contract.” 94. Thus, failure of a party to a contract in performing its obligation(s) thereunder could be considered a breach of contract for the purpose of bringing an action against it by the other party. In such an event, the other party can claim compensation or damages, or/ and, in certain cases, obtain specific performance. 77 See U. N. Mitra’s Law of Limitation and Prescription, Sixteenth Edition, Volume 1, at page 1063, published by LexisNexis. 78 See Footnote 86 79 See Footnote 87 80 P. Ramanatha Aiyar’s Advanced Law Lexicon, 4th Edition at page 596 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 573 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. 95. The phrase ‘compensation for breach of contract’, as occurring in Article 55 of the Schedule to the 1963 Act, would comprehend also a claim for money due under a contract.