Therefore, the contention that the SRA failed to create Balance Security is factually incorrect. 69. With respect to the payment of the Airport Dues, it was submitted that, the Resolution Plan provides for the adjustment of CIRP dues from the positive cash balance of the Corporate Debtor and then from the share of the Lenders. The Appellants’ own case is that the Airport Dues amount to Rs. 1000 Crore approximately. Therefore, as per the Resolution Plan, Rs. 400 Crore approx. is payable towards the airport dues, first, from the positive cash balance of the Corporate Debtor and if that is insufficient, then from the Lenders’ share being CIRP Dues. Finally, the remaining Rs. 600 Crore would be borne by the SRA 70. As regards the payment of Provident Fund and Gratuity to the workmen and employees, it was submitted that the NCLAT did not waive off the liability of the SRA towards the payment of PF and Gratuity. On the contrary, for the implementation of the same, the NCLAT had provided timelines for making such payments in compliance with the applicable laws. It was further submitted that in the 42nd MC meeting held on 02.04.2024, the SRA undertook to make the payment towards the dues of PF and gratuity and the Appellants are aware of the same. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2103 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. 71. The counsel submitted that there are concurrent findings on the fulfillment of Conditions Precedent vide the of the NCLT dated 13.01.2023 and the impugned of the NCLAT dated 12.03.2024. Clause 7.6.1 of the Resolution Plan sets out five Conditions Precedent. It was submitted that two of the five Conditions Precedent were “admittedly complied” with. On the remaining three, both the Tribunals have rendered concurrent findings, which ought not to be interfered with in an appeal under Section 62 of the IBC, 2016, which is effectively a Second Appeal. 72. The counsel submitted that the SRA cannot suo moto infuse funds into the Corporate Debtor since such infusion necessarily requires steps/actions to be taken by the Appellants and the Corporate Debtor acting through the MC. These steps include the appointment of directors on the board of the Corporate Debtor and seeking in-principal approval from the relevant stock exchanges under the SEBI LODR Regulations by the Corporate Debtor. However, despite constantly following up with the Appellants, the same has not been received yet and therefore, they have not allowed the SRA to undertake such a funding. 73. The Counsel submitted that the first Condition Precedent is the Validation of AOC by DGCA and MoCA as provided under Clause 7.6.1(a). The SRA had a valid AOC until 03.09.2023 and the lapse of the AOC during the pendency of the appeals cannot mean that the Condition Precedent was not met. It was submitted that the condition was met on the date of the implementation application being filed before the NCLT and that the AOC has not been renewed only due to the fault of the Appellants.