9. Learned counsel submitted that though ACK has filed his Wealth Tax Returns for the years 1964-1965, 1965-66 and 1966-67, his Wealth Tax Returns from 1979 till his demise in 1983 were not brought before any forum or Court nor any witness was called from the Income- Tax Department to show the same, which is another indicator that ACK had not claimed any part of the Kamla Nagar property to be his so as to require disclosure in his Wealth Tax Returns from 1979 till his death in 1983, which also proves the fact with regard to the payment of Rs.55,000/- (Rupees Fifty-Five Thousand) as per the family settlement for buying the 50% share of ACK in the Kamla Nagar property by the appellants, who were LRs of RKK. 10. Learned counsel submitted that the High Court in the Impugned in RFA No.439 of 2008 has taken a view that the payment of Rs.55,000/- (Rupees Fifty-Five Thousand) was “on some other account” and not towards any claim against the Kamla Nagar property. It was held by the High Court that the LRs of ACK had 50% share in the same and further the aspect of benami was specifically not pressed at the time the RFA was heard by the High Court, as noted in Paragraph 12 of the Impugned . Even the finding that the payment of Rs.55,000/- (Rupees Fifty-Five Thousand) was “on some other account” is totally erroneous and presumptuous since [2024] 3 S.C.R. 843 Jugal Kishore Khanna (D) Thr. Lrs. & Anr. v. Sudhir Khanna & Ors. it is based only on surmises without there being any discussion to show as to what was the other purpose and in the absence of such “other account”, there was no material to prove its authenticity and genuineness. 11. Learned counsel submitted that right from 1979 till his demise in 1983, ACK never raised any claim with respect to the Kamla Nagar property which was in the exclusive possession of the appellants. 12. Learned counsel also contended that the payment of Rs.55,000/- (Rupees Fifty-Five Thousand) was received by ACK in his personal account and not his business account, which would clearly show that it was in terms of the family settlement and not for some other account/purpose. Re Malcha Marg: 13. On the Malcha Marg property, learned counsel submitted that though both the Courts below have given concurrent findings that it was not joint family property, the appellants who were Defendants had only taken a preliminary objection in the Written Statement to the suit being bad for partial partition as the Malcha Marg property was not part of the said suit. However, no serious effort was made to claim partition/ownership of full or part of the Malcha Marg property. SUBMISSIONS BY THE RESPONDENTS: 14. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that the Trial Court had rightly decided the issue qua the Malcha Marg property being exclusively that of the respondents but had erred in accepting the story of family settlement and payment of Rs.55,000/- (Rupees Fifty-Five Thousand) for the share of the respondents in the Kamla Nagar property and the wrong has rightly been corrected by the High Court vide the Impugned .