It is not possible to enunciate any general rule as to what shall be deemed to be a sudden quarrel. It is a question of fact and whether a quarrel is sudden or not must necessarily depend upon the proved facts of each case. For the application of Exception 4, it is not sufficient to show that there was a sudden quarrel and there was no premeditation. It must further be shown that the offender has not taken undue advantage or acted in cruel or unusual manner. The expression ‘undue advantage’ as used in the provision means ‘unfair advantage’. These aspects have been highlighted in Dhirajbhai Gorakhbhai Nayak v. State of Gujrat (2003 (5) Supreme 223]; Parkash Chand v. State of H.P. (2004 (11) SCC 381); Byvarapu Raju v. State of A.P. and Anr. (2007 (11) SCC 218) and Hawa Singh and Anr. v. State of Haryana (SLP (Crl.) No. 1515/2008, disposed of on 15.1.2009).” (Emphasis supplied) 212 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 82. If the aforesaid principles, as explained by this Court, are to be applied to the facts of the present case, we have no hesitation in saying that the present case is not one of culpable homicide not amounting to murder but the same is a case of murder. We should not overlook the fact that the appellant inflicted as many as twelve blows with a knife on the deceased who was unarmed and helpless. 83. Where the offender takes undue advantage or has acted in a cruel or an unusual manner, the benefit of Exception 4 cannot be given to him. If the weapon used or the manner of attack by the assailant is disproportionate, that circumstance must be taken into consideration to decide whether undue advantage has been taken. In Kikar Singh v. State of Rajasthan reported in AIR 1993 SC 2426, it was held that if the accused used deadly weapons against an unarmed man and struck a blow on the head it must be held that using the blows with the knowledge that they were likely to cause death, he had taken undue advantage. A fight suddenly takes place, for which both the parties are more or less to be blamed. It might be that one of them starts it, but if the other had not aggravated it by his own conduct, it would not have taken the serious turn it did. There is then mutual provocation and aggravation and it is difficult to apportion the share of blame which attaches to each fighter. It takes two to make a fight. Assuming for the moment that it was the deceased who picked up a fight with the appellant or provoked the appellant in some manner with her conduct or behaviour, still the appellant could be said to have taken undue advantage & acted in a cruel manner. 84. For all the foregoing reasons, we have reached to the conclusion that the High Court committed no error in affirming the and of conviction passed by the trial court, holding the appellant guilty of the offence of murder of his wife.