In many places the children of untouchables are either excluded altogether from ordinary schools, although provided in whole or in part from public funds, otherwise they would be required to sit apart. In some cases, the untouchable children are required to attend the classes standing outside the classroom. The Report highlights that the difficulty of the administrator or political reformer was much increased by the fact that the great body of the untouchables yet accept their destiny as natural and inevitable. The Report states that their state is indeed pitiable inside the Hindu fold and yet not of it living on the edge of starvation, and unaware of any hope of improving their lot. 15. Paragraph 55 of the Report highlights that the depressed classes were most severely felt in Madras, and especially in Malabar. In Malabar, is still found the phenomenon of “unapproachability,’’ that is, the untouchable must not approach within a certain distance of a high caste Hindu and would have to leave the road to allow his passage, and even to shout to give warning of the risk of pollution. The Report states that the local authority in another part of Madras had preferred to leave the roads un-mended rather than employ untouchable labourers to repair them. 16. The Report further points out that in Bombay and the Central Provinces, the position was more or less comparable with that in Madras. The Report also refers to the telegrams from Nasik and Poona, in the Bombay Presidency, wherein organized action on the part of some untouchables was taken to assert a claim to enter Hindu temples. 17. It may not be out of place to mention that during the relevant period Dr. B.R. Ambedkar had also started a movement for opening waterbodies to the untouchables and even untouchables being permitted to enter the temples. One of such agitations was about a public tank called ‘Chavder tank’ in Mahad, held on 20th March 1927 and another was an attempt to enter Kalaram temple at Nashik on 2nd March 1930. 18. The Report further states that in Bengal, Bihar and Orissa and the United Provinces, although there were large numbers belonging to untouchable castes, in general they do not seem to suffer so universally or so severely as in the South. The Report, however, 1450 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports states that the problem did exist in these areas also. The Report also gives approximate percentage of population of the number of untouchables. The Report excludes aboriginals who are outside the Hindu fold. 19. The next document that requires a mention is ‘the Census of India 1931’. The said Report coins the phrase ‘primitive tribes’, who reside in hills, forests, and other nomadic groups. These primitive tribes provide a foundation for Scheduled Tribes. It also notes that the formerly depressed classes are now referred to as the Scheduled Castes. 20. It could thus be seen that while the primitive tribes who reside in hills, forests and remote areas provide a foundation for Scheduled Tribes, the so-called depressed classes which are so recognized on account of untouchability provide a foundation for Scheduled Castes.