Our system faces no theoretical dilemma but a single continuous problem: how to apply to ever-changing conditions the never-changing principles of freedom.” 1.2 Can principles of liberalization, privatisation and globalisation adopted in India since the year 1991, reforms in the economy and structural changes that have been brought about in these last three decades hold a mirror against the socio-economic policies that were followed in the decades immediately after India attained independence? As a result, can the s of this Court which interpreted the Constitution to be compatible with the policies of the State then be considered to be “a disservice to the broad and flexible spirit of the Constitution” and the authors of the said s being critiqued today? 1.3 I have perused the erudite and comprehensive opinion authored by Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India Dr Dhananjaya 184 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Y. Chandrachud on the questions referred to this nine-Judge Bench. I have also perused the opinion proposed by learned brother Dhulia, J. The letter and spirit of the of the learned Chief Justice has ignited me to pen a separate opinion, concurring with his opinion on certain issues while giving my own views on certain other aspects which is also my response to learned brother Dhulia, J.’s views. 1.4 How does ownership and control of “material resources privately owned” transform into the “material resources of the community” for distribution as best to subserve the common good? This is the thrust of my opinion. Reference of questions to nine-Judge Bench: 2. The genesis of the reference of the questions for consideration could be traced to the dated 01.05.1996 passed by a three-Judge Bench of this Court reported in Property Owners’ Association vs. State of Maharashtra, (1996) 4 SCC 49 (“Property Owners’ Association”). The said was followed by an dated 21.03.2001 passed by a five-Judge Bench of this Court in the very same case (SLP (C) No.5302 of 1992 with connected matters); which for immediate reference is extracted as under: “In these cases the main challenge is to constitutional validity of Chapter-VIIIA which was inserted in 1986 in the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 which, inter alia, provided for the acquisition of certain properties on payment of hundred times the monthly rent for the premises. By the said amendment, Section – 1A was also inserted in that Act and it contains a declaration that the Act is for giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principles specified in Clause(b) of Article 39 of the Constitution of India. In view of Article 31C of the Constitution, the contention of the State was that the validity of any part of the statute on the ground that it violated Article 14 or 19 of the Constitution, was not permissible. The case was heard by a Bench of Three Judges. At that time on behalf of the appellants a contention was sought [2024] 11 S.C.R. 185 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors.