In the absence thereof, the allegations in the plaint were deemed to be admitted. DISCUSSION 7. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant referred record. We may record that the translated copies of whatever documents have been placed on record by the parties, are being considered as such as to the same, no dispute has been raised by the either side. 8. What is required to be considered while examining the correctness of the of the High Court is as to whether the Will in question was surrounded by suspicious circumstances whereby the testator had not mentioned the names of his widow and minor daughter in the Will and has bequeathed a part of his property to the respondent. 8.1. The appellant no. 1 is the third wife of the testator whereas the appellant no. 2 is the daughter. From the earlier two wives no child was born. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 151 Thangam and Another v. Navamani Ammal 9. Firstly, coming to the health of the testator the Plaintiff/PW-1 stated in her examination-in-chief that though the testator was having Asthma but otherwise he was in good health condition. In her Cross-Examination PW-1 stated that the testator was suffering from Asthma and Cough for about 5 to 6 years. She denied that the testator was having any drinking habit. She denied the suggestion that the testator was bed-ridden for three months before executing the Will. 9.1. PW-2/Vadivelu, who is an attesting witness to the Will, in his cross-examination stated that he inquired about the health of the testator and he told PW-2 that he was having some cough problem and was otherwise suffering from T.B. 9.2. PW-3/Govindasamy, who was a witness in the office of Sub- Registrar, in his cross-examination stated that at the time of execution of Will the testator was having cough. 9.3. PW-4/Subramanian, who is Scribe of the Will, stated in his examination-in-chief that at the time of execution of Will the testator was in good physical condition and he was having cough only. He was not put any question in this regard in cross-examination. 9.4. DW-1/Thangam Ammal, who is the widow of the testator, stated in her examination-in-chief that before his death the testator ‘was suffering from lever wound and he had dysentery and suffered very much’ (sic). DW-1 in her cross-examination sated that three months before his death the testator was not in good physique and before that he was in good condition. DW-1 further stated that the testator was bed ridden for 3 months and she was taking care of him. 9.5. From the aforesaid evidence of the witnesses with reference to the health of the testator we do not find that he was not in good senses and was unable to understand his welfare or take correct decisions. Hence, the Will cannot be held to be suspicious on the ground of the alleged ill-health of the testator at the time of the execution of the Will. 10. Now, coming to another aspect with reference to the genuineness of the Will, the PW-4/Subramanian, who is scribe of the Will, stated in his examination-in-chief that the testator had put his thumb impression 152 [2024] 3 S.C.R.