17. Before we take up for consideration the interpretation of Sections 3 and 4 of the Temporary Extension Act, 2023, one of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in the case of Mandakani Kachru Kokane alias Mandakani Vishnu Godse Vs State of Maharashtra & Ors. [2021 (3) Mh.L.J. 221] needs to be referred to. In the said , in para 48, 49, 50(ii) and 50(iii), the following significant directions were issued: “48. Shri Satyajit Dighe, learned counsel for the Petitioner rightly submitted that impugned of the Caste Scrutiny Committee was passed almost on the last day of twelve months mandatory period and therefore, no time was left for approaching this Court which is the only remedy available i.e. the constitutional remedy. Thus Petitioner’s right to approach this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is violated…. 49. However, in view of the law laid down by the Full Bench of this Court in the case of Anant H. Ulharkar (supra) Section 30(1A) of the Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act, 1958 is mandatory and therefore time limit provided therein cannot be extended. However, we are constrained to issue directions to all the Caste Scrutiny Committees to decide the matters much before the mandatory period of twelve months if the aforesaid provisions are applicable. However, this will be subject to the condition [2024] 2 S.C.R. 179 Sudhir Vilas Kalel & Ors. v. Bapu Rajaram Kalel & Ors. that the applicant completely co-operates in disposal of the proceedings in time bound manner and do not seek unnecessary adjournments. 50. (ii) All the District Caste Scrutiny Committees are directed to dispose of the matters which are covered by the mandatory period of twelve months as provided in Section 10-1A and Section 30(1A) of the Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act, 1959, Section 9A of the Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Nagar Panchayat and Industrial Townships Act, 1965, in Section 5-B of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888 and Section 5-B of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, 1949 as expeditiously as possible and in any case within a period of eight months subject to following conditions: (a) The concerned successful candidate who has applied for getting caste certificate validated to convey his election result and this to the relevant District Caste Scrutiny Committee personally or through his Advocate within a period of two weeks from the date of declaration of the result of his election and pointing out to the Committee the aforesaid time period of twelve months as provided in the aforesaid provisions with a request to expedite the hearing and to complete the proceedings within the time prescribed in this . (b) The relevant District Caste Scrutiny Committee to fix tentative time table for disposal of the said case in maximum period of eight months from the above referred communication of the successful candidate to the Committee. However while fixing the time table the Committee shall also have regard to the provisions of said Act and said Rules. (c) The concerned successful candidate to completely cooperate in expeditious disposal of the respective proceedings before the committee and shall not take any adjournment without valid reason.