8. In light of the changed circumstances following the issuance of the Corrigendum as more particularly delineated above, the Appellant, who had otherwise been eligible to apply under the ‘Reserved Female Category’ but for mandatory requirement of a valid NCL Certificate as on 01.06.2022, subsequently obtained an NCL Certificate on 09.03.2023. Thereafter, the Appellant made a representation to the Respondent to consider her candidature as a ‘Reserved Female Category’ candidate. 9. Aggrieved by the non-consideration of her representation, the Appellant preferred the OA before the MAT. Vide an dated 07.07.2023, the MAT dismissed the OA observing inter alia that the Appellant was not in possession of an NCL Certificate prior to the issuance of the Corrigendum (the “Underlying ”). Aggrieved by the Underlying , the Appellant herein preferred a writ petition before the High Court. Vide the Impugned , the writ petition came to be dismissed. The operative paragraph of the Impugned is reproduced below: “6. Therefore, after hearing both the side and considering the conspectus of the matter, it is amply clear that the Petitioner had applied from Open General Category, because she did not hold the NCL Certificate. Having appeared for the Preliminary examination as well as Main examination from the “Open General” Category, merely because a corrigendum is issued, the Petitioner cannot be allowed to change the category at this stage, more so, on background of the general instructions to the candidate contained in paragraph Nos.1.2.5.6 and 1.2.5.7, which does [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1227 Priyanka Prakash Kulkarni v. Maharashtra Public Service Commission not permit to make any changes once the form is filled in. If the Petitioner was desirous of making an Application for general women category, she ought to have obtained the NCL in advance showing diligence, which she has failed. At this stage, if the Petitioner is allowed to change her category, it will open a flood gate of litigation, as observed by the MAT. Hence, the said prayer of the Petitioner cannot be considered.” 10. Mr. Amit Sharma, Ld. Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant has fairly submitted before us that the Appellant did not submit her application under the ‘Reserved Female Category’ on account of her inability to obtain an NCL Certificate which was valid as on the last date of submission of the application form i.e., 01.06.2022. However, upon the issuance of the Corrigendum, the Appellants’ eligibility qua the ‘Reserved Female Category’ came to be revived as the Appellant was no longer mandated to furnish an NCL Certificate which was valid as on the last date of submission of the application form but instead was called upon to furnish an NCL Certificate pertaining to current financial year. 11. Furthermore, Mr. Sharma has submitted before us that 7 (seven) – 8 (eight) other persons who dishonestly applied under the ‘Reserved Female Category’ without a valid NCL Certificate, have been granted the benefit under the Corrigendum, and subsequently upon producing the NCL Certificate as per the terms of the Corrigendum, the Respondent has proceeded to consider their candidature under the ‘Reserved Female Category’.