[2024] 3 S.C.R. 1197 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. Further, collected CC footages from the vicinity of crime scene analysed the same and through which it was identified the offender Munavath Ramesh and his associate while they were having a recce. Upon that the IO setup informants and deputed search parties to locate the offenders. While the investigation was in progress, the police Madgul arrested the offender/proposed detenu Nenavath Ravi on 12-08-2023 at 1230 hours Cr. No. 107/2023 of PS Madgul and produced before the Hon’ble JFCM at Amangal for judicial remand and lodged in Central Prison Cherlapally. In pursuance of his confession, police seized stolen booty i.e. 1) Honda Shine Motor Cycle BR No: TS 05 EZ 6413 pertaining to Cr No. 129/20232 of PS Chintapally from the house of his relative in Manneguda village at his instance in the presence of mediators. Further, the investigating Officer seized 1) One Auto bearing No: TS 12 UA 7860, 2) One Splendor Plus bike bearing No: TS 05 FK 9086 which were used for commission of offences have also been seized from the possession of his associates at his instance. In addition, Gold jewellery in all cases totaling 11.7 tolas was also seized from the possession of his associate Munavath Ramesh (A-1) at the instance of this proposed detenu and other associates. The case is UI for collecting further evidence. Linking Evidence: i) In pursuance of his confession, Police seized stolen booty i.e. Gold pusthelathadu weighing about (03) tolas from the position of his associate Munnavat Ramesh A-1 at his instance. ii) CC footages collected from the vicinity of crime scene. It can be seen his associates while they were having recce. The above evidence establishes the involvement of proposed detenu. 1198 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Role & participation of this proposed detenu: In this case, while the proposed detenu along with A4 Munavath Naresh was waiting on Sagar Highway, the offenders A-1, A2 went near the victim and forcibly robed her gold nuptial chain weighing about (03) tolas from the neck of victim woman and reached to A-3 (propose detenu) and A-4. They gave stolen booty to A-3 and A-4 and disbursed from the spot on their vehicles. As per clause (g) of section 2 of the “Telangana prevention, detention Act 1 of 1986 (Amendment Act No. 13 of 2018)” a “Goonda” means “a person who either by himself or as a member of or leader of gang, habitually commits or attempts to commit or abets the commission of offences, which are punishable under Chapter XVI or Chapter XVII or Chapter XXII of the Indian Penal Code”. You have been indulging in the offences falling under chapter XVII of IPC and you are habitually indulging in criminal activities in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of Public and enforcement of ordinary penal laws could not prevent you from indulging in such activities. After having come to know about criminal activities of proposed detenu through media and on account of chain snatching offences that were taken place in a small village of Madgul in the Commissionerate limits in recent past, the General Public especially women folk those who are going for work on daily wages in the area got panicked and apprehended fear of coming out of their houses by wearing even their sacred Gold Nuptial Threads which is sentiment to large section of Indian women.