(iv) The States cannot claim that under Entry 33 – List III, it can regulate “industrial alcohol” as a product of the scheduled industry as the Union under Section 18G of the IDRA has evinced a clear intention to occupy the whole field. The doctrine of occupied field under Article 254 has been applied in the said case which shall be adverted to later. (v) Any exercise of power by the States under Entry 8 – List II is not an exercise of power under Entry 33 – List III. 11.1 The aforesaid s state that insofar as “intoxicating liquors” or potable liquors are concerned, Entry 8 - List II is the regulatory Entry while Entry 51 - List II is the taxation Entry which provides for imposition of excise duty on potable liquor also called alcoholic liquors for human consumption. Conversely, insofar as “industrial alcohol” is concerned, the control of the said industry is vested with the Union owing to Section 2 of the IDRA read with the other provisions of the said Act, which enactment has been made by virtue of Entry 52 - List I. That the Union has taken under its control “Fermentation Industries” as per Item 26 of the First Schedule to the IDRA which has been enacted by the Parliament in relation to Entry 52 - List I excluding “intoxicating liquors”. “Fermentation Industries” relates to various products manufactured, processed, etc. as a result of fermentation process. Such products of fermentation are broadly classified as “industrial alcohol” (non-potable alcohol) and “intoxicating liquors” (potable alcohol). This classification is for the purpose of identifying the nature of the product, its use in the industry and consequently, dividing the subject of the legislation between the Parliament and the State Legislature. 11.2 The aforesaid decisions also indicate that merely because “industrial alcohol” or non-potable alcohol such as rectified spirit can be converted into “intoxicating liquors” or alcohol fit [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2115 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons for human consumption as a beverage (potable alcohol), that would not empower the State Legislature to tax or impose any levy on such “industrial alcohol”. However, since the expression “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8 - List II deals specifically with alcohol used as a beverage and meant for human consumption, it would be within the scope and ambit of the said Entry for the State Legislature to regulate any abuse or conversion of “industrial alcohol” as a beverage, which is, in fact, harmful when consumed. Therefore, having regard to Article 47 of the Constitution, a State Legislature can even prohibit manufacture of “intoxicating liquors” in a State as one of the objects of which would be to negate the conversion or abuse of “industrial alcohol” as alcohol fit for human consumption. 11.3 The of this Court in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), was also clear about the controversy before it, namely, the competence of the Uttar Pradesh State Legislature to impose vend-fee on “industrial alcohol” when the same is a product of “Fermentation Industries” and, therefore, under the control of the Union.