One of the objects was mentioned as ‘To remove, if deemed necessary or expedient any of the present Directors, and to elect Directors to fill any vacancy on the Board’. The Directors issued a notice to convene a meeting for the other object and held the meeting. Then the shareholders, under the Companies Clauses Act, 1845, issued a notice of their own convening a meeting for both the objects in the original requisition. In an action by the Directors to 954 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports restrain the requisitionists, from holding the meeting, the Court of Appeal held that a notice to remove “any of the present Directors” would justify a resolution for removing all who are Directors at the present time. “Any”, Lord Cotton, L.J. pointed out, would involve “all”. 33. It is true that the language there was “any of the present Directors” and not “any one of the present Directors” and it is urged that the word “one”, in the latter phrase makes all the difference. We think it will be wrong to put too much emphasis on the word “one” here. It may be pointed out in this connection that the Permanent Edition of Words and Phrases, mentions an American case Front & Huntingdon Building & Loan Assn. v. Berzinski [Front & Huntingdon Building & Loan Assn. v. Berzinski, 130 Pa Super 297 : 196 A 572 (Superior Court of Pennsylvania 1938)] where the words “any of them” were held to be the equivalent of “any one of them”. 34. After giving the matter full and anxious consideration, we have come to the conclusion that the words “any one of the Directors” is ambiguous; in some contexts, it means “only one of the Directors, does not matter which one”, but in other contexts, it is capable of meaning “every one of the Directors”. Which of these two meanings was intended by the legislature in any particular statutory phrase has to be decided by the courts on a consideration of the context in which the words appear, and in particular, the scheme and object of the legislation.” (emphasis supplied) 117. The Constitution Bench in Lala Karam Chand Thapar case [Chief Inspector of Mines v. Lala Karam Chand Thapar, (1962) 1 SCR 9 : AIR 1961 SC 838] found that the words “any one” have been commonly used to mean “every one” i.e. not one, but all. It found that the word “any”, in affirmative sentences, asserts, concerning a being or thing of the sort named, without limitation. It held that it is abundantly clear that the words “any one” are not infrequently used to mean “every one”. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 955 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited & Ors. 118. It could be seen that the Constitution Bench in Lala Karam Chand Thapar case [Chief Inspector of Mines v. Lala Karam Chand Thapar, (1962) 1 SCR 9 : AIR 1961 SC 838], after giving the matter full and anxious consideration, came to the conclusion that the words “any one of the Directors” was an ambiguous one.