To efficiently encapsulate the extent thereof particularly in the context of Indian awards, we may refer only to para 37 where it has been held:- “37. Insofar as domestic awards made in India are concerned, an additional ground is now available under sub-section (2-A), added by the Amendment Act, 2015, to Section 34. Here, there must be patent illegality appearing on the face of the award, which refers to such illegality as goes to the root of the matter but which does not amount [2024] 1 S.C.R. 297 S.V. Samudram v. State of Karnataka & Anr to mere erroneous application of the law. In short, what is not subsumed within “the fundamental policy of Indian law”, namely, the contravention of a statute not linked to public policy or public interest, cannot be brought in by the backdoor when it comes to setting aside an award on the ground of patent illegality.” 27. The position in Associate Builders(supra) was recently summarised as hereinbelow recorded by Indian Oil Corpn. Ltd. v. Shree Ganesh Petroleum12 “42. In Associate Builders, this Court held that an award could be said to be against the public policy of India in, inter alia, the following circumstances: 42.1. When an award is, on its face, in patent violation of a statutory provision. 42.2. When the arbitrator/Arbitral Tribunal has failed to adopt a judicial approach in deciding the dispute. 42.3. When an award is in violation of the principles of natural justice. 42.4. When an award is unreasonable or perverse. 42.5. When an award is patently illegal, which would include an award in patent contravention of any substantive law of India or in patent breach of the 1996 Act. 42.6. When an award is contrary to the interest of India, or against justice or morality, in the sense that it shocks the conscience of the Court.” PASSED UNDER SECTION 34 A&C ACT 28. A perusal of the and of the learned Civil Judge, in the considered view of this Court, does not reflect fidelity to the text of the statute. Nowhere does it stand explained, as to, under which ground(s) mentioned under Section 34 of the A&C Act, did the Court find sufficient reason to intervene. In fact, quite opposite thereto, the Court undertook a re-appreciation of the matter, and upon its own view of the evidence, modified the . 12 (2022) 4 SCC 463 (2-Judge Bench) 298 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 29. As the above extracted shows, merits of the award are only to be gone into, if the award is demonstrated to be contrary to the public policy of India. The reasons recorded by the learned Civil Judge for modifying the arbitral award, as reflected from a perusal thereof, have been recorded in an earlier section of the . None of those reasons even so much as allude to the award being contrary to the public policy of India, which would enable the court to look into the merits of the award. 30. We have carefully perused the award passed by the Arbitrator in which he has not only referred to and considered the materials on record in their entirety but also, after due application of mind, assigned reasons for arriving at this conclusion, either rejecting, accepting or reducing the claim set out by the Claimant-Appellant.