[Paras 144-149] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s. 34(2)(b)(ii) – Arbitral Award – Challenge to – Award may be set aside when in conflict with the public policy of India – Scope of public policy: Held: For an award to be against public policy of India a mere infraction of the municipal laws of India not enough – There must be, inter alia, infraction of fundamental policy of Indian law including a law meant to serve public interest or public good. [Para 36] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – ss. 34 and 48 (as amended by the Amendment, 2015) – Amendment, 2015 adding Explanations to s. 34(2)(b)(ii) and s. 48(2)(b), in place of the earlier Explanation, wherein Explanation 1 clause (ii) to s. 34(2)(b)(ii) and s. 48(2)(b), specifies that an arbitral award is in conflict with the public policy of India, only if, it is in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law – Expression “in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law” – Meaning of: [2024] 9 S.C.R. 499 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. Held: After the ‘2015 amendments’ in s. 34 (2)(b)(ii) and s. 48(2) (b), the phrase “in conflict with the public policy of India” must be accorded a restricted meaning in terms of Explanation – Expression “in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law” by use of the word ‘fundamental’ before the phrase ‘policy of Indian law’ makes the expression narrower in its application than the phrase “in contravention with the policy of Indian law”, which means mere contravention of law is not enough to make an award vulnerable – To bring the contravention within the fold of fundamental policy of Indian law, the award must contravene all or any of such fundamental principles that provide a basis for administration of justice and enforcement of law in this country – Violation of the principles of natural justice; disregarding s of superior courts in India or the binding effect of the of a superior court; and violating law of India linked to public good or public interest, are considered contravention of the fundamental policy of Indian law – However, while assessing whether there has been a contravention of the fundamental policy of Indian law, the extent of judicial scrutiny must not exceed the limit as set out in Explanation 2 to s. 34(2)(b)(ii). [Para 52] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – ss. 34 and 48 (as amended by the Amendment, 2015) – Explanation 1 clause (iii) to s. 34(2)(b)(ii) and s. 48(2)(b) inserted by 2015 Amendment, that an award is in conflict with the public policy of India, inter alia, if it conflicts with the ‘most basic notions of morality or justice’ – Most basic notions of ‘morality’ – Explanation: Held: It would cover such agreements as are not illegal but would not be enforced given the prevailing mores of the day – Interference on this ground would be only if something shocks the court’s conscience.