The right conferred by Article 30 of the Constitution cannot be interpreted as if irrespective of the persons who established the institution in the State for the benefit of persons who are minority, any person, be it non-minority in other place, can administer and run such institution.” (emphasis supplied) 107. A similar view was echoed by this Court in St. Stephen’s (supra), wherein it was held that: 46 (2013) 4 SCC 14 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1901 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. “28. There is by now, fairly abundant case law on the questions as to ‘minority’; the minority’s right to ‘establish’, and their right to ‘administer’ educational institutions. These questions have arisen in regard to a variety of institutions all over the country. They have arisen in regard to Christians, Muslims and in regard to certain sects of Hindus and linguistic groups. The courts in certain cases have accepted without much scrutiny the version of the claimant that the institution in question was founded by a minority community while in some cases the courts have examined very minutely the proof of the establishment of the institution. It should be borne in mind that the words ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ used in Article 30(1) are to be read conjunctively. The right claimed by a minority community to administer the educational institution depends upon the proof of establishment of the institution. The proof of establishment of the institution, is thus a condition precedent for claiming the right to administer the institution.” (emphasis supplied) 108. Finally, reference to Azeez Basha (supra) again, is considered relevant. The argument raised before the Court was a bit different in the sense that right to administer AMU was claimed by almost abandoning the claim that AMU was established by the minority community. It was held that: “It is to our mind quite clear that Article 30(1) postulates that the religious community will have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice meaning thereby that where a religious minority establishes an educational institution, it will have the right to administer that. An argument has been raised to the effect that even though the religions (sic, religious) minority may not have established the educational institution, it will have the right to administer it, if by some process it has been administering the same before the Constitution came into force. We are not prepared to accept this argument. The Article in our opinion clearly shows that the minority will have the right to administer educational institutions of their choice provided they have established them, but 1902 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports not otherwise. The article cannot be read, to mean that even if the educational institution has been established by somebody else, any religious minority would have the right to administer it because, for some reason or other, it might have been administering it before the Constitution came into force. The words ‘establish and administer’ in the article must be read conjunctively and so read it gives the right to the minority to administer an educational institution provided it has been established by it.