He submitted that the revenue of a State comprises of the royalty collected from such mining leases. Changing the methodology of calculation of “sale value” by excluding the royalty payable for mining leases which have already been auctioned would therefore, result in loss of revenue to the States as estimated at the beginning of the auctioning process. It was submitted that it is important that the revenue of the state Governments should be protected. 42. He further submitted that there is no legal bar on the imposition of royalty on royalty and cannot be adjudged on the same footing as a case of “tax on tax”, in light of this Court’s decision in Mineral Area Development Authority (supra) wherein it was held that royalty is not a tax. 90 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 43. On the status of public consultations, Mr. Madiyal submitted that the Committee constituted by the Ministry of Mines has received the views & suggestions from various stakeholders as well as from the State Governments. However, the issue is under consideration and no decision yet has been taken on the matter. The learned ASG apprised us of the fact that the Committee is deliberating on the question of the amendment of the Rules and the impact of such amendment on the determination of royalty and auction premium payable in respect of mining leases auctioned prior to the amendment, if any carried out in the future. D. ISSUE FOR DETERMINATION 44. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the pivotal question of law that falls for our consideration: - I. Whether, the Explanation(s) appended to Rule 38 of the MCR, 2016 and Rule 45 of the MCDR, 2017 respectively are unreasonable and manifestly arbitrary and in consequence of violation of Article 14 of the Constitution? E. ANALYSIS 45. Before, we proceed with the analysis, it is necessary to understand the case of the petitioners in the present litigation as discernible from their pleadings. The argument of the petitioners in sum is twofold: - (i) First, that the very inclusion of the royalty, and contributions towards DMF and NMET paid previously for the purpose of computation of the requisite royalty for subsequent months is manifestly arbitrary. The said mechanism of computation of royalty has a cascading effect on the rate of royalty for every subsequent month. (ii) Secondly, the exclusion of the royalty, and contributions towards DMF and NMET paid previously for coal but not for other minerals such as iron ore for computation of royalty is unreasonable and manifestly arbitrary. There exists no intelligible differentia between coal and iron ore or any other similar mineral and thus the act of the legislature in excluding the royalty, and contributions towards DMF and NMET for one but not for the other i.e., for coal but not for iron is in violation of Article 14 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 91 Kirloskar Ferrous Industries Limited & Anr v. Union of India & Ors.