In its considered opinion, the High Court after a thorough re-appreciation of the entire evidence on record, held that the Postmortem Report supported the case of the Prosecution that the death of Rajalakshmi was homicidal on account of the clear motive ascribed to the Appellants, and the presence of the Appellants at the time of occurrences of incident. The aforenoted conclusion was substantiated on the basis of evidence of P.W-1 to P.W.-4. Submissions of the Parties 14. It is the case of the Appellant that it is settled law that a by the Trial Court could have only been reversed by the High Court if the view taken was not a plausible view on the evidence on record or there is an error apparent/perversity. The High Court in the present case has not given any reason why the view taken by the Trial Court was not a sustainable or plausible view as it not commented on any findings of the Trial Court nor has marshaled all evidence before itself before coming to the conclusion of guilt of the Appellants. It was submitted that, in cases where another view is possible, the more liberal outlook ought to be preferred and must not ordinarily be displaced. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1765 Uma & Anr. v. The State Rep. by the Deputy Superintendent of Police 15. It was further stressed that the case of the Prosecution is entirely based on a presumption, insofar as there was no material to establish the alleged story of P.W.-1; and there is no evidence on record to establish the motive of the Appellants to murder the Deceased. It was contended that there was nothing on record to establish that the Appellants were residing together and were present at the time of occurrence of the said incident. 16. The Ld. Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant(s) submitted that that the presence of the tin of paint is demonstrable from the Observation Mahazar (Ex P.8), however there is also nothing to show that the Appellants had inflicted the injuries on the Deceased. In this respect, it is also stated the observation made by the Hon’ble High Court vis-à-vis the shift of burden of proof under Section 106 CrPC to prove a certain fact, strictly within the knowledge of the Appellants is wholly erroneous. 17. It is further submitted that the entire case of the Prosecution rests upon a confession of the Appellant No.1, however the same is struck by Section 27 of the Evidence Act and hence cannot be admissible in the court of law in to bring home the guilt of the present Appellants. 18. Per contra, the Ld. Counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondent State defended the Impugned , it was submitted that that the Trial Court did not appreciate the evidence in a proper manner; and consequently, this glaring error led to the acquittal of the accused persons i.e., the Appellants. It was further submitted that the testimonies of P.W.-3 and P.W.-4 were incorrectly rejected by the Trial Court as purely circumstantial, whereas the entire set of facts read together with the medical evidence, strictly point towards the guilt of the Appellants.