220. The aforesaid may be looked at from one another angle. Even if the 9th auction were to be held illegal and bad in law by virtue of the aforesaid S.A. No. 46 of 2022, it would not mean that the auction purchaser would by virtue of such finding lose all its rights to the secured asset, even after having the sale confirmed in its favour. In this regard we may refer to the decision of this Court in Janak Raj v. Gurdilal Singh & Ors. reported in AIR 1967 SC 608 wherein it was held that even if a decree pursuant to which auction was 1740 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports previously conducted was later set-aside, the successful auction purchaser’s rights will remain unaffected and he would still be entitled to confirmation of sale in its favour. The relevant observations read as under: - “27. For the reasons already given and the decisions noticed, it must be held that the appellant-auction purchaser was entitled to a confirmation of the sale notwithstanding the fact that after the holding of the sale the decree had been set aside. The policy of the Legislature seems to be that unless a stranger auction-purchaser is protected against the vicissitudes of the fortunes of the suit, sales in execution would not attract customers and it would be to the detriment of the interest of the borrower and the creditor alike if sales were allowed to be impugned merely because the decree was ultimately set aside or modified. The Code of Civil Procedure of 1908 makes ample provision for the protection of the interest of the -debtor who feels that the decree ought not to have been passed against him. On the facts of this case, it is difficult to see why the -debtor did not take resort to the provisions of O. XXI r. 89. The decree was for a small amount and he could have easily deposited the decretal amount besides 5 per cent of the purchase money and thus have the sale set aside. For reasons which are not known to us he did not do so.” (Emphasis supplied) E. FINAL 221. Before we close this , we may address yet another submission canvassed on behalf of the respondents herein. It was contended by the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee that the petitioner herein having not prayed for the relief of physical possession in the original proceedings cannot be permitted to expand the scope of the said proceedings and now seek the relief which it previously did not. In this regard, we may only refer to the decision of this Court in Baranagore Jute Factory Plc. Mazdoor v. Baranagore Jute Factory Plc. reported in AIR ONLINE 2017 SC 410 wherein it was held the court not only has a duty to issue appropriate directions [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1741 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. for remedying or rectifying the things done in violation of its s but also the power to take restitutive measures at any stage of the proceedings.