8. Notice was issued to the sole respondent/wife on 21.01.2022, which was duly served upon the respondent. The respondent once again did not put in appearance either in-person or through an advocate. 9. We have heard Mr. Dhananjay Bhaskar Ray, learned counsel appearing for the appellant at length and have also perused the pleadings. 10. Mr. Dhananjay would submit that the respondent deserted the appellant about 13 years ago and she refused to cohabit with the appellant. Learned counsel would further submit that the appellant and the respondent have been living apart due to matrimonial discord for the last 13 years and as there are no prospects for reconciliation, the marriage has been irretrievably broken down. The learned counsel would argue that the uncontroverted evidence substantially establishes the fact that the appellant had been treated with mental cruelty by his wife who had left his company despite an objection from the appellant. The learned counsel further submitted that the conduct of the respondent itself indicates that she is not willing to live with the appellant. Learned counsel for the appellant, in support of the contentions, placed reliance on the decisions of this Court in the case of “Sukhendu Das Vs. Rita Mukherjee1” and “Samar Ghosh vs. Jaya Ghosh2”. 11. The record reveals that after appellant’s car accident in November, 2009 the couple was blessed with a baby boy on 21.05.2010. The appellant lost his job owing to the deep recession in Canada and eventually the family came back to India in January, 2011. The couple last resided together in appellant’s mother’s house at Mumbai till 19.02.2011. After this date, they lost contact with each other, and the respondent refused to return to the matrimonial home. On being contacted, the respondent refused to resume matrimonial life unless the appellant separates from his family and resides in a 1 (2017) 9 SCC 632 2 (2007) 4 SCC 511 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 701 Prakashchandra Joshi v. Kuntal Prakashchandra Joshi @ Kuntal Visanji Shah separate household. On account of appellant’s inability to accede to this demand of the respondent, she never returned to resume the matrimonial life. 12. It is also to be seen that in the proceedings initiated by the appellant for restitution of conjugal rights under Section 9 of the Hindu Marriage Act, the respondent did not appear despite receiving the summons. Similarly, in the present divorce proceedings also the respondent failed to enter appearance despite service of notice in the Trial Court, High Court and Supreme Court as well. Thus, it is apparent that the respondent does not wish to continue the marital chord and is not responding to court summons much less the request made by the appellant. 13. On the basis of the above factual matrix the present appears to be a case of irretrievable breakdown of marriage. In the matter of “Shilpa Sailesh vs. Varubn Sreenivasan3”, this Court has held that exercise of jurisdiction under Article 142 (1) of the Constitution of India is clearly permissible to do ‘complete justice’ to a ‘cause or matter’ and this Court can pass an or decree which a family court, trial court or High Court can pass and when such power is exercised, the question or issue of lack of subject-matter jurisdiction does not arise.