b. Goodricke 303. Apart from income, the quantum of yield or produce of the lands may also be used to measure the amount of tax. In Buxa Dooars Tea Co. Ltd. v. State of West Bengal,379 the levy of ‘rural employment cess’ on tea estates under the West Bengal Rural Employment and Production Act 1976 was challenged.380 The measure of tax of the levy was based on the quantity of tea dispatched from the estate. The issue before a two-Judge Bench was whether the levy was in respect of tea estates or on the dispatch of tea. The Court held that the measure of the levy defined in terms of the weight of the tea dispatched from the estate had no nexus with the nature of the tax, that is, a tax on land estates. Therefore, it was held that what the legislation really contemplated was a levy on dispatches of tea. 304. In view of Buxa Dooars Tea (supra), the State legislature enacted the West Bengal Taxation Laws (Second Amendment) Act 1989 to amend the Act of 1976. The amendment provided that the rural employment cess would be levied annually on a tea estate at a rate of twelve paise for each kilogram of green tea leaves produced at the estate. In comparison with the previous provision which measured the tax 379 [1989] 3 SCR 293 : (1989) 3 SCC 211 380 “1976 Act” 1730 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on the basis of the quantity of tea dispatched, the measure of the cess in the amended provision was the production of green leaves. 305. The amended provision was challenged before this Court in Goodricke Group Ltd v. State of West Bengal.381 The primary issue before this Court was whether the impugned levy was a levy on lands within the meaning of Entry 49 of List II of the Seventh Schedule. Justice B P Jeevan Reddy, speaking for the three-Judge Bench, observed that the income or yield of a land or building can be taken as a measure of the tax on land and buildings. Hence, the measure of the tax based on the yield from the land was held to be valid: “20. […] In the case before us, the cess is no doubt calculated on the basis of the yield – for every kilogram of tea leaves produced in a tea estate, a particular cess is levied. But that is a well-accepted mode of levy of tax on land. The tax is upon the land – upon the “tea estate” which is classified as a separate category, as a separate unit, for the purpose of levy and assessment of the said cess quantified on the basis of the quantum of produce of the tea estate. It cannot be characterised as a tax on production for that reason. […]” 306. In Goodricke (supra), the petitioners relied on India Cement (supra) and Orissa Cement (supra) to urge that there has to be a direct connection between the land and the levy.