This Court reiterated the principle that even under Section 482 Cr.P.C. the wide powers are to be exercised fairly with circumspection and in exceptional cases. 36. In Himanshu Kumar and Others vs. State of Chhattisgarh and others, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 884 dealing with the prayer for transfer of investigation to CBI, this Court had the following to say: “47. ….We are conscious of the fact that though a satisfaction of want of proper, fair, impartial and effective investigation eroding its credence and reliability is the precondition for a direction for further investigation or re- investigation, submission of the charge sheet ipso facto or the pendency of the trial can, by no means, be a prohibitive impediment. The contextual facts and the attendant circumstances have to be singularly evaluated and analyzed to decide the needfulness of further investigation or re-investigation to unravel the truth and mete out justice to the parties. The prime concern and the endeavour of the court of law should be to secure justice on the basis of true facts which ought to be unearthed through a committed, resolved and a competent investigating agency.” 37. Applying the above law to the facts of the present case, we find that for the following reasons the direction for further investigation is absolutely unwarranted:- i. The application for further investigation was filed in January 2020 by respondent no. 1. The charge sheet under Section 173 Cr.P.C. too had been filed as early as on 11.07.2013. ii. On 20th December, 2016, PW-1 Padikasu was examined, he was recalled and cross-examined on 25.07.2019. 14 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports iii. Respondent No. 1 (who is the applicant for further investigation) herself was examined on 18.03.2017. There is no whisper in her deposition about what she now seeks to contend in the application for further investigation. There was nothing that had prevented her from deposing in the box about any failure of the investigating officer, to enquire Kattarimani or any person concerned; about R. Natrajan, M. Muthu and S. Ramasamy being occurrence witnesses and about K.Ganesan S/o Late Kumar, P. Karmagan S/o Periyakaruppan, K. Rajendran S/o Kasi, Sembulingam S/o Padikasu and C. Audiappan S/o Chinnaiah being eye witnesses, and about how such failure has caused prejudice. iv. In fact, seeking the examination of these five witnesses mentioned hereinabove, first respondent filed application under Section 311 Cr.P.C. which came to be dismissed by the trial court on 29.11.2019 and was confirmed by the High Court. The application under Section 311 Cr.P.C. itself was filed on 22.10.2019, that is after a period of about six years after the filing of the charge-sheet. v. It is only when the High Court dismissed her petition under Section 311 Cr.P.C. stating that she had not made any prayer for further investigation that she filed the present application in January, 2020. At the stage when she filed the application for further investigation, the accused had concluded oral arguments and had also filed written arguments. vi. The trial court dismissed the application stating that the respondent no.