Explanation.- For the purposes of this section, “Prime Lending Rate” means the Prime Lending Rate of the State Bank of India which is available to the best borrowers of the bank. 5. Liability of buyer to pay compound interest.- Notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement between a supplier and a buyer or in any law for the time being in force, the buyer shall be liable to pay compound interest (with monthly interest) at the rate mentioned in section 4 on the amount due to the supplier.” 4. We would also reproduce the definition clauses (b), (c) and (f) to Section 2, which are applicable, unless the context otherwise requires. The same read thus: - (b) “appointed day” means the day following immediately after the expiry of the period of thirty days from the day of acceptance or the day of deemed acceptance of any goods or any services by a buyer from a supplier; Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause,- (i) “the day of acceptance” means,- (a) the day of the actual delivery of goods or the rendering of services; or (b) where any objection is made in writing by the buyer regarding, acceptance of goods or services within thirty days from the day of the delivery, of goods or the rendering of services, the day on which such objection is removed by the supplier; (ii) “the day of deemed acceptance” means, where no objection is made in writing by the buyer regarding acceptance of 458 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports goods or services within thirty days from the day of the delivery of goods or the rendering of services, the day of the actual delivery of goods or the rendering of services; (c) “buyer” means whoever buys any goods or receives any services from a supplier for consideration; xxx xxx xxx (f) “supplier” means an ancillary industrial undertaking or a small scale industrial undertaking holding a permanent registration certificate issued by the Directorate of Industries of a State or Union territory and includes,- (i) the National Small Industries Corporation, being a company, registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); (ii) the Small Industries Development Corporation of a State or a Union territory, by whatever name called, being a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).” 5. The proviso to Section 3, and the amendment to Section 2(f) to include the addition of National Small Industries Corporation and the Small Industries Development Corporation of a State or a Union Territory to the definition of “supplier”, were incorporated by Act No. 23 of 1998 with effect from 10.08.1998. 6. On a reading of Section 3 of the 1993 Act, as it stood before the enactment of the proviso, the buyer and the supplier could agree upon the date of payment. In case of absence of stipulation with regard to the date of payment, the “appointed day” in terms of Section 2(b) of the 1993 Act, would be the date, on which the payment is due.