The said requirement thus indicates the legislative intention that the appellate Court invoking the power under Section 389, Cr. PC, should assess the matter objectively and that such assessment should reflect in the . 4. We will briefly refer to some of the relevant decisions dealing with Section 389, Cr. PC. In the case of short-term imprisonment for conviction of an offence, suspension of sentence is the normal rule and its rejection is the exception. (See the decision in Bhagwan Rama Shinde Gosai & Ors. v. State of Gujarat1). However, we 1 [1999] 3 SCR 545 : (1999) 4 SCC 421 40 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports are of the considered view that the position should be vice-versa in the case of conviction for serious offences when invocation of power under Section 389 is invited. This Court, in the decision in Kishori Lal v. Rupa & Ors.2, held in paragraphs 4 and 5 thus:- “4. Section 389 of the Code deals with suspension of execution of sentence pending the appeal and release of the appellant on bail. There is a distinction between bail and suspension of sentence. One of the essential ingredients of Section 389 is the requirement for the appellate Court to record reasons in writing for ing suspension of execution of the sentence or appealed against. If he is in confinement, the said Court can direct that he be released on bail or on his own bond. The requirement of recording reasons in writing clearly indicates that there has to be careful consideration of the relevant aspects and the directing suspension of sentence and grant of bail should not be passed as a matter of routine. 5. The appellate Court is duty-bound to objectively assess the matter and to record reasons for the conclusion that the case warrants suspension of execution of sentence and grant of bail. In the instant case, the only factor which seems to have weighed with the High Court for directing suspension of sentence and grant of bail is the absence of allegation of misuse of liberty during the earlier period when the accused-respondents were on bail.” 5. In the decision in Anwari Begum v. Sher Mohammad & Anr.3 this Court in paragraphs 7 and 8 held thus:- “7. Even on a cursory perusal the High Court’s shows complete non-application of mind. Though a detailed examination of the evidence and elaborate documentation of the merits of the case is to be avoided by the Court while passing s on bail applications, yet a Court 2 [2004] Supp. 4 SCR 628 : (2004) 7 SCC 638 3 [2005] Supp. 3 SCR 287 : (2005) 7 SCC 326 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 41 Shivani Tyagi v. State of U.P. & Anr. dealing with the bail application should be satisfied as to whether there is a prima facie case, but exhaustive exploration of the merits of the case is not necessary. The Court dealing with the application for bail is required to exercise its discretion in a judicious manner and not as a matter of course.