[Paras 63, 68] Precedents – Rule of precedents – Exception to rule of precedents: Held: Although it is the ratio decidendi which is a precedent and not the final in the , however, there are certain exceptions to the rule of precedents which are expressed by the doctrines of per incurium and sub silentio – A decision rendered [2024] 1 S.C.R. 753 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others by ignorance of a previous binding decision of its own or of a court of coordinate or higher jurisdiction or in ignorance of the terms of a statute or of a rule having the force of law is per incurium – A decision per incurium is not binding – A decision is passed sub-silentio when the particular point of law in a decision is not perceived by the court or not present to its mind or is not consciously determined by the court and it does not form part of the ratio decidendi it is not binding – On facts, the submission that since this Court in the dated 13.05.2022 had directed that the State of Gujarat was the appropriate Government, the same was binding on the parties even though it may be contrary to the earlier decisions of this Court, cannot be accepted inasmuch as when a has been delivered per incuriam or passed sub silentio, the same cannot bind either the parties to the or be a binding precedent for the future even between the same parties. [Paras 44.1, 44.2, 45] Per incuriam – Meaning of: Held: Incuria legally means carelessness and per incurium may be equated with per ignorantium – If a is rendered in ignorantium of a statute or a binding authority, it becomes a decision per incurium – Thus, a decision rendered by ignorance of a previous binding decision of its own or of a court of coordinate or higher jurisdiction or in ignorance of the terms of a statute or of a rule having the force of law is per incurium – Such a per incurium decision would not have a precedential value – If a decision has been rendered per incurium, it cannot be said that it lays down good law, even if it has not been expressly overruled – Thus, a decision per incurium is not binding. [Para 44.1] Constitution of India – Art. 21 – Personal liberty – Protection of liberty – When: Held: Personal liberty is the most important constitutional value which is a fundamental right enshrined in Art. 21 – It is an inalienable right of man and can be deprived of or taken away only in accordance with law – That is the quintessence of Art. 21 – Person is entitled to protection of his liberty only in accordance with law. [Paras 58, 60] Words and phrases –Fraud – Meaning of – Stated. [Paras 42, 43, 43.1] 754 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Case Law Cited Union of India v. V. Sriharan [2015] 14 SCR 613 : (2016) 7 SCC 1; Naresh Shridhar Mirajkar v. State of Maharashtra, [1966] 3 SCR 744 : AIR 1967 SC 1 – followed.