Someone tripped somewhere and the representation addressed to the Central Government was apparently never forwarded to it, with the inevitable result that the detenu has been unaccountably deprived of a valuable right to defend and assert his fundamental right to personal liberty. Maybe that the detenu is a smuggler whose tribe (and how their numbers increase) deserves no sympathy since its activities have paralysed the Indian economy. But the laws of preventive detention afford only a modicum of safeguards to persons detained under them and if freedom and liberty are to have any meaning in our democratic set-up, it is essential that at least those safeguards are not denied to the detenus. Section 11(1) of COFEPOSA confers upon the Central Government the power to revoke an of detention even if it is made by the State Government or its officer. That power, in to be real and effective, must imply the right in a detenu to make a representation to the Central Government against the of detention. The failure in this case on the part either of the Jail Superintendent or the State Government to forward the detenu's representation to the Central Government has deprived the detenu of the valuable right to have his detention revoked by that Government. The continued detention of the detenu must therefore be held illegal and the detenu set free. 5. In Tara Chand v. State of Rajasthan [(1980) 2 SCC 321 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 441] it was held by this Court that even [2024] 9 S.C.R. 345 Jaseela Shaji v. The Union of India & Ors. an inordinate delay on the part of the Central Government in consideration of the representation of a detenu would be in violation of Article 22(5) of the Constitution, thereby rendering the detention unconstitutional. In Shyam Ambalal Siroya v. Union of India [(1980) 2 SCC 346 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 447] this Court held that when a properly addressed representation is made by the detenu to the Central Government for revocation of the of detention, a statutory duty is cast upon the Central Government under Section 11, COFEPOSA to apply its mind and either revoke the of detention or dismiss the petition and that a petition for revocation of an of detention should be disposed of with reasonable expedition. Since the representation was left unattended for four months, the continued detention of the detenu was held illegal. In our case, the representation to the Central Government was not forwarded to it at all.” 53. This Court observed that, maybe the detenu was a smuggler whose tribe (and how their numbers increase) deserved no sympathy since its activities had paralysed the Indian economy, but the laws of preventive detention afforded only a modicum of safeguards to persons detained under them. It has been observed that it was essential that at least those safeguards are not denied to the detenus. This Court observed that the failure in that case either on the part of the Jail Superintendent or the State Government to forward the detenu’s representation to the Central Government had deprived the detenu of the valuable right to have his detention revoked by that Government.