Digital Supreme Court Reports policy of the proposer with Future Generali and with any other insurer, as what was also sought was details of wife, major student or a minor life to be assured and to give details of the husband’s and parents’ insurance. Therefore, it is not clear from reading of Query 6.1 as to whether details of insurance policy of the insured with Future Generali and with other insurer were sought or the query related to the details of husband and parents’ insurance policy being disclosed in case the insured was a housewife, major student or a minor life when the insured was a housewife or a minor child. The insured in the instant case did not belong to either the two categories. Query 6.2 was, whether any proposal for life cover or critical illness rider or accident and disability benefit rider, application for revival of any policy had been made to any life insurer, declined/postponed/ dropped/accepted or revived at modified rates. The answer to the said queries were given by the insured in the negative. Considering Query 6.2, firstly, it is noted that the deceased proposer had stated in the negative with regard to making of any application for revival of any policy. There is no evidence whatsoever let in by the respondent insurance company that there was an application made for revival of any policy of the insured which had either been declined/postponed/dropped/accepted or revived at modified rates. Therefore, the answer in the negative given to Query 6.2 cannot be held as against the appellant herein. In the circumstances, the NCDRC could not have concluded that when the answer “NO” was written to Query 6.2, there was any suppression of material fact. 40. Insofar as the Query 6.1 is concerned, it is noted that the same is not clear and it is not known in what context the details of the insured were sought with regard to any existing life insurance policy. On a reading of Query 6.1 holistically, it is also not clear regarding the nature of information that was sought by the respondent insurance company as discussed above. The answer given by the insured to the Query 6.1 was thus in the negative. In this backdrop, can it be said that there was a suppression of material fact by the insured in the proposal form. In this context, it is necessary to place reliance on the contra proferentem rule. This Court in the case of Manmohan Nanda, discussed the rule of contra proferentem as under: “45. The contra proferentem rule has an ancient genesis. When words are to be construed, resulting in two alternative [2024] 4 S.C.R. 749 Mahakali Sujatha v. The Branch Manager, Future Generali India Life Insurance Company Limited & another interpretations then, the interpretation which is against the person using or drafting the words or expressions which have given rise to the difficulty in construction, applies. This rule is often invoked while interpreting standard form contracts. Such contracts heavily comprise of forms with printed terms which are invariably used for the same kind of contracts.