1588 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11.11 However, it is to be noted that it has been provided under sub-clause (iii) that components, spares and accessories of goods specified in sub-clause (i) and sub-clause (ii) will also be treated as “capital goods” if used for providing output service within the meaning of CENVAT Rules. Therefore, we have to examine whether towers and PFBs which on their own are not “capital goods” within the scope of either of the sub-clauses (i) and (ii) can be considered to be “capital goods” under sub-clause (iii) by virtue of being accessories of any of the “capital goods” mentioned under sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of Rule 2(a)(A). 11.11.1 It is also not the case of the Assessees before us that mobile towers and PFBs are goods falling under Chapter 82, Chapter 84, Chapter 85, Chapter 90, Heading No. 68.02 and sub-Heading No. 6801.10 of the First Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act so as to be deemed as capital goods. It is the case of the Assessees that the mobile tower is an accessory of “antenna” which is part of “BTS” and since antenna and BTS fall under Chapter 85 which are “capital goods”, mobile tower being accessory of antenna and BTS is to be treated as “capital good” by virtue of sub-clause (iii) of Rule 2(a)(A). Similar is the case with PFBs. 11.11.2 Since, we have already held that mobile towers and PFBs are not immovable properties and can be treated as “goods”, we have to examine whether these are to be treated as accessories of antenna and BTS (which are “capital goods”) as claimed by the Assessees and if so, being accessory of antenna/ BTS, all these are covered within the meaning of “capital goods” under Rule 2(a)(A) (iii) and since these accessories of capital goods are used for providing output service i.e. mobile service, whether the service providers would be entitled to take CENVAT credit by virtue of Rule 3(i) of the CENVAT Rules. 11.11.3 In this regard, it is to be noted that the stand of the Revenue is that the towers and PFBs have independent functions and existence and have specific utilities and thus these cannot form part of a composite system or a single [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1589 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune unit and hence they cannot be considered to be accessories of the antenna or BTS in contra-distinction to the plea of the Assessees that these are accessories of antenna and BTS which are “capital goods” falling under Chapter 85 of the First Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act. 11.11.4 What is an accessory has been defined in Black’s Law Dictionary, (Fifth Edition) as, “anything which is joined to another thing as an ornament or to render it more perfect, or which accompanies it, or is connected with it as an incident, or as subordinate to it, or which belongs to or with it, adjunct or accompaniment.