“Particulars”, on the other hand, are details in support of “material facts” pleaded by the party. They amplify, refine and embellish material facts by giving distinctive touch to the basic contours of a picture already drawn so as to make it full, more clear and more informative. “Particulars” thus ensure conduct of fair trial and would not take the opposite party by surprise. 52. All “material facts” must be pleaded by the party in support of the case set up by him. Since the object and purpose is to enable the opposite party to know the case he has to meet with, in the absence of pleading, a party cannot be allowed to lead evidence. Failure to state even a single material fact, hence, will entail dismissal of the suit or petition. Particulars, on the other hand, are the details of the case which is in the nature of evidence a party would be leading at the time of trial.” 20. In light of the analysis above, we are of the view that by virtue of the provisions of Section 87 (1) of the 1951 Act, the High Court, acting as an Election Tribunal, subject to the provisions of the 1951 Act and the rules made thereunder, is vested with all such powers as are vested in a civil court under the CPC. Therefore, in exercise of 72 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports its powers under VIII Rule 9 of the CPC, it is empowered to grant leave to an election petitioner to file a replication. 21. However, such leave is not to be granted mechanically. The Court before granting leave must consider the averments made in the plaint/election petition, the written statement and the replication. Upon consideration thereof, if the Court feels that to ensure a fair and effective trial of the issues already raised, the plaintiff/election petitioner must get opportunity to explain/clarify the facts newly raised or pleaded in the written statement, it may grant leave upon such terms as it deems fit. Further, while considering grant of leave, the Court must bear in mind that,— (a) a replication is not needed to merely traverse facts pleaded in the written statement; (b) a replication is not a substitute for an amendment; and (c) a new cause of action or plea inconsistent with the plea taken in original petition/plaint is not to be permitted in the replication. Grant of leave justified 22. In the instant case, the material facts alleged in the election petition, inter alia, were that while filing nomination papers the returned candidate had failed to disclose: (a) details of some of his bank accounts (i.e. six in number); (b) ownership of a motor vehicle, which stood registered in his name; (c) details of his spouse’s profession or occupation; (d) the investment made by him on the land, by way of development, construction etc. ; and (e) the details of his liability owed to the Bank. 23. In his written statement, the returned candidate (appellant herein) before giving a para-wise reply to the averments made in the election petition, made certain explanatory/preliminary averments in paragraph 1.