Presentation of appeal.— (1) Every appeal shall be presented in Form Nclat-1 in triplicate by the appellant or petitioner or applicant or respondent, as the case may be, in person or by his duly authorised representative duly appointed in this behalf in the prescribed form with stipulated fee at the filing counter and non-compliance of this may constitute a valid ground to refuse to entertain the same. (2) Every appeal shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the impugned .” (emphasis supplied) Therefore, it cannot be said that the parties can automatically dispense with their obligation to apply for and obtain a certified copy for filing an appeal. Any delay in receipt of a certified copy, once an application has been filed, has been envisaged by the legislature and duly excluded to not cause any prejudice to a litigant’s right to appeal.” 18. In V Nagarajan, the of the NCLT was dated 31 December 2019 and was uploaded on the website on 12 March 2020. There was a correction in the name of the Judicial Member who had passed the on 20 March 2020. The appellant before this Court claimed to have awaited the issue of a free copy and allegedly sought a free copy on 23 March 2020 under the provisions Section 420(3) of the Companies Act 2013 read with Rule 50 of the NCLT Rules. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 391 State Bank of India v. India Power Corporation Limited He claimed that the free copy had not been made available to him until that date and that in the meantime, the COVID-19 pandemic had intervened. The NCLAT, by its dated 13 July, 2020, relied on Section 61(2) and came to the conclusion that the appeal was barred by limitation. It is in this context that this Court in paragraph 23 of its decision (extracted above) observed that the mandate of a free copy was not to enable litigants to take “two bites at the apple where they could compute limitation from either when the certified copy is received on the litigant’s application or received as a free copy from the Registry—whichever is later”. This Court, therefore, held that parties could not automatically dispense with their obligation to apply for and obtain a certified copy for filing an appeal. 19. Rule 22(2) of the NCLAT Rules requires that every appeal shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the impugned . Rule 50 of the NCLT Rules prescribes that the Registry shall send a certified copy of the final free of cost and certified copies may be made available on payment of costs in terms of the Schedule of Fees in all other cases. Both the certified copy which is made available free of cost as well as the certified copy which is made available on the payment of costs, are treated as certified copies for the purpose of Rule 50. A litigant who does not apply for a certified copy cannot then fall back and claim that he was awaiting the grant of a free copy to obviate the bar of limitation.