It is also correct to say that the Arbitration Act does not provide special or different treatment to government or government undertakings involved in arbitration. 3. Nonetheless, it is not possible for me to agree with the view canvassed that the principles of constitutional law can be invoked to reinforce the equality doctrine in the realm of arbitration. On this aspect, Justice Narasimha has rightly opined that public law principles evolved in Constitutional and Administrative law, should not generally be imported to arbitration law. 4. Anchoring the principle of equality amongst the arbitrating parties from the framework of the Arbitration Act, rather than invoking constitutional and administrative law principles, in my opinion, will not only preserve impartiality in the appointment of arbitrator but will also ensure party autonomy. It is also imperative to observe that Courts should exercise judicial restraint at the threshold stage of appointing an arbitrator. This will then safeguard the core principles of equality, party autonomy, and minimal judicial intervention in the arbitration domain. 5. The notion that Alternative Dispute Resolution offers ‘rough justice’ rather than true justice, is no more in vogue although some scepticism towards arbitration was earlier noticed, across various jurisdictions.1 Trusting the arbitral process is essential and we must dispel the notion that arbitration provides ‘second-hand justice’. To lend credibility to the arbitral process, statutory procedural safeguards 1 Gary Born, International Commercial Arbitration (2nd edn, Kluwer 2014) 2280 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports promoting basic fairness must be given full play. A key factor in establishing arbitration’s legitimacy lies in ensuring independence and impartiality at all stages of the arbitral process. At the same time, excessive judicial intervention must be avoided. By striking this balance between procedural protections and judicial restraint, we can reinforce arbitration’s role as an autonomous system capable of delivering justice on par with traditional courts. Scope of Judicial Interference 6. The principle of minimal judicial intervention in the arbitral process is an integral element of the Indian arbitration law. The relevant part of the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Arbitration Act is extracted below to press home this aspect: “(i) to comprehensively cover international commercial arbitration and conciliation as also domestic arbitration and conciliation; (ii) to make provision for an arbitral procedure which is fair, efficient and capable of meeting the needs of the specific arbitration; (iii) to provide that the arbitral tribunal gives reasons for its arbitral award; (iv) to ensure that the arbitral tribunal remains within the limits of its jurisdiction; (v) to minimise the supervisory role of courts in the arbitral process; (vi) to permit an arbitral tribunal to use mediation, conciliation or other procedures during the arbitral proceedings to encourage settlement of disputes; (vii) to provide that every final arbitral award is enforced in the same manner as if it were a decree of the court; (viii) to provide that a settlement agreement reached by the parties as a result of conciliation proceedings will have the same status and effect as an arbitral award on agreed terms on the substance of the dispute rendered by an arbitral tribunal; and (ix) to provide that, for purposes of enforcement of foreign awards, every arbitral award made in a country to which [2024] 11 S.C.R.