By blindly placing reliance on the unverified allegations of the complainant based on a huge cash transaction and registering the FIR without even making a basic enquiry on this vital aspect, the police officials to be specific, the Investigating Officer (contemnor-respondent No. 4) clearly colluded with the complainant (contemnor-respondent No. 6) by trying to give the civil dispute, based on allegation of breach of oral agreement, the colour of a crime. 38. The complainant(contemnor-respondent No. 6) categorically stated in the FIR that it was he who had given cheques of about Rs. 54 lakhs to the petitioner and it was agreed that on clearance of the cheques, the accused-petitioner would execute the registered sale deed in respect of the subject property in favour of the complainant. In clear contradiction to this allegation of the complainant, the Investigating Officer at para No. 2 of the remand application(supra) noted that the cheques of Kotak Mahindra Bank had been signed by accused-petitioner for being given to the complainant(contemnor- respondent No. 6) and that he was not getting the same recovered. The above statement made in the remand application seems to be at sheer variance with the allegation set out in the FIR that the cheques were given by the complainant to the petitioner i.e., Tusharbhai Shah and not vice versa. The assertion made in the FIR, that the accused-petitioner was not lodging the cheques of the complainant(contemnor-respondent No. 6) in his bank and was holding on to the same was clearly a wishful allegation created somehow or the other for framing the accused in a criminal case, rather than resorting to civil proceedings. It is not even the stated case of the complainant that before lodging the FIR, he had asked the accused-petitioner to return the cheques to him. 39. We may also state, had the accused-petitioner suffered an information under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, which gave rise to a reasonable belief that such information could lead to discovery of an incriminating fact, perhaps the remand application could have been justified to some extent. However, that is not the situation in the case at hand. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 273 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. 40. The narration made in the remand application that the Investigating Officer wanted to find out about the criminal antecedents of the accused is also fanciful on the face of it. With the digitisation of the records, the criminal antecedents/records of accused would be readily available on CCTNS i.e., Crime and Criminal Tracking Network System and thus, the Investigating Officer could not have sought police custody remand of the accused in to find out his criminal antecedents. 41. Apparently thus, the Investigating Officer (contemnor-respondent No. 4), while filing the remand application, made blatant misinterpretations and procured the police custody of the accused-petitioner who was under the protective umbrella of this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023. 42. If at all, by any stretch of imagination, the Investigating Officer felt genuine and bona fide requirement to seek police custody remand of the petitioner, then the proper course of action would have been to move this Court for seeking appropriate directions rather than moving the Magistrate by way of the remand application, which was tainted, malicious and a contemptuous act on the face of the record.