The knife that was said to have been used for committing the offence was recovered from an open place at about 50 steps near the place of occurrence. No arrest memo has been prepared though an entry was made in the general diary. Recovery memo was signed by PW-6 and PW-7 alone. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 783 Shailesh Kumar v. State of U.P. (Now State of Uttarakhand) 8. The post-mortem was conducted by PW-4, Dr. Jaideep Dutta, which indicated two major injuries, in tune with the case of the prosecution. PW-9, being the police officer of a different jurisdiction, prepared the inquest report, presumably on the ground that the ultimate death happened there, as the second hospital was situated within his jurisdiction. 9. After the initial investigation by PW-11, PW-12 took over the further investigation, but did not take adequate care to check and verify the earlier statements given by the witnesses. Some of the witnesses have been examined at the earliest while the others like PW-2, PW-6 and PW-7 were examined 2 weeks thereafter. The FIR was curiously sent by post and, therefore, reached the jurisdictional magistrate days thereafter. 10. During the course of trial, the prosecution examined 13 witnesses. In the questioning made under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as “CrPC”), the appellant clearly denied all the charges levelled against him. On a request made on behalf of the appellant, the general diary was summoned and perused by the trial court. This was done as a question was raised on the story propounded by the prosecution which goes to the date and time of the occurrence. On perusal, the trial court found out that there were certain interpolations with specific reference to the dates and certain pages were missing and jumbled. While giving a finding that the noting of the date as 22.06.1992 and thereafter striking it off to 21.06.1992 as a clerical mistake, the trial court went on to put the blame on the appellant that he maneuvered to do so in connivance with somebody, though the said correction could only help the case of the prosecution. 11. While convicting the appellant, the trial court placed heavy reliance upon the evidence of PW-1 to PW-3. The discrepancies qua the emergency medical register and amongst the statements of PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3 were brushed aside as minor and natural or ignorable discrepancies due to the passage of time. Much reliance has been placed on the recovery of the two-wheeler, though not mentioned in the site plan. The delay in recording the statement of the witnesses were also taken lightly. The so-called dying declaration given before PW-1 was accepted, despite a clear statement made by PW-5 that none was present during the stay of the deceased with him till he was sent to the other hospital. 784 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. The High Court concurred with the decision of the trial court by placing reliance upon the post-mortem report and the testimony of PW-1 to PW-3.