3, 4, 5 and 6. On meticulous scrutiny of the award with reference to the documents produced by the parties to the ease, I find that the reasons and findings given by the learned Arbitrator cannot be said to be irrational, insensible or unrealistic. In fact, award in respect of claim Nos. 3, 4, 5 & 6 cannot be said [2024] 8 S.C.R. 623 Pam Developments Private Limited v. The State of West Bengal & Anr. to be.in conflict with the public policy of India even by stretch of Imagination. On the other hand, it is apparent that cogent and acceptable reasons have been furnished by the learned Arbitrator in respect of these four heads of claims (claim Nos. 3 to 6). The award in respect of such four claims does not call for any interference.” 7.3 While exercising jurisdiction under Section 37, the High Court examined the relevant clauses of the contract and held the claim is impermissible under the contractual provisions. They are extracted herein below for ready reference. ‘’SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS CONDITION IN EXTENDED PERIOD As Clause 4 of W.B.F. 2908 or Clause 5 of W.B.F. No.2911 (ii) as the case may be when an extension of time for completion of work is authorised by the Engineer-In-Charge, it will be taken for granted that the validity of the contract is extended automatically upon the extended period with all terms and conditions rates, etc. remaining unaltered, i.e. the tender is revalidated upon the extended period. EXTENSION OF TIME For cogent reasons over which the contractor will have no control and which will retard the· progress, extension of time for the period lost will be granted on receipt of application from the contractor before the expiry date of contract. No claim whatsoever for idle labour, additional establishment, cost of materials and labour and hire charges of tools & Plants etc. would be entertained under any circumstances. The contractor should consider the above factor while quoting this rate. Applications for such extension of time should be submitted by the contractor in the manner indicated in Clause 5 of the printed form of W.B.F. No. 2911 (ii). IDLE LABOUR Whatever the reasons may be no claim or idle labour, enhancement of labour rate additional 624 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports establishment cost, cost of TOLL and hire and labour charges of tools and plants Railway freight etc. would be entertained under any circumstances.” 7.4 Mr. Saurav Agarwal submitted that the High Court under Section 37 ignored the plausible view of the Arbitrator, as upheld under Section 34, and substituted it with its own reasoning. 7.5 This submission is persuasive, but the contract clauses speak for themselves. In fact, High Court did what the Arbitrator should have done. Examine what the contract provides. This is not even a matter of interpretation. It is the duty of every Arbitral Tribunal and Court alike and without exception, for contract is the foundation of the legal relationship. Having considered the above referred clauses in the Contract the High Court came to the conclusion that awarding any amount towards idle, machinery, etc.