1 and 4) for offences punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 of IPC and convicted Satish @ Chhotu (Accused No. 2) and Gaurav Kumar (Accused No. 3) for offences punishable under Section 323 read with Section 34 of IPC. The trial court vide a separate dated 6th November 2017 sentenced the present appellants to rigorous imprisonment for life with fine of Rs. 10,000/- each in default to undergo further simple imprisonment for 1 year for the offences punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 of IPC. 3.11 Being aggrieved thereby, the present appellants preferred criminal appeals before the High Court challenging the s of conviction and sentence awarded by the trial court. The High Court vide the common impugned and dismissed the appeals and affirmed the conviction and sentence awarded by the trial court. 3.12 Being aggrieved thereby, the present appeals. 4. We have heard Shri Rishi Malhotra, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants and Shri Prashant Singh, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-State. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 621 Sunil @ Sonu Etc. v. State NCT of Delhi 5. Shri Malhotra, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants submitted that the learned trial court has erred in convicting the appellants and the High Court has also erred in affirming the said conviction. Shri Malhotra submitted that there is an inordinate delay in lodging the FIR which is not explained by the prosecution. It is submitted that although Rahul (PW-1) was present with the deceased Sachin at the time of the occurrence, he has lodged the FIR only on the next day. It is submitted that there are material contradictions in the testimony of Rahul (PW-1). The learned Senior Counsel further submitted that insofar as Shivani (PW-2) is concerned, she is an interested witness. It is submitted that Shivani (PW-2), in her cross-examination, has admitted that she did not tell the police in her statement about the accused persons causing injuries to deceased Sachin and Rahul (PW-1). Shri Malhotra further submitted that with respect to the same incident, a cross FIR being No. 664/2016 was already registered by the appellant Sunil @ Sonu on 29th November 2016 which was much prior in point of time. It is submitted that, in the said incident, both the appellants Sunil @ Sonu and Nitin @ Devender had received severe injuries. It is submitted that both the courts below have failed to take into consideration that the prosecution has failed to explain the injuries sustained by the appellants. The learned Senior Counsel therefore submitted that the of conviction as recorded by the trial court and affirmed by the High Court is not sustainable in law. 6. In the alternative, Shri Malhotra submitted that since the prosecution has failed to explain the injuries sustained by the appellants, the prosecution has suppressed the real genesis of the incident. It is therefore submitted that the conviction under Section 302 of the IPC would not be sustainable and the same would be at the most under Part-I or II of Section 304 of IPC.