[2024] 1 S.C.R. 1134 : 2024 INSC 72 Sachin Garg v. State of U.P & Anr. (Criminal Appeal No. 497 of 2024) 30 January 2024 [Aniruddha Bose* and Sanjay Kumar, JJ.] Issue for Consideration In a case wherein the dispute was commercial in nature having no element of criminality, whether the Magistrate was justified in issuing summons for trial u/ss.406, 504 and 506, Penal Code, 1860 and the High Court in dismissing the application filed by the appellant for quashing said summons and the complaint case. Headnotes Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – Issuance of summons, duty of Magistrate – Penal Code, 1860 – ss.406, 504 and 506 – Commercial dispute given criminal colour – Dispute between the parties related to the rate at which the assigned work was to be done – Respondent no.2 filed complaint case – Summons issued by Magistrate for trial u/ss.406, 504 and 506, IPC – Application filed by the appellant for quashing the summons and the complaint case, dismissed by High Court – Propriety: Held: Past commercial relationship between the appellant’s employer and the respondent no.2 was admitted – Dispute between the parties centred around the rate at which the assigned work was to be done – Neither in the complaint petition nor in the initial deposition of the two witnesses (including the complainant), the ingredients of the offence u/s.405, IPC surfaced – Such commercial disputes over variation of rate cannot per se give rise to an offence u/s.405, IPC without presence of any aggravating factor leading to the substantiation of its ingredients – No material to come to a prima facie finding that there was dishonest misappropriation or conversion of any material for the personal use of the appellant in relation to gas supplying work done by the respondent no.2 – The said work was done in course of regular commercial transactions – There was no misappropriation or conversion of the subject property, * Author [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1135 Sachin Garg v. State of U.P. and Anr. being Dissolved Acetylene Gas which was supplied to the factory for the purpose of battery manufacturing at EIL – No evidence for commission of offence u/s.405/406, IPC – Further, as regards criminal intimidation also there was a mere bald allegation, short of any particulars as regards to the manner in which threat was conveyed – While it is true that at the stage of issuing summons a magistrate only needs to be satisfied with a prima facie case for taking cognizance, the duty of the magistrate is also to be satisfied whether there is sufficient ground for proceeding – Magistrate’s issuing summons reflects his satisfaction in a cryptic manner – At the stage of issue of summons, though detailed reasoning as to why a Magistrate is issuing summons is not necessary but in the present case, the allegations made by the complainant do not give rise to the offences for which the appellant was summoned for trial – A commercial dispute, which ought to have been resolved through the forum of Civil Court was given criminal colour by lifting certain words or phrases from the penal code and implanting them in a criminal complaint – Magistrate failed to apply his mind in issuing summons and the High Court failed to exercise its jurisdiction u/s.482, 1973 Code – Impugned set aside, complaint and summoning quashed.