Professor Shah contended that the clause in its then existing form could lend itself to “any interpretation” and expressed an apprehension that if the clause is left vaguely worded it would fail to serve its purpose and “make the proper development of the country or the just redistribution of its wealth, or bringing in a fair measure of social justice, only an empty dream.” Therefore, he suggested that the existing clause should be substituted with the draft provision extracted above. 158. Professor Shah was of the view that there could be no dispute about the proposition that as regards the natural resources described in the substituted clause, no human being lent any value in their creation [2024] 11 S.C.R. 143 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. by their own labour. Therefore, it was urged, that they are ‘gifts of nature’ and should belong to all people collectively. He stated that if they are to be developed, they must be for and on behalf of the community. He vehemently opposed the utilisation of such resources by ‘private monopolists’, who in his opinion, only sought ‘profit for themselves’. He noted as follows: “The creation or even the presence of vested interests, of private monopolists, of those who seek only a profit for themselves, however useful, important, or necessary the production of such natural resources may be for the welfare of the community, is an offence in my opinion against the community, against the long-range interests of the country as a whole, against the unborn generations, that those of us who are steeped to the hilt, as it were, in ideals of private property and the profit motive, do not seem to realise to the fullest. In the resources that are mentioned in my amendment not only is there no creation of any value or utility by anybody’s proprietary right being there, but what is more, the real value comes always by the common effort of society, by the social circumstances that go to make any particular interests or resources of this kind valuable.” 159. In essence, Professor Shah was of the view that the ultimate ownership, direct management, conduct and development of the natural resources such as mines, mineral wealth and the other natural resources detailed in his proposed amendment, must only be in the hands of the state. He opined as follows: “Take mines and mineral wealth. Mines and mineral wealth, as everybody knows, are an exhaustible, – a wasting asset. Unfortunately, these, instead of having been guarded and properly protected and kept for the community to be utilised in a very economical and thrifty manner, have been made over to individual profit-seeking concession-holders and private monopolists, so that we have no control over their exploitation, really speaking, for they are used in a manner almost criminal, so that they can obtain the utmost profit on them for themselves, 144 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports regardless of what would happen if and when the mines should come to an end or the stored up wealth of ages past is exhausted.