The authority by its letter dated 16th July, 2020 forwarded its report to the Ministry within the stipulated time period under Rule 3 of 2008 Rules. In other words, there is no violation of the Rules. 9.2 The impugned sanction has been passed considering all the relevant materials on record, including the recommendation of the authority constituted under Section 45(2) of the UAPA. The authority consisted of a retired High Court Judge and the retired Law Secretary. 9.3 Independent review took place at all relevant stages pursuant to which Central Government accorded sanction. Merely because the sanction was granted within one day of the recommendation, it cannot be said that there was non-application of mind. 9.4 Second and Third Module as explained in the supplementary chargesheets are not independent and separate transactions from that initiated in the FIR, but rather, are a part of the same continuing transaction undertaken by the accused persons to channel the Proceeds of Terrorism. The NIA on being entrusted with the investigation, had investigated the same and submitted the two supplementary chargesheets. 9.5 The appellant is an active member of a terrorist gang and a close associate of Dinesh Gope (A-6) and was involved in collecting and channelizing funds by forming companies. A-20 of which the Appellant/A-17 was a director, served as a front to launder proceeds of terrorism. The claim of the appellant that A-7 & A-14 stole his identity is unsustainable and quashing cannot be placed on such a vague plea. 9.6 The trial is at a very advanced stage, and as such, no discretion be exercised in quashing the criminal proceedings. 10. At the outset, we clarify that despite the last of the submissions made by the learned Additional Solicitor General, the Appellant invited findings on his submissions. Hence, we proceed to decide the issue on merits. 332 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports QUESTIONS FOR CONSIDERATION BEFORE THIS COURT 11. Having considered the factual matrix and the submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the parties the following questions arise for our consideration:- (i) Whether the Validity of the Sanction can be challenged at any stage? (ii) Whether a violation of Section 45(2) of the UAPA r/w Rules 3 & 4, if any, vitiates the proceedings? In other words, whether violation of - (a) statutory timelines and (b) the requirement of independent review which includes application of mind, are necessary aspects of procedure without which, any transaction under the UAPA shall be compromised to a point that its sanctity is rendered questionable? (iii) Whether in the present facts, the argument of the appellant that the transactions in connection with which he has been brought to the book were actually independent of the ones in which Dinesh Gope (A-6) and other members were arrayed as accused, has any merit? (iv) Whether, in the facts, the statutory exemption under Section 22 A of the UAPA applies to the appellant who claims to be unaware of the affairs of the company? CONSIDERATION (a) UAPA : An Introduction 12.