This clearly shows that the transaction which took place on 30.08.1990 was valid transaction, the full sale consideration was paid, and it is only thereafter that the seller would part with the original title deed and the Rin Pustika and hand them over to the purchasers. 6. POSSESSION 32. A purchaser who has paid the full consideration and received the original title deeds from the seller would have taken possession under normal circumstances. Any possession taken by any other party thereafter would be unauthorised and illegal. Therefore, the finding of the High Court regarding plaintiff not being in possession and therefore the suit being barred in law, is untenable. It is relevant to mention here that the plaintiffs-appellants had produced Rin Pustika of the revenue department to show that they had been paying the land revenue. 7. VIOLATION OF INJUNCTION 33. The plaintiffs-appellants had sought amendments in the plaint and had expressed their apprehension that the legal heirs of Sushila Devi, the original defendants, were likely to alienate the land in favour of the third party. Upon their application, the Trial Court had passed an interim injunction on 04.12.2000, restraining the defendants from alienating the property in dispute. Despite the same and having full knowledge of the interim injunction , the defendant nos. 2, 3, 4 and 5 executed four separate sale deeds on 18.01.2001 in favour of third parties, who were later on impleaded in the suit as defendant nos.7,8,9 and 10. This conduct by the original defendants (legal heirs of Sushila Devi) clearly indicates their desperation, as they wanted to further gain financial benefits by hook or by crook and, therefore, alienated the property in violation of the injunction 2404 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports . Such sale deed would be a void document. The conduct of the original defendants disentitles them from any discretion being exercised in their favour, as they blatantly and knowingly violated the interim injunction . The High Court failed to take note of this conduct of the original defendants. 34. Learned counsel for the respondents have relied upon a number of authorities. However, we find that none of the authorities cited by the respondents really extend any help or benefit to them as the same are all distinguishable on facts, as would be clear from the following references in brief: 34.1. The respondents have relied upon the judgement of this Court in Thiruvengadam Pillai (Supra) to argue that the plaintiffs failed to prove the execution of the Agreement to Sell dated 30.08.1990 and the General Power of Attorney dated 04.09.1990. In that case, the Court dismissed the suit for specific performance because the agreement was written on old stamp papers purchased years earlier, the attesting witnesses were close relatives of the plaintiff and one was not examined, possession was not delivered despite being stated in the agreement, and there was no expert verification of the thumb impression alleged to be that of the defendant. The plaintiff also failed to discharge the burden of proof, and the appellate court wrongly shifted this burden to the defendants.