32.3. Section 433-A is a restriction on the powers of remission or commutation in certain cases. It begins with a non-obstante clause and states that notwithstanding anything contained in Section 432, where a sentence of imprisonment for life is imposed on conviction of a person for an offence for which death is one of the punishments provided by law, or where a sentence of death imposed on a person has been commuted under Section 433 into one of imprisonment for life, such person shall not be released from prison unless he had served at least fourteen years of imprisonment. 32.4. Section 434 states that the powers conferred by Sections 432 and 433 upon the State Government may in case of sentences of death also be exercised by the Central Government concurrently. 32.5. The necessity for the State Government to act in consultation with the Central Government in certain cases is mandated in Section 435. The powers conferred by Sections 432 and 433 upon the State Government to remit or commute a sentence, in any case where the sentence is for an offence (a) which was investigated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment constituted under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946, or by any other agency empowered to make investigation into an offence under any Central Act other than the CrPC, or(b) which involved the misappropriation or destruction of, or damage to, any property belonging to the Central Government, or (c) which was committed by a person in the service of the [2024] 1 S.C.R. 839 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others Central Government while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty, shall not be exercised by the State Government except after consultation with the Central Government. Sub-section (2) of Section 435 states that no of suspension, remission or commutation of sentences passed by the State Government in relation to a person, who has been convicted of offences, some of which relate to matters to which the executive power of the Union extends, and who has been sentenced to separate terms of imprisonment which are to run concurrently, shall have effect unless an for the suspension, remission or commutation, as the case may be, of such sentences has also been made by the Central Government in relation to the offences committed by such person with regard to matters to which the executive power of the Union extends. With the above backdrop of provisions, we move to consider Point No.3. Point No.3 : Whether the Government of State of Gujarat was competent to pass the impugned s of remission? 33. The point for consideration revolves around the definition of the expression “appropriate Government”. In other words, whether the first respondent – State of Gujarat was competent to pass the s of remission in the case of respondent Nos.3 to 13 herein is the question. The meaning and import of the expression “appropriate Government” has to be discerned from the s of this Court in the light of sub-section (7) of Section 432 of the CrPC.