He submitted that it is only after examining the witnesses that the prosecution can establish the effect of these writings or signs on the minds of people. He submitted that at this stage, no conclusion regarding the impact of what is written by the appellant on the minds of the members of the public can be drawn. He would, therefore, submit that no interference is called for with the impugned , and the trial may be allowed to proceed. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 5. The only offence alleged against the appellant is the one punishable under Section 153-A of the IPC. Section 153-A of the IPC, as it exists with effect from 4th September 1969, reads thus: 1 [2009] 6 SCR 431 : (2007) 5 SCC 1 322 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “153-A. Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony.—(1) Whoever— (a) by words, either spoken or written, or by signs or by visible representations or otherwise, promotes or attempts to promote, on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, caste or community or any other ground whatsoever, disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or castes or communities, or (b) commits any act which is prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or castes or communities, and which disturbs or is likely to disturb the public tranquillity, (c) organizes any exercise, movement, drill or other similar activity intending that the participants in such activity shall use or be trained to use criminal force or violence or knowing it to be likely that the participants in such activity will use or be trained to use criminal force or violence, or participates in such activity intending to use or be trained to use criminal force or violence or knowing it to be likely that the participants in such activity will use or be trained to use criminal force or violence, against any religious, racial, language or regional group or caste or community and such activity for any reason whatsoever causes or is likely to cause fear or alarm or a feeling of insecurity amongst members of such religious, racial, language or regional group or caste or community, shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both. (2) Offence committed in place of worship, etc.—Whoever commits an offence specified in [2024] 3 S.C.R. 323 Javed Ahmad Hajam v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. sub-section (1) in any place of worship or in any assembly engaged in the performance of religious worship or religious ceremonies, shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to five years and shall also be liable to fine.” In this case, clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 153-A of the IPC is admittedly not attracted. 6. In the case of Manzar Sayeed Khan1, while interpreting Section 153-A, in paragraph 16, this Court held thus: “16.