Therefore, in view of the aforesaid submissions, it is submitted that the provision of Section 106 of the Railways Act, 1989 is not applicable upon the present case. In this regard, reliance is also placed upon paras 8-10 of the of this Hon’ble Court passed in Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited’s case (supra). Issue No.2 - Whether the decision of this Court in Birla Cement Works vs. G.M. Western Railways (1995) is applicable to the case at hand? (i) It is respectfully submitted that the decision of this Hon’ble Court in Birla Cement Works is not applicable upon the present case. Pertinently, the said decision has already been distinguished by this Hon’ble Court in the subsequent case of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (supra), which is identical to the present case. (ii) The case of Birla Cement Works pertains to refund of ‘overcharge’ which was made by the Railways. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1077 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. Whereas, the present case is that of recovery of ‘illegally realized’ freight from the Railways. (iii) In the case of Birla Cement Works, the Railways had charged excess freight from the Petitioner therein (i.e. Birla Cement), than what was stipulated in distance table (i.e. overcharge). Whereas, in the present case, the Railways (i.e. the Petitioner) had realized the freight amount from the Respondent on the basis of the distance, i.e. 444 km, that was notified in the erstwhile distance table which subsequently got corrected & was notified by the Railways as 333.18 km (i.e. illegal realization of freight). (iv) In the case of Birla Cement Works, the Petitioner therein (i.e. Birla Cement) came to know of the alleged excess amount of freight on account of wrong calculation of distance through the letter issued by the Railways. It was not the case where the distance was corrected and re-notified by the Railway authorities. In Birla Cement Works, there was a mistake by the Railways in calculating the freight amount by wrongly taking into account the distance that was stipulated in the distance table in that case. It is submitted that the said mistake/ error was of such a nature that even the Petitioner therein (i.e. Birla Cement) could have also found, had it been diligent. Instead, it kept paying the freight charges to the Railways and filed its claim only when the Railways informed it that the same was wrongly calculated. Whereas, in the present case, the Respondent has paid the freight charges as per the distance of 444km notified in the erstwhile distance table, which later on stood corrected; notifying the distance as 333.18 km. In the present case, Respondent was not sleeping over its rights. The Respondent filed its claims soon after the corrected distance was notified by the Petitioner herein and the Respondent came to know about the illegal charge. There is no sort of lack of vigilance or bona fides of the Respondent in the present case. 1078 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Issue No.3 - What was the reason for revising the freight charges?