Such excesses at the hands of the executive will have to be dealt with the heavy hand of the law. Our constitutional ethos and values would not permit any such abuse of power and such misadventures cannot be tolerated by the court of law. 73. As we have already said, such an action also cannot be done in respect of a person who is convicted of an offence. Even in the case of such a person the property/properties cannot be demolished without following the due process as prescribed by law. 74. Such an action by the executive would be wholly arbitrary and would amount to an abuse of process of law. The executive in such a case would be guilty of taking the law in his hand and giving a go-bye to the principle of the rule of law. 75. It is to be noted that even in the cases consisting of imposition of a death sentence, it is always a discretion available to the courts as to whether to award such an extreme punishment or not. There is even an institutional safeguard in the cases of such punishment to the effect that the decision of the trial court inflicting death penalty cannot be executed unless it is confirmed by the High Court. Even in the cases of convicts for the commission of most extreme and heinous offences, the punishment cannot be imposed without following the mandatory requirements under the statute. In that light, can it be said that a person who is only accused of committing some crime or even convicted can be inflicted the punishment of demolition of his property/properties? The answer is an emphatic ‘No’. VII. RIGHT TO SHELTER 76. There is another angle to this problem. It is not only the accused who lives in such property or owns such property. If his spouse, children, parents live in the same house or co-own the same property, can they be penalized by demolishing the property without them even being involved in any crime only on the basis of them being related to an alleged accused person? What is their mistake if their relative is arrayed as an accused in some complaint or F.I.R.? As is well known, a pious father may have a recalcitrant son and vice versa. 776 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Punishing such persons who have no connection with the crime by demolishing the house where they live in or properties owned by them is nothing but an anarchy and would amount to a violation of the right to life guaranteed under the Constitution. 77. This Court in the case of Chameli Singh and others v. State of U.P. and another41 though was considering an issue in the context of land acquisition, it had elaborately discussed on the right to shelter. It will be apt to refer to the following observations of this Court: “7. In State of Karnataka v. Narasimhamurthy [(1995) 5 SCC 524 : JT (1995) 6 SC 375] (SCC p. 526, para 7 : JT at p. 378, para 7), this Court held that right to shelter is a fundamental right under Article 19(1) of the Constitution.