k. It was further urged on behalf of the assessee that the plea based on distinguishing the nature of the treatment of SLR securities viz-a-viz non-SLR securities has been raised for the first time by the Revenue before this Court. l. Considering the fact that securities are held as stock-in-trade, interest paid on them constitutes an expense which is liable to be claimed as a deduction. 9. The submission of learned ASG is that the broken period interest on security held to maturity constitutes an investment and, therefore, should be treated as capital expenditure. It was submitted that since HTM securities are held up to maturity for maintaining the SLR ratio and as the same are treated as investment in the books of accounts of Banks, the same should be treated as investment and not stock-in-trade. Another submission of ASG is that Circular No. 18 of 2015 applies only to non-SLR securities. Another submission of learned ASG is that the decision of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 would squarely apply as while omitting Sections 18 to 21, corresponding amendments have been made in Sections 28, 56(2)(d) and 57(3) of the IT Act, and the securities are now taxable under the head of “Income from other Sources”. Therefore, the principles laid down in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 will squarely apply. He argued that the increase in capital by the acquisition of securities results in the expansion of the Bank’s capital base, which helps in profit making. Therefore, the expenditure in the nature of broken period interest was capital expenditure. Learned ASG, thus, submitted that the assessees in these cases will not be entitled to a deduction of broken period interest. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 869 Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax CONSIDERATION OF LEGAL POSITION 10. We deal with the legal position at the outset. As noted, Sections 18 to 21 were deleted from 1st April 1989. In this group of appeals, we are not concerned with cases before the financial year 1988-89. Section 14 of the IT Act reads thus: “14. Heads of income.— Save as otherwise provided by this Act, all income shall, for the purposes of charge of income-tax and computation of total income, be classified under the following heads of income:— A. —Salaries. B. * * * * * C. —Income from house property. D. —Profits and gains of business or profession. E. —Capital gains. F. —Income from other sources.” Clause B was of “interest on securities”. It was deleted with effect from 1st April 1989 along with Sections 18 to 21, which dealt with interest on securities. Head ‘D’ is of income from “profits and gains of business or profession” covered by Section 28 of the IT Act. Profits and gains from any business or profession that the assessee carried out at any time during the previous year are chargeable to income tax. Under Section 36(1)(iii), the assessee is entitled to a deduction of the amount of interest paid in respect of capital borrowed for the purposes of the business or profession.