Consequently, mining land on account any imposition on the basis of royalty of Entry 50 - List II read by a State Legislature or involving with Entry 54 - List I? royalty as a measure of the value of the minerals extracted from the land is impermissible. e. Whether Entry 50 - List Yes, Entry 50 - List II is a specific II is a specific Entry in Entry in relation to Entry 49 - List relation to Entry 49 - List II, II and would consequently subtract and would consequently mining lands from the scope of Entry subtract mining land from 49 - List II. This is particularly so the scope of Entry 49 - having regard to Entry 50 - List II List II?” to be read with Entry 54 - List I and Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1843 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. 41. Consequently, the following conclusions are arrived at by me: a. I hold that royalty is in the nature of a tax or an exaction. It is not merely a contractual payment but a statutory levy under Section 9 of the Act (Section 9A relating to dead rent). The liability to pay royalty does not arise purely out of the contractual conditions of a binding lease. The payment of royalty to the Government is a tax in view of Entry 50 - List II being subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law in the context of Entry 54 - List I read with Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957. b. Entry 50 - List II is an exception to the position of law laid down in MPV Sundararamier vs. State of Andhra Pradesh, AIR 1958 SC 468 (“MPV Sundararamier”). Moreover, in the said case, the scope and ambit as well the implication of Entry 54 – List I on Entry 50 - List II was not considered at all. Therefore, the principle stated in MPV Sundararamier is foreign to the instant case and the ratio of the said decision does not apply to the present case. No doubt, the legislative power to tax mineral rights vests with the State legislature but Parliament, though may not have an express power to tax mineral rights under Entry 54 - List I, it being a general Entry, Parliament can, nevertheless on the strength of Entry 54 - List I read with Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957, impose any limitation on the power of the States to tax mineral rights under Entry 50 - List II. Sections 9 and 9A of the MMDR Act, 1957 are two such instances of limitations imposed by the Parliament on the taxing power of the State under Entry 50 - List II. This is a unique Entry and must be given its true and complete meaning and while interpreting the same one cannot be swayed by the principles laid down in MPV Sundararamier as the same do not apply in the instant case.