[Para 149] 5. In terms of clause (5) of Article 145 of the Constitution, not only do the references not require an answer, it is also declared that AMU is not a minority educational institution and that the appeals seeking minority status for it should fail. [Para 150] Held [per Satish Chandra Sharma, J. ]: 1. The ‘establishment’ of an institution by the minority is necessary for the said minority to claim right of administration under Article 30 – The words ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ are used conjunctively in Article 30 of the Constitution. [Para 266] 2. The term ‘establish’ in Article 30 means ‘to bring into existence or to create’ and cannot be conflated with generic phrases 1658 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports such as ‘genesis of the institution’ or the ‘founding moment of the institution’. [Para 266] 3. The real positive indicia for determining the question of establishment of an institution would have to be developed on a case to case basis with the following broad parameters in mind: Firstly, to claim ‘establishment’, the minority community must actually and tangibly bring the entirety of the institution into existence – The role played by the minority community must be predominant, in fact almost complete to the point of exclusion of all other forces – The indicia which may be illustrative and exhaustive in this regard may be the nature of the institution, the legal/statutory basis required for establishing the institution, whether the establishment required any ‘negotiation’ with outside forces, the role in acquiring lands, obtaining funds, constructing buildings, and other related matters must have been held completely by the minority community – Similarly, while teachers, curriculum, medium of instruction, etc. can be on secular lines, however, the decision-making authority regarding hiring teachers, curriculum decisions, medium of instruction, admission criteria, and similar matters must be the minority community – The choice of having secular education in the institution must be made expressly by the minority community, demonstrating the link between institution and the persons claiming to establish it. Secondly, the purpose of the institution must have been to predominantly serve the interests of the minority community or the sole betterment of the minority community, irrespective of the form of education provided and the mode of admission adopted – Therefore, as per the choice of the minority community, an institution may have secular education, but such secular education and the resultant institution, must be predominantly meant for the overall betterment of the minority community. Thirdly, the institution must be predominantly administered as a minority institution with the actual functional, executive and policy administration vested with the minority – The minority community should determine the selection, removal criteria, and procedures for hiring teaching, administrative staff, and [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1659 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. other personnel – The authority to hire and fire staff must be from the minority community – Further, even if teaching or administrative staff may include non-minority persons, the final authority exercising functional, directional, and policy control over these authorities must be from the minority community – This ensures that the thoughts, beliefs, and ideas of the minority community regarding administration are implemented in reality – This represents the real decision- making authority of the institution being of the minority community – In ascertaining the above, it would be open for the Court to look at the true purpose behind each of the above factors and to pierce the veil.