Meanwhile, other accused persons, including Vijay, Dharmendra @ Dhamma (Appellant), Katchu @ Ramswaroop, Ballu, Ravi, and Asgar, arrived and began verbally abusing the Complainant, Tillu, and Tularam. The situation intensified as all the accused, including the Appellant, rushed to physically assault Tillu. In defence, Tillu sought refuge inside a nearby unoccupied Jhuggi belonging to one Bhairav Shastri, locking the door from inside. However, the accused forcibly entered Bhairav Shastri’s Jhuggi by breaking open the door. Once inside, they surrounded Tillu, with the Appellant delivering a knife blow to Tillu in his abdomen, while Asgar inflicted another blow slightly lower on his stomach. Following this, the other accused persons also physically assaulted Tillu using their fists and sticks. Meanwhile, Tularam attempted to intervene, but he too was subjected to blows from Katchu and Ahmad, resulting in injuries to his head and hands. Upon hearing the commotion, residents from the locality arrived at the scene, prompting the accused to flee. The Complainant further stated that she attempted to intervene but was threatened with dire consequences if she did not leave the area. 5. After the incident, Tillu and Tularam, both injured, were taken to Katju Hospital for medical aid. The Emergency Medical Officer, Dr. R.S. Vijayvargiya (P.W.4), noted Tillu’s lack of pulse, as well as two stab wounds in his chest and three stab wounds in his abdomen, indicating a critical condition. Upon examining Tularam, Dr. Vijayvargiya observed severe injuries to the occipital and temporal regions of his head. Subsequently, both injured persons were referred to Hamidia Hospital for further treatment. 6. Tillu unfortunately succumbed to his injuries and was declared dead, while Tularam was still alive and was admitted to Hamidia Hospital. 7. Dr. C.S. Jain (P.W. 13) conducted the post-mortem examination on Tillu, determining that the cause of death was shock and haemorrhage resulting from multiple stab wounds across the body and head injuries. The wounds were inflicted by a sharp, penetrating weapon, causing the stab injuries, while the head injuries were inflicted by a hard and 226 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports blunt object. The combined injuries to the head and abdomen were deemed sufficient to cause death. 8. Girish Bohre, the Investigating Officer (P.W.14), commenced the investigation by preparing a spot map (Ex.P.2) and also seized the blood-stained pieces of the floor from the place of occurrence (Ex.P.31). 9. As Tularam was alive though critically injured, the Investigating Officer (P.W. 14) documented his statement (Ex.P.40) under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter, ‘CrPC’) wherein Tularam recounted the events during the subject incident. Tularam mentioned that he and Tillu were constructing the wall of Usha Bai’s Jhuggi at Navgrah Mandir. Around 9:15 pm, Ahmad and his wife, Kanija Bi, approached and opposed the construction. Despite Tillu’s assertion that it was their wall, Ahmad persisted in preventing them. Shortly after, Vijay, Dharmendra @ Dhamma (Appellant), Katchu @ Ramaswaroop, Ballu, Ravi, and Asgar arrived, initiating verbal abuse. The accused then assaulted Tillu, who sought refuge inside Bhairav Shastri’s nearby Jhuggi, locking himself inside.