These criteria as recommended by the Committee were published in the public notice dated 08.02.1997 and have been a subject of agitation by the appellant/petitioner across various forums. Hence, the appellant/petitioner having not raised its little finger to the criteria as prescribed and published in the public notice dated 08.02.1997 is estopped from raising the said issue at this stage. On this short ground itself the appeal has to fail and appellant has to be non-suited. However, in the teeth of contentions having raised with the merits of the case, we do not propose to nip this litigation at the bud but propose to examine the claim on its merits so as to avoid any repetitive litigation in future and ensuring finality in such matters with the object of putting an end to the litigation that has arisen in this regard. 730 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 61. The appellants have also made valiant attempts to buttress their arguments with regard to the criteria to be adopted for determination of an area to be declared as forest by relying upon the pronouncement of this Court in T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad Vs. Union of India24 by its dated 26.09.2005 whereunder the concept of NPV was verified to determine economic loss caused on account of deforestation. Hence, we deem it proper to extract the relevant paragraph of the said and it reads as under: - “49. Regarding the parameters for valuation of loss of forest, we may only note as to what is stated by the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government in its handbook laying down guidelines and clarifications up to June 2004 while considering the grant of approval under Section 2 of the FC Act. Dealing with environmental losses (soil erosion, effect on hydrological cycle, wildlife habitat, microclimate upsetting of ecological balance), the guidelines provide that though technical would be primarily applied in determining the losses, as a thumb rule, the environmental value of one hectare of fully stocked forest (density 1.0) would be taken as Rs 126.74 lakhs to accrue over a period of 50 years. The value will reduce with density, for example, if density is 0.4, the value will work out at Rs 50.696 lakhs. So, if a project which requires deforestation of 1 hectare of forest of density 0.4 gives monetary returns worth over Rs 50.696 lakhs over a period of 50 years, may be considered to give a positive cost-benefit ratio. The figure of assumed environmental value will change if there is an increase in the bank rate; the change will be proportional to percentage increase in the bank rate. Ms Kanchan Chopra, while conducting a case study of Keoladeo National Park in respect of economic valuation of biodiversity at the Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi as a part of the Capacity 21 Project sponsored by UNDP and MoEF, Government of India examined the question as to what kind of values are to be taken into consideration. As per the study, different components of biodiversity system possess different kinds of value : (1) a commodity value (as for instance the value of grass in a park), (2) an amenity value (the recreation value of the park), and/or (3) a moral value (the right of the flora 24 (2006) 1 SCC Page 1.