The First Pay Commission in 1947 recommended a blend of direct recruitment and promotion, suggesting that seniority be emphasized for roles requiring familiarity with office work, while merit be the basis for higher-level positions. Subsequent commissions, such as the Second Pay Commission in 1959 and the First Administrative Reforms Commission in 1969, echoed the importance of merit-based promotions alongside seniority. 80. The principle of seniority as a parameter of selection for promotion was found to be derived from the belief that competence is related to experience and that it limits the scope of discretion and favouritism. There is always an additional assumption that long-serving employees have demonstrated loyalty to the employing organization and so are entitled to reciprocal treatment. 81. However, in India, no government servant can claim promotion as their right because the Constitution does not prescribe criteria for filling seats in promotional posts. The Legislature or the executive may decide the method for filling vacancies to promotional posts based on the nature of employment and the functions that the candidate will be expected to discharge. The courts cannot sit in review to decide whether the policy adopted for promotion is suited to select 11 The Macaulay Committee’s Report on the Indian Civil Service 1854. 12 History of the Commission, Union Public Service Commission. 13 S. REP. No. 969; recited from O’Rourke, 1993, p. 344. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1117 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. the ‘best candidates’, unless on the limited ground where it violates the principle of equal opportunity under Article 16 of the Constitution. b. Principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and ‘Seniority-cum- Merit’ in Service Jurisprudence. 82. This Court in its decision in State of Kerala & Anr. v. N.M. Thomas & Ors. reported in (1976) 2 SCC 310 held that policies pertaining to promotions can be said to broadly fall within two distinct categories being: (i) promotions which are based on the principle of ‘Merit-cum- Seniority’ and, (ii) promotions which are based on the principle of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’. It further held that when it comes to promotions based on principle of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’, a senior who has the minimum requisite merit shall be entitled to promotion even though there might be others who are more meritorious. The relevant observations read as under: - “38. The principle of equality is applicable to employment at all stages and in all respects, namely, initial recruitment promotion, retirement, payment of pension and gratuity. With regard to promotion the normal principles are either merit-cum-seniority or seniority-cum-merit, Seniority- cum-merit means that given the minimum necessary merit requisite for efficiency of administration, the senior though the less meritorious shall have priority. This will not violate Articles 14, 16(1) and 16(2). A rule which provides that given the necessary requisite merit, a member of the backward class shall get priority to ensure adequate representation will not similarly violate Article 14 or Article 16(1) and (2). [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 83. This Court in State of Mysore v. Syed Mahmood reported in (1968) 3 S.C.R.