[…] 10. Looking to the importance of the matter and the observations made by this Court in the case of All India Judges’ Association and Ors. (supra), pursuant to which the High Court has amended the Rules and the Regulations, we are of the opinion that let the matter be heard by the Bench headed by Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, however, subject to and after obtaining appropriate s from the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India on the administrative side. The Registry is directed to notify the present writ petition for final hearing on 08.08.2023.” (Emphasis supplied) 16. Accordingly, the present writ petition came to be referred to this Bench and was accordingly taken up for hearing. C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS 17. Mr. P.S. Patwalia, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioners submitted that the statutory rules as well as the decision in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra) stipulate that promotion to the cadre of District Judges against the 65% quota has to be on the basis of the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’. Although the High Court has used the nomenclature ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ yet the method ultimately followed for the purpose of promotion to the cadre of District Judge is nothing but ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’. 18. He further submitted that the High Court in its methodology subjected all eligible candidates in the feeder cadre to a process of assessment of a specified minimum necessary merit and then proceeded to [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1095 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. promote the candidates found possessing the minimum requisite merit strictly in the of seniority. He submitted that the said method is nothing but ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’. 19. Finally, Mr. Patwalia submitted that where promotion is on the basis of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’, seniority has to be considered only in the event merit is equal in all respects. In other words, seniority should be considered only if there is a tie between the candidates on their individual merit. 20. Mr. R. Basant, learned Senior Counsel submitted that in the procedure that came to be followed by the High Court for promotion, seniority has been applied and given effect twice - once at the stage of preparation of the zone of consideration and then again at the stage of preparing the final Select List. 21. He further submitted that by applying seniority at the last stage of preparing the final Select List, the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ has been given a go-by and instead ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ has been applied. 22. He also submitted that in cases of promotion on the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’, there is always an element of comparative merit and the promotion must be as per the inter-se merit of the persons who obtained the minimum marks. In this regard, strong reliance has been placed on the decisions of this Court in Rupa Rani Rakshit & Ors. v. Jharkhand Gramin Bank reported in (2010) 1 SCC 345 and in Dr. Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors.