That pursuant to the cancellation of the policy dated 09.07.1992, the State of Gujarat came up with a new remission policy dated 23.01.2014, and even this policy would not entitle remission of the accused herein, for two reasons: firstly, because the remission policy of the State of Maharashtra would be applicable as it is the ‘appropriate government’, and secondly, the 2014 policy of the State of Gujarat bars the grant of remission to convicts of heinous crimes. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 791 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others 7.4. Relying on the opinion of the Special Judge, Sessions Court, Greater Mumbai, it was submitted that the Special Judge had rightly stated that the remission policy applicable in the present case would be the Policy dated 11.04.2008 of the State of Maharashtra in respect of which the Circular dated 13.06.2008 of the State of Maharashtra was issued, wherein a convict of communal crime, gang rape and murder would fall under the categories 2(c), 2(d) and 4 (e) of the Policy which prescribes that the minimum period of imprisonment to be undergone by the convict before remission can be considered would be twenty eight years. Thus, respondents-convicts were not entitled to be granted remission as they had not completed the minimum period of imprisonment as per the applicable remission policy. 7.5. It was further contended that the remission s under challenge failed to meet the criteria laid down by this Court in Sangeet; and Ram Chander vs. State of Chhattisgarh, (2022) 12 SCC 52 (“Ram Chander”), wherein it has been stated that the appropriate government must obtain the opinion of the Presiding Judge of the convicting court before deciding the remission application. That the State of Gujarat granted remission to all the convicts by completely ignoring the negative opinions expressed by two major stakeholders i.e., the Presiding Judge of the convicting Court in Mumbai and the prosecuting agency (CBI). 7.6. Reliance was placed on the decisions of this Court in State of Haryana vs. Mohinder Singh, (2000) 3 SCC 394 (“Mohinder Singh”); Sangeet; Ratan Singh,and Laxman Naskar vs. State of West Bengal, (2000) 2 SCC 595 (“Laxman Naskar”) to emphasize that a convict cannot claim remission as a matter of right. The remission policies only give a right to the convict to be considered and do not provide an indefeasible right to remission. 7.7. Further, reference was made to the dicta of this Court in Mohinder Singh; Epuru Sudhakar vs. State of A.P., (2006) 8 SCC 161 (“Epuru Sudhakar”); Maru Ram; Sangeet; Ratan Singh and Laxman Naskar to contend that the decision to grant remission should be well informed, reasonable and fair and that the power cannot be exercised arbitrarily. 792 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7.8. Emphasizing the gravity of the offences in this case and the grotesque nature of the crimes committed by the accused, learned counsel Ms. Shobha Gupta submitted that while considering the application for remission, the appropriate government was required to bear in mind the effect of its decision on the victim and the family of the victims, the society as a whole and the precedent it would set for the future.