What cannot be done directly cannot be permitted to be done indirectly. [See in this connection a detailed of the then Registrar of this Court in Sone Lal v. State of U.P. (1982) 2 SCC 398 deprecating a similar practice.]”. 115. Similarly, and more recently, this Court in Supertech Ltd. v. Emerald Court Owner Resident Welfare Association and others 50 held: “13. The hallmark of a judicial pronouncement is its stability and finality. Judicial verdicts are not like sand dunes which are subject to the vagaries of wind and weather [See, Meghmala v. G. Narasimha Reddy, (2010) 8 SCC 383]. A disturbing trend has emerged in this Court of repeated applications, styled as miscellaneous applications, being filed after a final has been pronounced. Such a practice has no legal foundation and must be firmly discouraged. It reduces litigation to a gambit. Miscellaneous applications are becoming a preferred course to those with resources to pursue strategies to avoid compliance with judicial decisions. A judicial pronouncement cannot be subject to modification once the has been pronounced, by filing a miscellaneous application. Filing of a miscellaneous application seeking modification/ clarification of a is not envisaged in law. Further, it is a settled legal principle that one cannot do indirectly what one cannot do directly (‘Quando aliquid prohibetur ex directo, prohibetur et per obliquum’)”. 50 [2021] 10 SCR 569 : (2023) 10 SCC 817 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1005 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others 116. We must clarify that our statement does not imply an absolute prohibition against filing of miscellaneous applications seeking ‘clarification,’ ‘modification,’ or ‘recall’ following the initial disposal of a matter. We are only emphasizing the need for the Court to exercise prudence and ascertain whether such an application is, in substance, in the nature of a RP. In case such an application is found to be nothing but a disguised version of a RP, it ought to be treated in similar manner a RP is treated. 117. In the light of the foregoing discussion, the miscellaneous applications are not maintainable. L. CONCLUSION 118. To sum up, our answers to all the questions [(b), (c), (d), (e) and (f)] are in the negative while (a) is partly negative and partly affirmative. 119. We respectfully concur with the opinion expressed by the Hon’ble companion Judge on the said Division Bench and record our inability to be ad idem with the Hon’ble presiding Judge. 120. The reference is answered accordingly. 121. Under the circumstances, dismissal of the RPs and miscellaneous applications would have been logical and we could have ended our here by ing so. However, there is something more of a balancing act that needs to be done having regard to the disclosures that were made in course of progress of other proceedings before us, which followed immediately after on this set of RPs and miscellaneous applications was reserved. Such other proceedings arose out of appeals carried from s of the High Court declaring land acquisition proceedings as lapsed based on the decision in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) as distinguished from RPs and miscellaneous applications of the nature under consideration.