12. We will have to consider as to whether the prosecution has established other circumstances beyond reasonable doubts, which led to no other conclusion than the guilt of the accused. 2 (2006) 10 SCC 681 : 2006 INSC 691 776 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. The prosecution has relied upon the CDRs with regard to mobile phone of the Saroj, Pushpender (accused No.2) and Ravinder Kumar (accused No.1). However, both the Courts found the said evidence to be inadmissible as it was not proved in terms of Section 65A of the Evidence Act. The circumstances relied upon by the prosecution is with regard to the seizure of the bloodstained clothes allegedly used by the appellant at the time of commission of the crime beneath the double bed from his parental home at Chandrawal. We find that the said recovery cannot be relied for more than one reasons. For a recovery to be admissible on the statement made under Section 27 of the Evidence Act, it has to be from such a place which is exclusively within the knowledge of the maker thereof. Indisputably, the recovery is from a place accessible to one and all and the recovery panchnama also does not mention the date regarding such a recovery. Apart from that, there is no entry in malkhana register with regard to the deposit of the said articles and sending them to the FSL for chemical examination. We, therefore, find that the said circumstances cannot be said to be proved beyond reasonable doubt. 14. Apart from that, the prosecution has not been in a position to prove any other circumstance beyond reasonable doubt. The trial court and the High Court have heavily relied on the circumstance that an English calendar (Ex. PX) was found to be hanged in the room. On one side, two sheets of paper both similar computer print outs has been pasted. On one of the sheets, on the left top corner, the name Ravinder followed by mobile telephone number 9818419048 preceded by a drawing of mobile phone with arrow sign, all written in hand can be noticed. On the other sheet pasted on the top, above the calendar, it was printed thus:- “In-Laws: 2791 3334 Self: 9818419048 My Home: 55153285” 15. It has been held that the appellant had hung calendar (Ex.PX) on the wall of the house, where he was residing and the calendar (Ex. PX) would catch the attention of anybody entering the house. It was held that it was deliberate and had an objective. It was also held that Chandrawal house was qualified by the expression “my home” [2024] 3 S.C.R. 777 Ravinder Kumar v. State of NCT of Delhi and the house where the other phone was functional as that of his “in-laws”. The High Court observed thus:- “...The phone number of Chandrawal house was qualified by the expression “my home” and the house where the other phone (27913334) was functional as that of his “In-laws” 16. With this finding and coupled with the finding that in the house the appellant has created a scene so as to make it seem like a robbery, it was held that it was only the appellant who was guilty for commission of murder of his wife.