(ii) To take a decision in the matter by considering the facts of the case and the reply submitted by the Charged Officer in response to Show Cause Notice dated 15-4-2009(Annexure-IV) with regard to the imposition of the penalty of ‘Dismissal from the services of the Corporation’. List of Penalties is at Annexure-VI. (iii) To the Chairman-cum-M.D. to issue necessary s imposing the penalty as may be approved by the Board, upon Shri A.K. Sharma, Dy. CGM.” 8. As a sequel to the above, a Resolution No. 14 of 2009 was drawn under the signatures of the CMD on 29th April, 2009, as per which the Board members considered the agenda item; the reply of the charged officer and accorded their approval to the show cause notice dated 15th April, 2009 issued earlier to the charged officer and recommended to dismiss him from service. 9. Resultantly, the dated 29th April, 2009 dismissing the charged officer from service came to be passed by the CMD. The charged officer i.e. the respondent herein filed OA No. 1592 of 2009 before the Tribunal for assailing the afore-stated dismissal which came to be allowed by the Tribunal vide dated 1st July, 2010. 10. The appellant-Corporation unsuccessfully challenged the passed by the Tribunal by filing W.P. (C) No. 7661 of 2010 before [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1179 Delhi Transport Corporation v. Ashok Kumar Sharma the learned Division Bench of the Delhi High Court which dismissed the same vide dated 12th March, 2013. Being aggrieved, the appellant-Corporation has preferred the instant appeal by special leave. 11. This Court issued notice to the respondent vide dated 16th August, 2013. Leave in the matter was granted on 10th January, 2014. Submission on behalf of the appellant-Corporation:- 12. Learned counsel, Ms. Monika Gusain, representing the appellant- Corporation vehemently and fervently contended that the agenda which contained the details of the charges attributed to the appellant was circulated amongst the Board members; who applied their mind to the agenda item; took a well considered decision approving the show cause notice dated 15th April, 2009; and also approved the proposed penalty of dismissal from services of the Corporation against the charged officer. 13. She urged that approval to impose the penalty of dismissal from services upon the charged officer was a collective decision of the Board members whereby, the entire material on record was considered including the reply of the charged officer. Hence, there is no reason to cast a doubt that the members of the Board of Directors failed to make an objective consideration of the agenda item with proper application of mind. She thus implored the Court to accept the appeal and reverse the impugned . Submissions on behalf of the respondent-in-person - Charged officer:- 14. Per contra, the respondent appearing-in-person contended that the minutes of meeting dated 29th April, 2009 reflect total non- application of mind. The minutes contain not even a whisper of expression of opinion by any of the members of the Board on the merits of the matter and thus, the resolution approving dismissal of the respondent from service is ex facie bad in the eyes of law and was rightly interfered with by the Tribunal.