The said clauses read as follows: 27 [2024] 1 SCR 1165 : (2024) 4 SCC 318 1124 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “The Second party will have to pay the balance sale price within four months from today and obtain a sale deed either in his name or in the name of persons nominated by him at his own expense.” “There are tenants in the property described below at present. The First Parties agree to vacate the tenants and hand over vacant possession to the Second Party at the time of obtaining the sale.” 31. On a bare reading of the aforesaid clauses, we do not find that the latter clause destroys the effect of the former clause altogether so much so that it has to be discarded. On the contrary, in this case, both the clauses were such that the same had to be read together and given effect upon ascertaining the intention of the parties as disclosed by the Agreement as a whole. The latter clause could not have been read divorced from the former, having regard to the intent of the parties that is discernible. The latter qualified the former in the sense that although it was obligatory for the buyer to pay the balance price within 19th May, 2005 and “obtain the sale deed”, this was on the assumption that the property would be made free of tenants by the sellers by that time. However, the situation therefor did not arise on 19th May, 2005 since the tenant, who vacated the property last, did so sometime on 2nd February, 2006. Going by the latter clause, the buyer had time till 1st June, 2006 to complete the deal (four months of vacating of the property by all the tenants to enable the sellers to hand over vacant possession to the buyer). In our understanding, the Trial Court and the High Court were right in concluding that time was not the essence though the Agreement provided that “time mentioned in this agreement shall be of the essence.” 32. We now turn our attention to the next point, which should clinch the issue between the parties. It is, whether or not the buyer demonstrated readiness and willingness to perform her part of the contract and even if she did, is she entitled to the discretionary and equitable relief of specific performance on facts and in the circumstances. 33. For tracing an answer, one would necessarily have to bear in mind sections 10, 16 and (unamended) section 20 of the Act. Scanning of the evidence on record unmistakably points to the conclusion that the buyer was not ready and willing to have the terms agreed by and between the parties to be performed. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1125 R. Kandasamy (Since Dead) & Ors. v. T.R.K. Sarawathy & Anr. 34. First, the conduct of the buyer does not inspire confidence in view of the fact that despite being aware in February, 2006 of the property having been vacated by all the tenants, she started raising the bogey of failure of the sellers to share with her the ‘encumbrance certificate’.