The holder of a mining lease conducts mining operations for the purpose of winning any mineral. Thus, a mining operation is an exercise of a mineral right and therefore, is covered under the provisions of the MMDR Act, 1957 and particularly having regard to Section 2 thereof, as a declaration has been made by the Union to take under its control the regulation of the mines and minerals development, which is expedient in public interest. Reconnaissance, prospecting operations or mining operations are all aspects which are taken under the control of the Union, in view of the declaration under Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957. 10.5.1 For the exercise of mineral rights, royalty has to be paid by the holder of the mining lease in terms of Section 9 or dead rent in terms of Section 9A of the said Act, as per the conditions mentioned therein. Royalty is paid in exercise of a mineral right as a consideration for conducting a mining operation, which is undertaken for the purpose of winning any mineral. A mining lease is granted only for the purpose of undertaking a mining operation. Therefore, royalty has to be paid by the holder of a mining lease to the lessor who executes the lease deed i.e. the State Government. For this reason, Section 25 states that any rent, royalty, tax, fee or other sum due to the Government under the Act or the Rules made thereunder or under the terms and conditions of any mineral concession shall be recovered in the same manner as arrears of land revenue. 1766 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10.6 By way of abundant caution, Section 25 of the said Act uses the expression “rent, royalty, tax, fee or other sum” due to the Government under the provisions of the said Act. Section 25 of the said Act reads as under: “25. Recovery of certain sums as arrears of land revenue.― (1) Any rent, royally, tax, fee or other sum due to the Government under this Act or the rules made thereunder or under the terms and conditions of any mineral concession may, on a certificate of such officer as may be specified by the State Government in this behalf by general or special , be recovered in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue. (2) Any rent, royalty, tax, fee or other sum due to the Government either under this Act or any rule made thereunder or under the terms and conditions of any mineral concession may, on a certificate of such officer as may be specified by the State Government in this behalf by general or special , be recovered in the same manner as if it were an arrear of land revenue and every such sum which becomes due to the Government after the commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Amendment Act, 1972, together with the interest due thereon shall be a first charge on the assets of the holder of the mineral concession, as the case may be.” 10.7 Under the scheme of the Act, royalty shall be payable in respect of mining leases.