It is indeed the kingpin of the federal; system. “Draw it out, the entire system falls to pieces” 2.5.22 If the principles of Union Supremacy are excluded from Articles 246 and 254, it is not difficult to imagine its deleterious results. There will be every possibility of our two-tier political system being stultified by internecine strife, legal chaos and confusion caused by a host of conflicting laws, much to the bewilderment of the common citizen. Integrated legislative policy and uniformity on basic issues of common Union-State concern will be stymied. The federal principle of unity in diversity will be very much a casualty. The extreme proposal that the power of Parliament to legislate on a Concurrent topic should be subject to the prior concurrence of the States, would, in effect, invert the principle of Union Supremacy and convert it into one of State Supremacy in the Concurrent sphere. The very object of putting 2170 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports certain matters in the Concurrent List is to enable the Union Legislature to ensure uniformity in laws on their main aspects throughout the country. The proposal in question will, in effect, frustrate that object. The State Legislatures because of their territorially limited jurisdictions, are inherently incapable of ensuring such uniformity. It is only the Union, whose legislative jurisdiction extends throughout the territory of India, which can perform this pre-eminent role. The argument that the States should have legislative paramountcy over the Union is basically unsound. It involves a negation of the elementary truth that the ‘whole’ is greater than the ‘part’.” (emphasis supplied) As the paragraphs extracted above elucidate, the Commission was of the firm view that the principles of Union Supremacy cannot be undermined from Articles 246 and 254. While the immediate paragraph is concerned with legislative actions taken under the List III - Concurrent List, they provide us a beneficial lens to both the importance of Union supremacy in matters that demand national uniformity and the Commission’s following discussion on “Mines and Minerals” in Chapter XIII.” 29. Constitutional law is mainly concerned with the basic features or the framework of distribution of powers between the different organs of the State; between the Union and its units and between the State and the citizens. But there is something in a Constitution that is even more primordial than the structure and the features. These are the ideals on which the founding parents, in their wisdom and sagacity, built the entire edifice of the Constitution itself. It is all important that this edifice is not dislodged while attempting to dynamically interpret the Constitution. These Constitutional ideals are irreducible and underpin the survival and success of constitutional and a concordial society. Federalism is one such ideal where the Constitution defines a federal structure with a unitary spirit in Article 246 read with the three Lists of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2171 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Conclusions on interplay of legislative Entries: 30.