The Trial Court ultimately convicted and sentenced the appellant under Sections 302 and 307 IPC as already stated above. 7. Strangely, and for reasons best known to the prosecution, it examined PW-6 who is the brother of the appellant and PW-25 who is wife of the appellant, as prosecution witnesses. Although these two witnesses have supported the case of the prosecution to the extent that they establish that the deceased was having an extra marital affair with the appellant’s wife, yet both of them added in their testimony that it was the deceased who was determined to kill the appellant! 8. PW-25, who is the wife of the appellant, says that, minutes prior to the incident, the deceased had come to her place and had warned her that he was going to the Police Station to kill her husband! PW-6 is also a witness to this expression on the part of the deceased. 9. The accused/appellant who as we shall see, has neither denied the incident nor the fact that he killed the deceased. His argument is that he did it as a matter of self-defence, and in the alternative if self- defence is not accepted by the Court, then it was a case of grave and sudden provocation at best, which led to the death of the deceased at the hands of the appellant. In other words, if at all, the appellant can be punished only for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. It has been argued before us that on the fateful day (i.e. 30.06.2002), it was the deceased who had come to the police station to kill the appellant and the appellant used his weapon only in self defence, but unfortunately the deceased was killed. 168 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The evidence of PW-25 and PW-6 which we have just referred apparently supports this theory, to the extent that the deceased was determined to kill the appellant. The appellant states in his Section 313 Cr.P.C. statement as under :- “…I was doing my duty as a santari. At about11.40 Satish (deceased) who was my relative came there. I had half closed the doors of PS as per directions of SHO. He opened the doors by hitting car against these. He parked his car inside the PS. He started shouting at me. I took him towards near police quarters. He pounced at me. I forbade him from doing so. I took him towards duty officer’s room. I tried to snatch my carbine from his hand. In that process firing took place. Magazine fell down. I tried to pick it up and fit in the carbine. In that process it fired four-five times in air. Satish tried to snatch said carbine from me and in that process was hit by bullets. The carbine fired in rapid action from gate of PS up to police quarters. When we were near duty officer’s room the carbine was set at automatic mode. It fired which hit deceased Satish as well as walls, tube lights and windows of duty officer’s room.” The entire case of the defence is built on the above statement of the accused appellant, which is that it was the deceased who had come rushing to the Police Station on that fateful day knowing very well that the appellant was posted there as a guard.