The bullet wound was bone-deep which clearly reveals that the deceased was shot at from close range. In his evidence, PW-4 Sub-Inspector B.D. Verma deposed that during preparation of the inquest report, one tikli and 12 pellets were seized from the wound of the deceased. The pellets as well as the tikli of the cartridge were not sent to any ballistic expert, as a result of which there is no ballistic report on the basis of which it could be said for sure that the pellets found outside the body and from within the body could be traceable to the tikli of the 12 bore cartridge which in turn could be traced to the country made pistol from which the shot was allegedly fired by the appellant. There is no explanation of the prosecution regarding the 55 pellets retrieved from the body of the deceased during post-mortem; whether those could be linked to the 12 bore cartridge and the tikli. Importantly, the country made pistol was never recovered. Prosecution has not said anything in this regard. That apart, as per the version of PW-4, the blood stained clothes of the deceased which were seized were sent to the chemical examiner but the report from the chemical examiner was not received till the date and time of his deposition. 680 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 22. From the above, it is evident that there are glaring inconsistencies in the prosecution version which have been magnified by the absence of the testimony of the material witnesses and the ballistic report coupled with the non-recovery of the weapon of crime. Case law 23. In Munna Lal Vs. State of U.P., (2023) SCC Online SC 80, this Court opined that since no weapon of offence was seized in that case, no ballistic report was called for and obtained. This Court took the view that failure to seize the weapon of offence on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, had the effect of denting the prosecution story so much so that the same together with non-examination of material witnesses constituted a vital circumstance amongst others for granting the appellants the benefit of doubt. 24. On the aspect of non-examination of ballistic expert and its impact on the prosecution case, one of the earliest decisions of this Court was rendered in Gurucharan Singh Vs. State of Punjab, AIR 1963 SC 340. This Court observed that there is no inflexible rule that in every case where an accused person is charged with murder caused by a lethal weapon, the prosecution case can succeed in proving the charge only if an expert is examined. It is possible to imagine cases where the direct evidence is of such an unimpeachable character and the nature of the injuries disclosed by post-mortem notes is so clearly consistent with the direct evidence that the examination of a ballistic expert may not be regarded as essential. Where the direct evidence is not satisfactory or disinterested or where the injuries are alleged to have been caused by a gun and those prima facie appeared to have been inflicted by a rifle, undoubtedly the apparent inconsistency can be cured or the oral evidence can be corroborated by leading the evidence of a ballistic expert.