Whether the petitioner made out the proper grounds that the award passed by the arbitrator is not supported by sound reasonings and it is in arbitrary nature and it is liable to be set aside? 2. What ?” 8. The award passed by the learned Arbitrator was modified and the Respondents were directed to pay Rs.3,71,564 (25% of tender amount) along with Rs.10,000/- as costs towards the arbitration @ 9% interest. The reasons supplied for such modification, as they come forth upon a perusal of the judgement are:- 8.1 The change in site of the residential quarters was barely at the distance of 200m from the earlier site. Even if there was a change in site, the work of constructing the office building could have begun as there was no change in that regard but he had 288 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not even started excavation in to lay down a foundation. Therefore, the question of loss of payment to the labourers and materials collected for construction, does not arise and the losses allegedly suffered by the Claimant-Appellant were “only at his imagination”. 8.2 On the machinery being idle, it was not explained as to how many days the same was idle. It is “for his whims and fancies the petitioner is claiming as if he has sustained loss”. 8.3 So far as the claim for water facilities, the contention of the Respondents has been accepted that per the agreement, the Claimant-Appellant was to look after the same and therefore, Respondents would not be liable therefor. 8.4 Since it is the Claimant-Appellant who did not complete the construction in time, he could not make a claim for the rates for the year 1989–90 and cannot claim interest thereupon. 8.5 No evidence to lend support to the contention of the Claimant- Appellant that there was a delay in supplying the material. On which material being supplied, was there a delay, is unexplained. Counter allegation, instead is that even after clearing all bills, the Claimant-Appellant had not picked up speed on the work. All the correspondence is only to escape payment of penalty. 8.6 The only delay is of handing over of the site of the residential house. The same was done on 7th March, 1990. The Claimant- Appellant has not explained that despite such handing over of possession by August 1990, no excavation work for the foundation had commenced. 8.7 For the changes in design, it is observed that since the changes were minor it does not require any extra payment. The same would only be payable if there was duplication of work/removal of earlier construction as per the alteration. 8.8 The cost of arbitration being awarded at Rs.50,000/- is “at exorbitant rate.”Even if the argument of delay and laches on part of the Department is accepted, “it cannot be ruled out that the Department always in right path” and the extent of the same cannot be accepted. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 289 S.V. Samudram v. State of Karnataka & Anr 8.9 It was also observed that there was a justification for the learned Arbitrator to award an amount which is almost equal to the amount of tender, that too on such a high rate of interest which causes an undue encumbrance on the exchequer.