A legal obligation to disclose such matters is encompassed within the statutory obligation of fairness. It is also essential corollary of the statutory obligation of impartiality: an arbitrator who knowingly fails to act in [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2245 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company 100. Recently, the UK Law Commission suggested that the ruling in Haliburton (supra) has limitations because: (i) an arbitrator may not owe a duty of disclosure to parties who may not have signed the arbitration agreement (non-signatory parties); and (ii) a contract of appointment cannot create a duty of disclosure before the appointment of the arbitrator.194 Therefore, the UK Law Commission has recommended codification of the duty of disclosure to ensure that the duty applies at the pre-appointment stage.195 There are two important distinctions between the position of law in India and the UK: First, the UK Arbitration Act does not require an arbitrator to be completely independent of the parties;196 and second, Section 12 of the Indian Arbitration Act already imposes a mandatory duty of disclosure on potential arbitrators. 101. Other jurisdictions also apply a real possibility of bias or reasonable apprehension of bias test to determine judicial and arbitral bias. Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights states that “everyone is entitled to a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial tribunal established by law” in the determination of their civil rights and obligations. The European Court of Human Rights197 determines the existence of impartiality for Article 6 by applying (i) a subjective test which considers whether the judge holds any personal prejudice or bias in a given case; and (ii) an objective test to ascertain whether the tribunal’s composition offers significant guarantees to exclude any legitimate doubt in respect of its impartiality.198 102. In the vast majority of cases, the ECtHR has focused on the objective test, which requires the court to determine “whether, quite apart a way which fairness requires to the potential detriment of a party is guilty of partiality. Unless the parties have expressly or implicitly waived their right to disclosure, such disclosure is not just a question of best practice but is a matter of legal obligation.”] 194 UK Law Commission, Review of the Arbitration Act 1996: Final report and Bill, Law Com No. 413 (2023) 19 195 ibid 196 UK Law Commission (supra) [The Law Commission observed: “3.18 We continue to think that complete independence is not possible. This is so especially where arbitrators are drawn from a small pool with specialist expertise, or where they are expected to have immersive experience in a particular area of activity. Any duty of independence might involve defining a required level of independence, which in turn would be impossible, or it might involve defining independence in terms of impartiality after all, which we note is the approach of some foreign legislation.”] 197 “ECtHR” 198 Nicholas v. Cyprus, Application No. 63246/10 [49] 2246 [2024] 11 S.C.R.