Digital Supreme Court Reports from arbitrariness. Invoking the Public Trust Doctrine, Mr. Prasad lastly submitted that Appellant’s bid was much more competitive and favourable (Rs. 700 crores approx.) to the Respondent BCCL, and by allotting the tender to the Respondent no. 8 which even otherwise was ineligible, a commensurate loss was caused to the public through the Respondent BCCL. 9. However, the learned Solicitor General Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned senior counsel Mr. Anupam Lal Das and Mr. Vikramjit Banerjee, ASG appearing for Respondent no. 1 to 7 justifying the decision of Tender Evaluation Committee rejecting the Technical Bid of the Appellant, submitted that the Power of Attorney was dated 07.11.2023, which was notarized on 14.11.2023, whereas the mandatory bid documents were executed on 13.11.2023, which was not in consonance with clause 10 Part I/Cover 1 (OID) of NIT. According to them, the mandatory bid documents were executed on 13.11.2023, when the Executant had no authority to execute the said bid documents. A person submitting the bid was required to have a valid Power of Attorney in his favour at least on the date on which he was signing and executing the bid documents, and therefore the Appellant did not meet with the Eligibility criteria prescribed under the terms of the NIT. They further submitted that during the course of evaluation the Respondent BCCL could seek shortfall documents from the Bidders, but could not permit them to replace the bid documents. So far as Respondent no.8-Company was concerned, the Tender Committee had sought clarification on 09.04.2024 regarding the Audited Annual Reports, which approach and methodology of the Committee was consistent with the other bidders also who were similarly situated as the Respondent no. 8. The learned Counsels also submitted that as per the settled legal position the project being infrastructure project and of national importance, and the scope of judicial review in the matter of award of Contracts being very limited, the Court may not interface with the same, even if the Court finds that there was total arbitrariness or that the tender was granted in a malafide manner. The ld. Counsels have relied upon catena of decisions to buttress their submissions, which shall be dealt with hereinafter as may be necessary. 10. The learned senior counsel Mr. Balbir Singh appearing for Respondent no. 8 while adopting the submissions made on behalf of Respondent nos. 1 to 7 submitted that the Respondent no. 8 was declared as [2024] 10 S.C.R. 431 Banshidhar Construction Pvt. Ltd. v. Bharat Coking Coal Limited & Others successful bidder on 10.06.2024 and thereafter the Respondent no.1- BCCL and M/s. Simlabahal Coal Mines Private Limited (a Special Purpose Vehicle constituted by the respondent no. 8-company) have also entered into a Coal Mining Agreement dated 27.06.2024. He further submitted that there was no pleading of malafide raised in the Appeal by the Appellant and as per the settled legal position, the Courts should not use magnifying glass while scanning the decision- making process of the authorities to make small mistake to appear like a big blunder.