It is also pertinent to note that the High Court concurred with the Trial Court on all other issues but thought fit to reverse the decree only on the ground that if the defendants are asked to execute the Sale Deed of the suit property, i.e., the residential house they would be rendered shelterless. 32. In the aforesaid context, we may refer to a decision of this Court in Prakash Chandra v. Narayan reported in (2012) 5 SCC 403 wherein para 17 of the report, it has been held: “17. The question as to whether the grant of relief for specific performance will cause hardship to the defendant within the meaning of clause (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, being a question of fact, the first appellate court without framing such an issue ought not to have reversed the finding of the 1206 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports trial court while concurring with it on all other issues with regard to the appellant’s entitlement to relief for specific performance of contract.” 33. Thus, in view of the aforesaid the High Court committed an error in taking the view that the plaintiff is not entitled to the decree for specific performance as the same would cause hardship to the defendants. 34. The High Court seems to have overlooked the fact that the question of hardship in terms of Section 20(2)(b) of the Act, 1963 read with explanation (2) bears reference to hardship, which the defendant did not foresee at the time of entering into the contract. In other words, the issue of hardship would come into play only if it is established by cogent evidence that Late Prabha Ranjan Das who executed the Agreement of Sale was unable to foresee the hardship at the time of entering into the contract. 35. The explanation elucidates the point of time at which the hardship has to be determined with reference to the circumstances existing at the time of the contract, except where the hardship has been caused from an act of the plaintiff subsequent to the contract. 36. There is nothing to indicate in the pleadings or evidence that there was a hardship of the kind which Late Prabha Ranjan Das did not foresee at the time he executed the Agreement of Sale or that the hardship which the defendants herein would face is the result of an act of the plaintiff based on his supervening acts. 37. This Court in K. Narendra (supra) in paras 29 and 30 held as under: “29. Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 provides that the jurisdiction to decree specific performance is discretionary and the court is not bound to grant such relief merely because it is lawful to do so; the discretion of the court is not arbitrary but sound and reasonable, guided by judicial principles and capable of correction by a court of appeal. Performance of the contract involving some hardship on the defendant which he did not foresee while non-performance involving no such hardship on the plaintiff, is one of the circumstances in which the court may properly exercise discretion not to decree specific performance.