Meanwhile, A-1 entered the house with 5-7 other accused persons by getting the house unlatched through a resident namely Kumud Ranjan Singh and dragged Neelam out of the house. As soon as they dragged her out, four persons caught hold of Neelam by her arms and legs, lifted her and started moving towards Lohanda. As per the informant, the accused persons also picked up two sarees, two blouses, two petticoats and a pair of slippers from Neelam’s room while going out. 6. As the informant raised alarm, other people of the mohalla also gathered around including PW2 Vinay Kumar Singh, PW4 Chandra Shekhar Prasad Singh and PW5 Ram Naresh Singh. The said three witnesses witnessed the accused persons taking away Neelam but could not stop them. The informant explained that no one dared to follow the accused persons as they had pointed pistols and had threatened of dire consequences. The informant also explained the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 113 Vijay Singh @ Vijay Kr. Sharma v. The State of Bihar motive behind the commission of the crime. It transpires from his statement that Neelam’s late father Jang Bahadur Singh had no son and his house was in possession of his daughter Neelam. She was abducted in to forcefully obtain the possession of the house belonging to her father. The second limb of motive stems from the pending litigation between A-1 to A-5 (appellants) on one side and deceased Neelam, her maternal grandfather and her two sisters on the other side. The accused persons had obtained letters of administration and probate of the Will left by late Jang Bahadur Singh from the competent court and the said came to be challenged before the Patna High Court by the deceased, her maternal grandfather and younger sisters. In the said appeal, the Patna High Court had injuncted the accused persons from alienating any part of the property. The High Court also restrained the execution of the probate of the Will by restraining the delivery of possession of the property to the accused persons. Thus, deceased Neelam was residing in her father’s house along with her husband and brother-in-law in to retain the possession of the property. In this backdrop, the matter went for trial. BEFORE THE TRIAL COURT 7. The Trial Court, while acquitting A-6 and A-7, observed that the motive attributed for the commission of the crime was not attributable to the said two accused persons as no interest of theirs could be disclosed in the pending litigation. Further, it also found that A-6 was not named in the FIR registered upon the information supplied by PW18 and in his oral testimony, no statement of assault by A-6 and A-7 was given by him. It further held that no evidence surfaced during the trial to indicate the participation of A-6 and A-7 in the acts of abduction and commission of murder. 8. While convicting A-1 to A-5 on the charges under Sections 302/34 and 364/34 of IPC, the Trial Court primarily relied upon the oral testimonies of PW18/informant, PW2, PW4 and PW5.