Where there is no express choice of the law governing the contract as a whole, or the arbitration agreement in particular, there is, in the absence of any contrary indication, a presumption that the parties have intended that the proper law of the contract as well as the law governing the arbitration agreement are the same as the law of the country in which the arbitration is agreed to be held. On the other hand, where the proper law of the contract is expressly chosen by the parties, as in the present case, such law must, in the absence 1200 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of an unmistakable intention to the contrary, govern the arbitration agreement which, though collateral or ancillary to the main contract, is nevertheless a part of such contract.” (Emphasis supplied) (ii) Secondly, if there is no express statement about the governing law, then the true intention of parties as to the place or seat of arbitration has to be discovered by applying sound ideas of business, convenience and sense to the language of the contract itself in to determine the proper law of the contract. This may be done by applying the ‘Closest Connection Test’ whereby the courts impute an intention by applying the objective test to determine what the parties would have as just and reasonable persons intended as regards the applicable law had they applied their minds to the question. For this purpose, the place where the contract was made, the form and object of the contract, the place of performance, the place of residence or business of the parties, reference to the courts having jurisdiction and such other links are to be examined to determine the system of law with which the transaction has its closest and most real connection. The relevant observations read as under: - “13. [...] Where, however, the intention of the parties is not expressly stated and no inference about it can be drawn, their intention as such has no relevance. In that event, the courts endeavour to impute an intention by identifying the legal system with which the transaction has its closest and most real connection. xxx 16. Where the parties have not expressly or impliedly selected the proper law, the courts impute an intention by applying the objective test to determine what the parties would have as just and reasonable persons intended as regards the applicable law had they applied their minds to the question.7 The Judge has to determine the proper law for the parties in such circumstances by putting himself in the place of a “reasonable man”. He has to determine the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1201 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze intention of the parties by asking himself how a just and reasonable person would have regarded the problem” [...] 17. For this purpose the place where the contract was made, the form and object of the contract, the place of performance, the place of residence or business of the parties, reference to the courts having jurisdiction and such other links are examined by the courts to determine the system of law with which the transaction has its closest and most real connection.” (Emphasis supplied) (iii) Lastly, the choice of place of arbitration or selection of courts of particular country for submission to its jurisdiction, will have little relevance in determining the system of law to govern the arbitration agreement and may not be sufficient to draw an inference as to the intention of parties to regard the chosen place as the proper law of arbitration unless it is supported by the law governing the contract or in its absence if there is a significant link with such place that gives a strong indication that the law governing the arbitration agreement is the law of the place chosen for arbitration.