30. The opinion of the pregnant person must be given primacy in evaluating the foreseeable environment of the person under Section 3(3) of the MTP Act.12 In Z v. State of Bihar,13 this Court found that the state authorities had failed in not terminating the pregnancy before the passage of twenty weeks which was permissible under the law. While a pregnancy beyond the statutory prescription would require the intervention of a constitutional court, the vitality of time sensitivity was recognised by this Court. ‘X’ was taken for termination of her pregnancy at the gestational age of twenty-five weeks in the present case. The passage of time in seeking the permission of this Court after being unsuccessful before the High Court matured the gestational age of the fetus to almost twenty-nine weeks. This increased the risk involved in ending the pregnancy of ‘X’ inducing the voluntary change of opinion by ‘X’ and her parents to take the pregnancy to term. 31. This highlights the need for giving primacy to the fundamental rights to reproductive autonomy, dignity and privacy of the pregnant person by the medical board and the courts. The delays caused by a change in the opinion of the medical board or the procedures of the court must not frustrate the fundamental rights of pregnant people. We therefore hold that the medical board evaluating a pregnant person with a gestational age above twenty-four weeks must opine on the physical and mental health of the person by furnishing full details to the court. Primacy of the pregnant person’s consent in abortion 32. As noted above, the of this court allowing ‘X’ to terminate her pregnancy is recalled. This decision is made in light of the decisional and bodily autonomy of the pregnant person and her parents. The MTP Act does not allow any interference with the personal choice of a pregnant person in terms of proceeding with the termination. The Act or indeed the jurisprudence around abortion developed by the courts leave no scope for interference by the family or the partner of a pregnant person in matters of reproductive choice. 33. As stated above, the role of the RMPs and the medical board must be in a manner which allows the pregnant person to freely exercise 12 X v. State (NCT of Delhi) [2022] 7 SCR 686 : (2023) 9 SCC 433 13 [2017] 8 SCR 212 : (2018) 11 SCC 572 490 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports their choice. In the present case, the guardians of ‘X’, namely her parents, have also consented for taking the pregnancy to term. This is permissible as ‘X’ is a minor and the consent of the guardian is prescribed under Section 3(4)(a) of the MTP Act. 34. In Suchita Srivastava v. Chandigarh Admn.14, a three-judge Bench of this Court has held that the right to make reproductive choices is a facet of Article 21 of the Constitution. Further, the consent of the pregnant person in matters of reproductive choices and abortion is paramount.