1398 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports authorities. It is a normal rule of construction that when a statute vests certain power in an authority to be exercised in a particular manner then the said authority has to exercise it only in the manner provided in the statute itself.’, and held that ‘the Commission in exercise of its power under Sections 245-D(4) and (6) does not have the power to reduce or waive interest statutorily payable under Sections 234-A, 234-B and 234-C except to the extent of granting relief under the circulars issued by the Board under Section 119 of the Act.’ Herein, the question is whether the demand was tax or royalty, and we have arrived at the conclusion that it is royalty, traceable to the arrangement/agreement between the parties, which makes Ghaswala (supra) inapplicable in the extant facts. 26. Punit Rai (supra), decided by three learned Judges, emanated from an Election Petition filed before the High Court. In his concurring opinion, learned S. B. Sinha, J., held ‘If a customary law is to be given a go-by for any purpose whatsoever and particularly for the purpose of enlarging the scope of a notification issued by the President of India under clause (1) of Article 341 of the Constitution, the same must be done in terms of a statute and not otherwise.’ and ‘The High Court, therefore, erred insofar as it failed to consider that for the purpose of determination of caste, the respondent could not have relied upon the circular letter dated 3-3-1978 in absence of any law. …’ Eventually, this Court took exception to the approach of the High Court therein and overturned its decision. The concurring opinion clearly lays down what could not have been done therein in the absence of a law. Again, for the same reason why Ghaswala (supra) is not relevant to the instant controversy, noted above, Punit Rai (supra) would not help Respondent No.1. 27. Naveen Jindal (supra) [rendered by the same coram as Punit Rai (supra)] held that the Flag Code was not a statute. It was also held that executive instructions, which the Flag Code was, were not ‘law’ within the meaning of Article 13 of the Constitution. This proposition is unassailable but does not carry Respondent No.1’s case further in view of our findings and analysis. 28. Similarly, in Chandramohanan (supra), the Court [three-Judge Bench] placed reliance on Punit Rai (supra) and Naveen Jindal (supra) to conclude that Government Circulars issued by the State of Kerala were not ‘law’ within the ambit of Article 13 of the Constitution. This issue does not arise in the instant factual backdrop. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1399 The Patna Municipal Corporation & Ors. v. M/s Tribro Ad Bureau & Ors. 29. The other aspect, which we would like to cover, is the proportionality/ reasonableness in the enhancement of the rate from Re.1 per square foot to Rs.10 per square foot. Whilst at first blush, the jump may seem high, being ten times, ultimately, it is subjective.