Ltd. A perusal of the notice issued by the complainant to the accused as well as a reading of the complaint filed by the complainant before the magistrate clearly brings out that the complainant was under the impression that the cheque was drawn by the accused in personal capacity upon a bank account maintained by him with the Standard Chartered Bank. Further, the defence that the bank account upon which the cheque was drawn was held in the name of Shilabati Hospital and not in the name of the accused was taken for the first time in the appeal filed by the accused before the Sessions Court. Although it can be understood that the complainant had no occasion to believe that the cheque was drawn upon the bank account of Shilabati Hospital as the debt was one which was taken by the accused in his personal capacity, yet a bare perusal of the cheque shows that the cheque was signed by the accused in the capacity of the Director of the Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd. as the same bears both the stamp of the director as well as the hospital. 50. A catena of decisions of this Court have settled the position of law that in case of a cheque issued on behalf of a company by its authorised signatory, prosecution cannot proceed against the such authorised signatory or other post-holders of the company as described under Section 141 of the NI Act, unless the company who is the drawer of the cheque is arraigned as an accused in the complaint case filed before the magistrate. Further, vicarious liability can only be affixed against the directors, authorised signatories, etc. of the company [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1983 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. after the company is held liable for the commission of offence under Section 138. 51. It is not the case of the complainant that the cheque in question was drawn by the accused on a bank account maintained by him, rather the case is that the cheque was issued in discharge of the personal liability of the accused towards the complainant, and hence there was no occasion for it to implead the company as an accused. iv. Scope of the expression “any debt or other liability” appearing in Section 138 of the NI Act 52. Section 138 of the NI Act does not envisage that only those cases where a cheque issued towards the discharge of the personal liability of the drawer towards the payee gets dishonoured would come within the ambit of the provision. The expression “of any debt or other liability” appearing in Section 138 when read with the Explanation to the provision is wide enough to bring any debt or liability which is legally enforceable within its fold. Thus, the requirement under the provision is that the debt or any other liability has to be legally enforceable and the emphasis is not on the existence of such debt or other liability between the drawer and the payee.