This is also for the chauvinistic reason that the third-party male has seduced her, she being his victim. What is clear, therefore, is that this archaic law has long 196 Ibid,[Justice Nariman, 82] 197 Ibid, [Justice DY Chandrachud, 29] 198 Ibid, [Justice Malhotra, paragraph 14.9] 199 [20111 S8CR ]76 5 : (2019) 3 SCC 39 546 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports outlived its purpose and does not square with today‘s constitutional morality, in that the very object with which it was made has since become manifestly arbitrary, having lost its rationale long ago and having become in today‘s day and age, utterly irrational. On this basis alone, the law deserves to be struck down, for with the passage of time, Article 14 springs into action and interdicts such law as being manifestly arbitrary.” 192. The learned Judge further observed that the “ostensible object of Section 497” as pleaded by the State which is to preserve the sanctity of marriage is not in fact the object of the provision because: (a) the sanctity of marriage can be destroyed even if a married man has sexual intercourse with an unmarried woman or a widow; and (b) the offence is not committed if the consent of the husband of the woman is sought. 193. Justice DY Chandrachud in his opinion observed that a provision is manifestly arbitrary if the determining principle of it is not in consonance with constitutional values. The opinion noted that Section 497 makes an “ostensible” effort to protect the sanctity of marriage but in essence is based on the notion of marital subordination of women which is inconsistent with constitutional values. *°° Chief Justice Misra (writing for himself and Justice AM Khanwilkar) held that the provision is manifestly arbitrary for lacking “logical consistency” since it does not treat the wife of the adulterer as an aggrieved person and confers a ‘license’ to the husband of the woman. 194. It is now a settled position of law that a statute can be challenged on the ground it is manifestly arbitrary. The standard laid down by Justice Nariman in Shayara Bano (supra), has been citied with approval by the Constitution Benches in Navtej Singh Johar (supra) and Joseph Shine (supra). Courts while testing the validity of a law on the ground of manifest arbitrariness have to determine if the statute is capricious, irrational and without adequate determining principle, or something which is excessive and disproportionate. This Court has applied the standard of “manifest arbitrariness” in the following manner: 200 (2019) 3 SCC 39 [Paragraph 35] [2024] 2 S.C.R. 547 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. ५. Union of India & Ors. a. A provision lacks an “adequate determining principle” if the purpose is not in consonance with constitutional values. In applying this standard, Courts must make a distinction between the “ostensible purpose”, that is, the purpose which is claimed by the State and the “real purpose”, the purpose identified by Courts based on the available material such as a reading of the provision?