Thirdly, in relation to gas regulation and air quality services, Nicaragua’s “corrected analysis” does not account for the loss of future annual carbon 286 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports sequestration (“carbon flows”), since it characterizes the loss of those services as a one-time loss. The Court does not consider that the impairment or loss of gas regulation and air quality services can be valued as a one-time loss. 86. The Court recalls (…) that the absence of certainty as to the extent of damage does not necessarily preclude it from awarding an amount that it considers approximately to reflect the value of the impairment or loss of environmental goods and services. In this case, the Court, while retaining some of the elements of the “corrected analysis”, considers it reasonable that, for the purposes of its overall valuation, an adjustment be made to the total amount in the “corrected analysis” to account for the shortcomings identified in the preceding paragraph. The Court therefore awards to Costa Rica the sum of US$120,000 for the impairment or loss of the environmental goods and services of the impacted area in the period prior to recovery.” (emphasis supplied) 154. This Court also while applying the principle of environmental restitution in the case of Indian Council for Enviro-Legal Action and others v. Union of India and others15 observed thus : “60. (…) we are of the considered opinion that even if it is assumed (for the sake of argument) that this Court cannot award damages against the respondents in these proceedings that does not mean that the Court cannot direct the Central Government to determine and recover the cost of remedial measures from the respondents. Section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 expressly empowers the Central Government (or its delegate, as the case may be) to “take all such measures as it deems necessary or expedient for the purpose of protecting and improving the quality of environment…”. Section 5 clothes the Central Government (or its delegate) with the power 15 [1996] 2 SCR 503 : (1996) 3 SCC 212 : 1996 INSC 237 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 287 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal to issue directions for achieving the objects of the Act. Read with the wide definition of ‘environment’ in Section 2(a), Sections 3 and 5 clothe the Central Government with all such powers as are “necessary or expedient for the purpose of protecting and improving the quality of the environment”. The Central Government is empowered to take all measures and issue all such directions as are called for for the above purpose. In the present case, the said powers will include giving directions for the removal of sludge, for undertaking remedial measures and also the power to impose the cost of remedial measures on the offending industry and utilise the amount so recovered for carrying out remedial measures. This Court can certainly give directions to the Central Government/its delegate to take all such measures, if in a given case this Court finds that such directions are warranted.