The answer to the aforesaid, must be an emphatic “no”. Thus, we clarify that there is no requirement under Section 15 of the POCSO that ‘storage’ or ‘possession’ must continue to exist at the time of initiation of the criminal proceeding, and no such requirement can be read into the said provision. An offence can be made out under Section 15 if it is established that the person accused had ‘stored’ or ‘possessed’ of any child pornographic material with the specified intention at any particular point of time even if it was before such initiation or registration of criminal proceedings. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 233 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. c. Pornographic Material must prima facie appear to involve a Child. 125. At this stage, we may explain one another crucial aspect concerning Section 15 of the POCSO, more particularly the criteria for determining whether the material in question involves or depicts a ‘child’, or in other words whether such material can be considered a ‘child pornography’ or not. The determination of whether the individual involved is a ‘child’ or not, in terms of the POCSO is a crucial foundational element for constituting various offences under the Act. 126. Section 2(1)(d) of the POCSO stipulates that the term ‘child’ means and refers to any person who is below the age of eighteen years. Thus, under the POCSO more particularly Section 2(1)(d) an objective criterion has been prescribed by the legislature for determining whether a person is a ‘child’ or not for the purposes of any offence under the Act. The said criteria is based on the age of the individual in question, and involves ascertaining and establishing whether he or she is under eighteen years of age, if so, such person would be considered a ‘child’ for the purposes of any offence in respect of such child that is punishable under the POCSO. 127. Earlier under the POCSO, there was no specific definition of ‘child pornography’. Thus, under the erstwhile Section 15 of the POCSO, there was only one criteria for ascertaining whether the material in question can be regarded as ‘child pornography’ or not, which was by establishing that the material depicts or involves a person who is under the age of eighteen years. 128. It was only with the enactment of the aforesaid 2019 Amendment Act, whereby the term “child pornography” was specifically defined under the POCSO by way of insertion of Section 2(1)(da) in the Act. At the cost of repetition, Section 2(1)(da) of the POCSO is reproduced below: - “2. Definitions. – (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, – (da) “child pornography” means any visual depiction of sexually explicit conduct involving a child which include photograph, video, digital or computer generated image indistinguishable from an actual child and image created, adapted, or modified, but appear to depict a child;” 234 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 129. A plain reading of the above would indicate that the term “child pornography” means any visual depiction of a child involved in any sexually explicit conduct.