While the other nine accused were put to trial and their applications rejected without a reasoned , this being challenged by both, accused persons and the victims, has remained pending before the High Court for twelve years and the resultant stagnation in trial proceedings is deeply troubling. Given the gravity of the situation and the risk of miscarriage of justice, urgent action is warranted. 12. Considering the material on record and the political influence of accused Chhote Singh and the Trial Court’s casual approach towards the accusations against the then sitting Member of Legislative Assembly in allowing withdrawal of his prosecution, this court is of the opinion that merely because an accused person is elected to the Legislative Assembly cannot be a testament to their image among the general public. Matters of a gruesome crime akin to the double murder in the present case do not warrant withdrawal of prosecution [2024] 7 S.C.R. 821 Shailendra Kumar Srivastava v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. merely on the ground of good public image of an accused named in the charge sheet after thorough investigation. Contrary to the Trial Court’s view, such withdrawal cannot be said to be allowed in public interest. This reasoning cannot be accepted especially in cases of involvement of influential people. 13. Additionally, the High Court in repeatedly allowing the adjournment requests has only allowed the accused persons to deploy dilatory tactics to delay their trial and have failed to ensure that the justice system is set in motion and is not halted due to the lamentable specter of political influence. 14. We had sent notice to the accused Chhote Singh, who is Respondent No.2 in the present Appeal, and have heard the case on its merits with regard to the application under Section 321, CrPC which was filed by Respondent No.2 and allowed by the Trial Court. In the light of the discussion made above, we are inclined to set aside the withdrawal of prosecution of accused Chhote Singh as allowed by the Trial Court. 15. Complainant has approached this Court challenging the repetitive adjournments in their criminal revision petitions against withdrawal of Respondent No.2’s prosecution, thus we are only deciding with respect to the case of Respondent No.2. Other accused persons are not before us; thus we are not going into the merits of their applications seeking withdrawal of prosecution. However, acknowledging the extensive delay already caused in the case, we are inclined to request the High Court to ensure that justice is not further delayed or compromised- due to political influence or any other extraneous factors. 16. Accordingly, the appeal is allowed, the Criminal Revision No. 2107 of 2012 pending before the High Court of Allahabad is allowed, and dated 19.05.2012 passed by the Court of Additional Sessions Judge (Temporary Ex Cadre Court-01), at Jalaun, Orai, is set aside only with respect to Respondent No.2 herein. 17. In light of the aforementioned concerns, this Court directs the registry to send a copy of this to the registry of the Allahabad High Court.