The absence of the element of plurality, in the process of reconsideration as directed by the Supreme Court Collegium, is clearly discernible. 28. At this juncture, we must also address the submissions on the letter written by one of the petitioners, as referenced in the Report of the Registrar General and argued before this Court. It was contended that the letter contained contemptuous remarks directed at the Supreme Court Collegium. We have perused the letter. It is definitely an expression of hurt by the judicial officer, but will not bring the letter into the contemptuous category. 29. Before parting, it needs to be stated that there is also a need to protect certain sensitive information in matters involving appointment of judges. While transparency is necessary to ensure fairness and 16 Mahesh Chandra Gupta v. Union of India (2009) 8 SCC 273 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 165 Chirag Bhanu Singh & Anr. v. High Court of Himachal Pradesh & Ors. accountability, it must be carefully balanced with the need to maintain confidentiality. Disclosing sensitive information would compromise not only the privacy of the individual but also the integrity of the process. 30. In the case before us, the procedure adopted in the matter of reconsideration of the two petitioners is found to be inconsistent with the law laid down in the Second Judges (supra) and the Third Judges case (supra). There was no collective consultation and deliberations by the members of the High Court Collegium. The decision of the Chief Justice of the High Court, on the suitability of the two petitioners as conveyed in his letter dated 6th March 2024, appears to be an individual decision. The same therefore stand vitiated both procedurally and substantially. 31. The final finding from the above is as follows:- i) The writ petition is maintainable as it questions the lack of effective consultation; ii) The Chief Justice of a High Court cannot individually reconsider a recommendation and it can only be done by the High Court Collegium acting collectively. 32. In light of the above, the High Court Collegium should now reconsider the names of Mr. Chirag Bhanu Singh and Mr. Arvind Malhotra for elevation as Judges of the High Court, following the Supreme Court Collegium decision dated 4th January, 2024 and the Law Minister’s letter dated 16th January, 2024. It is ed accordingly. 33. The matter stands allowed in above terms. Result of the case: Writ petition allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey