Justice Quadri observed: “42. … the duty to do justice in these rarest of rare cases shall have to prevail over the policy of certainty of as though it is essentially in the public interest that a final of the final court in the country should not be open to challenge, yet there may be circumstances, as mentioned above, wherein declining to reconsider the would be oppressive to judicial conscience and would cause perpetuation of irremediable injustice.” (emphasis supplied) 33. This Court laid down an overarching principle that the Court may entertain a curative petition to (i) prevent abuse of its process; and [2024] 4 S.C.R. 489 Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. v. Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt. Ltd. (ii) to cure a gross miscarriage of justice.21 The Court provided examples of such circumstances, such as a violation of the principles of natural justice; or a situation where the Judge fails to disclose his connection with the subject matter or the parties, giving scope for an apprehension of bias. However, the Court observed that it is not possible to exhaustively enumerate the grounds on which a curative petition may be entertained. The Court noted as follows: “50. The next step is to specify the requirements to entertain such a curative petition under the inherent power of this Court so that floodgates are not opened for filing a second review petition as a matter of course in the guise of a curative petition under inherent power. It is common ground that except when very strong reasons exist, the Court should not entertain an application seeking reconsideration of an of this Court which has become final on dismissal of a review petition. It is neither advisable nor possible to enumerate all the grounds on which such a petition may be entertained. 51. Nevertheless, we think that a petitioner is entitled to relief ex debito justitiae if he establishes (1) violation of the principles of natural justice in that he was not a party to the lis but the adversely affected his interests or, if he was a party to the lis, he was not served with notice of the proceedings and the matter proceeded as if he had notice, and (2) where in the proceedings a learned Judge failed to disclose his connection with the subject-matter or the parties giving scope for an apprehension of bias and the adversely affects the petitioner.” 34. The enumeration of the situations in which the curative jurisdiction can be exercised is thus not intended to be exhaustive. The Court went on to lay down certain procedural requirements to entertain a curative petition such as a certificate by a Senior Advocate about fulfilling of the requirements. 35. In his concurring opinion, Justice Banerjee also laid down a similar test of ‘manifest injustice’ to exercise the jurisdiction of this Court 21 Rupa Hurra, para 49. 490 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under Article 142 while entertaining a curative petition. In essence, the jurisdiction of this Court, while deciding a curative petition, extends to cases where the Court acts beyond its jurisdiction, resulting in a grave miscarriage of justice.