He observed that those who are similarly circumstanced are entitled to an equal treatment and that equality is amongst equals. He observed that the classification is, therefore, to be founded on substantial differences which distinguish persons grouped together from those left out of the groups. He further observed that such differential attributes must bear a just and rational relation to the object sought to be achieved. He further observed that there is no denial of equality of opportunity unless the person who complains of discrimination is equally situated with the person or persons who are alleged to have been favoured. He observed that Article 16(1) does not bar a reasonable classification of employees or reasonable tests for their selection. He observed that this equality of opportunity need not be confused with absolute equality. It is observed that power to make reservation, which is conferred on the State, under Article 16(4) can be exercised by the State in a proper case not only by providing for reservation of appointments but also by providing for reservation of selection posts. His Lordship observed that in providing for reservation of appointments or posts under Article 16(4) the State has to take into consideration the claims of the Backward Classes consistently with the maintenance of the efficiency of administration. 67. His Lordship further observed thus: “38. The principle of equality is applicable to employment at all stages and in all respects, namely, initial recruitment, 7 [1974] 3 SCR 760 : (1974) 4 SCC 656. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1483 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. promotion, retirement, payment of pension and gratuity. With regard to promotion the normal principles are either merit-cum-seniority or seniority-cum-merit. Seniority-cum- merit means that given the minimum necessary merit requisite for efficiency of administration, the senior though the less meritorious shall have priority. This will not violate Articles 14, 16(1) and 16(2). A rule which provides that given the necessary requisite merit, a member of the backward class shall get priority to ensure adequate representation will not similarly violate Article 14 or Article 16(1) and (2). The relevant touchstone of validity is to find out whether the rule of preference secures adequate representation for the unrepresented backward community or goes beyond it.” 68. It is observed that the rule which provides that given the necessary requisite merit, a member of the backward class shall get priority so as to ensure adequate representation and the said rule will not violate Article 14 or Article 16(1) and (2). The relevant consideration would be to find out whether the rule of preference secures adequate representation for the unrepresented backward community or goes beyond it. 69. His Lordship further observed thus: “43. Scheduled Castes and scheduled tribes are not a caste within the ordinary meaning of caste. In Bhaiyalal v. Harikishan Singh [AIR 1965 SC 1557 : (1965) 2 SCR 877] this Court held that an enquiry whether the appellant there belonged to the Dohar caste which was not recognised as a scheduled caste and his declaration that he belonged to the Chamar caste which was a scheduled caste could not be premitted because of the provisions contained in Article 341.