01.01.2020. 4. The Judicial officers provided with Group D employee as an Attender/Peon/office subordinate for residential duties may exercise their option either to continue with the present system and forego the allowance that has been recommended or to claim the allowance instead of availing the services of the official Attender/Peon. 5(a). The payment of home ly allowance should not result in discontinuance of practice, if any, of deputing the Office Peons/Attenders or other Group D employee during nights at the residences of (i) Magistrates who are called upon to attend the Judicial work at times during night times. (ii) the Office Peon/Attender or such other Group D employee deputed for night duty at the residence of Judicial officer living in the areas generally considered to be disturbed or security risk areas or outsourced security guards to be deployed in such areas and (iii) such personnel can also be deputed to the residence of Principal District Judge or equivalent rank officer having administrative responsibilities. 352 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) The deployment of Peons/Attenders for such residential duties shall be subject to the availability of Group D/Class IV personnel and without detriment to Court related duties. 6. Drawing up a panel of Home lies/residential attendants/sevaks appointed on consolidated salary equivalent to minimum wages and allotting them to the Judicial officers (as suggested by the Madras High Court) can be thought of as an alternative subject to the decision taken in this regard by the concerned High Court. However, in such a case, Home ly allowance cannot be claimed. 7a. Domestic Help Allowance to the pensioners and family pensioners shall be available at the following rates from 01.01.2016 : Pensioner : Rs.9,000/- per month Family pensioners : Rs.7,500/- per month 7b. This allowance shall stand increased by 30% on completion of five years from 01.01.2016 that is, w.e.f. 01.01.2021. 8. The allowance shall be drawn on the self certification of the Judicial Officer/Pensioner/Family Pensioner.” 48. We accept the recommendations of the SNJPC. 12. House Rent Allowance and Residential Quarters 49. The allowance under the above head has the following components: (a) Residential Quarters: The SNJPC took note of the fact that there is a dearth of residential government quarters and that securing suitable accommodation has become an acute problem for judicial officers. The SNJPC made the following recommendations: 1. The State Governments should urgently take up construction of the residential quarters for the Judicial Officers and the progress of construction be monitored by this Court. 2. The Judicial Officer is to be provided accommodation or requisitioned private accommodation within one month of taking charge of the post. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 353 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors 3. If the Judicial Officer is not provided with the government accommodation or requisitioned private accommodation within one month, then the Judicial Officer may secure private accommodation and should be paid rent in the following terms: a. If the rent of the private accommodation is within the admissible house rent allowance mentioned below, no fixation of rent is required.