131 424 U.S. 1 (1976). 132 297 U.S. 233 (1936). [2024] 2 S.C.R. 600 Digital Supreme Court Reports 64. In Nixon, Attorney General of Missouri, et al v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC et 3/,2 7 the Supreme Court of the United States observes that large contributions given to secure a political quid pro guo undermines the system of representative democracy. It stems public awareness of the opportunities for abuse inherent in a regime of large contributions. This effects the integrity of the electoral process not only in the form of corruption or quid pro quo arrangements, but also extending to the broader threat of the beneficiary being too compliant with the wishes of large contributors. 65. Recently, a five judge Constitution Bench of this Court in Anoop Baranwal v. Union of India‘** has highlighted the importance of purity of electoral process in the following words: “215. ...Without attaining power, men organised as political parties cannot achieve their goals. Power becomes, therefore, a means to an end. The goal can only be to govern so that the lofty aims enshrined in the directive principles are achieved while observing the fundamental rights as also the mandate of all the laws. What is contemplated is a lawful Government. So far so good. What, however, is disturbing and forms as we understand the substratum of the complaints of the petitioner is the pollution of the stream or the sullying of the electoral process which precedes the gaining of power. Can ends justify the means? 216. There can be no doubt that the strength of a democracy and its credibility, and therefore, its enduring nature must depend upon the means employed to gain power being as fair as the conduct of the Government after the assumption of power by it. The assumption of power itself through the electoral process in the democracy cannot and should not be perceived as an end. The end at any rate cannot justify the means. The means to gain power in a democracy must remain wholly pure and abide by the Constitution and the laws. An unrelenting abuse of the electoral process over a period of time is the surest way to the grave of the democracy. Democracy can succeed 133 528 U.S. 377 (2000). 134 [2029 3SC]R 1 : (2023) 6 SCC 161. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 601 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. only insofar as all stakeholders uncompromisingly work at it and the most important aspect of democracy is the very process, the electoral process, the purity of which alone will truly reflect the will of the people so that the fruits of democracy are truly reaped. 217. The essential hallmark of a genuine democracy is the transformation of the “Ruled” into a citizenry clothed with rights which in the case of the Indian Constitution also consist of fundamental rights, which are also being freely exercised and the concomitant and radical change of the ruler from an “Emperor” to a public servant.