30. Most importantly, Gursewak Singh (P.W.2) narrated the entire occurrence on a call made to the Police Control Room within ten minutes of the occurrence. There could not be, in all probabilities, any meeting of the minds within a few minutes after the occurence, so as to create a false narrative only to implicate Gurpreet Singh. The unfiltered version of the Complainant, in our considered opinion, conclusively establishes the veracity of his subsequent deposition. This Court, in Nand Lal v. State of Chhattisgarh4, has categorically held that the prompt lodging of an FIR helps dispel suspicions related to the potential exaggeration of the involvement of individuals and adds credibility to the prosecution’s argument. A promptly lodged FIR reflects the first-hand account of what happened and who was responsible for the offence in question. (See also: Thulia Kali v. State Of Tamil Nadu (1972) 3 SCC 393, State of Punjab v. Surja Ram 1995 Supp (3) SCC 419, Girish Yadav v. State of M.P (1996) 8 SCC 186 and Takdir Samsuddin Sheikh v. State of Gujarat (2011) 10 SCC 158). 31. It is pertinent to refer to the endorsement of FIR No. 100, dated 18.07.2012, where it is clearly mentioned that as soon as the information was received through Police Control Room, a police party headed by Sub-Inspector Hari Mittar along with ASI Baldev Singh and four Head Constables reached the house of Gursewak Singh (Complainant) at Tower Colony, Jagraon where the dead body of Amarjit Kaur was lying near the stairs. The Complainant’s statement was recorded, and an intimation to this effect was sent to the higher officers and the Control Room. This entire exercise got completed 4 [2023] 2 SCR 276 : (2023) 10 SCC 470. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1051 State of Punjab v. Gurpreet Singh & Ors by 3.15 p.m. A report to this effect had already been sent to the Ilaka Magistrate, and the dead body was brought for postmortem at about 6.35 p.m. The presence of Gursewak Singh at the time of occurrence, his prompt reporting of the crime, and the swift action taken by the police immediately upon receipt of the said report, have cumulatively and unequivocally established the prosecution case beyond any doubt. 32. This is also a matter of record that the weapon of crime, namely, the pistol, was recovered from Gurpreet Singh pursuant to his disclosure statement. There is overwhelming evidence, including the statement of S.I. Hari Mittar (P.W.9) to establish the recovery of country-made pistol at the instance of Gurpreet Singh. The recovery of the weapon of crime, along with live cartridges and one empty shell, has been elaborately explained by Hari Mittar (P.W.9) in his cross-examination, which inspires confidence. The statement of P.W.9, Hari Mittar has been duly corroborated by ASI Baldev Singh (P.W.8) besides Head Constable Sukhdev Singh (P.W.6). 33. The contention that none of the neighbours came forward to witness the occurrence is totally illogical and a misconceived notion. The prosecution case is that the occurrence took place inside the house.