The Scheme specifically provided that there shall be no cut-off of marks in the viva voce. Following this, the High Court issued a notification in 2015 inviting applications from qualified candidates for appointment as District and Sessions Judges by direct recruitment from bar. The notification of the High Court indicated that candidates who secured a minimum of 50% marks in the written test (relaxed to 40% for SC/ST candidates) would qualify for the viva voce. The notification also specified that the aggregate of marks in the written examination and the viva voce would form the basis of the ultimate merit list. In view of the notification, the High Court conducted the written examination and viva voce of the qualified candidates. When the process of selection had commenced, all candidates were put on notice of the fact that: (i) The merit list would be drawn up on the basis of the aggregate marks obtained in the written examination and viva voce; (ii) Candidates whose marks were at least at the prescribed minimum in the written examination would qualify for the viva voce; and [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1169 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors (iii) No cut-off was applicable in respect of the marks to be obtained in the viva voce while drawing up the merit list in the aggregate. 54. After the conduct of the viva voce, the High Court decided to apply a minimum cut-off in the viva voce as a qualifying criterion. Subsequently, the final merit list of successful candidates was published. The decision of the High Court to prescribe a minimum cut-off for the viva voce was challenged for being contrary to the statutory rules which prescribed that the merit list shall be drawn up on the basis of the aggregate marks obtained in the written examination and viva voce. 55. In the backdrop of these facts, this Court held: “14. The decision of the High Court to prescribe a cut-off for the viva-voce examination was taken by the Administrative Committee on 27 February 2017 after the viva-voce was conducted between 16 and 24 January 2017. The process which has been adopted by the High Court suffers from several infirmities. Firstly, the decision of the High Court was contrary to Rule 2(c)(iii) which stipulated that the merit list would be drawn up on the basis of the marks obtained in the aggregate in the written examination and the viva-voce; secondly, the scheme which was notified by the High Court on 13 December 2012 clearly specified that there would be no cut off marks in respect of the viva-voce; thirdly, the notification of the High Court dated 30 September 2015 clarified that the process of short listing which would be carried out would be only on the basis of the length of practice of the members of the Bar, should the number of candidates be unduly large; and fourthly, the decision to prescribe cut off marks for the viva-voce was taken much after the viva-voce tests were conducted in the month of January 2017.” 56.