43. Now, we shall take up the case of the contemnor-respondent No. 7 being the 6th Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Surat who passed the dated 13th December, 2023 granting police custody remand of the petitioner. The contemnor has made the following averments in her reply affidavit: - 43.1 At para No. 2 of the reply affidavit, the officer has offered unconditional apology for what has been termed to be a bona fide mistake in interpretation of the of this Court. 43.2 In para No. 3 of the reply affidavit, the contemnor-respondent No. 7 has emphatically stated that this Court had granted ad-interim relief to the petitioner subject to the condition of cooperating with the Investigating Agency and being the Court of 6th ACJM, the officer was vested with the jurisdiction under Section 167 CrPC to grant police custody remand of the accused. The officer has projected in the reply affidavit that by granting police remand of the accused-petitioner, she rather ensured the compliance of this Court’s with bona fide objective of ensuring that the investigation is carried out fairly. 274 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 43.3 At para No. 3.1 of the reply affidavit, the contemnor-respondent No. 7 has sworn that upon receiving the remand application from the Investigating Agency, alleging non-cooperation in the investigation by the petitioner, she merely followed the practice and procedure prevalent in the State of Gujarat, wherein the Courts issue anticipatory bail s with a direction to the accused-petitioner to cooperate with investigation and upon failure to do so, liberty is given to the Investigating Officer to seek police remand. The contemnor-respondent No. 7 has annexed certain s of the High Court of Gujarat to buttress this plea taken in the affidavit in reply to the contempt notice. 43.4 That the petitioner was served with the notice directing him to remain present before the Court of 6th ACJM for the purpose of seeking his police remand. This notice was at the behest of the Investigating Officer and was routed through the Assistant Public Prosecutor (APP). The Investigating Officer sought 7 days remand of the petitioner on the ground that he was not cooperating with the investigation as directed by this Court. The petitioner, neither filed any written protest nor any affidavit to oppose the remand application. He also did not make an affirmative statement of having cooperated with the Investigating Agency by providing information and documents in his possession. An emphatic denial has been given by the contemnor-respondent No. 7 to the plea of the petitioner that the granting police remand was passed without providing a fair opportunity of hearing to the petitioner or his Advocate. 43.5 At para No. 5.3 of the reply affidavit, the contemnor-respondent No. 7 has reiterated that this Court vide dated 8th December, 2023, granted ad-interim relief in favour of the petitioner with a direction to the petitioner to cooperate with the investigation and thus, of remand was passed considering the purport of para 5 of the (supra) dated 8th December, 2023.