This is because, in the instant case, there is no material produced to demonstrate as to how the existing statutory regime relating to GM crops violates the fundamental rights of the citizens or is opposed to the provisions of the Constitution, or is opposed to any statutory provisions, or is otherwise manifestly arbitrary. Hence, the writ petitions may be dismissed with costs. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2043 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Reply Arguments: 20. Sri Prashant Bhushan submitted his rejoinder arguments with reference to the arguments of the learned Attorney General by contending that DMH-11 is a HT Crop, as is evident from the admission of the Union of India in the note submitted by the learned Attorney General himself to the effect that “the presence of the third HT gene (Bar) is essential for hybrid seed production”. Therefore, the presence of the HT gene (Bar) makes DMH-11 an HT Crop. This was also said to be in accordance with the finding of the 2017 PSC Report which stated that transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 is an HT Crop. 20.1 It was then pointed out that there is clear evidence on the adverse impacts of such GMOs from other places in the world. In this regard, reference was made to various experts’ opinions as under: (i) Dr. Jack Heinemann, Director, Centre for Integrated Research in Biosafety, University of Canterbury, Christchurch, Netherlands, who served as an advisor to the Food & Agriculture Organisation, stated that DMH-11 is an HT crop. (ii) In an “Open Statement on Bar Gene in GM Mustard” published on 10.12.2022, by Dr. Soma Sundar Marla, Former Principal Scientist, Crop Bioinformatics & Genomics, ICAR-NBPGR, New Delhi and other scientists and experts, it was stated that DMH-11 is an HT crop in the following words: “Technically, it is the presence of the gene construct the Bar gene which defines whether a crop is Herbicide Tolerant (HT) or not. Given that both parents of DMH-11 carry gene constructs containing Bar, which confers herbicide tolerance towards glufosinate, any offspring from such parents including DMH-11 shall carry the HT trait. Therefore not only parental lines, but DMH-11 is also tolerant to herbicide without any doubt.” (iii) Further, in the article titled, “Long-term ecological, environmental effects of herbicide tolerant crops haven’t been considered” published on 29.11.2022 in the Indian 2044 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Express, by Dr. Renee Borges and other distinguished professors and scientists, DMH-11 was confirmed as an HT crop. It was stated as under: “A central feature of DMH-11 is that it carries a gene for herbicide resistance (also termed herbicide tolerance or HT). This fact has not received appropriate consideration. The deployment of herbicide-resistant or HT crops has been accompanied by deleterious outcomes in several places including the US, Australia, and Canada (so-called developed countries) as well as Argentina (a developing country). The most well-established harmful consequences have been the spread of herbicide-resistant weeds across large tracts of agricultural land, which can spell disaster for the normal crop.