13.4. Grant of the compensation could be an additional remedy but not a substitute for restitutional remedies. Therefore, in an appropriate case the Court may award the compensation to such a meritorious candidate who for no fault of his/her has to 720 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports lose one full academic year and who could not be granted any relief of admission in the same academic year. 13.5. It is clarified that the aforesaid directions pertain to Admission in MBBS Course only and we have not dealt with post graduate medical course.” (emphasis supplied) 28. In the light of the above , it would neither be desirable nor justifiable to grant admission to the appellant in the on-going session of the MBBS(UG) course. However, considering the fact that the cancelling the admission of the appellant herein was issued on 9th August, 2023 and the writ petition came to be filed before the High Court promptly i.e. on 10th August, 2023, without any delay whatsoever, the appellant is entitled to restoration of his seat in the first year of MBBS(UG) course in the same college in the next session, i.e., NEET UG-2024. 29. We further direct that until a suitable rectification is made in the guidelines/rules, candidate(s) domicile of the State of Maharashtra having acquired SSC and/or HSC qualification from any recognized institution: - (i) Whose parent(s) are domiciles of Maharashtra and employed in the Central Government or its Undertaking, defence services and/or in paramilitary forces viz. CRPF, BSF, etc. and; (ii) Such parent(s) are posted at any place in the country as on the last date of document verification, shall be entitled for a seat in MBBS Course in the Maharashtra State quota. 30. It is further directed that the appellant shall be provided admission in the ‘OBC category domicile of State of Maharashtra child of person serving the Government of India’ in the first year of the MBBS(UG) course commencing from the year 2024 by creating an additional seat so as to ensure that there is no reduction in the quota of seats to the candidates who succeed in the NEET UG-2024. 31. The impugned s are set aside. The appeals are accordingly allowed. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 721 Vansh S/o Prakash Dolas v. The Ministry of Education & The Ministry of Health & Family Welfare & Ors. 32. We also direct respondent No.6-College and respondent No.5-State of Maharashtra to pay compensation to the tune of Rs.1 lakh(Rs. 50,000/- each) to the appellant for the deprivation of one year and harassment on the account of illegal and arbitrary cancellation of his admission. 33. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeals allowed.