If the investigation reveals the involvement of an increased number of beneficiaries over and above those who are suspects at the present stage, action shall be pursued against every student found to be involved in wrong doing at any stage, notwithstanding the completion of the counselling process. No student who is revealed to have engaged in acts of fraud or to have been the beneficiary of malpractice would be entitled to claim a vested right or interest in the continuation of the admission in the future by virtue of the findings in this ; and (vii) Directing a fresh NEET (UG) to be conducted for the present year would be replete with serious consequences for over two million students who have appeared in the examination. Adopting such a course of action would, in particular, (i) lead to a disruption of the admission schedule for the commencement of medical courses, setting back the entire process by several months; (ii) lead to cascading effects on the course of medical education; (iii) impact the availability of qualified medical professionals in the future; and (iv) cause a serious element of disadvantage to students belonging to marginalized communities and weaker sections for whom reservation has been made in the allocation of seats.” 22. The Court also accepted the report of IIT, Delhi on the correct answer to a particular question which was the subject of controversy. Consequently, NTA was directed to revise the marks of all candidates and update their ranks on the basis of the revised results. The Court also clarified that candidates could agitate any individual grievances, not bearing upon the issues resolved in that , before the High Courts in accordance with law. Lastly, the Court noticed the constitution of the seven-member committee by the Union government to address any issues with the procedures adopted in the conduct of the exam and passed the following direction: “23. The Committee will abide by such further directions as may be issued by this Court in its final and [2024] 8 S.C.R. 63 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India & Ors. in regard to the areas which should be enquired into by it so as to ensure that (i) the process of conducting the NEET (UG) and other examinations falling within the remit of the NTA is duly strengthened; and (ii) the instances which came to light during the course of the present year are not repeated in the future.” C. Submissions 23. The petitioners, represented by Mr Narender Hooda, Mr Sanjay R. Hegde, senior counsel and others, have broadly submitted that: a. There was a widespread leak of the question paper prior to the conduct of the exam, leading to the integrity of the exam being vitiated on a systemic level; b. The scores and ranks of candidates are highly inflated in 2024 as compared to previous years; c. NTA’s explanation for the score and rank inflation is that they are due to a 25% reduction in the syllabus. This explanation is misleading as the syllabus also included new topics; d. The significant score inflation in NEET in 2024 has disadvantaged deserving candidates, making it difficult for them to secure admission to government medical colleges and pushing them towards private institutions, which many middle-class families cannot afford.