An application under Section 25-O(1) is not a suit, and hence, the said provision will not apply to such an application.” (Emphasis supplied) 50. While we agree with the decision in the aforesaid case to the extent that it declined to apply the principles of 23 Rule 1 and refused to dismiss a bonafide subsequent application filed after the earlier one was withdrawn in good faith to attempt conciliation, we are of the view that it cannot be declared as a general rule that merely because a legal proceeding is not a ‘suit’, it would be completely exempted from the application of principles underlying 23 Rule 1. These principles, being in the nature of public policy, bring efficiency and certainty to the administration of justice by any court and should be invoked and enforced unless they are expressly prohibited by statute or appear to counter serve the interest of justice, rather than advancing it. 51. One important policy consideration which permeates the scheme of 23 Rule 1 is the legislative intent that legal proceedings in respect of a subject-matter are not stretched for unduly long periods by allowing a party to reagitate the same issue over and over again, which also leads to uncertainty for the responding parties. Arbitration as a dispute resolution method, too, seeks to curtail the time spent by disputing parties in pursuing legal proceedings. This is evident from the various provisions of the Act, 1996 which provide a timeline for compliance with various procedural requirements under the said Act. An application for appointment of arbitrator under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 is required to be filed when there is failure on the part of the parties or their nominated arbitrators to commence the arbitration proceedings as per the agreed upon procedure. This Court, being conscious of the temporally sensitive nature of proceedings under Section 11(6), has issued various directions from time to time to ensure that applications for appointment of arbitrators are decided in an expeditious manner. Keeping in view the approach of this Court and the nature of 172 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports applications under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996, we find no reason to not extend the principles of 23 Rule 1 to such proceedings, when the very same principles have been extended to writ proceedings before High Courts under Articles 226 & 227 and SLPs before this Court under Article 136. 52. One important aspect that needs to be kept in mind while applying the principles of 23 Rule 1 to applications under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 is that it will act as a bar to only those applications which are filed subsequent to the withdrawal of a previous Section 11(6) application filed on the basis of the same cause of action. The extension of the aforesaid principle cannot be construed to mean that it bars invocation of the same arbitration clause on more than one occasion. It is possible that certain claims or disputes may arise between the parties after a tribunal has already been appointed in furtherance of an application under Section 11(6).