44/2011 dated 06.07.2011, it is not open to the Department to now contend the contrary as reaffirmed in Canon India (supra). (x) All proper officers are officers of customs, but all officers of customs are not proper officers. Mere conferment of power or assignment of functions of assessment/reassessment under Sections 17 and 28 of the Act, 1962 respectively is not enough. Out of the various proper officers who have been empowered under Sections 17 and 28, only that proper officer who had actually carried out the assessment will be the proper officer. There can be concurrent conferment of power but there cannot be concurrent exercise of powers as the same may result in chaos and utter confusion. (xi) The decision rendered by the High Court in Mangali Impex (supra) is correct and need not be disturbed for the following reasons: a. Section 28(11) does not validate the show cause notices issued by various officers. It merely deems all officers who were appointed as officers of customs under Section 4(1) to 248 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports have always had the powers under Sections 17 and 28 the Act, 1962 respectively. This would not automatically revive the show cause notices issued by such officers of customs. b. In to hold that Section 28(11) validates past actions, this Court will have to insert words in the statute, that too in a taxing statute which imposes liabilities on assesses, that too retrospectively. c. Several unintended consequences may arise if it is held that show cause notices issued by other officers of customs will be revived. There are instances wherein many show cause notices have been issued after the Sayed Ali (supra) by the jurisdictional commissionerate wherever the limitation period permitted for demands to be made. In those cases, assessees will be faced with two show cause notices. He laid emphasis on the need to take an undertaking from the Department to avoid such a situation if it were to arise. d. The High Court has correctly held that Section 28(11) perpetrates the very chaos that the in Sayed Ali (supra) sought to prevent. e. Explanation 2 to Section 28 should be given a plain meaning. It was in the statute before Section 28(11) was introduced, hence the framers of the statute were well aware of the implications of the Explanation 2. f. On 08.4.2011, Section 28 of the Act, 1962 underwent a drastic change and not just a mere change in terms of time period being changed from six months to one year. The mode & manner of issuing the show cause notice, the manner of adjudication and payment of duty, etc. have been amended making it more beneficial to the assessee. That is the reason why the old notices were to be dealt with under the old Section. g. It is impossible to read Section 28(11) and Explanation 2 together as validating any action prior to 08.04.2011. Such is the plain meaning and only such an interpretation is warranted in the present case.