(C) No. 880 of 2017, decided on 15.02.2024 18 [2003] 2 SCR 1136 : (2003) 4 SCC 399 420 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that voters have a right to the disclosure of information which is ‘essential’ for choosing the candidate for whom a vote should be cast. 38. In his Affidavit in Form No. 26, Karikho Kri was required to state as to whether he had been in occupation of accommodation provided by the Government at any time during the last 10 years before the date of notification of the current election and, if so, he was to furnish a declaration to the effect that there were no dues payable in respect of the said accommodation in relation to rent, electricity charges, water charges and telephone charges. Karikho Kri, however, failed to disclose the fact that he had been in occupation of government accommodation during his tenure as an MLA between 2009 and 2014. He stated ‘Not applicable’. However, with regard to the declaration as to there being no dues, he mentioned the date ‘22.03.2019’ and stated that the dues in respect of rent, electricity charges, water charges and telephone charges were ‘Nil’. After Nuney Tayang raised an objection to his candidature on this ground, Karikho Kri filed the requisite ‘No Due Certificates’ of 2014. 39. However, the High Court was of the opinion that the failure of Karikho Kri to disclose the factum of his occupying government accommodation from 2009 to 2014 and his failure to submit the ‘No Dues Certificate’ in relation to such government accommodation was sufficient, in itself, to infer that his nomination was defective and, in consequence, the acceptance thereof by the Returning Officer, Tezu, was improper. 40. Having considered the issue, we are of the firm view that every defect in the nomination cannot straightaway be termed to be of such character as to render its acceptance improper and each case would have to turn on its own individual facts, insofar as that aspect is concerned. The case law on the subject also manifests that this Court has always drawn a distinction between non-disclosure of substantial issues as opposed to insubstantial issues, which may not impact one’s candidature or the result of an election. The very fact that Section 36(4) of the Act of 1951 speaks of the Returning Officer not rejecting a nomination unless he is of the opinion that the defect is of a substantial nature demonstrates that this distinction must always be kept in mind and there is no absolute mandate that every non-disclosure, irrespective of its gravity and impact, would automatically amount to a defect of substantial nature, thereby [2024] 4 S.C.R. 421 Karikho Kri v. Nuney Tayang and Another materially affecting the result of the election or amounting to ‘undue influence’ so as to qualify as a corrupt practice. 41. The decision of this Court in Kisan Shankar Kathore (supra), also demonstrates this principle, as this Court undertook examination of several individual defects in the nomination of the returned candidate and found that some of them were actually insubstantial in character.