(6) The Special Juvenile Police Unit or local police shall, without unnecessary delay but within a period of twenty-four hours, report the matter to the Child Welfare Committee and the Special Court or where 598 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports no Special Court has been designated, to the Court of Session, including need of the child for care and protection and steps taken in this regard. (7) No person shall incur any liability, whether civil or criminal, for giving the information in good faith for the purpose of sub-section (1).” (emphasis added) 27.1 Thus, under sub-section (6) of Section 19, it was the duty of the police to report the matter to the Child Welfare Committee (for short, ‘CWC’) and the Special Court within a period of twenty-four hours from the time the police had the knowledge about the commission of the offence. There is nothing placed on record which shows that compliance was made by reporting the case to CWC. 28. Section 27 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (for short, ‘the JJ Act’) provides for setting up the CWC. The powers of the CWC have been laid down in Section 29 of the JJ Act, which reads thus: “29. Powers of Committee.— (1) The Committee shall have the authority to dispose of cases for the care, protection, treatment, development and rehabilitation of children in need of care and protection, as well as to provide for their basic needs and protection. (2) Where a Committee has been constituted for any area, such Committee shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, but save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, have the power to deal exclusively with all proceedings under this Act relating to children in need of care and protection.” (emphasis added) 28.1 Thus, the authority of the CWC is to dispose of the cases for care, protection, treatment, development and rehabilitation of children in need of care and protection, as well as to provide for their basic needs and protection. The authority conferred on the CWC creates a corresponding obligation. A child in need of care and protection has been defined under sub-section [2024] 8 S.C.R. 599 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents (14) of Section 2 of the JJ Act, which reads thus: “2. Definitions:- .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (14) “child in need of care and protection” means a child— (i) who is found without any home or settled place of abode and without any ostensible means of subsistence; or (ii) who is found working in contravention of labour laws for the time being in force or is found begging, or living on the street; or (iii) who resides with a person (whether a guardian of the child or not) and such person— (a) has injured, exploited, abused or neglected the child or has violated any other law for the time being in force meant for the protection of child; or (b) has threatened to kill, injure, exploit or abuse the child and there is a reasonable likelihood of the threat being carried out; or (c) has killed, abused, neglected or exploited some other child or children and there is a reasonable likelihood of the child in question being killed, abused, exploited or neglected by that person; or (iv) who is mentally ill or mentally or physically challenged or suffering from terminal or incurable disease, having no one to support or look after or having parents or guardians unfit to take care, if found so by the Board or the Committee; or (v) who has a parent or guardian and such parent or guardian is found to be unfit or incapacitated, by the Committee or the Board, to care for and protect the safety and well-being of the child; or 600 [2024] 8 S.C.R.