CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 7. To appreciate the submissions, we must refer to relevant provisions of the 1994 Act. Section 23 of the 1994 Act, which is a penal provision, reads thus: “23. Offences and penalties.- (1) Any medical geneticist, gynaecologist, registered medical practitioner or any person who owns a Genetic Counselling Centre, a Genetic Laboratory or a Genetic Clinic or is employed in such a Centre, Laboratory or Clinic and renders his professional or technical services to or at such a Centre, Laboratory or Clinic, whether on an honorary basis or otherwise, and who contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or rules made thereunder shall be punishable with imprisonment 402 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for a term which may extend to three years and with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees and on any subsequent conviction, with imprisonment which may extend to five years and with fine which may extend to fifty thousand rupees. 2. The name of the registered medical practitioner shall be reported by the appropriate authority to the State Medical Council concerned for taking necessary action including suspension of the registration if the charges are framed by the court and till the case is disposed of and on conviction for removal of his name from the register of the Council for a period of five years for the first offence and permanently for the subsequent offence. 3. Any person who seeks the aid of a Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory, Genetic Clinic or ultrasound clinic or imaging clinic or of a medical geneticist, gynaecologist, sonologist or imaging specialist or registered medical practitioner or any other person for sex selection or for conducting pre- natal diagnostic techniques on any pregnant women for the purposes other than those specified in sub-section (2) of section 4, he shall, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with fine which may extend to fifty thousand rupees for the first offence and for any subsequent offence with imprisonment which may extend to five years and with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees. 4. For the removal of doubts, it is hereby provided, that the provisions of sub-section (3) shall not apply to the woman who was compelled to undergo such diagnostic techniques or such selection.” 8. The procedure for cognizance is incorporated in Section 28, which reads thus: “28. Cognizance of offences. - 1. No court shall take cognizance of an offence under this Act except on a complaint made by— [2024] 9 S.C.R. 403 Ravinder Kumar v. State of Haryana (a) the appropriate authority concerned, or any officer authorised in this behalf by the Central Government or State Government, as the case may be, or the appropriate authority; or (b) a person who has given notice of not less than fifteen days in the manner prescribed, to the appropriate authority, of the alleged offence and of his intention to make a complaint to the court. Explanation.—For the purpose of this clause, “person” includes a social organisation.