Thus if A covenants to pay … 100 and the deed subsequently provides that he shall be liable to pay only at a future named date or in a future defined event or if at the due date of payment he holds a defined office, then the absolute covenant to pay is controlled by the words qualifying the obligation in manner described.” 27. The aforesaid principle of law was approved by this Court in Radha Sundar Dutta v. Mohd. Jahadur Rahim,26 where a bench of three Judges held that it is a settled rule of interpretation that if there be admissible two constructions of a document, one of which will give effect to all the clauses therein while the other will render one or more of them nugatory, it is the former that should be adopted on the principle expressed in the maxim “ut res magis valeat quam pereat”. Following it up, it was also observed that if, in fact, there is 25 [1922] 1 A.C. 256 26 [1959] 1 SCR 1309 : AIR 1959 SC 24 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1123 R. Kandasamy (Since Dead) & Ors. v. T.R.K. Sarawathy & Anr. a conflict between the earlier clause and the later clauses and it is not possible to give effect to all of them, then the rule of construction is well established that it is the earlier clause that must override the later clauses and not vice versa. 28. A decision of recent origin of this Court in Bharat Sher Singh Kalsia v. State of Bihar27 having taken note of the aforesaid decisions, proceeded to hold: “32. We are of the considered opinion that all three clauses are capable of being construed in such a manner that they operate in their own fields and are not rendered nugatory. That apart, we are mindful that even if we had perceived a conflict between Clauses 3 and 11, on the one hand, and Clause 15 on the other, we would have to conclude that Clauses 3 and 11 would prevail over Clause 15 as when the same cannot be reconciled, the earlier clause(s) would prevail over the latter clause(s), when construing a deed or a contract. Reference for such proposition is traceable to Forbes v. Git as approvingly taken note of by a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Radha Sundar Dutta v. Mohd. Jahadur Rahim. However, we have been able, as noted above, to reconcile the three clauses in the current scenario.” AnAlysis And ReAsons 29. A suit for specific performance of a contract for sale, normally, is premised on a written agreement between the contracting parties, signifying a meeting of minds of two persons or more. Terms of the agreement, which are reasonably ascertainable from the written document, assume extreme relevance. After all, compliance with other requisites takes the shape of a concluded contract and should there be no vitiating factor, the parties are bound thereby. 30. The first point that we need to examine is the effect of the two clauses of the Agreement and to apply the law laid down by this Court in Radha Sundar Dutta (supra) and Bharat Sher Singh Kalsia (supra).