Though PW-19 stated that the appellant again made extra-judicial confession at the Central Bus Station in the presence of PSI Mishra, the prosecution has not examined PSI Mishra as a witness. According to the testimony of PW- 25, statement of PSI Mishra was not recorded during the investigation. In any event, the alleged confession made by the appellant before PSI Mishra cannot be proved against the appellant in view of Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. Hence, the prosecution’s evidence regarding extra-judicial confession cannot be believed. 8. PW-19 stated that PSI Mishra and two to three other constables took the appellant away. Thus, it was PSI Mishra who took the appellant into custody. Hence, PSI Mishra was a crucial witness. A vital prosecution witness has been withheld from the Court. Nothing is placed on record [2024] 7 S.C.R. 47 Lal Mohammad Manjur Ansari v. The State of Gujrat to show that PSI Mishra made any official record to show that he had taken the appellant into custody. PW-25, the Investigating Officer, stated that PSI Mishra and other police personnel were tracing the appellant in the market as he was working there. He further noted that PSI Mishra produced the appellant at the police station and was shown as arrested at 9.30 p.m. on that day. Thus, PW-25 did not state that PSI Mishra went to the Central Bus Station upon receiving a phone call from PW-19, and that he nabbed the appellant at the Bus Station. The version of PW-25 is entirely different. In the cross- examination, PW-25 specifically admitted that he did not record the statement of PSI Mishra. He stated that he arrested the appellant when PSI Mishra produced him. Further, in the cross-examination, PW-25 stated that in the panchnama of arrest, it is not mentioned that PSI Mishra produced the appellant before him. He stated that he had no information about the time, in whose presence and from which place PSI Mishra arrested the appellant. In further cross-examination, he stated that he was not aware that PSI Mishra met the appellant at Central Bus Station in the presence of the appellant’s employer. He denied that PSI Mishra kept the appellant in custody and produced the appellant before him. Thus, it is impossible to believe the testimony of PW-19 that he conveyed the appellant’s extra-judicial confession to PSI Mishra. Moreover, the manner in which the appellant was taken into custody becomes highly suspicious as it is not even recorded in the arrest panchnama that PSI Mishra arrested the appellant. Apart from the fact that it is very difficult to believe that the appellant confessed before PW-19, the further part of the testimony of PW- 19 makes his testimony extremely doubtful as the prosecution has withheld PSI Mishra from the Court. Therefore, it is not possible to rely upon the evidence of PW-19. 9. Now, we come to the theory of dying declaration made by the deceased before PW-24. In the examination-in-chief, PW-24 stated that after he heard that his friend (deceased) was injured, he rushed to the site and found that the deceased was fully covered in blood, and he disclosed that the appellant was the author of the injuries.