2, said to be in furtherance of the compromise were dishonoured, the appellant moved the High Court for restoration of the appeal alleging fraud and illegal interference with his possession and attempts to get the land converted without paying the agreed amounts. By the impugned before us, the High Court dismissed the application on the only ground that in its dated 14.07.2022, the Court clearly recorded that the parties were not given liberty to restore the appeal. The High Court observed that since the dated 14.07.2022 was a consensual and the parties were aware that there was no liberty to get the first appeal restored, the application for restoration was not entertainable even if the compromise is not acted upon. The short of the High Court dated 19.10.2023 is extracted hereinbelow: “1. Instant misc. application has been filed by the appellant-plaintiff seeking to restore S.B. Civil First Appeal NO.210/2014 by recalling the dated 14.07.2022 458 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports whereby and whereunder the first appeal was disposed of in terms of compromise dated 18.05.2022 arrived at between parties. 2. It has been stated in the application that cheques issued by respondents in terms of the compromise have been dishonoured and respondents have not adhered to the terms of the compromise, hence the first appeal be restored to be heard on merits. 3. By perusal of the dated 14.07.2022, more particularly para No.5, it stands clear that this Court while disposing of the first appeal in terms of the compromise has clearly observed that parties would be not at liberty to get restore this first appeal. The dated 14.07.2022 is consensual and both parties were well aware that no liberty to restore the first appeal is available, even though the compromise may or may not be acted upon. Therefore, the application for restoration of first appeal is not entertainable. 4. Thus, in view of above, the prayer for restoration of the first appeal is uncalled for. In case, the terms of the compromise dated 18.05.2022 have not been complied with, the applicant-plaintiff is at liberty to take appropriate steps in accordance with law. 5. With aforesaid observations, without recalling of the dated 14.07.2022, the misc. application stands disposed of. 6. Stay application and any other pending application, if any, stand disposed of.” 9. We have heard the learned counsels for the parties. 10. The relevant provisions under the CPC that govern compromise decrees are contained in 23, Rules 3 and 3A, which are extracted hereunder: “3. Compromise of suit. — Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court that a suit has been adjusted wholly or in part by any lawful agreement or compromise in writing and signed by the parties or where the defendant satisfied the plaintiff in respect to the whole or any part of the subject-matter of the suit, the Court shall such [2024] 12 S.C.R. 459 Navratan Lal Sharma v. Radha Mohan Sharma & Ors. agreement, compromise or satisfaction to be recorded, and shall pass a decree in accordance therewith so far as it relates to the parties to the suit, whether or not the subject matter of the agreement, compromise or satisfaction is the same as the subject-matter of the suit: Provided that where it is alleged by one party and denied by the other that an adjustment or satisfaction has been arrived at, the Court shall decide the question; but not adjournment shall be granted for the purpose of deciding the question, unless the Court, for reasons to be recorded, thinks fit to grant such adjournment.