1233 Thirumoorthy v. State Represented by the Inspector of Police under the JJ Act. Inspite thereof, charge sheet against the accused was filed directly before the Sessions Court (portrayed to be a designated Children’s Court, as per the counter affidavit filed by the State in the SLP). 9. Charges were framed against the accused who pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. The prosecution examined 25 witnesses and exhibited 35 documents and 10 material objects to prove its case. The accused was questioned under Section 313(1)(b) of CrPC and was confronted with the circumstances appearing against him in the prosecution case. He denied the allegations levelled against him and claimed to be innocent. However, neither oral nor documentary evidence was led in defence. The trial Court proceeded to convict and sentence the accused as mentioned above, vide and dated 18th February, 2019. 10. The mother of the accused appellant filed a petition before the Special Court, POCSO Act Cases, Salem praying that the sentence of her son may be reduced and he may be considered for early release in view of his good behaviour. 11. The Special Court, POCSO Act Cases, Salem held an inquiry; conducted psychological evaluation of the accused; procured reports from the Vellore District Social Security Department Probation Officer and Probation Officer of Government Special Home as well as the individual evaluation report of the accused and after analysing the above reports, proceeded to dismiss the application filed by the mother of the accused appellant vide dated 29th January, 2021. 12. Being aggrieved by his conviction and the sentences awarded by the trial Court, the accused appellant preferred an appeal being CRLA No. 451 of 2019 before the High Court of Judicature at Madras which came to be rejected vide impugned dated 15th April, 2021. Hence this appeal by special leave. 13. Ms. S. Janani, learned counsel representing the accused appellant vehemently urged that admittedly the accused appellant was a CICL on the date of the incident since his date of birth as recorded in the school documents is 30th May, 2000. She contended that the entire series of events commencing from the arrest of the accused appellant; the manner in which the investigation was conducted; the filing of the charge sheet in the Sessions Court; the procedure of trial right up to the conviction and sentencing of the accused appellant 1234 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is vitiated as the mandatory procedure provided under the JJ Act was not followed and was rather blatantly flouted. It was submitted that the police official who filed the charge sheet was not having the authority to conduct investigation because investigation into an offence allegedly committed by CICL has to be undertaken by the Special Juvenile Police Unit(SJPU) constituted under Section 107(2) of the JJ Act by the concerned State Government. 14. She urged that Section 3(1) provides for the principle of presumption of innocence, but the said provision was totally ignored in conducting the prosecution of the accused appellant and hence the entire trial is vitiated.