59. The third chapter, which is often described as the soul and essence of the 1985 Act, provides for the methodology that is to be adopted for the purposes of detecting, reviving or even winding up a sick industrial company. Section 15 enables the Board of Directors of a company which has become sick to make reference to BIFR for determination of measures which shall be adopted with respect to the company. The Central Government or the Reserve Bank or the State Government concerned may also make the reference to the BIFR for the same purpose if it has sufficient reasons to believe that a company has become sick. Once a reference is made, it is open to the BIFR to conduct an inquiry for determining whether the company has become sick. If the BIFR is satisfied on completion of the inquiry that the company has become sick, it can adopt any of the measures envisaged in Section 17 of the 1985 Act. When an is made under Section 17 a scheme with respect to the company shall be prepared by “the operating agency” specified in such under Section 18. The operating agency may also be directed by the BIFR under Section 21 to prepare, inter alia, an inventory of the books of account of the sick company and its assets and liabilities, a list of shareholders and secured and unsecured creditors, a valuation report in respect of the shares and the assets etc. Section 20 provides for the winding up of a sick company where the BIFR is of the opinion that such a company is not likely to become viable in the future. Section 22, which is at the heart of the dispute before us, inter alia, provides for the suspension of legal proceedings of the nature as specified in the said section. 60. The fourth chapter, among other things, provides for the detection of potentially sick companies in the initial stages by mandating the Board of Directors of such companies to bring such potential sickness to the knowledge of the BIFR and the shareholders of the companies. Punishment of up to two years imprisonment along with fine is also 346 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports prescribed in case of default in complying with the requirement. The issue of mismanagement leading to sickness in companies is sought to be dealt with under Section 24 of the 1985 Act which provides strict measures in case of proved misfeasance, breach of trust, etc. Section 26 bars the jurisdiction of civil courts in respect of matters which the BIFR or the AAIFR are empowered to determine. Section 32 is the non-obstante provision which imparts overriding effect to the 1985 Act over other laws in force except for the two legislations mentioned in the said section itself. The 1985 Act was repealed by the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 2003 which was notified on 01.12.2016. 61. Having discussed in detail the scheme of the 1985 Act and the object and purpose behind its enactment, we shall now proceed to answer the issues framed by us.