It is the case of the appellant that neither NCLT nor NCLAT accorded due consideration to the above aspects while rejecting the application/ appeal of the appellant. 37. Per contra, on behalf of the respondents, it was urged that,- (a) the appellant had pressed its case only on the ground that it was a financial creditor, once this plea is found unsustainable, no relief can be granted to the appellant, as commercial wisdom of the COC is not justiciable; (b) NCLT has no power to recall its of approval, the remedy for the appellant was to file an appeal within the time provided by the statute; and (c) there has been inordinate delay on the part of the appellant in questioning the of approval. 38. At this stage, we may put on record that the appellant had set up its claim as a financial creditor. However, the appellant was found to be an operational creditor. Though a challenge to this finding has been laid but, during the course of arguments, the learned counsel for the appellant failed to demonstrate as to how could the appellant be considered a financial creditor. In view thereof, taking notice of the decision in Anand Sonbhadra (supra), we do not propose to deal with the submission that the appellant was a financial creditor. 39. Upon consideration of the rival submissions, following issues arise for our consideration in this appeal: (i) Whether in exercise of powers under sub-section (5) of Section 60, the Adjudicating Authority (i.e., NCLT) can recall an of approval passed under sub-section (1) of Section 31 of the IBC?. (ii) Whether the application for recall of the was barred by time? (iii) Whether the resolution plan put forth by the resolution applicant did not meet the requirements of sub-section (2) of Section 30 of the IBC read with Regulations 37 and 38 of the CIRP Regulations, 2016? (iv) As to what relief, if any, the appellant is entitled to? 280 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Recall Application is maintainable. 40. Section 60 of the IBC specifies that the Adjudicating Authority in relation to insolvency resolution and liquidation for corporate persons including corporate debtors and personal guarantors thereof shall be the NCLT having territorial jurisdiction over the place where the registered office of the corporate person is located. Sub-section (5) of Section 60 provides that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force, the NCLT shall have jurisdiction to entertain or dispose of: (a) any application or proceeding by or against the corporate debtor or corporate person; (b) any claim made by or against the corporate debtor or corporate person, including claims by or against any of its subsidiaries situated in India; and (c) any question of priorities or any question of law or facts, arising out of or in relation to the insolvency resolution or liquidation proceedings of the corporate debtor or corporate person under the IBC. 41. The NCLT has been constituted by the Central Government in exercise of power under Section 408 of the Companies Act, 2013.