The only reason for initiating reassessment proceedings was the impression of the assessing officer that there was an increase in the capital and current accounts of the partners upon a comparison of the balance sheets for the assessment year 1985 – 1986 and for the assessment year 1993 – 1994 which could not be properly explained. The 658 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports assessing officer also formed the above belief on the basis of the balance sheet for the assessment year 1989 – 1990 which was obtained from the South Indian Bank. According to him, on both counts, the revenue could not have initiated proceedings for reopening of concluded assessments that too under Section 143 (3) of the Act. He submits that CIT(A), in the appeal of the assessee for the assessment year 1989 -1990, had clearly held that such a balance sheet submitted before the bank was not reliable. Learned counsel asserts that an assessing officer would get the jurisdiction to reopen an assessment only on the basis of specific, reliable and relevant information coming to his possession subsequent to the original assessment and not otherwise. In support of such submission learned counsel has relied upon the decisions of this Court in: (i) M/s Phool Chand Bajrang Lal Vs. Income Tax Officer, (1993) 4 SCC 77. (ii) Srikrishna Private Limited Vs. ITO, Calcutta, (1996) 9 SCC 534. 21.8. Summing up his submissions, learned counsel submits that as rightly held by the Tribunal, it was the change of view of the assessing officer upon assessing the comparative accounts of the partners which led to the reassessments which is not based on any fresh material or evidence. It is evident that the assessing officer had only reviewed the original assessments on the basis of a fresh application of mind to the same set of facts. Therefore, it is a clear case of change of opinion leading to reassessment proceedings which is not permissible in law as held by this Court in CIT, Delhi Vs. Kelvinator of India Limited, (2010) 2 SCC 723. He therefore submits that the of the High Court is liable to be set aside and that of the Tribunal restored. 22. Mr. Shyam Gopal, learned counsel for the respondent at the outset submits that there is no merit at all in the civil appeals, and therefore, the civil appeals should be dismissed. 22.1. Adverting to Section 145 (1) of the Act, he submits that income from the profits of business shall be computed in accordance with the cash or mercantile or any other system of accounting regularly employed by the assessee. Since the business income [2024] 1 S.C.R. 659 M/S Mangalam Publications, Kottayam v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kottayam had to be computed by following the method of accounting adopted by the assessee and based on the books of accounts so maintained, the assessee was required to produce the books of accounts but when the books of accounts were not available, at least to furnish the particulars in terms of Section 139 (9) (f) of the Act.