Since the partition could not be implemented, a civil suit was stated to have been instituted as between the co-sharers. 14. The Collector states that the brother of the petitioner has consented for the demolition of property to the extent of his share. 5 WP No. 1335 of 2020. 6 “NHRC” 7 “PWD” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2353 In Re: Manoj Tibrewal Akash 15. When the petitioner moved the NHRC by a letter dated 04 October 2019, a detailed enquiry ensued. The enquiry culminated in a report dated 3 February 2020, whereby the NHRC concluded that : (i) No notice was given prior to the demolition, save and except for a public announcement through loudspeakers; (ii) The house of the petitioner who was the complainant before the NHRC was constructed on land purchased by his grandfather in 1960 and 1964; (iii) The spot inspections and measurements done by Revenue Department officials in the presence of the NHRC enquiry team revealed that the extent of the encroachment on Government land was about 3.70 meters in length and demolition of that limited extent was justified because the land was falling under a 16-meter-wide road; (iv) However, the house was demolished beyond the extent of the encroachment of 3.70 meters and the actual demolition was in fact between 5 to 8 meters; (v) No compensation has been tendered for the demolition of the property; (vi) The demolition action commenced on 7 July 2019 and on 13 September 2019, the house, which was 16 meters from the center of the road was demolished; and (vii) The video clip provided by the officials of NH-PWD revealed that household goods, as alleged by the complainant, were still in the house before the work of demolition commenced. 16. In this backdrop, the findings of the NHRC indicate that at the highest, demolition to the limited extent of 3.70 meters may have been justified on the ground of encroachment but there was no justification for the demolition beyond the 3.70 meters. The NHRC concluded that the government agency had failed to provide any documents to support that the road in front of the petitioner’s house was 32 meters (16 meters on each side from the centre of the road). The revenue records and the NH-PWD records revealed that the road width in front of the house was only 16 meters (8 meters on each side from the centre of the road). However, the District administration and officers demolished properties beyond the permissible extent, upto 2354 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 32 meters (16 meters from the centre of the road on both sides) without authority of law. 17. The NHRC, therefore, opined that a prima facie violation of the human rights of the petitioner and his family was established. The NHRC: (i) Issued notice under Section 18(a)(1) of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 to the Government of Uttar Pradesh through its Chief Secretary to show cause why interim compensation ought not to be directed to be paid to the petitioner; (ii) Directed the Director General of Police to register an FIR on the petitioner’s complaint and have it investigated by the CBCID; and (iii) Directed the Chief Secretary to take Departmental/punitive action against the errant officers of the District Administration, PWD or Police who dispossessed the petitioner and his family.