Supreme Court Reports recognized by the Commission in accordance with the regulations made in that behalf under the Act. Section 3 states that the Central Government may, on the advice of the UGC, declare by notification that any institution for higher education shall be deemed to be a University for the purposes of the Act. All the provisions of the UGC Act would apply to deemed-to-be-Universities just as they apply to universities.81 Under the UGC Act, an institution (which is not a university or deemed-to-be university) can be specially empowered by an Act of Parliament to confer degrees.82 90. Two facets emerge from the above discussion. First, only Universities can confer degrees;83 and second, before the enactment of the UGC Act, the University had to necessarily be incorporated by a legislation for the degrees conferred by them to be recognised. Thus, the argument of the petitioners narrows down to one aspect. According to the submission, a member or community belonging to a minority despite making efforts through representation, mobilisation and participation to establish a University cannot be regarded to have ‘established’ a Minority educational institution for the purpose of Article 30(1) only because the University was incorporated through a legislation. A brief analysis of the nature of Universities is necessary to unravel this paradox. 91. The Wood despatch noted that the purpose of universities upon their establishment was to confer academic degrees on students as evidence of attainment of proficiency in the branch of study.84 Universities were instituted, “not so much to be in themselves places of instruction, as to test the value of the education obtained elsewhere”.85 Affiliated colleges and other institutions educated students and sent them to universities where their proficiency was to be tested.86 This limited role of Indian Universities upon their establishment was recognised in the statutory enactments which incorporated the first three Universities in India. The preamble to Act No. II of 1857 which established and incorporated the University at 81 UGC Act, Section 3 82 UGC Act, Section 22 83 Also see St. David’s College, Lampeter v. Ministry of Education, 1951 All ER 559 84 Charles Wood, The despatch of 1854 on General education in India. [25]; 85 Report of the Indian Universities Commission 1902 [ 7] 86 Willium Hunter, Report of the Indian Education Commission 1882 [25-26] “ Hunter Commission” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1729 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. Calcutta, Act XXII of 1857 which established and incorporated the University at Bombay, and Act XXVII of 1857 which established and incorporated the University at Madras stipulated that the Universities were established to ascertain (through an examination) those persons who had acquired proficiency in different branches. This was the only power conferred upon Universities.87 The enactments also provided that only candidates who were authorised through a certificate from one of the institutions authorized by them shall be a candidate for the degree.88 However, the University at Punjab incorporated in 1882 had greater scope. In 1869, an institution styled the Lahore University College (and the Punjab University College later) was established in pursuance of the wishes of the Chiefs, Nobles and influential classes of Punjab.