This, in the considered view of the Court, would not become publishing or transmitting of material, as is necessary under Section 67B of the IT Act. At best, as contended, the petitioner could be a porn addict, who has watched pornographic material. Nothing beyond this, is alleged against the petitioner. If the facts are pitted against the ingredients necessary to drive home Section 67B of the IT Act, what would unmistakably emerge is, further proceedings cannot be permitted to be continued, as it would become an abuse of process of law. [...] 9. The Apex Court in the afore laid postulates holds that even if the facts that forms the complaint is accepted as true, it would not make out any offence. In such cases, even investigation should not be permitted to be continued. Therefore, the impugned proceedings cannot be permitted to be continued, as it does not make out an offence under Section 67B of the IT Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 71. We are conscious of the fact that the aforesaid decision of Inayathulla N (1) (supra) was subsequently taken in review by the learned Single Judge of the Karnataka High Court under the nomenclature “recall” upon realising that Section 67B of the IT Act had been misinterpreted more particularly the failure to advert to sub-section (b) of the said provision which criminalizes the browsing of child pornographic sites. 212 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Consequently, in Inayathulla N (2) v. State reported in 2024 KHC 28204 the learned Single Judge set aside its earlier in Inayathulla N (1) (supra) by observing that although Section 67B sub-section (a) of the IT Act may not apply in the absence of any transmission or publication of any child pornography, yet sub-section (b) of the said provision would indeed be applicable where the allegations involve browsing or viewing of any child pornographic material. It is relevant to note that although the court was apprised of the fact that even Section 15 of the POCSO was being contemplated to be added in the chargesheet, yet the High Court in view of the limited question before it did not deem it necessary to go into the applicability of the said provision at that stage. The relevant observations read as under: - “5. This Court accepting the facts had allowed the petition in terms of its dated 10-07-2024. [...] After release of the , the State appears to have noticed the short assistance rendered by it, as also the fact that the cyber tipline/2nd respondent was not heard in the matter. The further fact is that the State has filed an application before the Court to bring in Section 15 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offices Act, 2012 (‘POCSO Act’ for short). [...] By a separate passed on 19-07-2024, the I.A. filed by the State stood answered and the dated 10-07- 2024, by accepting the reasons indicated in the affidavit was recalled and the matter was restored to file. xxx xxx xxx 8.