v. M/s BSK Realtors LLP & Anr. Collector shall determine the market value of the building or assets attached with the land in accordance with section 29 and shall further award solatium in accordance with section 30 of the 2013 Act; x. In the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, since it is difficult to reverse the clock back, the compliance of Chapter (V) pertaining to “Rehabilitation and Resettlement Award” is hereby dispensed with; and xi. The expropriated landowners shall be entitled to seek reference for enhancement of compensation in accordance with Chapter-VIII of the 2013 Act. b) The SLPs under GROUP B.2 have been rendered infructuous as the appeals carried by the appellant-authorities have already been allowed by this Court and the impugned and of the High Court have been set aside after applying the law laid down in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra). No question of filing a subsequent SLP against the same and by the appellants, therefore, arises. These SLPs are accordingly dismissed at their threshold. c) In one case under GROUP C.1 (GNCTD VS. RAMPHAL SINGH [Diary No.- 19697/2022]), it is an admitted position of the appellant/GNCTD that neither possession has been taken nor compensation granted. With the twin conditions under section 24(2) of the 2013 Act having been met, applying the principles laid down in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra) is, therefore, unwarranted in this context. Thus, keeping in mind the principles of public interest that we have carved out earlier, it is imperative to invoke our jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution and subject this case to the eleven directions previously issued for Groups A and B.1. d) With respect to the SLPs (now civil appeals, leave having been granted by us) which fall in GROUP C.2 and C.3, the same are directed against one or the other of the High Court where acquisition has been declared to have lapsed under section 24 (2) of the 2013 Act. While doing so, the High Court has followed the decision of this Court in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) case or such other decisions, 1200 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports all of which have since been overruled by the Constitution Bench in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra). Since the twin conditions under section 24(2) of the 2013 Act have not been met in these Civil Appeals, the land acquisition proceedings would not lapse following the test laid down in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra). These Civil Appeals are accordingly allowed, the impugned s of the High Court in each case are set aside and the acquisition of the landowners’ lands under the 1894 Act is accordingly upheld. This will, however, not preclude the landowners from recovery of the compensation amount, if already not paid or to the extent it is not paid, along with interest and other statutory benefits under the 1894 Act. Similarly, they shall be at liberty to seek reference under section 18 of the 1894 Act in accordance with law. The GNCTD and its authorities are directed to take physical possession of the lands falling under Group C.2 and C.3 forthwith, if not already taken and continue uninterruptedly to complete the public infrastructure projects.