277 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal Society v. Superior Court, 658 P 2d 709 : 33 Cal 3d 419 (1983)] and observed : (Intellectuals Forum case [(2006) 3 SCC 549], SCC p. 575, para 76) “76. … This is an articulation of the doctrine from the angle of the affirmative duties of the State with regard to public trust. Formulated from a negatory angle, the doctrine does not exactly prohibit the alienation of the property held as a public trust. However, when the State holds a resource that is freely available for the use of the public, it provides for a high degree of judicial scrutiny on any action of the Government, no matter how consistent with the existing legislations, that attempts to restrict such free use. To properly scrutinise such actions of the Government, the courts must make a distinction between the Government›s general obligation to act for the public benefit, and the special, more demanding obligation which it may have as a trustee of certain public resources….” (emphasis in original) 8. In Fomento Resorts and Hotels Ltd. v. Minguel Martins [(2009) 3 SCC 571 : (2009) 1 SCC (Civ) 877], this Court was called upon to consider whether the appellant was entitled to block the passage to the beach by erecting a fence in the garb of protecting its property. After noticing the s to which reference has been made hereinabove, the Court held : (SCC pp. 614-15 & 619, paras 53-55 & 65) “53. The public trust doctrine enjoins upon the Government to protect the resources for the enjoyment of the general public rather than to permit their use for private ownership or commercial purposes. This doctrine puts an implicit embargo on the right of the State to transfer public properties to private party if such transfer affects public interest, mandates affirmative State action for effective management of natural resources and empowers the citizens to question ineffective management thereof. 278 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 54. The heart of the public trust doctrine is that it imposes limits and obligations upon government agencies and their administrators on behalf of all the people and especially future generations. For example, renewable and non-renewable resources, associated uses, ecological values or objects in which the public has a special interest (i.e. public lands, waters, etc.) are held subject to the duty of the State not to impair such resources, uses or values, even if private interests are involved. The same obligations apply to managers of forests, monuments, parks, the public domain and other public assets. Professor Joseph L. Sax in his classic article, ‘The Public Trust Doctrine in Natural Resources Law : Effective Judicial Intervention’ (1970), indicates that the public trust doctrine, of all concepts known to law, constitutes the best practical and philosophical premise and legal tool for protecting public rights and for protecting and managing resources, ecological values or objects held in trust. 55. The public trust doctrine is a tool for exerting long- established public rights over short-term public rights and private gain.