Insofar as alcoholic liquors for human consumption is concerned, the States have the power to levy excise duty. 13.7 Therefore, in my view, the framers of the Constitution bifurcated alcoholic liquors for human consumption as distinct from alcohol used for medicinal and toilet preparations or any other liquor including “industrial liquor” on which excise duty is leviable under Entry 84 – List I. What is the purpose of excluding levy of excise duty under Entry 84 – List I on alcoholic liquors for human consumption and including the same under Entry 51 – List II and thereby giving the powers to the State Legislature to levy excise duty on such alcoholic liquors? The intent of the framers of the Constitution was to categorize alcoholic liquors into following two categories and accordingly divide the legislative powers between Parliament and State Legislature: (a) alcoholic liquors for human consumption (potable alcoholic liquors); and (b) alcoholic liquors not for human consumption such as “industrial alcohol” (non-potable alcoholic liquors). At this stage itself, it is made clear that if alcoholic liquor, which is manufactured for the purpose of using the same as a raw material in the manufacture or production of any other “industrial product” and is subject to a process, would not come within the scope and ambit of “alcoholic liquors for human consumption”. As noted, the said product is also known as “industrial alcohol”. Such “alcoholic liquors” or “industrial alcohol” are not used directly for human consumption as a beverage. On the other hand, it would be an abuse of such “industrial alcohol”, if consumed as a beverage. Merely because it can be subjected to a process and mischievous human consumption is possible, does that make “industrial alcohol” “alcoholic liquors for human [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2137 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons consumption” within the meaning of Entry 84 – List I and Entry 51 – List II and also “intoxicating liquors” within the scope and ambit of Entry 8 – List II? 13.8 A person or an entity which is not engaged in the manufacture of alcoholic liquors for human consumption as a beverage is not authorised to manufacture “industrial alcohol” and subject it to a process and sell it as alcoholic liquors for human consumption. The same is prohibited and has to be dealt with having regard to the scope and ambit of Entry 8 – List II. On the other hand, it is only “intoxicating liquors” which is directly for human consumption as a beverage and the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of such “intoxicating liquors”, as per Entry 8 – List II, which is within the competence of State Legislature i.e. for the purpose of regulation of such “intoxicating liquors” which would also entail levy of an excise duty on such “intoxicating liquors” as per Entry 51 – List II as alcoholic liquor for human consumption. Therefore, on “intoxicating liquors” which is alcoholic liquors directly for human consumption as a beverage, excise duty is levied by the State Legislature and regulated under Entry 8 – List II.