The relevant paragraph is reproduced hereinbelow: “35. Needless to mention that the appellant may avail such other remedies as may be available in accordance with law including arbitration to realise its dues, if any.” 126. The liberty granted by this Court to the respondent has been prefixed by the words “Needless to mention…”. Hence, it is amply clear that the observations were merely clarificatory and not intended to confer 200 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports upon the respondent a special right or privilege to file a proceeding which is not otherwise permissible under law. The intention cannot be said to have been to help the respondent come out of its action of unconditionally withdrawing the first Arbitration Petition or to deprive the appellant of defences available to it under law. Such intention cannot be attributed to this Court, particularly in the absence of any discussion on this point. 127. Further, the said paragraph only gives liberty to the respondent to avail such other remedies “as may be available” “in accordance with law”. Hence, it cannot be construed as giving the respondent the liberty to file a proceeding that is not available or that is not in accordance with law. 128. The reliance placed by the petitioner upon the paragraph 35 referred to above is nothing but a completely incorrect reading of the said paragraph. In BSNL v. Telephone Cables Limited reported in 2010 5 SCC 213, this Court observed thus: “41. Instances abound where observations of the court reserving liberty to a litigant to further litigate have been misused by litigants to pursue remedies which were wholly barred by time or to revive stale claims or create rights or remedies where there were none. It is needless to say that courts should take care to ensure that reservation of liberty is made only where it is necessary, such reservation should always be subject to a remedy being available in law, and subject to remedy being sought in accordance with law.” (Emphasis supplied) 129. The liberty to avail remedies available in law does not confer a right to avail such remedies. Seen from the perspective of Hohfeld’s analysis of jural relations, liberties (or privileges) do not entail corresponding duties on others. Thus, having the freedom to seek a remedy does not imply an enforceable claim to it. This distinction underscores the fine difference between what one is free to do and what one is entitled to demand. 130. Hence, we are of the view that paragraph 35 as extracted above does not help the respondent as the fresh Section 11 petition could [2024] 12 S.C.R. 201 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad be said to be hit by the principles analogous to 23 Rule 1 and is also barred by limitation for being beyond the prescribed period of 3 years. F. CONCLUSION 131. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we have reached to the following conclusion: (i) In the absence of any liberty being granted at the time of withdrawal of the first application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996, the fresh application filed by the respondent under the same provision was not maintainable; (ii) The fresh application filed by the respondent under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 was time-barred; (iii) The respondent is not entitled to the benefit of Section 14(2) of the Limitation Act; and (iv) The respondent is also not entitled to the benefit of condonation of delay under Section 5 of the Limitation Act.