This broad authority allows the CIC to take necessary actions for the efficient functioning of the Commission, including the formation of benches for the allocation of work among Information Commissioners. II. The absence of an explicit provision for the formation of benches in the RTI Act does not negate the CIC’s authority to do so. The [2024] 7 S.C.R. 625 Central Information Commission v. D.D.A. & Anr. power to form benches is inherently included within the CIC’s general superintendence and management responsibilities. The broad language of Section 12(4) of the RTI Act indicates that the CIC has comprehensive authority to organize the internal functioning of the Commission, which necessarily includes the ability to form benches for the efficient handling of cases. III. The ability to form benches is essential for the efficient disposal of the large volume of cases handled by the CIC. The Commission registers nearly 20,000 cases annually and deals with approximately 1,500 cases monthly. Hearing cases collectively by all the Information Commissioners and the CIC together would be cumbersome and would adversely affect the expeditious and effective disposal of cases. The formation of benches allows for the efficient allocation of work and ensures the timely handling of cases, which is crucial for upholding the right to information. IV. The distinction between rule-making power conferred upon the Central Government and regulation-making power conferred on statutory bodies like the CIC supports the Commission’s authority to frame Regulations for internal management and functional allocation. The regulation-making power deals with matters of internal management, functional allocation, and measures in aid of discharge of functions. This distinction validates the CIC’s approach and underscores its authority to manage its affairs autonomously without impinging on the rule-making powers of the Central Government. V. The principle of non-interference is crucial for maintaining the integrity and efficacy of the CIC. Any undue interference in its administrative functions, such as the power to constitute benches, would significantly impede its ability to handle the large volume of cases efficiently and expeditiously. Allowing the Commission to function independently and exercise its powers of superintendence, direction, and management without external constraints is essential for fulfilling its role in promoting transparency and accountability. VI. The practical necessity of forming benches is further underscored by the large volume of cases the CIC handles. The Commission deals with a substantial number of cases each month, and 626 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports having all Information Commissioners and the CIC hear cases collectively would be impractical and counterproductive. The formation of benches allows for better case management, timely disposal, and effective implementation of the RTI Act’s objectives, ensuring that the right to information is upheld in both letter and spirit. 10. On behalf of the respondent no.1-DDA, learned counsel stated that he has no instructions to address on the issue of Regulations being declared as ultra vires. However, respondent no.2 although was not present at the time of hearing, he has filed written submissions which are summarised hereunder: I. The respondents underscored that certain powers, such as summoning high-ranking officials and conducting detailed inquiries, were traditionally within the domain of judicial authorities.