When he opened the cover of the sump tank, he bend down and lifted the hand of the body of Rajini, who was already killed and put in the sump by us, since Rajini’s body was in decomposed stage, his hand had alone come. I put the hand in sack bag. Then we tied rope in chest, myself and xxx pulled the body outside from sump. Then, head has come alone. I put head in the 98 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS sack bag. Then xxx took knife from me and cut Rajini’s body into two pieces and put them in two sack bags, then put knife and xxx in another sack bag and kept the sack bags near kitchen, then xxx closed the sump… …via Chinnavaikal Street and Gandhi Street, turned on the left side of the street, in front of small clock tower, via Varnarapettai Billu Shop, on the centre of the bridge of Railway Crossing on the left side, threw the two bags, containing the decomposed body of Rajini, on the right side threw the sack bag, containing knife and xxx… …Also, I gave statement that if I was taken, I would identify the Chinnavaikal street, which is the place of occurrence, my maternal uncle’s house which is in the same street.. the place where I had left the motor cycle of my (nc) and the place where I had put the body of Rajini... ” 10. On the aspect of the recovery of two nylon sack bags with body parts, we have affirmative depositions of Chinta Kodanda Rao (PW- 30), Inspector of Police, PS Grand Bazaar, public witness Devadass (PW-21) and Satyamurthy (PW-11). The recovery was photographed by Selvaganapathy (PW-26), police photographer vide photographs marked Exhibit P-19. The recovery was duly recorded in the rough sketch plan (Exhibit P-30) and the mahazar (Exhibit P-31). 11. On 29.04.2008, accused no. 4 - Mohan Kumar @ Mohan was arrested. On the same day, stolen items including, the motorcycle and ignition key of motorcycle, original registration book, insurance certificate of the motorcycle, iron box, home theatre and speaker box belonging to the deceased were recovered, as recorded vide seizure mahazar (Exhibits P-44, P-45, P-46 and P-47). 12. On 30.04.2008, eight articles were recovered from the water sump tank at the house of the deceased, namely, gloves, lower jaw, rib, cervical vertebrae, tarsal and metatarsal, small and big size bone pieces, and knee cap. T. Bairavasamy (PW-32), Circle Inspector, PS Odiansalai has deposed about the recovery and proved the Mahazar (Exhibit P-48). The recovery was photographed by Subburayan (PW- 25), police photographer vide photographs marked Exhibit P-18 and duly witnessed by public witness Devadass (PW-21). [2024] 1 S.C.R. 99 PERUMAL RAJA @ PERUMAL v. STATE, REP. BY INSPECTOR OF POLICE 13. To determine the identity of the deceased person, some of the body parts were sent for a superimposition test to C. Pushparani (PW-29), who was working as a Scientific Assistant Grade II, Anthropology Division, Forensic Sciences Department, Chennai.