Therefore, the said decision will have no application to the facts of this case. 4. The learned senior counsel for the appellant further submitted that the amalgamation or merger of the two companies does not involve any transfer within the meaning of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (for short, ‘TPA’). He submitted that only in view of the operation of Section 394 of the Companies Act, 1956, the assets and liabilities of the lessee had merged and devolved on the appellant. He urged that the sanctioning the scheme of amalgamation is an in rem, which binds everyone. He pointed out that in the scheme of amalgamation, there was no element of sale consideration or consideration for transfer. The learned senior counsel submitted that in the scheme subject matter of this appeal, the transferor personality ceased to exist and merged with the transferee. The learned senior counsel relied upon a decision of the High Court of Delhi in the case of Delhi Development Authority v. Nalwa Sons Investment Ltd. & Anr2. He also relied upon a decision of the Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi in the case of Vijaya C. Gursahaney v. Delhi Development Authority & Ors3. 5. The learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent-DDA invited our attention to the passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad on 30th July 1986. He submitted that clause (1) of the provides that the transferor company’s properties, rights and powers in respect of the property described in the first, second and third parts of schedule II shall be transferred without any further act or deed to the transferee company. He would, therefore, submit that the demand for unearned increase was lawful. 2 [2019] 6 SCR 783 : (2020) 17 SCC 782 3 1994 SCC Online Del 306 : 1994 II AD (Delhi) 770 432 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 6. We have given careful consideration to the submissions. In the perpetual leases, clause (II)(4)(a) was incorporated, which reads thus: “II. The Lessee for himself, his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns covenants with the Lessor in the manner following that is to say:- .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (4) (a) The lessee shall not sell, transfer, assign or otherwise part with the possession of the whole or any part of the commercial plot except with the previous consent in writing of the lessor which he shall be entitled to refuse in his absolute discretion. Provided that such consent shall not be given for a period of ten years from the commencement of this Lease unless in the opinion of the Lessor, exceptional circumstances exist for the grant of such consent. Provided further that in the event of the consent being given the Lessor may impose such terms and conditions as he thinks fit and the Lessor shall be entitled to claim and recover a portion of the unearned increase in the value (i.e.