In view of the aforesaid facts, in my view, the trial court has committed an error of facts and law in passing the impugned passed below Exhibit 5 and the said is erroneous and against the settled principles of law. The trial court, while granting the interim relief, has not considered all the relevant aspects and passed the impugned . 17. Considering the fact that the plaintiffs filed Special Criminal Application No.859 of 2019 before this Court seeking direction for registration of FIR against the defendants and this Court vide dated 04.02.2019 directed the police authorities to register the FIR. It appears that the defendants filed Criminal Misc. Application No.1 of 2019 in Special Criminal Application No.859 of 2019 for recalling of the dated 04.02.2019, which came to be rejected by this Court. It reveals that against the dated 04.02.2019 passed in Special Criminal Application No.859 of 2019 and dated 20.03.2019 passed in Criminal Misc. Application No.1 of 2019, the defendants preferred Special Leave to Appeal before the Hon’ble Supreme Court, which came to be dismissed vide dated 24.02.2020. 18. Considering the facts of the case, it appears that the plaintiffs have tried to see that any how, the defendants – appellants herein be ruined and surrendered to the demands of the original plaintiffs. It seems that the original plaintiffs one after another initiated proceedings against the present appellants including the civil as well as criminal. It is relevant tonote here that in criminal proceedings though “C” summary report came to be filed by the Investigating [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1355 Ramakant Ambalal Choksi v. Harish Ambalal Choksi & Others Officer before the concerned Court, the original plaintiffs by utilizing the political pressure have restrained the Investigating Officer to submit the “C” summary report before the concerned Court and/or to withdraw “C” summary report. It also appears that in earlier round of litigation, the original plaintiffs reached upto the Hon’ble Supreme Court as they are running the business and earning the income from the business. That though the appellants are now out of business and having crunch of money, the original plaintiffs are trying to see that the appellants surrender to the original plaintiffs and even surrender their source of income to the original plaintiffs. That the plethora of evidence which is produced before this Court, is never produced before the trial court and while granting the interim relief in favour of the original plaintiffs, the trial court has no occasioned to deal with such documentary evidence which is produced before this Court. In 2012, the business in the name and style of “Narayan Jewellery” was closed, however, in 2015, the plaintiffs have produced certificate of the chartered accountant wherein the amount disputed in question is shown as goods in transit. So all these facts are required to be decided by leading cogent, convincing and sufficient evidence before the trial court and, therefore, at this stage, the impugned passed by the trial court is absolutely erroneous and against the principles of law.