409 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. whether the provision was violative of Article 30(1) of the Constitution. This Court observed that the State has the power to regulate the administration of minority educational institutions in the interests of educational needs and discipline of the institution. However, it was observed that the State has no power to frame rules to completely take over the management of such institutions by superseding or dissolving their management. Hence, Section 7(2)(n) was declared invalid for violating Article 30(1). 67. The other issue before this Court was whether a statutory Board established for recognition of minority educational institutions must only comprise of persons belonging to the minority community. It was held that there is no constitutional obligation that such a Board must exclusively consist of members belonging to the minority community. It was observed: “7. […] Article 30(1) does not contemplate that an autonomous Educational Board entrusted with the duty of regulating the aided and recognised minorities institution, should be constituted only by persons belonging to minority community. Article 30(1) protects the minorities’ right to manage and administer institutions established by them according to their choice, but while seeking aid and recognition for their institutions there is no constitutional obligation that the Board granting aid or recognition or regulating efficiency in minority institution should consist of members exclusively belonging to minority communities. In the instant case the constitution of the Board under Section 3 of the Act ensures that its members are only those who are interested in teaching and research of Persian, Arabic and Islamic studies. This provision fully safeguards the interest of Madarasa of the Muslim community.” 68. The Madarsa Act allows the Board to prescribe curriculum and textbooks, conduct examinations, qualifications of teachers, and standards of equipment and buildings geared to ensure the maintenance of standards of education in Madarsas. The provisions of the Madarsa Act are reasonable because they subserve the object of recognition, that is, improving the academic excellence of students in the recognised Madarsas and making them capable to sit for examinations conducted by the Board. The statute also enables 410 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the students studying in the recognised Madarsas to pursue fields of higher education and seek employment. 69. Regulations pertaining to standards of education or qualification of teachers do not directly interfere with the administration of the recognized Madarsas. Such regulations are “designed to prevent maladministration of an educational institution”.89 The Madarsa Act does not directly interfere with the day-to-day administration of the recognized Madarsas.90 Further, the provisions of the Madarsa Act are “conducive to making the institution an effective vehicle of education for minority community” without depriving the educational institutions of their minority character. 70. Fundamental rights consist of both negative and positive postulates. They require the State to restrain its exercise of power and create conducive conditions for the exercise of rights.91 The essence of Article 30(1) is the recognition and preservation of different types of people, with diverse languages and different beliefs, while maintaining the basic principle of equality and secularism.92 In the spirit of positive secularism, Article 30 confers special rights on religious and linguistic minorities “because of their numerical handicap and to instil in them a sense of security and confidence”.93 The positive concept of secularism requires the State to take active steps to treat minority institutions on par with secular institutions while allowing them to retain their minority character.