They were fully aware of having executed the sale deed, their subsequent statement would only be termed as collusive and dishonest. The in the appeal court was not a decree on merits declaring any rights of the defendants to the suit (appellants in the appeal). In such circumstances, the sale deed dated 22.08.1983 could not be said to be hit by doctrine of lis pendens. 18. At this juncture, it would be appropriate to note the judicial decision which has been relied upon by the appellants to substantiate their claim that the sale deed is not hit by Section 52 of the TP Act. In Thomson Press (India) Ltd. v. Nanak Builders & Investors (P) Ltd.4 it was held that transfer of suit property pendente lite is not void ab initio, as it remains subservient to the pending litigation. The purchaser of any such property takes the bargain subject to the rights of the plaintiff in pending suit. Therefore, in the present case the sale deed dated 22.08.1983 is not hit by section 52 of the TP Act. 19. Referring to the second submission of the respondents regarding the compromise decree being valid in law, at the outset, XXIII Rule 3 CPC is reproduced: “3. Compromise of suit.—Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court that a suit has been adjusted wholly or in part by any lawful agreement or compromise 1 [in writing and signed by the parties] or where the defendant satisfied the plaintiff in respect to the whole or any part of the subject-matter of the suit, the Court shall such agreement, compromise or satisfaction to be recorded, and shall pass a decree in accordance therewith 2 [so far as it relates to the parties to the suit, whether or not the subject matter of the agreement, compromise or satisfaction is the same as the subject-matter of the suit.] [Provided that where it is alleged by one party and denied by the other that an adjustment or satisfaction has been arrived at, the Court shall decide the question; but not adjournment shall be granted for the purpose of deciding the question, unless the Court, for reasons to be recorded, thinks fit to grant such adjournment.] 4 [2013] 2 SCR 74 : (2013) 5 SCC 397 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1407 Amro Devi & Ors. v. Julfi Ram (Deceased) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. [Explanation.— An agreement or compromise which is void or voidable under the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (9 of 1872), shall not he deemed to be lawful within the meaning of this rule. ]” 20. A plain reading of the above provision clearly provides that for a valid compromise in a suit there has to be a lawful agreement or compromise in writing and signed by the parties which would then require it to be proved to the satisfaction of the Court. In the present case there is no document in writing containing the terms of the agreement or compromise. In the absence of any document in writing, the question of the parties signing it does not arise.