shall be governed by the respective Rules/s of States/UTs. v. The Judicial officers may be allowed to carry forward LTC anywhere in India beyond retirement for a period of one year. vi. There is no justification for extending the LTC/HTC facility to the retired Judicial officers. vii. As regards the foreign travel to SAARC countries, the District Judges and Senior Civil Judges may be allowed the said facility on two occasions in their service career and only economy class travel shall be allowed. viii. The Judicial officers shall not be required to avail of earned leave only, for LTC/HTC purpose and they may be permitted to avail of casual leave as a prefix and suffix to the extent of two days.” 55. LTC/HTC were components already provided for by the FNJPC and JPC. The recommendations of the SNJPC are on a continuum. We accept the recommendations, save and except for foreign travel to SAARC countries which shall be deleted. 14. Medical Allowance/Medical Facilities 56. The subject matter of the above allowance/facility has been duly considered in the earlier reports of the FNJPC and JPC.Before proceeding further, it would be appropriate to extract from the recommendations of the SNJPC in regard to medical allowances and medical facilities. The recommendations read as follows: “1. Fixed medical allowance shall be payable @Rs.3,000/- p.m. to the serving Judicial Officers with effect from 01.01.2016. 2. Fixed medical allowance shall be payable @Rs.4,000/- to the pensioners and family pensioners with effect from 01.01.2016. 3. The spouse or other dependents of Judicial Officers drawing family pension shall also be eligible for medical facilities/reimbursement at par with the pensioners of the judiciary. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 359 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors 4(a) The necessity of reference from the Medical Officer of a Government hospital shall be dispensed with. Straightaway, the Judicial Officers including pensioners/ family pensioners shall be entitled to have consultations/ treatment in the Government notified/empanelled private hospitals/Pathological Labs and seek reimbursement by submitting the bills as per the usual procedure (which is now being followed). 4(b) In regard to Judicial Officers governed by DGEHS or CGHS, the existing procedure which is quite simple and systematic, can be followed. 4(c) The Principal District Judges or Registry of High Court [in respect of Principal District Judge] shall be empowered to address credit letters to the concerned hospitals where the Judicial Officer or Judicial Pensioner/Family Pensioner has been or to be admitted as inpatient. 4(d) For the Pensioners and Family Pensioners, a Medical Card on the lines of what is being issued in Delhi as shown in Appendix III shall be issued by the Principal District Judge. 4(e) The expenditure incurred towards inpatient treatment or for serious ailments requiring more or less continuous treatment shall be processed and sanctioned by the Principal District Judges or other authorized Officer of that rank or as the case may be by the Registry of the High Courts. 4(f) In the case of emergency, the Judicial Officer, serving & retired as well as the family pensioner can take treatment in any nearest private hospital – not necessarily, Government notified hospitals and seek reimbursement as per the usual procedure.