9. In the above context, this Court in N.T. Devin Katti and Others v. Karnataka Public Service Commission and Others5 has held as under : “11. ….. Lest there be any confusion, we would like to make it clear that a candidate on making application for a post pursuant to an advertisement does not acquire any vested right of selection, but if he is eligible and is otherwise qualified in accordance with the relevant rules and the terms contained in the advertisement, he does acquire a vested right of being considered for selection is accordance with the rules as they existed on the date of advertisement. He cannot be deprived of that limited right on the amendment of rules during the pendency of selection unless the amended rules are retrospective in nature”. 10. A similar view has been expressed in Mohd. Sohrab Khan v. Aligarh Muslim University and Others6, where this Court did not approve the change of the criteria/qualification in the selection process by the Selection Committee constituted for filling up the post Lecturer in Chemistry in the respondent-University and observed as follows : 5 (1990) 3 SCC 157 6 [2009] 2 SCR 907 : (2009) 4 SCC 555 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1201 Anil Kishore Pandit v. The State of Bihar and Others “25. We are not disputing the fact that in the matter of selection of candidates, opinion of the Selection Committee should be final, but at the same time, the Selection Committee cannot act arbitrarily and cannot change the criteria/qualification in the selection process during its midstream. Merajuddin Ahmad did not possess a degree in Pure Chemistry and therefore, it was rightly held by the High Court that he did not possess the minimum qualification required for filling up the post of Lecturer in Chemistry, for Pure Chemistry and Industrial Chemistry are two different subjects. xxx xxx xxx 27. The Selection Committee during the stage of selection, which is midway could not have changed the essential qualification laid down in the advertisement and at that stage held that a Master’s degree-holder in Industrial Chemistry would be better suited for manning the said post without there being any specific advertisement in that regard. The very fact that the University is now manning the said post by having a person from the discipline of Pure Chemistry also leads to the conclusion that the said post at that stage when it was advertised was meant to be filled up by a person belonging to Pure Chemistry stream. 11. Quoting the aforesaid decision in Zonal Manager, Bank of India, Zonal Office, Kochi and Others v. Aarya K. Babu and Another7, this Court made the following pertinent observations : “14. If the above decision in Mohd. Sohrab Khan case [Mohd. Sohrab Khan v. Aligarh Muslim University], is kept in perspective it is clear that while examining the correctness of the action of the employer what would be sacrosanct will be the qualification criteria published in the notification, since if any change made to the qualification criteria midstream is accepted by the Court so as to benefit only the petitioners before it, without making it open to 7 [2019] 11 SCR 627 : (2019) 8 SCC 587 1202 [2024] 2 S.C.R.