17.3 The matter does not rest here. In many of the s the presence of the parties and/or their counsels is not properly recorded. Further, it is not evident as to on whose behalf adjournment has been sought and granted. It is very relevant fact to be considered at different stages of the case and also to find out as to who was the party delaying the matter. At the time of grant of adjournment, it should specifically be mentioned as to the purpose therefor. This may be helpful in imposition of costs also, finally once we shift to the real terms costs. VIII. RELIEFS AND DIRECTIONS 18. In view of our aforesaid discussions, the present appeal is disposed of with the following directions: (i) The provision of Section 14(3) of the Act, providing for the period of three months for completion of a preliminary assessment under Section 15 of the Act, is not mandatory. The same is held to be directory. The period can be extended, for the reasons to be recorded in writing, by the Chief Judicial Magistrate or, as the case may be, the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate. (ii) The words ‘Children’s Court’ and ‘Court of Sessions’ in Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and the 2016 Rules shall be read interchangeably. Primarily jurisdiction vests in the Children’s Court. However, in the absence of constitution of such Children’s Court in the district, the power to be exercised under the Act is vested with the Court of Sessions. (iii) Appeal, under Section 101(2) of the Act against an of the Board passed under Section 15 of the Act, can be filed 812 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports within a period of 30 days. The appellate court can entertain the appeal after the expiry of the aforesaid period, provided sufficient cause is shown. Endeavour has to be made to decide any such appeal filed within a period of 30 days. (iv) There is no error in exercise of revisional jurisdiction by the High Court in the present matter. (v) There is no error in the dated 15.11.2023 passed by the High Court dealing with the procedure as provided for under the Act in terms of Section 7(4) thereof. (vi) passed by the Board as signed by the Principal Magistrate on 05.04.2022 was final. However, the same is subject to right of appeal of the aggrieved party. The appellant shall have the right of appeal against the aforesaid within a period of 10 days from today. The appellate authority shall make an endeavour to decide the same within a period of two months from the date of filing. (vii) In all the s passed by the Courts, Tribunals, Boards and the Quasi-Judicial Authorities the names of the Presiding Officer and/or the Members who sign the s shall be mentioned. In case any identification number has been given, the same can also be added. (viii) The Presiding Officers and/or Members while passing the shall properly record presence of the parties and/or their counsels, the purpose for which the matter is being adjourned and the party on whose behalf the adjournment has been sought and granted.