62. From the above discussion, the position that would emerge is that, firstly, even the accused or the convicts have certain rights and safeguards in the form of constitutional provisions and criminal law. Secondly, the State and its officials cannot take arbitrary and excessive measures against the accused or for that matter even against the convicts without following the due process as sanctioned by law. The third principle that would emerge is that when the right of an accused or a convict is violated on account of illegal or arbitrary exercise of power by the State or its officials or on account of their negligence, inaction, or arbitrary action, there has to be an institutional accountability. One of the measures for redressing the grievance for violation of a right would be to grant compensation. At the same time, if any of the officers of the State has abused his powers or acted in a totally arbitrary or mala fide manner, he cannot be spared for such an illegal, arbitrary, mala fide exercise of power. VI. PRINCIPLES OF CRIMINAL LAW: PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE AND NATURAL JUSTICE. 63. The principle, that the criminal justice process is also to be in accordance with the principle of the rule of law, is also very well enshrined in the Constitution. The principle, that “an accused is not guilty unless proven so in a court of law” is foundational to any legal system. It reflects the presumption of innocence, which means that every person accused of a crime is considered innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt by a court of law. This principle ensures that individuals are not unfairly punished or stigmatized based solely on accusations or suspicions. 64. The right to a fair trial is essential in upholding the rule of law and protecting individual liberties. It ensures that the principles of natural justice and fair process are being strictly followed. H.L.A. Hart summarized the principle of natural justice as follows: “It may be said that the distinction between a good legal system which conforms at certain points to morality and 34 2019 INSC 305 : [2019] 4 SCR 709 772 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports justice, and a legal system which does not, is a fallacious one, because a minimum of justice is necessarily realized whenever human behaviour is controlled by general rules publicly announced and judicially applied. Indeed we have already pointed out,’ in analysing the idea of justice, that its simplest form (justice in the application of the law) consists in no more than taking seriously the notion that what is to be applied to a multiplicity of different persons is the same general rule, undeflected by prejudice, interest, or caprice. This impartiality is what the procedural standards known to English and American lawyers as principles of ‘Natural Justice’ are designed to secure. Hence, though the most odious laws may be justly applied, we have, in the bare notion of applying a general rule of law, the germ at least of justice.”35 65.