Meaning thereby the Special Court under the 2005 Act is at the level of the Sessions Court. 806 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11.6 Section 101(1) of the Act deals with filing of appeals against certain s passed by the Board or the Committee before the Children’s Court, as the case may be. The proviso to the aforesaid sub-section provides that in case there is any delay in filing the appeal, the power of condonation has been vested with the Court of Sessions. The word ‘Children’s Court’ is not mentioned, though appeal is maintainable before Children’s Court. 11.7 Sub-section (2) of Section 101 of the Act provides for an appeal against an passed by the Board under Section 15 of the Act. The appellate authority is stated to be Court of Sessions. 11.8 Rule 13 of the 2016 Rules deals with the procedure in relation to Children’s Court and Monitoring Authorities. Sub-rules (3) and (4) thereof which deal with appeal filed under Section 101(2) of the Act refer the appellate authority as the ‘Children’s Court’ though in Section 101(2) of the Act appeal is stated to be maintainable before the Court of Sessions. From the above provision also, it is evident that the words ‘Court of Sessions’ and the ‘Children’s Court’ have been used interchangeably. 12. Section 102 of the Act provides for revisional power of the High Court. This again talks of calling for records of any proceedings in which a Committee or a Board or Children’s Court or Court has passed an . It does not talk of exercise of revisional power against the passed by the Sessions Court. To put the record straight, it is added that the term ‘court’ has been defined in the Act in Section 2(23) to mean a civil court, which has jurisdiction in matters of adoption and guardianship and may include the District Court, Family Court and City Civil Courts. 12.1 Similarly, sub-section (2) provides that against an passed by the Board after preliminary assessment under Section 15 of the Act, the appeal is maintainable before the Court of Sessions. The Board is headed by the Principal Magistrate. Here, the word Children’s Court is not mentioned. 12.2 From a conjoint reading of the aforesaid provisions of the Act and the 2016 Rules, in our opinion, wherever words ‘Children’s Court’ or the ‘Sessions Court’ are mentioned both should be read in alternative. In the sense where Children’s Court is [2024] 5 S.C.R. 807 Child in Conflict with Law Through his Mother v. The State of Karnataka and Another available, even if the appeal is said to be maintainable before the Sessions Court, it has to be considered by the Children’s Court. Whereas where no Children’s Court is available, the power is to be exercised by the Sessions Court. (B) TIME FOR FILING APPEAL AGAINST OF THE BOARD UNDER SECTION 15 OF THE ACT 13. Though, the right of appeal has been provided in Section 15(2) and Section 101(2) of the Act against an passed under Section 18(3) after preliminary assessment under Section 15 of the Act, however, neither any time has been fixed for filing the appeal nor any provision is provided for condonation of delay in case need be.