15. of the High Court: According to the High Court, the accounts of PWs 1, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8, who witnessed the incident, converge and are consistent with the injuries, weapons and motive for the murder of the deceased. The High Court correctly relied on the evidence of PW-6 who was in an auto-rickshaw along with the deceased on the day of the incident. PW6’s evidence that he boarded the auto-rickshaw of PW-5, followed by the deceased and Rajitha (PW-9) joining him, was believed by the High Court. 16. The account of PW6 being corroborated by the evidence of PWs 1, 3, 4, 7 and 8, the High Court held that the evidence conclusively establishes the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. The High Court also noted the submission relating to the contradictions in the Complaint (Ex. P1) and the testimonies of PWs 1, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8, specifically relating to the acts of assault, however, the High Court came to the conclusion that they were minor in nature. 17. Though the High Court saw that the trial court extensively examined the evidence and considered all the submissions, it has nevertheless considered the evidence afresh and after a detailed examination, arrived at the same conclusion. We have given our anxious consideration and have scrutinised the evidence of all the eye- [2024] 2 S.C.R. 7 Velthepu Srinivas and Others v. State of Andhra Pradesh (Now State of Telangana) and Anr. witnesses in detail. We are in full agreement with the decision of the Trial Court and the High Court. Their analyses and conclusions are based on correct appreciation of evidence and law. However, there is one aspect which stands out in the above-referred analyses of the Trial Court and the High Court, and that pertains to the conclusion on the culpability of A-3 for murder. We will now examine the evidence as against A-3. 18. Evidence against Accused No.3: To commence with, the FIR states that A-3 hit the deceased on the head, thereby causing death. The Chargesheet states that A3 used a stone to do the same. However, no further details have been provided. Further as we examine the testimonies of all the eyewitnesses the following picture emerges. PWs 1, 3, 4 and 6 state that the A-3 had used a stone to hit the deceased’s head. PW-7 and PW-8 do not speak about his role. 19. PW-1, in his examination-in-chief and cross-examination, has respectively stated as follows: Chief - “When I was trying to go near the deceased, A-3 threatened me saying that if I go there he would kill me. A-3 hit the deceased with a stone.” Cross - “I read Ex. P-1 complaint and it does not show that A-1 and A-3 threatened me and other eye witnesses to kill if we tried to rescue the deceased” 20. PW-3, in his examination-in-chief and cross-examination, has respectively stated as follows: Chief - “After hearing the cries of the said Rajitha and Swamy I, PW1, Kona Mallesh Akireeddy Ramesh, T.Odaiah rushed to the spot.