The said letter also bears endorsement of the Tehsildar and other Revenue Officials and also contains the signature of the plaintiff. This letter clearly shows that the plaintiff was aware of the existence of the Veterinary Hospital in 1981. Thus, he had made a false and incorrect statement in his deposition that the hospital was constructed only two years ago. Another fact worth mentioning here would be that, during cross examination, the plaintiff stated that he did not remember as to whether the hospital was in existence since 1958-59 or not. 23. Considering this letter dated 24.04.1981, even if we assume that the Respondent became aware of the hospital’s existence on this date for the very first time, yet the suit filed by him shall not fall within the limitation period. Article 65 of the Limitation Act clearly stipulates that in a suit for possession of immovable property, the period of limitation will be twelve years from when the possession of the defendant becomes adverse to the plaintiff. In the facts and circumstances of the case, the Respondent-plaintiff’s suit is clearly barred by limitation. 24. The argument that State could not claim adverse possession is not germane to the present case. Fact remains and has been duly established from the record that the hospital had been constructed on the land belonging to the predecessor in interest of the plaintiff sometime in the year 1958-59. At that time, Sri Inder Singh, father of the plaintiff who was the owner of the said land was alive and he did not object to it, which clearly indicates that he had donated the land 2446 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for construction of Veterinary Hospital in Tehsil, Samana. In those good old times, it used to be a usual practice of big landlords donating their lands for public cause. It is unfortunate that after 43 years, his son filed the suit for possession without seeking declaration, as in case, he would have sought relief of declaration, the suit would have been further barred by time for the said relief also. The defendant having been in possession without any hindrance since 1958, the suit filed would only be a mockery of justice if decreed. If the plaintiff’s case was that it was never donated but still the hospital had been constructed, then the plaintiff should have instituted a suit for possession within 12 years. Having not done so, the suit was clearly barred by time for the relief of possession. 25. As already discussed above, various documents were filed and proved by the defendant-appellant regarding the donation, the transfer of possession, the construction of the Veterinary Hospital and its functionality since more than 40 years before the suit was filed. In fact, the evidence establishes that the donation was documented, and possession transferred and acted upon and for the very purpose, for which the donation was made. 26. The title of the land in suit had passed on to the State after the donation and transfer of possession and after construction, the hospital continued for more than four decades before filing of the suit.