36. We are of the view that in the aforesaid context, the Detaining Authority is not correct and he could be said to have taken into consideration something extraneous. 37. In the case of Ameena Begum v. State of Telangana and Others reported in (2023) 9 SCC 587, a two-Judge Bench of this Court was confronted with almost an identical situation with which we are dealing with. In Ameena Begum (supra) this Court while considering whether there was proper application of mind to all the relevant circumstances or whether consideration of extraneous factors had vitiated the of detention, observed thus: “50. Considering past criminal history, which is proximate, by itself would not render an illegal. The Commissioner in the detention made pointed reference to the detenu being a habitual offender by listing 10 (ten) criminal proceedings in which the detenu was involved during the years 2019-2020, consequent to which the detenu was preventively detained under the Act vide of detention dated 4-3-2021, since quashed by the High Court by its dated 16-8-2021 [Hakeem Khan v. State of Telangana, 2021 SCC OnLine TS 3663]. It is then stated therein that 1214 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the detenu had committed 9 (nine) offences in the years 2022-2023, and these offences are again listed out in detail. However, the Commissioner states that the present of detention is based only on 5 (five) out of these 9 (nine) crimes, which are alleged to show that the detenu’s activities are “prejudicial to the maintenance of public , apart from disturbing peace and tranquillity in the area”. 51. Interestingly, even in Para 9-E of his counter-affidavit, the Commissioner has extracted a portion of the detention which we have set out in para 4. The reiteration of considering past criminal history of the detenu is not without its effect, as we shall presently discuss. 52. In Khudiram Das [Khudiram Das v. State of W.B., (1975) 2 SCC 81 : 1975 SCC (Cri) 435] , while examining the “history sheet” of the detenu, this Court had, in express terms, clarified that a generalisation could not be made that the detenu was in the habit of committing those offences. Merely because the detenu was charged for multiple offences, it could not be said that he was in the habit of committing such offences. Further, habituality of committing offences cannot, in isolation, be taken as a basis of any detention ; rather it has to be tested on the metrics of “public ”, as discussed above. Therefore, cases where such habituality has created any “public dis” could qualify as a ground to detention. 53. Although the Commissioner sought to project that he ed detention based on the said 5 (five) FIRs, indication of the past offences allegedly committed by the detenu in the detention having influenced his thought process is clear. With the quashing of the of detention dated 4-3- 2021 by the High Court and such direction having attained finality, it defies logic why the Commissioner embarked on an elaborate narration of past offences, which are not relevant to the grounds of the present of detention.