The above statements in the plaint imply that the plaintiff was not even born when the property was sold. What also remains undisputed is the fact that the plaintiff’s predecessors had not challenged the sale in 1938 and 1952. By the time, the alleged resolution was passed, the property had already been conveyed. The resolution can convey any right only over the properties which have not been conveyed. The plaintiff though has annexed a Family Tree chart along with the plaint, he has not produced any other documentary evidence to the various claims which he has made. In paragraph 10 of the plaint, the plaintiff claims that the estate was attached as there were no natural heirs. He has narrated many facts in the plaint from paragraphs 11 to 32, which are adverse to his claim of title. The averments in the plaint relating to grant of Sanad are vague without any reference to specific date. They, according to us, are baseless and vague statements, cleverly crafted to create a cause of action. The plaintiff himself avers in paragraph 25 that a suit was filed by the appellant/1st defendant claiming his title based on the auction purchase against the Government. The averment does not even disclose that it has come to his knowledge only recently. 1464 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports We feel it strange for the plaintiff to even plead in paragraph 26 that he was not impleaded as a party in the 1951 suit, compromised in 1953, when he was not even born. 14. The plaintiff, in our wisdom, cannot assert or deny something which was whether within the knowledge of his predecessor or not, when he was not even born. Irrespective of the above, the fact that the predecessors of the Respondent No.1/plaintiff, never challenged the sale of property to the Defendant No.1/appellant by court auction and the subsequent registration of the deeds, despite constructive notice, would imply that they had acceded to the title of the appellant, which cannot now be questioned by the plaintiff after such long time. There is also a presumption in law that a registered document is validly executed and is valid until it is declared as illegal. In this regard, this Court in Prem Singh v. Birbal,21 held as under: “27. There is a presumption that a registered document is validly executed. A registered document, therefore, prima facie would be valid in law. The onus of proof, thus, would be on a person who leads evidence to rebut the presumption. In the instant case, Respondent 1 has not been able to rebut the said presumption.” 15. At this juncture, it would be relevant to refer to relevant portion of Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, which reads as under: “3. Interpretation clause…… …… “a person is said to have notice” of a fact when he actually knows that fact, or when, but for wilful abstention from an enquiry or search which he ought to have made, or gross negligence, he would have known it.