(d) It was also mentioned that the plaintiffs sought intervention of well-wishers to settle the matter amicably but the same did not bear any fruit. (e) It further mentioned that the defendants 1 to 5 have proceeded to sell two portions of the property in dispute in favour of defendant nos.6 and 7, who were fully aware of the earlier agreement to sell in favour of the plaintiffs, but despite the same they got the sale deed executed in their favour; that the defendants 1 to 5 were attempting to sell the remaining portion of the scheduled property. (f) Accordingly, after stating the cause of action, the valuation of the suit and the payable court fees, relief claimed was for a direction to the defendants to transfer the property in dispute in favour of the plaintiffs by way of absolute sale and to get the sale deed executed and registered in accordance with law in terms of the agreement dated 24.05.1981. Further, relief of granting permanent injunction was also claimed restraining the defendants 1 to 5 from alienating or otherwise dealing with any portion of the plaint scheduled property and from interfering in their possession. 10. Defendants 1 to 5 filed a common written statement which briefly raised the following issues and objections: a) A plea was taken that the contents of the agreement to sell disclosed only the name of defendant no.1 and not of his four sons defendants 2 to 5. As such, the agreement was only by defendant no.1 and not by defendants 2 to 5 and, as such, not binding upon them. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1355 P. Ravindranath & Anr. v. Sasikala & Ors. b) It was next stated that the advance amount paid was only Rs.12,000/- at the time of execution of the agreement to sell. No further amount of Rs.2,000/- was paid as alleged. c) It was next stated that the plaintiffs were never ready and willing to perform their part of contract at any point of time, which was agreed to be three months, or even thereafter. The defendant had also given repeated notices but despite the same, the plaintiffs never came forward to clear the balance amount as the defendants were in need of money, they were left with no option but to execute the sale deeds. d) It was also stated that even after the restrictions for registration had been removed by the Government of Karnataka, the plaintiffs did not come forward to pay the balance amount and get the sale deed executed. This fact was clearly mentioned in their notice dated 11.12.1981 but no reply to the same was given by the plaintiffs. e) It also stated that plaintiffs were middlemen and not genuine purchasers. They never had any funds to fulfil the contract. f) It was specifically pleaded that time was essence of the contract. It was clearly denied that the plaintiffs ever came forward to tender the balance amount to get the sale deed executed. It was also denied that any Panchayat was convened to resolve the issue.