Moreover, clauses 5(iii) and 16(viii) of the DoH provided that upon the occurrence of an event of default, the Security Trustee was authorised to take steps against the Corporate Debtor without having any obligation to first proceed against the borrower. 13. The learned senior counsel rebutted the 1st respondent’s contention that clause 5(iii) was a standard clause included in hypothecation deeds. He submitted that unlike the sample hypothecation deeds relied upon by the 1st respondent, where the borrower himself provides security, as per the DoH in the present case, the Corporate Debtor, being a third party, undertook to pay the shortfall amount. In that sense, the promise to pay is in the nature of a guarantee. Therefore, the appellants were entitled to file a claim as Financial Creditors. The learned senior counsel submitted that every word stated in the contract has to be given its due meaning, and no part of the contract and words used thereunder could be said to be redundant. 14. He submitted that there is a fallacy in the 1st respondent’s submission that the appellants were not entitled to file a claim in Form-C since there was no default or the shortfall as on 20th May 2019. The learned senior counsel distinguished between a claim submitted pursuant to the public announcement under Section 15 of the IBC and the requirement of the existence of debt and default for the purposes of filing an application under Section 7 of the IBC. He submitted that the claim as defined under Section 3(6) of the IBC arises without any default taking place at the time of filing the claim. 15. He also dealt with the contention raised by the respondents that the appellants’ rights as secured creditors under the MSTA and the DoH cannot survive after moratorium comes into force under Section 14 of the IBC. He urged that the moratorium only bars any action for recovery or enforcement outside the resolution process and therefore, there is a provision for filing claims to the RP. Once the CIRP commences, creditors cannot enforce any rights under [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2051 China Development Bank v. Doha Bank Q.P.S.C. & Ors. the documents and are required to file their claims for outstanding dues with the RP. 16. He submitted that the definition of ‘financial debt’ under Section 5(8) of the IBC is inclusive and not exhaustive. He relied upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited v. A. Balakrishnan1 and Orator Marketing Pvt. Ltd. v. Samtex Desinz Pvt. Ltd.2 He submitted that the debt need not be directly disbursed to the Corporate Debtor. He relied upon another decision of this Court in the case of Maitreya Doshi v. Anand Rathi Global Finance Ltd. & Ors.3 He submitted that the Security Trustee under the DoH is acting for the benefit of the secured lenders like the appellants who are the direct and intended beneficiaries under the DoH. He submitted that the beneficiary to a contract can enforce such a contract even when it is not a party to the same.