The relevant observations read as under: - "xiii. A lodestar, which may illumine the path of the Court, would be the dimension of public interest subserved by the Court interfering in the matter, rather than relegating the matter to the alternate Forum. xiv. Another relevant criteria is, if the Court has entertained the matter, then, while it is not tabooed that the Court should not relegate the party at a later stage, ordinarily, it would be a germane consideration, which may persuade the Court to complete what it had started, provided it is otherwise a sound exercise of jurisdiction to decide the matter on merits in the Writ Petition itself. xv. Violation of natural justice has been recognised as a ground signifying the presence of a public law element and can found a cause of action premised on breach of Article 14. [See Sudhir Kumar Singh and Others (supra)].” (Emphasis supplied) 56. What can be discerned from the above is that there has been a considerable shift in the scope of judicial review of the court when it 582 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports comes to contractual disputes where one of the parties is the State or its instrumentalities. In view of the law laid down by this Court in ABL (supra), Joshi Technologies (supra) and in M.P. Power (supra), it is difficult to accept the contention of the respondent that the writ petition filed by the appellant before the High Court was not maintainable and the relief prayed for was rightly declined by the High Court in exercise of its Writ jurisdiction. Where State action is challenged on the ground of being arbitrary, unfair or unreasonable, the State would be under an obligation to comply with the basic requirements of Article 14 of the Constitution and not act in an arbitrary, unfair and unreasonable manner. This is the constitutional limit of their authority. There is a jural postulate of good faith in business relations and undertakings which is given effect to by preventing arbitrary exercise of powers by the public functionaries in contractual matters with private individuals. With the rise of the Social Service State more and more public-private partnerships continue to emerge, which makes it all the more imperative for the courts to protect the sanctity of such relations. 57. It is needless to state that in matters concerning specific modalities of the contract — such as required work, execution methods, material quality, timeframe, supervision standards, and other aspects impacting the tender’s purpose — the court usually refrains from interference. State authorities, like private individuals, have a consensual element in contract formation. The stipulations or terms in the underlying contract purpose are part of the consensual aspect, which need not be entertained by the courts in writ jurisdiction and the parties may be relegated to ordinary private law remedy. Judicial review does not extend to fixing contract stipulations but ensures that the public authorities act within their authority to prevent arbitrariness. 58. Thus, the demarcation between a private law element and public law element in the context of contractual disputes if any, may be assessed by ascertaining whether the dispute or the controversy pertains to the consensual aspect of the contract or tender in question or not.