Such properties by their nature, would be included in the phrase “material resources of the community”. e. The word “distributed” in Article 39(b) has been used as a part of the phrase, “so distributed as best to subserve the common good” and must be widely interpreted. The intent is that the State may adopt any mode of distribution as long as it subserves the common good. Such distribution may be piecemeal or the resources may be kept in the control of a governmental or private agency, provided the benefits reach the people as a ‘common good’; and f. Articles 38, 39(b) and (c), must be read together. They indicate that the provisions are not limited to the material resources owned by the State and its agencies. They enable the state to make a law for distributing ownership and control of the material resources which may be in the hands of private persons to achieve economic justice and redistribution. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 103 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 82. Mr Gopal Sankarnaryanan, senior counsel, appearing for an intervenor, supplemented the arguments advanced by the counsel for the respondents and the State of West Bengal. He broadly made the following submissions: a. The purport of clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 must be interpreted in the context of whether Article 31C was meant to apply to laws dealing with privately owned property or resources. Article 31C was inserted in the Constitution by the Parliament to overcome the judgement in RC Cooper, wherein this Court struck down the nationalisation of the private rights of shareholders and banks as violative of Article 14; b. Article 31C is part of a scheme, along with Articles 31A and 31B which were inserted by the first amendment. That both Article 31-A and 31-B apply to private property is uncontested. ; c. If ‘ownership and control’ of ‘material resources of the community’ excluded private ownership, there would be no challenge under Article 19 to require protection under Article 31C; d. Article 39(c) seeks to prevent the “concentration of wealth and means of production” which could be to the common detriment. Such phrases cannot be construed to refer to public wealth and public means of production. A similar interpretation must be adopted for Article 39(b); and e. The concept of ‘common good’ alluded to in Article 39(b) is critical to determine whether the provision includes privately owned resources. The COVID-19 pandemic has shown us the need to pool resources, which may often be privately owned, to protect the health of the community. ii. Judicial Discipline: Observations in Sanjeev Coke and Mafatlal 83. Several arguments have been made with regard to the judicial discipline followed by and the precedential value of the judgements which lie at the heart of this reference. We will first address these arguments before analysing the correctness of the interpretation of Article 39(b) in these judgements. 104 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a. The resurrection of the minority view in Ranganatha Reddy by Sanjeev Coke 84.