Similarly, the reason assigned by the High Court to discard the version of Harmandeep Kaur (P.W.3) (daughter of the deceased) is wholly untenable. We cannot at all countenance that a daughter, after her marriage, would permanently stay at her in-laws’ house and would not visit her parents after her marriage. Such a sweeping conclusion is neither traceable to Punjab’s social culture nor it appeals to our common sense. It is on record that Harmandeep Kaur (P.W.3) was a student before and after her marriage. It is natural that even after her marriage, Harmandeep Kaur (P.W.3) wanted to continue her studies, and therefore was staying with her parents. We see no unnatural or unexpected circumstances in she being present in her paternal home on the fateful day. 28. There is no suggestion to Gursewak Singh, P.W.2 (Complainant), and his daughter Harmandeep Kaur (P.W.3) that they had some other reason to implicate Gurpreet Singh falsely, who happens to be the former husband of the daughter of P.W.2. There was no criminal or civil case filed by the Kirandeep Kaur (ex-wife of Gurpreet Singh), Gursewak Singh (P.W.2) or his family members against Gurpreet Singh. On the contrary, the prosecution has successfully established that Gurpreet Singh had been nursing a grudge against the deceased, whom he held responsible for the divorce from the elder daughter of the deceased. It has also come on record that the elder daughter, Kirandeep Kaur, with whom Gurpreet Singh was earlier married, had settled in Australia even before her marriage. Gurpreet Singh was keen to migrate from India and settle down in Australia. His plans could not materialise because of the divorce from his wife. In such circumstances, the attribution of motive by the prosecution stands proved. 29. We cannot be oblivious to the fact that when the wife of Gursewak Singh (P.W.2) or the mother of Harmandeep Kaur (P.W.3) is suddenly killed in their presence, they would not like the real accused to go scot-free. In the absence of any previous motive, it is not at all comprehensible that they would falsely implicate Gurpreet Singh. It was not a case where the Complainant had enmity with someone and he concocted a story to implicate Gurpreet Singh post the occurence. This Court, in Thoti Manohar v. State Of Andhra Pradesh3, observed 3 [2012] 5 SCR 1129 : (2012) SCC 7 723. 1050 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that in the incident, which transpired partly within the confines of the house and extended slightly beyond the deceased’s premises, the family members and close relatives naturally become the witnesses. These individuals cannot be considered incidental witnesses; instead, they emerge as the most natural witnesses in the given factual context. Typically, a close relative is unlikely to shield the actual culprit and falsely implicate an innocent person. While it is acknowledged that emotions can run high and personal animosity may exist, merely being related does not provide a valid basis for criticism; instead, familial ties often serve as a reliable assurance of truth.