On a comparison of the provisions, it was found that the provisions of the Foreigners Act were more effective for achieving the object (that is, the detection of migrants). The Court held the IMDT Act and the IMDT Rules unconstitutional on the ground that: (a) Undocumented immigrations impacted Assam on a much larger scale as compared to the other States in India; (b) Since the State of Assam faces a graver problem, the provisions of the IMDT Act and the IMDT Rules ought to be more stringent than the Foreigners Act which applies to the rest of the States in India; and (c) The provisions of the IMDT Act and IMDT Rules were less effective compared to the provisions of the Foreigners Act. Thus, the classification effected by the IMDT Act and the IMDT Rules between the State of Assam and the other States in India was held not to have a nexus with the object. 86. Both in Sarbananda Sonawal (supra) and in Naga People’s Movement of Human Rights (supra), this Court referred to Article 355 to test the validity of the means adopted to achieve the legislative object under Article 14 of the Constitution. The test of ‘legitimate objective’ is one of the prongs used by the Courts in its rights framework analysis. The first test that the Courts adopt to determine if the violation of fundamental rights is justified based on the proportionality standard, is to assess if the law was enacted in pursuance of a ‘legitimate object’.148 The Constitution Bench in Naga People’s Movement of Human Rights (supra) and the three-Judge Bench in Sarbananda Sonawal (supra), relied on Article 355 for this purpose, that is, to test the constitutional legitimacy of the object of the amendment and the enactment, respectively. 148 The first prong of the proportionality test. See Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited v. Union of India (2023) SCC OnLine SC 366 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1291 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 87. Article 355, couched in Part XVIII of the Constitution which deals with emergency powers stipulates that it is the duty of the ‘Union’ to (a) protect every State against external aggression and internal disturbance; and (b) ensure that the government of every State is carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. It is established jurisprudentially that the correlative of a duty is a right.149 The question is, however, whether the duty vested in the Union in Article 355 confers a correlative right that a legislation can be challenged for violation of the constitutional provision. 88. Article 355 was absent in the Draft Constitution of 1948. Dr BR Ambedkar introduced the provision as a justification for the Union’s interference in the administration of States in exercise of the emergency powers conferred by the Constitution.150 Dr Ambedkar explained that in a federal Constitution such as the Indian Constitution where the States are sovereign since they also have legislative power in their own field, the Centre can interfere with the administration of States only when there is ‘some obligation which the Constitution imposes upon the Centre’.151 In SR Bommai v. Union of India,152 Justice Sawant (writing for himself and Justice Singh) referring to the debates in the Constituent Assembly observed that Article 355 is not an independent source of power for interfering with the functioning of the State Government but is a justification for the measures adopted in Articles 356 and 357.153 89.