The extent of this immunity must be tested on the anvil of the tests laid down above. The ability of a member to speak is essentially tethered to the collective functioning of the House and is necessary for the functioning of the House. A vote, which is an extension of the speech, may itself neither be questioned nor proceeded against in a court of law. The phrase “in respect of” is significant to delineate the ambit of the immunity granted under Clause (2) of Article 105. 100. In PV Narasimha Rao (supra) the majority interprets the phrase “in respect of” as having a broad meaning and referring to anything that bears a nexus or connection with the vote given or speech made. It therefore concluded that a bribe given to purchase the vote of a member of Parliament was immune from prosecution under Clause (2) of Article 105. By this logic, the majority concluded that a bribe-accepting member who did not comply with the quid pro quo was not immune from prosecution as his actions ceased to have a nexus with his vote. As we have noted above, the interpretation of a phrase which appears in a provision cannot be interpreted in a way that does violence to the object of the provision. The majority in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) has taken the object of Article 105 to be that members of Parliament must have the widest protection under the law to be able to perform their function in the House. This understanding of the provision is overbroad and presumptive of enhanced privileges translating to better functioning of members of the House. 101. Privileges are not an end in themselves in a Parliamentary form of government as the majority has understood them to be. A member of Parliament or of the Legislature is immune in the performance of their functions in the House or a committee thereof from being prosecuted because the speech given or vote cast is functionally related to their performance as members of the legislature. The claim 530 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of a member to this immunity is its vital connect with the functioning of the House or committee. The reason why the freedom of speech and to vote have been guaranteed in Parliament is because without that Parliament or the legislature cannot function. Therefore, the extent of privilege exercisable by a member individually must satisfy the two fold test laid down in Part F of this namely its tether to the collective functioning of the House and its necessity. 102. The words “in respect of” in Clause (2) of Article 105 apply to the phrase “anything said or any vote given,” and in the latter part to a publication by or with the authority of the House. We may not interpret the words “anything” or “any” without reading the operative word on which it applies i.e. “said” and “vote given” respectively. The words “anything said” and “any vote given” apply to an action which has been taken by a person who has the right to speak or vote in the House or a committee thereof.