88. Of course, the State has the discretion and duty under the Constitution, to distribute its resources to marginalised sections of society, or other imminent and deserving personalities, to the extent necessary to discharge their public functions. Personalities who contribute to 72 NOIDA Entrepreneurs Association v. NOIDA and Others (2011) 6 SCC 508 73 The impugned policies are not in furtherance of anti-subordination principle, and they do not raise a presumption of constitutionality. 1422 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the nation’s progress through excellence in sports or other public activities may also be compensated through reasonable and non- arbitrary distribution of State largesse. We would also like to clarify that a policy or law allotting land to public servants may be justifiable provided such allotment is within the confines of Article 14. Unless the classification satisfies the twin prong test and the substantive equality benchmark, the mandate of Article 14 is not met. The State cannot exercise discretion to benefit a select few elites disproportionately, especially ones who are already enjoying pre-existing benefits and advantages. 89. Reliance placed by some of the Cooperative Societies and members on the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317F, and the 1975 Rules, including Section 25,74 is misconceived. Section 25 states that the land can be assigned for special purposes and such assignment shall be lawful. However, it does not mean that the land can be allotted in violation of principle of equality enshrined under Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 90. Further, Rule 2(b) of the 1975 Rules states that alienation of land means placing land at the disposal of a third person for a public purpose or a specified cause. Alienation of land revenue, as defined in Section 2(c), means the grant of exemption from payment. Section 2(i) defines market value to mean value of the land that would fetch in the open market if sold, subject to appropriate charge for land revenue. Rule 10, which is relied upon by the Cooperative Societies and its members, states that notwithstanding anything contained in the rules, the Government, if it so desires, can sell or otherwise alienate the land or other property in Telangana area by following reasonable procedure, including public auction where alienation is deemed necessary. This rule does not support or assist the Cooperative Societies and their members in their argument. 91. At this juncture, it is worth noting that during the pendency of the Writ Petition before the High Court, several members of the Judiciary, to 74 25. Assigning of land for special purpose to be lawful – When a village is under settlement, the Commissioner of Survey Settlement or the Commissioner of Land Records in that Village and in other cases with the sanction of the Board of Revenue, the Collector may, subject to the s of the Government, set apart any Khalsa land not in the lawful occupation of any person or class for pasturage of cattle or for grass reserves or for other Government purposes or for the purposes of public benefit; provided that it does not interfere with any right of any person or class.