Mere presence of Arvind Kejriwal, the Chief Minister, when files were handed over to him would not implicate Arvind Kejriwal. The “reasons to believe” do not take into account the fact that the statements of the co-accused relied upon, cannot in terms of Section 30 of the Evidence Act, be the starting point for ascertainment of the guilt of the accused. The statements made earlier in point of time which do not implicate Arvind Kejriwal have been ignored. The statements are also contradictory. Factually, no incriminating document involving Arvind Kejriwal has been recovered during the course of investigation, which commenced in August 2022. The statements also do not establish involvement of Arvind Kejriwal in activities related to commission of a predicate offence as well as act of concealment, possession, acquisition or utilisation of proceeds of crime, which are penal offences under Section 3 of the PML Act. • The statements of persons stated to be engaged with Angadiyas in Mumbai do not in any way implicate and link Arvind Kejriwal 48 For short, “Evidence Act”. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2409 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement to the crime. The statements are not of such sterling quality as to justify arrest of the Chief Minister, who is a prominent leader of a national political party and an opposition leader. There is no documentary proof to show that AA Party has received kickback from the funds received from the cartel, let alone utilising them in the Goa election campaign. Rajesh Joshi of Chariot was granted bail by the Special Judge vide dated 06.05.2023 as huge amount of Rs.20-30 crores alleged to have been transferred was not established. The payment alleged to have been made for election related to jobs of meagre amount in lakhs. • Contention of the DoE that P. Sarath Reddy, Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy, Raghav Magunta, and Butchi Babu in their earlier statements were quiet and did not link Arvind Kejriwal is contested on the ground that the statements were recorded by the officers of DoE who had the discretion to put questions and also in recording the contents. 51. Arvind Kejriwal submits that the “reasons to believe” selectively refer to the implicating material, and ignore the exculpatory material. Thus, there is no attempt to evaluate the entire material and evidence on record. The co-accused, in view of prolonged incarceration, strong-arm tactics and threats have been coerced to accept the DoE’s version of facts. In support, it is highlighted that the DoE changed their position, viz. the co-accused conspirators, who were granted bail post the statements implicating Arvind Kejriwal. This establishes and shows prejudice and malicious intent. 52. In response, the DoE submits that the investigation in the present case is complicated. As it is a case of political corruption, independent witnesses are not available, and the co-accused were initially reluctant to name and blame the top political stakeholders. Admissibility or veracity of the approver/witness statements cannot be dealt with in the present proceedings, as credibility of the witnesses is to be tested during trial.