biosafety, biodiversity, human and Administrative and other support livestock health, environmental continues to be expected to protection, and which specifically RCGM and GEAC. describes the extent to which biotechnology, including modern biotechnology, fits in the scheme of things without compromising with the safety of any of the elements mentioned above. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2089 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 35. Similarly, the PSC Report, 2017 made a range of recommendations. The MoEF&CC responded to each of the recommendations in the Action Taken Report. The pertinent recommendations and the action taken are explained in the table below: S. Recommendation Action Taken Report No. 1. The Central Government should, Confined-field trials are in consultation with the State conducted as per detailed Governments and Administrations guidance documents and of Union Territories, ensure protocols framed for the purpose. that the whole process of field Conduct of confined field trials trials should be done in closed is inspected by members of environment, keeping biosafety regulatory committees, experts, and health safety in mind and in State Government and State collaboration with the agricultural Agricultural Universities. universities so as to minimise the scope of fudging the primary data. 2. GEAC should be headed by GEAC comprises of both an expert from the field of experts and representatives Biotechnology, given the of respective ministries. Sub- understanding of scientific data committees are routinely and analysis of research and its engaged to render technical implication, before coming to a inputs. conclusion in the matter. 3. The MoEF&CC should review Minutes of all the meetings of the functioning of GEAC along GEAC are regularly published with the organisational set up on the website, along with all of GEAC and take necessary the relevant regulatory formats. corrective measures to make the Various stakeholders such as whole process of assessment farmers and civil society have and approval more transparent, given inputs on transgenic so as to ensure environmental mustard hybrid DMH-11 by safety, biodiversity safety, health way of comments on the AFES safety, food and feed safety of study and as part of special our country. hearings. 4. Members of Parliament should DLCs are only mandated to be nominated as members in play a role in monitoring of the DLCs, so that the activities the facilities. Inclusion of MPs of these Committees are also would not be commensurate shared with the public. with the tasks of the Committee, as the Committee reports to the Deputy Collector. 2090 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports S. Recommendation Action Taken Report No. 5. MoEF&CC should undertake a The adoption of Bt cotton comprehensive study and bring has nearly doubled the yield clarity on the issue of increase and substantially increased in the yield of cotton after its productivity from 308 kgs. per commercialisation in the country. Ha. in 2001-2002 to 568 kgs. per Ha. in 2016-2017. 6. MoEF&CC should obtain results of The aforementioned data Ministry of Agriculture’s scientific shows that Bt cotton has study about the impact of adopting successfully countered the Bt cotton on use of chemical menace of American bollworm herbicides and pesticides.