PW-17’s testimony that the appellant refused to make the statement as to the incident and on the other hand, his disclosure that he would make the statement later on, on arrival of his relatives speaks volume that the appellant wanted to invent some story by gaining time. Had two intruders actually caused injuries on the person of deceased Saira as has been subsequently propounded by the appellant, he would have immediately informed the police about the same so that the culprits are immediately caught and brought to book. PW- 17’s testimony that the appellant wanted to make the statement later on only on arrival of his relatives was not challenged by the appellant in PW-17’s cross examination. At this stage, it would be appropriate to advert to the explanation given by the appellant in reply to question No. 12 in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. which is extracted as under:- “Q.12 Have you anything else to say? Ans. I along with my wife, deceased, and my daughter Siana was sleeping in my house. Two persons caused [2024] 6 S.C.R. 181 Anees v. The State Govt. of NCT injuries to my wife. I tried to save her but I was also hurt by those persons. I do not know as to why those strangers caused injuries to my wife. I am innocent. After causing the injuries those persons fled away from there.” 11. The explanation that two persons had caused injuries on the person of deceased Saira was admittedly not put to PW-17 in his cross examination. Had there been any truth in the explanation propounded by the appellant, he would not have been content to simply state that the injuries were caused by two persons, he would have given the detailed description (as far as possible) of the assailants as also the motive as to why the deceased alone was targeted particularly, when robbery was not the motive of the injuries alleged to have been inflicted by the two unknown intruders. Intrusion into the house by unknown third persons would have resulted in tell tail and revelatory evidence. There is no indication or suggestion relating to the said evidence. xxx xxx xxx 18. As stated earlier, it is proved by overwhelming evidence and is not even disputed by the appellant that deceased Saira was inflicted injuries inside the matrimonial home (of the appellant and the deceased). Initially, the appellant was completely silent as to how his deceased wife suffered injuries. He told the I.O. that he would make a statement later on only when his relations would arrive. As we have pointed out earlier, in cross-examination of the I.O. and even in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C., the appellant has not given the details of the intruders. From the appellant’s conduct in not disclosing to the I.O. as to how his deceased wife suffered fatal injuries, there was a lurking doubt even at that very time that it was only the appellant who was responsible for causing the injuries unless something material was really brought out by the appellant.