[2024] 4 S.C.R. 357 : 2024 INSC 293 Manisha Mahendra Gala & Ors. v. Shalini Bhagwan Avatramani & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 9642 of 2010) 10 April 2024 [Pankaj Mithal* and Prashant Kumar Mishra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Appellants if had easementary right of the way over the land owned by the respondents i.e. the disputed rasta. Appellants’ reliance upon the evidence of their Power of Attorney holder/Manager of the property (PW-1) to prove their easementary right of way over the disputed rasta, if proper. Headnotes Easements Act, 1882 – ss.4, 13, 15 – “Easementary right” – Easementary right by prescription or necessity – When not proved: Held: ‘Easement’ u/s.4 is a right which the owner or occupier of a land possesses for the beneficial enjoyment of his land on the other land which is not owned by him, to do and continue to do something or to prevent and continue to prevent something being done on the said land – In the present case, the Appellants are admittedly the owners of Survey No. 48 Hissa No.15 whereas the respondents are the owners of Survey No.57 Hissa No.13A/1 on which the rasta in dispute allegedly exists – Appellants claimed that the use of the aforesaid rasta was for the beneficial enjoyment of their land as they had no other way of access to their land and that they had been enjoying the said easementary right for the “last many years” – s.15 provides that for acquiring any easementary right by prescription, the said right must have been peaceably enjoyed in respect of the servient heritage (the land on which the easement is claimed) without any interruption for over 20 years – However, neither the original plaintiff nor the Appellants specifically claimed that they or their predecessor- in-interest were enjoying easementary right of use of the said rasta for over 20 years – The term “last many years” is not sufficient to mean that they have been enjoying the same for the * Author 358 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports last 20 years – Therefore, their pleadings fall short of meeting the legal requirement of acquiring easementary right through prescription – No evidence to prove that the Appellants were in use of the said land for the last over 20 years uninterruptedly – They entered the scene only on purchasing the said land on 17.09.1994 after the suit was filed and as such, they could not and have not deposed anything about the pre-existing right or the easementary right attached with the Dominant Heritage (the land which is to be enjoyed by the beneficiary) – The said right has to be proved as existing prior to the institution of the suit – Neither the Appellants nor their predecessor-in-interest came in the witness box – They only relied upon the deposition of their Power of Attorney holder/the Manager who was not having any authority to act as their Power of Attorney at the time his statement was recorded – He was granted Power of Attorney subsequently – Further, in the absence of any evidence or material to show that original plaintiff had actually acquired any easementary right over the rasta in dispute before the institution of the suit, he could not have transferred any such right in favour of the Appellants – Furthermore, there is an alternative way to access the Dominant Heritage, may be a little far away or longer which demolishes the easement of necessity u/s.13 – Appellants not entitled to any easementary right by necessity either upon the disputed rasta – Thus, they have not acquired easementary right over the disputed rasta in any manner much less by prescription, necessity or under an agreement– Appellate courts and High Court right in dismissing the Suit of the plaintiffs/appellants and in decreeing the Suit of the defendants/respondents.