1834 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 45. Even otherwise, we find no justification to uphold the view taken by the Division Bench of the High Court. It was never the intention to deprive aspirants of marks for their teaching experience as Assistant Professors, albeit for shortlisting purposes. Conditions of eligibility for entitlement to secure marks, which have been laid down, are matters of policy over which the courts have no expertise. Judicial review would not extend to cases of the present nature where regulations are framed by experts having a fair measure of idea of what is required and what is not for appointment on teaching posts. The Division Bench overstepped its limits and treaded a territory, which was forbidden. 46. Besides, even on a plain reading of Reg.10, we have failed to comprehend why the High Court embarked on reading down Reg.10(f)(iii). After reading Reg.4, one had to first read Reg.10, as a whole, and then, clause by clause, phrase by phrase and word by word. Had Regs.4 and 10 been so read, there could be no difficulty in ascertaining the intent behind incorporation of Reg.10 (f)(iii) in the 2018 Regulations. The whole lot of aspirants having served nationally or internationally as Assistant Professor in institutions, as specified, were entitled to have such service counted for direct recruitment as an Assistant Professor on fulfilment of conditions in clauses (a)-(e), f(i), f(ii) and (g) with which the Division Bench High Court had no reservation. The Division Bench only had reservation qua clause f(iii). In expressing its reservation about clause f(iii), the Division Bench appears to have overlooked that an aspirant having previous experience, even while working on ad hoc/temporary/contractual basis internationally, could claim that his past service be counted subject, of course, to producing proof that his total gross emoluments were not less than the monthly gross salary of a regularly appointed Assistant Professor. Whatever was applicable to previous regular service rendered internationally by an aspirant was made applicable equally to service rendered within the nation. Allahabad University has placed on record applications of multiple aspirants who were shortlisted for interview. Learned senior counsel, referring to the contents thereof, showed that all such aspirants’ past teaching experience gained on the basis of contractual service were taken into consideration since they had been drawing salary in the pay scale for academic level prescribed by the UGC/7th Central Pay Commission, i.e., drawing salary equal [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1835 Allahabad University Etc. v. Geetanjali Tiwari (Pandey) & Ors. Etc. Etc. to that of a regularly appointed faculty. Respondent No. 1 could not dispute the same before us and this, ex facie, has the effect of removing the plinth of her claim for declaring Reg.10(f)(iii) invalid. While focusing on Reg. 10(f)(iii) singularly, the Division Bench missed the woods for the trees and the interpretation placed by it would certainly have the effect of (a) robbing aspirants having previous teaching experience of the nature specified from such experience being counted for the purpose of shortlisting and (b) requiring the selectors to be engaged in a long drawn process of interview of a large number of candidates aspiring for appointment on very few vacant posts of Assistant Professor.