The fact that the Petitioner earlier paid stamp duty when the authorized share capital was increased to Rs. 8.5 crores cannot act as an estoppel against the Petitioner.” 14. The second question is whether the maximum cap on stamp duty is applicable every time there is an increase in the share capital or it is a one-time measure. It is an admitted fact that when the respondent increased its share capital from Rs. 36 crores to Rs. 600 crores it paid a stamp duty of Rs.1,12,80,000/- and at that time there was no provision for a maximum cap or upper ceiling on the amount payable. On 02.08.1994, the State Legislature amended Article 10 of Schedule-I of the Stamp Act and the amended provision, which was applicable when the respondent passed a resolution to increase its authorised share capital to Rs. 1200 crores, is reproduced below: 1 2 Description of Instrument Proper Stamp Duty 10. ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION One thousand rupees for OF A COMPANY – Where the every rupees 5,00,000 or part Company has no share capital or thereof, subject to a maximum nominal share capital or increased of Rs.25,00,000. share capital. 15. The appellant has relied on Collector of Stamps v. Se Investment Ltd., 2012 SCC OnLine Del 3857 to contend that each increase in authorised share capital will be chargeable to stamp duty in Maharashtra due to the inclusion of “increased share capital” in the charging provision and hence, respondent has rightfully paid Rs. 25 lakhs (for the subsequent increase from Rs.600 crores to Rs.1200 crores) as stamp duty in view of the maximum cap. The Stamp Act authorises involuntary exaction of money and is in the nature of a fiscal statute, which has to be interpreted strictly. This Court in CWT v. Ellis Bridge Gymkhana, (1998) 1 SCC 384 held as under: 354 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “5. The rule of construction of a charging section is that before taxing any person, it must be shown that he falls within the ambit of the charging section by clear words used in the section. No one can be taxed by implication. A charging section has to be construed strictly. If a person has not been brought within the ambit of the charging section by clear words, he cannot be taxed at all.” Thus, even though “increased share capital” is a part of Article 10, which column it has been placed in assumes importance. Column 1 of the Schedule describes the instrument on which stamp duty is to be levied whereas Column 2 prescribes the stamp duty payable. Column 1 has to be construed as describing three situations or contingencies relating to Articles of Association, i.e., “where the company has no share capital or nominal share capital or increased share capital”. In cases where a company has no share capital it would have to pay no stamp duty and if a company is submitting its articles for the first time, stamp duty would be calculated as per the nominal share capital.