Thus, the first informant, Mohammad Arif aMemon (PW-11) seems to have abandoned his own cousin brother who was lying on the road in gravely injured condition creating a further doubt on his very presence at the spot when the incident occurred. 34. The first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) also stated that after Mohammad Sohail had been assaulted by the accused-appellant with sharp weapons and had fallen on the ground, two persons namely Mehboob Abdul Rehman Memon and Irfanbhai Memon also came at the spot. The complainant and Irfanbhai Memon took Mohammad Sohail to the Nagar Palika Hospital for treatment. The said Mehboob Memon and Irfanbhai Memon were not examined by the prosecution even though they were most material witness for unfurling a true picture of the story which creates further doubt on the truthfulness of the prosecution case. 35. In total contradiction to the above version of the first informant (PW-11), Demistalkumar (PW-12) stated that he saw only one person taking the injured in the rickshaw. Thus, the claim made by Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) that he and Irfanbhai Memon both took Mohammad Sohail to the hospital is contradicted by Demistalkumar (PW-12) who is an independent witness. The first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) also stated that he lodged the complaint at the Anand Town Police Station which fact is also contradicted by the evidence of K.N. Waghela, Head Constable (PW-16) and S.N. Ghori, PSI (PW-17) as noted above. 36. The first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) admitted in his cross-examination that after Mohammad Sohail’s father Iqbalbhai, Sikander Abdul Karim Chokshi, Munafbhai Farooqbhai Memon and Mustaq Mohammad Siddiq Memon arrived at the Krishna Medical Hospital, Karamsad, the incident was discussed in presence of all who had gathered there. He had noticed the injuries caused to the deceased when he reached Krishna Medical Hospital, Karamsad. In 372 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the background of the discussion made above, these incongruencies, even though minor, reinforce the doubt created in the mind of the Court regarding the presence of the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) at the crime scene. Thus, the argument advanced by learned counsel for the accused appellants that the star prosecution eyewitness Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) was not present at the crime scene deserves acceptance. 37. Another important aspect which was elicited in the cross-examination of (PW-11) is that the fact regarding the deceased having gone to the petrol pump for taking fuel was known only to two of them and one Mehboob Abdul Rehman Memon. In this background, it is highly improbable that the accused persons would have known in advance that Mohammad Sohail would be available at the petrol pump at that particular moment and that they got time and opportunity to conspire together and made extensive preparations for launching an assault on the victim by taking advantage of his presence at the petrol pump. Thus, we are of the view that the testimony of the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11), the star witness of prosecution, is not trustworthy and reliable as the same is contradicted on material aspects by numerous material facts and circumstances which we have discussed above.