There seems to be a concerted effort to discredit, diminish, and weaken the progress of this great nation on every possible frontier. Any such effort, or rather attempt, has to be nipped in the bud. No Constitutional court, far less this Court, would allow such attempt to succeed as long as it (the court) has a say in the matter. I have serious doubt as regards the bona fides of the petitioning association when it seeks a reversion to the old . Irrespective of the fact that in the past efforts of the petitioning association in bringing about electoral reforms have borne fruit, the suggestion put forth appeared inexplicable. Question of reverting to the “paper ballot system”, on 452 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports facts and in the circumstances, does not and cannot arise. It is only improvements in the EVMs or even a better system that people would look forward to in the ensuing years. 6. At the same time, one cannot be oblivious that in a society pledged to uphold the rule of law, none - howsoever high or low – is above the law. Everyone is subject to the law fully and completely, and authorities within the meaning of State in Article 12 of the Constitution are no exception. Concepts of unfettered discretion or unaccountable action has no place in the matter of governance; hence, neither can the ECI nor can any other authority claim to possess arbitrary power over the interests of an individual voter and seek cover from the sunlight of judicial scrutiny if, indeed, a valid cause is set up for interference. After all, “let right be done” is also the motto of our nation like any other civilised State. That the sanctity of the electoral process has to be secured at any cost has never been in doubt. 7. Conducting elections in India is a difficult task, is an understatement; rather, it is a humongous task and presents a novel challenge, not seen elsewhere in the world. India is home to more than 140 crore people and there are 97 crore eligible voters for the 2024 General Elections, which is more than 10% of the world population. These voters represent the largest electorate in the world. The Representation of the People Act, 19516 which, to my mind, amidst the vast legislative landscape of the nation is the most important enactment after the Constitution of India, is also the most effective instrument to uphold democratic and republican ideals, which are the hallmarks of our preambular promise. The RoP Act, which has established the legal framework for conducting elections, ensures that each and every citizen has a fair and equal opportunity to exercise his/her right of vote and to participate in the democratic process for electing his/her governor. The duties, functions and obligations to be performed/discharged by the ECI are ordained by the RoP Act, which are paramount and non-negotiable. Being a complete code in itself, the RoP Act reinforces the rule of law and upholds the principles of justice, fairness and transparency.