c) Regulatory agencies give recommendations after duly considering the responses. ii. Guidelines for Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) for Genetically Engineered Plants, 2016: a) The guidelines require that a risk assessment be performed prior to the commercial release of a GE plant in India. b) The purpose of the risk assessment is to identify risks to the health and safety of people and the environment from the cultivation of the GE plant, when compared with the cultivation of the non-GE version of the plant. c) Information requirements include characteristics of genetic modification, cultivation practices and post- release environmental monitoring. iii. Regulations and Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research and Biocontainment, 2017 seek to ensure appropriate containment strategy ensuring safety to laboratory workers as well as others and the environment from hazardous micro- organisms, GE organisms or cells. iv. Guidelines and SOPs for the Conduct of Confined Field Trials: Confined Field Trials are monitored by RCGM/GEAC-appointed Central Compliance Committees which are site-specific and comprise subject experts. 2122 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 44.1 Given their import to the issue at hand, I limit my analysis to the Risk Analysis Framework, 2016 and the Guidelines for Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) for Genetically Engineered (GE) Plants, 2016. While one of the stated purposes of the Risk Analysis Framework includes provision of transparency on the use of risk analysis to support decision-making, the continued reluctance to publish the biosafety dossier and respond to concerns about long-term effects by provisioning requisite chronic and transgenerational toxicity studies shows that it is inadequate. The modalities of communicating the RARM plan must be inclusive and transparent. The failure to publish the biosafety dossier on the website reveals a deficiency in the Guidelines for Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) for Genetically Engineered (GE) Plants, 2016. Furthermore, the failure to furnish cogent reasons for giving a go by to field demonstration studies to study the impact on honeybees also reveals the lack of safeguards against misuse of discretion. With respect to post-release monitoring, I note that the MoEF&CC issued an office on 10.11.2022 to constitute an Expert Committee of four members for Post Release Monitoring Committee (PRMC). The terms of reference are to visit the growing sites of DMH-11 at least once during each season. However, the term of its functioning is limited to a period of four years from the date of issue. 44.2 Given the fact that the unanticipated consequences of the environmental release of DMH-11 remain in the sphere of uncertainty, I am impelled to construe the failure to undertake necessary measures in light of the TEC and the PSC recommendations and the non-compliance with directions of this Court as a violation of the right to a safe and healthy environment. The violation is particularly serious in light of the benchmarks of environmental regulation prescribed by this Court in T.N. Godavarman. 44.3 The failure to adequately assess health and environmental impact of GM crops seriously infringes upon intergenerational equity as it potentially endangers the ability of future citizens to enjoy the highest attainable standard of health.