The stress is on providing child-friendly procedure. Dignity of the child has been laid immense emphasis in the scheme of legislation. Protection and interest occupy the seminal place in the text of the POCSO Act. xxx xxx xxx [2024] 10 S.C.R. 199 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. 63. [...] The POCSO Act, as I have indicated earlier, comprehensively deals with various facets that are likely to offend the physical identity and mental condition of a child. The legislature has dealt with sexual assault, sexual harassment and abuse with due regard to safeguard the interest and well being of the children at every stage of judicial proceeding in an extremely detailed manner. The procedure is child friendly and the atmosphere as commanded by the provisions of the POSCO Act has to be congenial. The protection of the dignity of the child is the spine of the legislation. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 56. In Nawabuddin v. State of Uttarakhand reported in 2022 INSC 162 this Court held that any act of sexual assault, exploitation or harassment of the children should be dealt with in a stringent manner and that no leniency should be shown when dealing with an offence under the POCSO in view of the object that is sought to be achieved by the Act. The relevant observations read as under: - “10. Keeping in mind the aforesaid objects and to achieve what has been provided under Article 15 and 39 of the Constitution to protect children from the offences of sexual assault, sexual harassment, the POCSO Act, 2012 has been enacted. Any act of sexual assault or sexual harassment to the children should be viewed very seriously and all such offences of sexual assault, sexual harassment on the children have to be dealt with in a stringent manner and no leniency should be shown to a person who has committed the offence under the POCSO Act. By awarding a suitable punishment commensurate with the act of sexual assault, sexual harassment, a message must be conveyed to the society at large that, if anybody commits any offence under the POCSO Act of sexual assault, sexual harassment or use of children for pornographic purposes they shall be punished suitably and no leniency shall be shown to them. Cases of sexual assault or sexual harassment on the children are instances of perverse lust for sex where even innocent children are not spared in pursuit of such debased sexual pleasure.” (Emphasis supplied) 200 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b. Relevant Provisions of the IT Act. 57. For better and effective adjudication of the issues involved in the case at hand, it would be apposite to refer to the IT Act which also contains several provisions, more particularly Section(s) 67, 67A and 67B respectively, that penalize the use, transmission and publication of obscene materials including child pornography. These provisions together encompass and collectively form the umbrella scheme of comprehensive penal provisions contained in the IT Act in this regard.