Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, Learned Senior Counsel, lastly contended that the Appellant ought to be granted bail on the ground of parity, considering that his co-accused have already been released on bail. 12. Per contra, Shri S.V. Raju, Learned Additional Solicitor General of India, has opposed the prayer for bail, urging primarily that: (i) the provisions of the first proviso to Section 479 of the BNSS would not be applicable as the Appellant is not a first time offender; (ii) the Appellant would not be entitled to bail in view of Section 479(2) of BNSS, as multiple cases are registered against him; (iii) the Appellant being in a high ranking position of a Minister and having indulged in an offence involving moral turpitude cannot seek parity with other co-accused who are much lower in rank and status than him; (iv) the close acquaintance of the Appellant and from whose residence huge amount of valuables were recovered has in her statement under Section 50 of the PMLA expressed apprehension of threat to life at the hands of the Appellant; and (v) the seizure and attachment, in this case, stands at a hefty Rs. 151.2 crores, which are the proceeds of crime generated out of criminal activities related to scheduled offences under the PMLA. 634 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 13. We have considered the rival submissions and carefully examined the material on record. At the outset, it is worth reiterating that this Court, through a catena of decisions, has consistently emphasized that prolonged incarceration of an accused awaiting trial unjustly deprives them of their right to personal liberty. Even statutory embargoes on the grant of bail must yield when weighed against the paramount importance of the right to life and liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution, particularly in cases where such incarceration extends over an unreasonably long period without conclusion of trial. 14. Equally well-established is the principle that the grant of bail must be determined based on the unique circumstances of each case, balanced against settled factors such as the gravity of the offence, the nature of the allegations, likelihood of interference with the ongoing investigation, the possibility of evidence tampering, threat or influence over the material witnesses, the societal impact of such release, and the risk of the accused absconding among others. 15. In this context, the argument that the Appellant’s position as a Minister entitles him to any special consideration does not hold merit from either perspective. Impartiality is a prerequisite to the Rule of Law, wherein decisions are based on the factual matrix of the case as opposed to the individual’s position or influence. In this vein, this Court has emphatically clarified that while an accused person’s official status should not be grounds for denying bail, it also cannot constitute a special consideration to grant bail if otherwise no case is made out to provide such relief. Official positions, regardless of their stature, lose their relevance for the purpose of exercising judicial discretion judiciously. 16. Instead, the claim of the Appellant must be examined through the lens of various pleas he has taken to highlight his mitigating circumstances as well as the adverse impact it may cause in the wake of allegations of playing with the future of thousands of well-merited aspirants and the undue benefits accrued to undeserving persons at the cost of these unsuccessful candidates.