52. In Heyman v. Darwins Ltd. reported in [1942] AC 356, it was held by the House of Lords that the repudiation or breach of a contract does not extinguish the arbitration agreement as it survives for the 866 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports purpose of resolution of any outstanding claims arising out of the breach. It was observed thus: “I am, accordingly, of the opinion that what is commonly called repudiation or total breach of a contract, whether acquiesced in by the other party or not, does not abrogate the contract, though it may relieve the injured party of the duty of further fulfilling the obligations which he has by the contract undertaken to the repudiating party. The contract is not put out of existence, though all further performance of the obligations undertaken by each party in favour of the other may cease. It survives for the purpose of measuring the claims arising out of the breach, and the arbitration clause survives for determining the mode of their settlement. The purposes of the contract have failed, but the arbitration clause is not one of the purposes of the contract.” (Emphasis supplied) 53. Thus, even if the contracting parties, in pursuance of a settlement, agree to discharge each other of any obligations arising under the contract, this does not ipso facto mean that the arbitration agreement too would come to an end, unless the parties expressly agree to do the same. The intention of the parties in discharging a contract by “accord and satisfaction” is to relieve each other of the existing or any new obligations under the contract. Such a discharge of obligations under the substantive contract cannot be construed to mean that the parties also intended to relieve each other of their obligation to settle any dispute pertaining to the original contract through arbitration. 54. Although ordinarily no arbitrable disputes may subsist after execution of a full and final settlement, yet any dispute pertaining to the full and final settlement itself, by necessary implication being a dispute arising out of or in relation to or under the substantive contract, would not be precluded from reference to arbitration as the arbitration agreement contained in the original contract continues to be in existence even after the parties have discharged the original contract by “accord and satisfaction”. 55. The aforesaid position of law has also been consistently followed by this Court as evident from many decisions. In Boghara Polyfab [2024] 7 S.C.R. 867 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning (supra), while rejecting the contention that the mere act of signing a “full and final discharge voucher” would act as a bar to arbitration, this Court held as follows: “44. … None of the three cases relied on by the appellant lay down a proposition that mere execution of a full and final settlement receipt or a discharge voucher is a bar to arbitration, even when the validity thereof is challenged by the claimant on the ground of fraud, coercion or undue influence.