Digital Supreme Court Reports execution of the conveyance deed in its favour on the ground that the entire sale consideration was paid by it and also the Board of Directors and Chairman were the same for both the Respondent No.1 and its sister concern. The request was declined by the Company Judge of the High Court. However, the Respondent No.1 filed an appeal against the same before a Division Bench of the High Court which came to be allowed vide dated 22.10.1997. 5. The materials on record further reveal that the Respondent No.1 herein filed an application under XXI Rule 94 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (for short, the “CPC”) for the issuance of sale certificate in its capacity as the successful auction purchaser for both the movable and immovable properties. The application came to be disposed of by the Company Judge of the High Court vide dated 13-4-1999 taking the view that the Respondent No.1 was liable to pay the stamp duty on the immovable properties which had been put to auction which would include land, building and permanently affixed machinery thereto. It further directed that although the immovable properties which were put to auction were to be included in the certificate of transfer, their value would be excluded for the purpose of computation of stamp duty. The High Court directed the Respondent No.1 to file an affidavit to this effect and pay the requisite stamp duty. 6. In pursuance of the referred to above passed by the High Court, the Respondent No.1 submitted an additional affidavit of the movable assets purchased by the auction purchaser at Rs.54.67 lakhs. However, when the matter was taken up by the Registrar, he took the view that stamp duty had to be paid on Rs.2.25 crore which was the valuation of the immovable properties as offered in the tender. The Respondent No.1 was, accordingly, directed to pay stamp duty on Rs.2.25 crore for the sale certificate to be issued in its favour. 7. The directions issued by the Registrar were challenged by the Respondent No.1 by way of a Writ Petition for being in derogation of Section 17 (2)(xii) of the Registration Act read with Rule XXI 94 of CPC. The Division Bench of the High Court formulated the following question of law for its consideration. “Whether a sale certificate issued in pursuance to a Court’s auction is required to be stamped” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1339 The State of Punjab & Anr. v. M/s Ferrous Alloy Forgings P Ltd. & Ors. 8. In other words, according to the High Court, the controversy revolved around the interplay of the Registration and Stamp Acts, i.e., although a sale certificate is undoubtedly not compulsorily registrable yet is it mandatory for the auction purchaser to deposit the stamp duty for the sale certificate to be issued to it in view of the provisions of the Stamp Act. 9. The Writ Petition came to be allowed by way of the impugned wherein the High Court took the view that there was no occasion for fixation of stamp duty at the time of issuance of the sale certificate and the Registry of the High Court was only required to issue the sale certificate and send a copy of the same to the Sub-Registrar in accordance with the mandate contained in Section 89(4) of the Registration Act.