The answer to that question would depend upon as to whether the reference to ‘Special Court established under Chapter XXVIII of the Companies Act, 2013’ in Section 236(1) of the Code is a ‘legislation by incorporation’ or a ‘legislation by reference’. If it is held that it is a ‘legislation by incorporation’, then the subsequent amendments would not have any effect on the Code and the Special Court would continue to be as provided under Section 435 of the Companies Act, as it existed when the Code came into effect. Per contra, if it is held that it is a ‘legislation by reference’ then the subsequent amendments would also be applicable to the Code and the Special Courts would be as provided under Section 435 of the Companies Act after its amendment by the 2018 Amendment. IV. CONSIDERATION OF PRECEDENTS 26. A Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Collector of Customs, Madras vs Nathella Sampathu Chetty and Anr. (supra) 14 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports has considered the distinction between ‘legislation by reference’ and ‘legislation by incorporation’. It will be apposite to refer to the following observations of this Court in the said case: “………To consider that the decision of the Privy Council has any relevance to the construction of the legal effect of the terms of Section 23-A of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act is to ignore the distinction between a mere reference to or a citation of one statute in another and an incorporation which in effect means the bodily lifting of the provisions of one enactment and making it part of another so much so that the repeal of the former leaves the latter wholly untouched. In the case, however, of a reference or a citation of one enactment by another without incorporation, the effect of a repeal of the one “referred to” is that set out in Section 8(1) of the General clauses Act: “8. (1) Where this Act, or any Central Act or Regulation made after the commencement of this Act, repeals and re-enacts, with or without modification, any provision of a former enactment, then references in any other enactment or in any instrument to the provision so repealed shall, unless a different intention appears: be construed as references to the provision so re- enacted.” On the other hand, the effect of incorporation is as stated by Brett, L.J. in Clarke v. Bradlaugh [1881 8 QBD 63] : “Where a statute is incorporated, by reference, into a second statute the repeal of the first statute by a third does not affect the second.” This is analogous to, though not identical with the principle embodied in Section 6-A of the General Clauses Act enacted to define the effect of repeals effected by repealing and amending Acts which runs in these terms: “6-A. Where any Central Act or Regulation made after the commencement of this Act repeals any enactment by which the text of any Central Act or Regulation was amended by the express omission, [2024] 5 S.C.R.