Digital Supreme Court Reports did not extend to allowing such citizenship in these other States, thus, classification between the State of Assam and other States had a direct nexus with the object of the statute and classification was not ex-facie arbitrary – Striking down s.6A on the grounds of non-inclusion only of West Bengal would amount to allowing an under-inclusivity challenge in disguise, which, is not generally permitted – Thus, classification u/s.6A, not violative of Art.14 simply because it is applicable to the State of Assam alone – Thus, s.6A not ultra vires Art. 14. [Paras 189, 198, 203-205] – Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI.) (Concurring) Undocumented migrants could be registered as citizens u/s.5(1)(a) of the Citizenship Act before it was amended by the Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2003 to exclude ‘illegal immigrants’ – Thus, the claim of the petitioner that s.6A is unconstitutional because instead of preventing migration to Assam, it incentivizes migrants in other states to come to Assam to secure citizenship through s.6A, is erroneous – s.6A confers citizenship to migrants from Bangladesh to Assam before 25 March 1971 – s.6A satisfies the two-pronged reasonable classification test - Legislative objective of s.6A was to balance the humanitarian needs of migrants of Indian Origin and the impact of the migration on the economic and cultural needs of Indian States – Two yardsticks employed in s.6A-migration to Assam and cut-off date of 24 March 1971 are reasonable – Though other states share a longer b with Bangladesh, the impact of migration in Assam in terms of numbers and resources is greater – Cut-off date of 25 March 1971 is reasonable because the Pakistani Army launched Operation Search light to curb the Bangladeshi nationalist movement in East Pakistan on 26 March 1971 – Migrants before the operation were considered migrants of Indian partition – Both the yardsticks have a rational nexus with the object of s.6A – Also s.6A is neither under-inclusive nor over-inclusive. [Paras 75, 125] Constitution of India – Art. 14 – Right to equality – Reasonableness of classification – Yardsticks to check the reasonableness of classification – Qualifications regarding the yardsticks: Held: (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) Art. 14 requires the legislature to treat equals equally, but it also allows for differential treatment if the characteristics of the classes differ – Art. 14 permits the legislature to classify individuals into different groups and apply distinct [2024] 10 S.C.R. 967 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 norms accordingly, and such classification must be reasonable – Yardsticks to check the reasonableness of classification is that the classification should not be based on arbitrary criteria and must instead be based on a logic which distinguishes individuals with similar characteristics – Thus, a classification is reasonable if it differentiates between similar and dissimilar elements, if such distinction is intelligible, and if the similarities and dissimilarities have nexus with the purpose of the statute – Qualifications regarding the yardsticks is that while establishing a nexus with the object of the statute is necessary, it is not essential to demonstrate that the classification was the optimal method to achieve the object in question, and when gauging the reasonableness of classification, the Court must adopt a pragmatic view and refrain from deeming a classification unconstitutional solely because it is marginally under-inclusive.