Hence, equity demands that A should not only pay back the principal amount but also the interest thereon to B.’ (emphasis supplied) 37. In to balance equities, the Court would indicate that the enhanced rate of Rs.10 per square foot would be payable by the respective Respondents No.1/advertising companies and other similarly-situated persons in terms of the Resolution of the Corporation from the date the same was made public/communicated to the concerned parties, whichever is later, with simple interest at the rate of 6% per annum. 1402 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The Corporation is directed to furnish computation of amounts due to the parties concerned within 4 weeks. Payments be made within 16 weeks thereafter by the parties concerned, failing which they shall carry interest @ 10% per annum and be recoverable as arrears under the Bihar and Orissa Public Demands Recovery Act, 1914. Needless to state, amount(s), if any, paid over and above Re.1 per square foot, for the period in question, shall be adjusted towards the final liability to be determined by the Corporation vis-a-vis the respective Respondents No.1 herein and all other similarly-situated persons. 38. Parties shall bear their own costs. 39. Both appeals stand disposed of in terms aforesaid. POST-SCRIPT: 40. After we reserved , a 9-Judge Bench of this Court in Mineral Area Development Authority v Steel Authority of India, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1796, by a majority of 8:1, has held as under, fully supporting our view hereinabove: ‘126. There are major conceptual differences between royalty and a tax: (i) the proprietor charges royalty as a consideration for parting with the right to win minerals, while a tax is an imposition of a sovereign; (ii) royalty is paid in consideration of doing a particular action, that is, extracting minerals from the soil, while tax is generally levied with respect to a taxable event determined by law;8 and (iii) royalty generally flows from the lease deed as compared to tax which is imposed by authority of law. xxx 128. This Court has held that royalty is not a tax, in several decisions. In State of H P v. Gujarat Ambuja Cement Ltd,9 a three judge Bench of this Court held royalty not to be a tax. The subsequent decision in Indsil Hydro Power & Manganese Ltd. v. State of Kerala10 brought out the distinction between tax and royalty in the following terms: 8 Goodyear India Ltd. v State of Haryana (1990) 2 SCC 71 9 (2005) 6 SCC 499 10 Indsil Hydro Power and Manganese Limited (supra). [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1403 The Patna Municipal Corporation & Ors. v. M/s Tribro Ad Bureau & Ors. “56. Thus, the expression “royalty” has consistently been construed to be compensation paid for rights and privileges enjoyed by the grantee and normally has its genesis in the agreement entered into between the grantor and the grantee. As against tax which is imposed under a statutory power without reference to any special benefit to the conferred on the payer of the tax, the royalty would be in terms of the agreement between the parties and normally has direct relationship with the benefit or privilege conferred upon the grantee.” xxx 130.