RCom and RTL are third parties as far as Corporate Debtor is concerned. 60. Reliance was placed on the formats of hypothecation provided in the books authored by M.Tijoriwala and J.M. Diwekar by contending that clause 3 of the DoH is a regular boilerplate clause. These formats provided in the books have no relevance as we have to interpret clause 5(iii) of the DoH as it is. REQUIREMENT OF OCCURRENCE OF ‘DEFAULT’ 61. There is an argument canvassed before us that default under the DoH has not occurred. We have already quoted the definition of ‘financial debt’ under Section 5(8) of the IBC. There is no requirement incorporated therein that a debt becomes financial debt only when default occurs. Under Section 5(7) of the IBC, any person to whom financial debt is owed becomes a Financial Creditor even if there is no default in payment of debt. Therefore, this argument deserves to be rejected. 62. On this aspect, we may also note that under Section 3(12), ‘default’ has been defined. This definition of ‘default’ becomes relevant only while invoking the provisions of Section 7(1) of the IBC when the CIRP is sought to be initiated by the Financial Creditor. Section 7(1) provides that a Financial Creditor can initiate CIRP against the Corporate Debtor when there is a default on the part of the Corporate Debtor. There is no requirement under Section 5(8) of the IBC that there can be a debt only when there is a default. The moment it is established that the financial debt is owed to any person, he/she becomes a Financial Creditor. In this case, we are concerned with the claim made by the appellants. A public announcement of CIRP under Section 15(1) must contain the last date of submission of claims as may be specified. Thus, if a person has a claim within the meaning of Section 3(6), he can submit it on public announcement 2072 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports contemplated by Section 15 being made. A Financial Creditor has a claim as explained earlier. Therefore, for submitting the claim by a Financial Creditor, there is no requirement of actual default. EXTINGUISHMENT OF CONTINGENT CLAIM ON IMPOSITION OF MORATORIUM 63. Arguments have been canvassed that clause 5(iii) of the DoH is a contingent contract wherein the contingent event is the shortfall between realisation and expenses. The clause applies to the shortfall in the total liability of the borrower after necessary amount is realised from the hypothecated assets. It is contended that the contract has become impossible, since owing to the moratorium imposed, the hypothecated properties could not be sold and the shortfall could not arise. Reliance is placed on Section 14(1) of the IBC, which reads thus: “14. Moratorium.— (1) Subject to provisions of sub- sections (2) and (3), on the insolvency commencement date, the Adjudicating Authority shall by declare moratorium for prohibiting all of the following, namely: (a) the institution of suits or continuation of pending suits or proceedings against the corporate debtor including execution of any , decree or in any court of law, tribunal, arbitration panel or other authority; (b) transferring, encumbering, alienating or disposing of by the corporate debtor any of its assets or any legal right or beneficial interest therein; (c) any action to foreclose, recover or enforce any security interest created by the corporate debtor in respect of its property including any action under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002); (d) the recovery of any property by an owner or lessor where such property is occupied by or in the possession of the corporate debtor.