The State has also placed on record a letter of 07.01.2005 by the Inspector General of Police to all the Commandants of PAC Battalion, U.P. stating that with regard to submission of false affidavit, action should be taken as per the instructions issued. In the cases of candidates who had mentioned the facts related to the charges registered against them in the affidavit, action should be taken as per their discretion and the Government s. 11. The State has also placed on record the “Form of verification of character” setting out that it was necessary to verify the character and antecedents before appointment of any candidate. The Verifying Authority was to report directly if found eligible. If the candidate is ineligible according to report then the report was to be sent to the District Magistrate. The District Magistrate was to call the candidate and record his statement and write down his opinion as to what he considers about the candidate and also send the statement of the candidate. In the note appended, it was even set out that, even a conviction need not by itself involve the refusal of a certificate of good character. The circumstances of the conviction should be taken into account and if they involve no moral turpitude or association with crimes of violence or with a movement which has as its object, the overthrow by violent means of Government as by law established in Union of India then mere conviction need not be regarded as [2024] 2 S.C.R. 729 Ravindra Kumar v. State of U.P. & ORS. a disqualification. It is also mentioned in Clause 4 of the Form of Verification of Character as follows:- “4. It is further requested that the following general rules regarding conduct of candidates for government jobs should also be kept in mind. The character of a candidate for direct appointment must be such as to render him suitable in all respects for employment in the service or post to which he is to be appointed. It would be the duty of the appointing authority to satisfy itself on this point.” Proceedings in the High Court:- 12. Aggrieved by the letter dated 12.04.2005 of the cancellation of selection, the appellant filed a Civil Misc. Writ Petition No. 39418 of 2005 before the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad. The appellant argued that there was no deliberate or willful concealment on his part as he has been acquitted in the criminal case. The Ld. Single Judge, vide judgement dt. 16.05.2005, dismissed the Writ Petition holding that the petitioner has suppressed material information with regard to his involvement in a criminal case at the time of filling up the form. It was held that the subsequent acquittal of his involvement in the criminal case will not absolve him from the fact that he had suppressed material information. 13. The Appellant, being aggrieved by the Judgement of Ld. Single Judge, filed an appeal bearing Special Appeal No. 896/2005. The Division Bench, vide impugned dated 29.10.2020, dismissed the Special Appeal holding that if a person swears a false affidavit at the time of enrollment, he is not fit to be enrolled in the disciplined service.