They are the essential aspects of right to speedy trial, which is enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 23. The appellant’s objections regarding timelines is two-fold. One, that there is a large gap between the first sanction and his own arrest, given that he is allegedly part of the same continuing transaction according to the respondent union, and two, that since the authority despite [2024] 10 S.C.R. 343 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. having been granted a seven day period to consider the materials gathered by the investigating officers and make their recommendation, did so within barely a day, and that to in a manner which could be termed mechanical, thereby afflicting the recommendations from the vice of non-application of mind. 24. The first objection appears to us, to be superficial at best. In to understand this objection some important dates must be referred to: S. No. Details Date 1. First Information Report (F.I.R.) 10th November 2016 2. Chargesheet 9th January 2017 (It is noted that investigation continues against A-6) 3. Sanction against A-6 16th October 2019 4. First Supplementary Chargesheet 21st October 2019 (A-6 is named herein; A-17 is brought in as a prosecution witness; Investigation continues still further) 5. Arrest of A-17 13th July 2020 6. Sanction against A-17 22nd July 2020 7. Second Supplementary Chargesheet 23rd July 2020 (A-17 is named herein) The gap between the first action against A-6 and the arrest of the appellant is a result of continuing investigation, as evidenced by the fact that the appellant was made an accused in the second supplementary chargesheet, arising out of the same FIR under which A-6 was initially named an accused. Since the investigation continued, the gap cannot be termed fatal so as to render the arrest of the appellant as unlawful or illegal. It is also to be noted that in the first supplementary chargesheet the appellant was initially a witness for the prosecution and with further investigation was made an accused thereafter. 25. In to consider the merits of the second objection, ‘application of mind’ as a concept must be understood. It is trite in law that application of mind must form part of any judicial, quasi-judicial or administrative . To demonstrate the same, consideration of material placed 344 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports before such authority must be reflected. At the same time, it being a cerebral exercise, it is not within reason to set out any formula to explain what application of mind may actually mean or look like. It is to be ascertained in the facts and circumstances of each case. 26. In the context of penal laws, authorities tasked with evaluating material prior to granting of sanction for prosecution, or the act of granting sanction itself must apply their mind to each and every facet of the material placed before it to arrive at the conclusion particularly so because the effect of the task at hand is immense. The grant/non- grant of sanction is what sets in motion the machinery of strict laws such as UAPA or the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987.28 Given the severity of these laws and the nature of activities with which they are associated, the effect that they have on the person accused thereunder is not only within the realm of law but also drastically effects social and personal life.