19. From the above discussion, it is clear that the learned Single Judge erred in making a fine distinction that the of this Court in Writ Petition No.9555/1984 and analogous cases dated 25.04.1985 was only with regard to the seniority and the existence of a distinct cadre. Significantly, this had nothing to do with pay-scales. 20. We find that such a view is justified only to the extent of granting the respondents pay-scales/revised pay-scales as per the UGC recommendations. However, the CAS was distinct to a general increase or revision in pay-scales. The CAS was intended for a specific purpose i.e., to encourage the teaching staff by offering a higher pay-scale, subject to various conditions. This distinction unfortunately has been lost sight of by the learned Single Judge, which, in our considered opinion, was a vital factor to be considered. Whenever a Scheme/Policy is brought into force, ceteris paribus, the Court could not and would not import something which is not present therein and which may not be proper to be interfered with, especially when it relates to financial matters where primacy is required to be granted to the pay-master as to what scale was to be granted to the category of staff concerned. By its very nature, such exercise would fall under the realm of policy-formulation. In the present case, the CAS itself envisaged that it was meant for persons who were directly recruited as Assistant Professors. The CAS specifically provided that every Lecturer was to be placed in a senior scale of Rs.3000-5000 if he/she had completed 8 years of service after regular appointment. 21. Pausing here for a moment, the very usage of the term/phrase “regular appointment” has to be given its proper interpretation and cannot be rendered redundant or superfluous. Here, there is a distinction between re-designation and regular appointment. Re-designation [2024] 8 S.C.R. 185 Rajasthan Agricultural University, Bikaner, Through Its Registrar v. Dr. Zabar Singh Solanki and Ors. cannot be said to be a regular appointment as it is only that one post/category/cadre which is given equivalence with another existing post/category/cadre, but the basic distinction would still lie that the re-designated post/category/cadre would always be considered to be an equivalent post of Lecturer/Assistant Professor, whereas the other/mainline cadre would always be considered to comprise only of direct recruits. We find our understanding to be in conformity with the of this Court dated 25.04.1985 (supra), where it has been clarified that the posts of Research Assistants and Lecturers will form separate cadres. 22. If at all, in law, it was the position that both the cadre of Research Assistants re-designated as Lecturers/Assistant Professors and the cadre of directly-recruited Lecturers/Assistant Professors was one and the same, there was no occasion for this Court to categorically direct for maintaining separate cadre and the only clarification which would have been required would be as to how the persons coming from the two separate cadres would be placed in a common cadre. But there was no requirement of a common cadre as the cadres were different and distinct.