We are surprised to note that both the Trial Court and 348 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports High Court have overlooked non-compliance with the requirements of Section 313 of the CrPC. Shockingly, the Trial Court imposed the death penalty in a case which ought to have resulted in acquittal. Imposing capital punishment in such a case shocks the conscience of this Court. ROLE OF THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR 18. Under sub-Section (5) of Section 313 of CrPC (sub-Section (5) of Section 351 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023), the Court is entitled to secure the assistance of the public prosecutor and the advocate representing the accused to prepare the questions to be put in the examination under Section 313. A Public Prosecutor has to play an active role in ensuring that every trial is conducted in a fair manner and in accordance with the law. Hence, it is the Public Prosecutor’s duty to invite the Court’s attention to the requirement of putting all incriminating material to the accused. Therefore, the Public Prosecutor is under an obligation to remain present when the examination of the accused is made to assist the Court. FAILURE TO PROVIDE LEGAL AID TO THE ACCUSED 19. After having perused the record of the case, we found a very disturbing feature. It is about the failure of the State to provide timely legal aid to the appellant. The other issue is about the quality of legal aid. Apart from provisions of Article 21 and Article 39A of the Constitution of India, the law on the issue of the right to legal aid has been evolved by this Court through its landmark decisions. This Court’s first well-known decision is in the case of Hussainara Khatoon (IV) v. Home Secy., State of Bihar.3 In Paragraph 7, this Court held thus: “7. We may also refer to Article 39-A the fundamental constitutional directive which reads as follows: “39-A. Equal justice and free legal aid.—The State shall secure that the operation of the legal system promotes justice, on a basis of equal opportunity, and shall, in particular, provide free legal aid, by suitable legislation or schemes or in any other way, to ensure that opportunities for securing justice are 3 [1979] 3 SCR 1276 : (1980) 1 SCC 98 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 349 Ashok v. State of Uttar Pradesh not denied to any citizen by reason of economic or other disabilities.” (emphasis added) This article also emphasises that free legal service is an unalienable element of “reasonable, fair and just” procedure for without it a person suffering from economic or other disabilities would be deprived of the opportunity for securing justice. The right to free legal services is, therefore, clearly an essential ingredient of “reasonable, fair and just”, procedure for a person accused of an offence and it must be held implicit in the guarantee of Article 21. This is a constitutional right of every accused person who is unable to engage a lawyer and secure legal services on account of reasons such as poverty, indigence or incommunicado situation and the State is under a mandate to provide a lawyer to an accused person if the circumstances of the case and the needs of justice so require, provided of course the accused person does not object to the provision of such lawyer.