It is relevant to note that Rule 2 in Part II of the Rules of 1958, titled ‘Relation to the Special Rules’, states that if any provision in the General Rules contained in Part II thereof is repugnant to a provision in the Special Rules applicable to any particular service contained in Part III thereof, the latter shall, in respect of that service, prevail over the provision in the General Rules in Part II of the Rules of 1958. The Rules of 2011 are Special Rules for the Kerala Water Authority. Therefore, to the extent the Rules of 2011 make special provision as to the qualification required for a particular post, the same would prevail over the general rule pertaining to qualifications in Part II of the Rules of 1958. However, this would be subject to Rule 10(a)(ii) of the Rules of 1958 which, as specifically provided therein, prevails over the Special Rules also. 14. Rule 10 in Part II (General Rules) of the Rules of 1958 deals with qualifications. It reads as follows: ‘10. Qualifications.- (a) (i) The educational or other qualifications, if any, required for a post shall be as specified in the Special Rules applicable to the service in which that post is included or as specified in the executive s of Government in cases where Special Rules have not been issued for the post/service. (ii) Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules or in the Special Rules, the qualifications recognized by [2024] 11 S.C.R. 333 Anoop M. and Others v. Gireeshkumar T.M. and Others Etc. executive s or standing s of Government as equivalent to a qualification specified for a post, in the Special Rules or found acceptable by the Commission as per rule 13 (b) (i) of the said rules in cases where acceptance of equivalent qualifications is provided for in the rules and such of those qualifications which pre-suppose the acquisition of the lower qualification prescribed for the post, shall also be sufficient for the post. 15. Pertinently, insofar as the post of LDC is concerned, the Rules of 2011 do not speak of a qualification ‘equivalent’ to a Certificate in Data Entry and Office Automation from Lal Bahadur Shastri Centre for Science and Technology, Institute of Human Resources Development, also being eligible. What is stated therein is that a Certificate in Data Entry and Office Automation from a similar/equivalent institution, approved by the Government, would be accepted as an eligible qualification. The equivalence is, thus, not of the qualification itself but of the institution from which the said Certificate in Data Entry and Office Automation is obtained. 16. Significantly, where they so intend, the Rules of 2011 specifically provide for ‘equivalent qualifications’ being eligible in relation to particular posts. For instance, for the post of Legal Assistant in ‘Wing II – Ministerial Service’ a Degree in Law from a University in Kerala or from a University recognized by any of the Universities in Kerala is the prescribed qualification, but its equivalent is also acceptable.