2 may not have been a signatory to the agreements, yet it had been entrusted with certain liabilities and obligations under the agreements entered into between the petitioner and respondent no. 1, thereby making it a veritable party to the transaction. 24. In the last, the counsel submitted that as per the decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Cox and Kings Ltd. v. SAP India Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. reported in 2023 INSC 1051 the court at the stage of referral is only required to look prima facie into the validity and existence of an arbitration agreement and should leave the questions relating to the involvement of the non-signatory to the arbitral tribunal. D. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS 25. Mr. Ritin Rai, the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents made the following submissions which can be broadly divided into four categories: i. Contentions and claims sought to be raised by the petitioner are pending adjudication before another arbitral tribunal constituted under the same dispute resolution clause • The same contentions and claims as sought to be advanced in the present petition have already been raised and are pending adjudication before an arbitral tribunal constituted 208 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under the GTC Agreement. In the said proceedings, the Bombay High Court appointed an arbitrator and the same was affirmed by this Court. • The claims of the petitioner pertaining to the GTC agreement read with Form no. 1 (collectively referred to as the “Service Agreement”) are already sub-judice and cannot be permitted to be reagitated. The petitioner has already filed its counterclaims for an amount of Rs. 45,99,71,098/- before the arbitral tribunal presided by Justice Madan B. Lokur (Retd.). • Allowing parallel arbitration proceedings emanating from the same agreement and transaction would entail a risk of conflicting s on the same subject matter including the analogous set of facts in evidence. As such, the principles of res sub-judice and res judicata would be attracted to the second arbitration proceedings and consequently the present petition. ii. Respondent no. 2 has neither impliedly nor explicitly consented to the arbitration agreement between the petitioner and respondent no. 1 • The agreements in question have been executed only between the petitioner and respondent no. 1. Respondent no. 2 is not a signatory to any of the agreements between the petitioner and respondent no. 1. • Respondent no. 2 has been unnecessarily and disingenuously made a party to the present proceedings. Not a single limb of the transaction between the petitioner and respondent no. 1 was to be performed by or has been performed by respondent no. 2. Respondent no. 2 was never part of the negotiation process between the petitioner and respondent no. 1. Respondent no. 2 did not by its conduct, agree, either impliedly or explicitly, to be bound by the terms and conditions of the agreements between respondent no. 1 and the petitioner. • It is preposterous to suggest that by trying to address the concerns of a customer of the subsidiary company (who had voluntarily reached out), respondent no.