A decree for the specific performance can be passed contingent upon the grant of the permission. ON QUESTION – (f) 19. Now, the question is whether the plaintiffs were entitled to a decree for specific performance. In his deposition, the first plaintiff has proved the service of notice of demand to the first defendant. The suit is filed within limitation, and the defendants did not raise a plea of delay and laches. There are concurrent findings of the three Courts on the issue of the readiness and willingness shown by the first plaintiff. There is no reason to disturb the said findings. Now, the question is, what 414 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is the effect of the failure of the second plaintiff to support the first plaintiff and his conduct of supporting the defendants? In the facts of the case, the answer lies in the submissions made by the second to fourth defendants before the High Court. In paragraph 9 of the , the High Court has recorded the following submissions made by the counsel for the second to fourth defendants: “9. The learned senior counsel for the appellants submitted that the plaintiff no.2 Murari Singh did not file the suit nor had signed the vakalatnama and that the said plaintiff had admitted this fact in his deposition, consequently, the suit was not maintainable. It was further submitted that the percentage of share between the plaintiffs were not defined in the agreement to sell and, consequently, under Section 45 of the Transfer of Property Act, the plaintiffs would be deemed to have equal shares, namely, 50 percent. The learned senior counsel for the appellants contended that since Murari Singh did not institute the suit, the decree for specific performance for the whole land, which was undivided could not have been decreed by the trial court and, consequently, to that extent, the decree passed by the trial court was erroneous. ………………………………………………………” (emphasis added) 20. In our view, as the second plaintiff was not interested in getting the specific performance, the decree ought to have been restricted to the undivided one-half share in the suit property in favour of only the first plaintiff. 21. Accordingly, we partly allow the appeal by passing the following : (a) We modify the impugned decree by directing the legal representative of the first defendant and second to fourth defendants to execute a sale deed in favour of the first plaintiff (Karan Singh) only to the extent of one half undivided share in the suit property; (b) The defendants shall join the first plaintiff in applying to the State Government/Competent Authority for the grant of permission under clause (h) of sub-section (2) of Section 154-B of the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 415 Maharaj Singh & Ors. v. Karan Singh (Dead) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. Zamindari Abolition Act to sell the one half-undivided share in the suit land to the first plaintiff within two months from today. It shall be the obligation of the defendants to apply for the permission and to do all such things which are necessary to get the permission; (c) If the defendants or any of them do not sign and file the application with relevant documents within the period mentioned above of two months, the executing Court shall appoint a Court Commissioner to sign and file the application on their behalf and to do all such things which are necessary to get the permission; (d) If the application for grant of permission is rejected, it will be open to the first plaintiff to challenge the of rejection in accordance with law.