Journal.] 116 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports view in Ranganatha Reddy, have been followed in subsequent decisions of this Court. These decisions include inter alia S Abu Kavur Bai, Basantibal Khetan, and Mafatlal. Thus, it was urged, that this Court should refrain from unsettling a position of law that has been consistent for several years and has “acquired the status of stare decisis”. 107. We are not inclined to accept this submission. In Sita Soren v Union of India,108 a Constitution Bench of this Court, speaking through one of us (DY Chandrachud, J) had occasion to clarify that the doctrine of stare decisis is not an inflexible rule of law. This Court may review its earlier decisions if it believes that there is an error, or the effect of the decision would harm the interests of the public or if “it is inconsistent with the legal philosophy of the Constitution”. In cases involving the interpretation of the Constitution, this Court would do so more readily than in other branches of law because not rectifying a manifest error would be harmful to the public interest and the polity. The period of time over which the case has held the field is not of primary consequence. 108. As noted above, the decision of the five-judge bench in Sanjeev Coke was based on an erroneous reliance on the minority opinion in Ranganatha Reddy. The same error committed in Sanjeev Coke has been carried forward in subsequent decisions of this Court ever since. The view of a minority of three judges, expressly disagreed with by a majority of four judges, has been relied on for several years, without its validity ever being tested by a larger bench. Similarly, the disagreement with the minority opinion expressed by the majority in Ranganatha Reddy has also remained untested, with the smaller bench in Sanjeev Coke adopting the minority view without any explanation. Therefore, this bench of nine judges must test the correctness of the decision in Ranganatha Reddy and the subsequent decisions relying on the minority opinion in the case. This exercise has eluded this Court for a long period of time. As noted above, it is only a bench of a larger quorum (nine judges) that can test the correctness of an opinion rendered by a smaller bench (seven judges) and thus, this Constitution Bench must reconsider the interpretation of Article 39(b) adopted in these judgements. 108 [2024] 3 SCR 462 : (2024) 5 SCC 629 [33] : 2024 INSC 161 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 117 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. d. The single-line observation in Mafatlal is obiter dicta 109. Another point of contention between the parties has been the precedential value of the single-line observation of a nine-judge bench of this Court in Mafatlal that the phrase ‘material resources of the community’ under Article 39(b) includes privately owned property. As noted above, the underlying seven-judge referral notes that the attention of this Court was drawn to this observation in Mafatlal.