But when the parties expressly choose the proper law of the contract, as in the instant case, in the absence of a clear intention such law must govern the arbitration agreement also though it is collateral and ancillary to the main contract. xxx 36. Although the matter has been argued at great length and Mr Tripathi has tried to establish that the decision of this Court in Bhatia International case [(2002) 4 SCC 105] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1185 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze is not relevant for a decision in this case, I am unable to accept such contention in the facts and circumstances of the present case. It is no doubt true that it is fairly well settled that when an arbitration agreement is silent as to the law and procedure to be followed in implementing the arbitration agreement, the law governing the said agreement would ordinarily be the same as the law governing the contract itself. The decisions cited by Mr Tripathi and the views of the jurists referred to in NTPC case [(1992) 3 SCC 551] support such a proposition. What, however, distinguishes the various decisions and views of the authorities in this case is the fact that in Bhatia International [(2002) 4 SCC 105] this Court laid down the proposition that notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2(2) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, indicating that Part I of the said Act would apply where the place of arbitration is in India, even in respect of international commercial agreements, which are to be governed by the laws of another country, the parties would be entitled to invoke the provisions of Part I of the aforesaid Act and consequently the application made under Section 11 thereof would be maintainable. 37. The decision in Bhatia International case [(2002) 4 SCC 105 has been rendered by a Bench of three Judges and governs the scope of the application under consideration, as it clearly lays down that the provisions of Part I of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, would be equally applicable to international commercial arbitrations held outside India, unless any of the said provisions are excluded by agreement between the parties expressly or by implication, which is not so in the instant case.” (Emphasis supplied) b. Post BALCO Regime. 36. The correctness of the decision in Bhatia International (supra) came under cloud, and the same was ultimately referred to a larger bench, which then culminated into the landmark decision of a 5-Judge 1186 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Constitution Bench of this Court in Bharat Aluminium Co. v. Kaiser Aluminium Technical Services Inc reported in (2012) 9 SCC 552. 37. This Court in BALCO (supra) after a thorough examination of the scheme of the Act, 1996 held that the conclusions reached by this Court in Bhatia International (supra) are neither supported by the text nor the context of the provisions of Section 1(2) and the proviso thereto or Section 2(2) of the said Act.