1690 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 123. We say so, because it is not the case that the remedy for redeeming mortgage could not have been a part of the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 nor can it be said that such a remedy was wholly alien to the provisions of the SARFAESI Act, and could not have been granted by the DRT at all. 124. It is no longer res integra that Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act, is a complete code that confers upon the DRT the jurisdiction to examine all the steps or measures taken by the secured creditor under the Act and provide remedies to any person aggrieved by any of those measures. By virtue of the said provision the DRT is clothed with a wide range of powers, to determine any issue or aspect pertaining to the SARFAESI proceedings initiated by the secured creditor and further a power to interfere with the same where necessary. Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act provides a broad mechanism for an efficacious remedy to “any person” who is aggrieved by any of the “measures” taken or proposed to be taken by the secured creditor under the Act. The omnibus provision of Section 17 sub-section (3) is of a wide import and enables the DRT to grant any relief in respect of any action or proceeding under the Act. 125. In Phoenix ARC (P) Ltd. v. Vishwa Bharati Vidya Mandir reported in (2022) 5 SCC 345, this Court held that where the Borrower is aggrieved by any proceedings initiated under the SARFAESI Act or any action proposed to be taken by a secured creditor, it has to avail the remedy under the SARFAESI Act and no writ petition would lie or be maintainable. The relevant observations read as under: - “18. [...] If proceedings are initiated under the Sarfaesi Act and/or any proposed action is to be taken and the borrower is aggrieved by any of the actions of the private bank/bank/ARC, borrower has to avail the remedy under the Sarfaesi Act and no writ petition would lie and/or is maintainable and/or entertainable. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 126. Thus, the remedy for seeking redemption of mortgage was not only available to the Borrower under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act but was also availed by him, by way of I.A. No. 2339 of 2023 in S.A. No. 46 of 2022. This application for seeking redemption of mortgage was also heard by the DRT for quite some time, and even s were reserved. However, suddenly, the Borrower decided to move [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1691 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. the High Court for seeking the very same relief that it had sought in the securitization application. 127. As there was virtually no difference between either the scope of proceedings or the prayer sought before the DRT and that before the High Court, once the Borrower had chosen to espouse the same matter already sub-judice in one forum before another, in this case the High Court, it was the duty of the Borrower to bring within the fold of its case all issues and grounds in respect of the 9th auction proceedings in the proceedings arising from the writ petition, by virtue of the Doctrine of Election.