To buttress his submissions on the aspect of limitation, he placed reliance on the decisions of this Court in Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. Aptech Ltd. reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 215 and BSNL v. Nortel Networks (India) (P) Ltd. reported in (2021) 5 SCC 738. 154 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 22. By placing reliance on the decision of this Court in Sarguja Transport Service v. S.T.A.T reported in (1987) 1 SCC 5, he argued that although the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (for short “CPC”) may not apply stricto sensu to the arbitration proceedings, yet the principle underlying 23 Rule 1(3) which imposes a bar on the institution of subsequent proceedings against the same defendant for the same cause of action where liberty to institute fresh proceedings is not granted by the court, can be extended to it in view of the expeditious and time-bound nature of arbitration proceedings. 23. He submitted that the respondent is not entitled to avail the benefit available under Section 14 of the Limitation Act, 1963 (for short “the Limitation Act”) as the said provision would not be applicable to the present case. He argued that Section 14 of the Limitation Act provides for exclusion of time spent in prosecuting proceedings in a non-jurisdictional court, where the earlier and later proceedings relate to the same matter in issue or are for seeking the same relief. However, he submitted, that the insolvency and arbitral proceedings are distinct proceedings and are not for seeking the same relief. The remedy in arbitral proceedings is in personam whereas the remedy in insolvency proceedings is in rem. He submitted that the High Court failed to appreciate this distinction and erroneously allowed the arbitration petition filed by the respondent by extending to it the benefit under Section 14 of the Limitation Act. 24. He further submitted that the IBC was enacted to consolidate and amend the laws relating to the reorganisation and insolvency resolution of corporate persons in a time-bound manner for maximising the value of assets and balance the interests of all the stakeholders. On the other hand, arbitration proceedings are for the purpose of adjudication of disputes. Therefore, the objective, relief that may be granted and the procedure governing IBC and arbitration proceedings are widely divergent. 25. He argued that the period spent by the respondent pursuing insolvency proceedings instead of arbitration does not entitle them to the benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act, more particularly having unconditionally withdrawn the first Section 11 petition. In this regard reliance was placed by him on the decisions of this Court in Yeswant Deorao Deshmukh v. Walchand Ramchand Kothari reported in 1950 SCR 852 and Natesan Agencies (Plantations) v. State reported in (2019) 15 SCC 70. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 155 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad 26. In the last, he submitted that this Court while dismissing the appeal filed by the respondent against the of the NCLAT, had only granted conditional liberty to the respondent to pursue arbitration, which would be permitted only if it is available in law.