1075 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. the case would not be one of overcharge at all. If that is the view taken by this Court on an interpretation of the pari materia provision in the erstwhile Act i.e. the Railway Act, 1890 (i.e. Section 78-B) we do not see why, in the facts of the present case which are largely identical, we should be taking any other view in the matter. 10. Consequently and in the light of the above, we allow the present appeals, set aside the of the High Court as well as that of the Railway Claims Tribunal, Chandigarh and allow the claims of the appellant which will be paid forthwith on due and proper calculation.” B. SUBMISSIONS ON THE ISSUES FRAMED BY THIS HON’BLE COURT Issue No.1 - What is the scope of Section 106 of the Railway Act, 1989, and if the said provision is applicable to the present case at hand? (i) It is submitted that Section 106 of the Railways Act, 1989 stipulates that a ‘Notice has to be sent to the Railways within six months for : (a) ‘claim for compensation’ (under sub-section (1) & (2)); & (b) for ‘refund of overcharge’ (under sub-section (3)). It is clear from a bare reading of this section that a notice cannot be sent to the Railways for any other purpose/ for raising a claim under any other head which is not mentioned in the said section. The term(s) ‘illegal charge’ / ‘illegal realization of freight’ is not mentioned in S.106. Therefore, there is no legal requirement of sending a notice under S.106 for raising a claim on account of ‘illegal charge’ / ‘illegal realization’ of freight. It is pertinent to mention here that a claim of illegal charge’ will not fall under the category of overcharge as undisputedly, there is a difference between the terms - ‘overcharge’ and ‘illegal charge’. (ii) In this regard, reliance is placed upon a of this Hon’ble Court passed in the matter of Union of India & Ors. v. West Coast Paper Mills Ltd. & Anr. (IlI), 1076 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2004) 3 SCC 458 (attached herewith). In the said case, an interpretation of the pari materia provision (like S.106) in the erstwhile Act i.e. the Railway Act, 1890 (i.e. Section 78-B) was done by this Hon’ble Court. While considering the distinction between an ‘overcharge’ and ‘illegal charge’ for the purposes of Section 78-B of the Railways Act, 1890 (i.e. same as Section 106 of the Railways Act, 1989), it was held by this Hon’ble Court that : “20. ........ A case of “illegal charge” is distinguishable from the case of “overcharge” and does not attract the applicability of Section 78-B of the Railways Act.” It is pertinent to mention here that this Hon’ble Court has also analysed in detail the meaning of the term ‘overcharge’ in Para 19 of the above-mentioned . (iii) It is reiterated that the present matter pertains to ‘illegal charge’ / ‘illegal realization’ and not of overcharge’ of the freight amount.