The sale deed merely states about the sale of 8 cents of land. As already stated, that the respondent was residing in the suit property even prior to the purchase by the appellant.” Lastly, the High Court records its finding as follows: [2024] 1 S.C.R. 17 MARY PUSHPAM v. TELVI CURUSUMARY & ORS. “The courts below found that all the documents produced by the respondent herein are in the name of the respondent. Therefore, considering all these documents, the courts below came to the conclusion that the respondent herein is in possession of the suit property for more than the statutory period and so she had perfected her title by adverse possession.” 15. In the light of the above facts, arguments and findings recorded by the High Court in its dated 30.031990, apparently no defence was left for the respondents to take as it was already held that the appellant had perfected her rights by adverse possession over the suit property which was 8 cents of land. The construction of the appellant was standing over the 8 cents of land may be on part of it but she was found in possession of the entire 8 cents. 16. The respondents never sought any clarification of the findings of the High Court or the observations made therein nor did they assail the same before any higher forum. The judgement dated 30.03.1990 attained finality. Interpreting the said judgement which was clear in itself any differently would clearly amount to judicial indiscipline. The Sub-Judge in its judgement dated 13.10.2003 had rightly observed that the Trial Court had no business to interpret the judgement of the High Court dated 30.03.1990 in any other way than what was recorded therein. 17. The doctrine of merger is a common law doctrine that is rooted in the idea of maintenance of the decorum of hierarchy of courts and tribunals. The doctrine is based on the simple reasoning that there cannot be, at the same time, more than one operative governing the same subject matter. The same was aptly summed up by this Court when it described the said doctrine in Kunhayammed & Ors. v. State of Kerala & Anr.1: “44 (i) Where an appeal or revision is provided against an passed by a court, tribunal or any other authority before superior forum and such superior forum modifies, reverses or affirms the decision put in issue before it, the 1 (2000) 6 SCC 359 18 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS decision by the subordinate forum merges in the decision by the superior forum and it is the latter which subsists, remains operative and is capable of enforcement in the eye of the Law.” 18. The legal position on Coordinate Benches has further been elaborated by this Court in State of Punjab & Anr. v. Devans Modern Breweries Ltd. & Anr.2: “339. Judicial discipline envisages that a coordinate Bench follow the decision of an earlier coordinate Bench. If a coordinate Bench does not agree with the principles of law enunciated by another Bench, the matter may be referred only to a larger Bench.