The proviso to Rule 9(1) of XXI of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 reads: “Provided that where a petition for special leave has been filed beyond the period of limitation prescribed therefor and is accompanied by an application for condonation of delay, the Court shall not condone the delay without notice to the respondent” [emphasis supplied] 61. As per the aforementioned rule, condonation of delay ought not to be done by the Court ex-parte. However, an identical version of this rule in the previous Supreme Court Rules of 1966 was interpreted in High Court of Judicature of Patna v. Madan Mohan Prasad,48 in which, this Court held that while it is prudent to give notice before condonation of delay, not giving of notice is not fatal to the case. The claimant will be allowed to point out at the stage of hearing that this Court was not justified in condoning the delay and that the leave, if granted, should be revoked or notice issued should be dismissed. 62. The condonation of delay in some of these cases without issuing any notice, is now an inconsequential issue, for we have already extensively dealt with the grounds for condonation of delay. The respondent-landowners too have been heard at length over the course of the proceedings, which we believe satisfies the standard laid down in Madan Mohan Prasad (supra). 63. Nevertheless, we are also conscious of the fact that no notice was issued in some of the cases, and the parties thereto have not been accorded an opportunity of hearing. All such cases, which we include in the annexed ‘List-B’, are therefore ed to be de-tagged and be listed separately on 22.07.2024. 48 [2011] 13 SCR 972 : (2011) 9 SCC 65, para 38. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1259 Delhi Development Authority v. Tejpal & Ors. E. Conclusion and Directions 64. The analysis in the foregoing paragraphs prompts us to hold that while some of the arguments put forth by the government authorities for condonation of delay, like subsequent change of law, special leeway for government entities, or the Court allegedly frowning upon filing of fresh SLPs; cannot be accepted, however, the appellants have made out sufficient cause for condonation of delay on the ground of public interest. In addition, the cases where allegations of suppression of material facts have been made also cannot be rejected at the threshold. Similarly, if a case falls within the parameters laid down in In Re: Cognizance for Extension of Limitation (supra), namely, that the delay occurred on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, such delay can also be condoned. Consequently, the delay is condoned in all these matters, except those mentioned in ‘List-B’, ‘List-C.2’, ‘List-D.2’ and ‘List-E.1’ (infra). 65. Having condoned the delay and upon grant of leave and after perusing the material on record, we find that the cases which form part of the appended ‘List-E.2’ are squarely covered in favor of the appellants in terms of Manoharlal (supra). While it may not be feasible to give detailed analysis of each of these cases, suffice it would be to show the same illustratively.