The preamble of the Act reads as under:- “An Act to provide for the more effective prevention of certain unlawful activities of individuals and associations [,and for dealing with terrorist activities,] and for matters connected therewith.” 13. A Bench of Three Judges of this Court (of which both of us were members) considered the objective of the Act in the following terms in Arup Bhuyan v. State of Assam19:- 19 [2023] 8 SCR 496 : (2023) 8 SCC 745 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 333 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. “85. The main objective of the UAPA is to make powers available for dealing with activities directed against the integrity and sovereignty of India. It is also required to be noted that pursuant to the recommendation of the Committee on National Integration and Regionalisation appointed by the National Integration Council Act on whose recommendation the Constitution (Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 was enacted, UAPA has been enacted. It appears that the National Integration Council appointed a Committee on National Integration and Regionalisation to look into, inter alia, the aspect of putting reasonable restrictions in the interests of sovereignty and integrity of India and thereafter the UAPA has been enacted. Therefore, the UAPA has been enacted to make powers available for dealing with the activities directed against integrity and sovereignty of India. 86. Now let us consider the Preamble to the UAPA, 1967. As per Preamble, the UAPA has been enacted to provide for the more effective prevention of certain unlawful activities of individuals and associations and dealing with terrorist activities and for matters connected therewith. Therefore the aim and object of enactment of the UAPA is also to provide for more effective prevention of certain unlawful activities. That is why and to achieve the said object and purpose of effective prevention of certain unlawful activities Parliament in its wisdom has provided that where an association is declared unlawful by a notification issued under Section 3, a person, who is and continues to be a member of such association shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 2 years, and shall also be liable to fine. Therefore, Parliament in its wisdom had thought it fit that once an association is declared unlawful after following due procedure as required under Section 3 and subject to the approval by the Tribunal still a person continues to be a member of such association is liable to be punished/ penalised.” (Emphasis supplied) 334 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) Relevant Statutory Provisions 14. At this juncture, we may refer to the applicable statute and rules. 14.1 The requisite clauses of Section 2 (definitions clause of the Act) are as under:- “2. Definitions.-(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- … … … (e) “Designated Authority” means such officer of the Central Government not below the rank of Joint Secretary to that Government, or such officer of the State Government not below the rank of Secretary to that Government, as the case may be, as may be specified by the Central Government or the State Government, by notification published in the Official Gazette; … … … (ec) “person” includes— (i) an individual, (ii) a company, (iii) a firm, (iv) an organisation or an association of persons or a body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, (v) every artificial juridical person, not falling within any of the preceding sub- clauses, and (vi) any agency, office or branch owned or controlled by any person falling within any of the preceding sub-clauses;] (f) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act; … … … (g) “proceeds of terrorism” means,— (i) all kinds of properties which have been derived or obtained from commission of any terrorist act or have been acquired through funds traceable to a terrorist act, irrespective of person in whose name such proceeds are standing or in whose possession they are found; or (ii) any property which is being used, or is intended to be used, for a terrorist act or for the purpose of an individual terrorist or a terrorist gang or a terrorist [2024] 10 S.C.R.