Moreover, he underlined that Rule 42 provides for the manner of computation of the ASP, and sub-rule (2)(b) thereof excludes the actual expenditure incurred from the sale value, in its prescriptions of the manner of computation. 24. We were further apprised of the fact that the method to compute ASP is in turn governed by Rule 38 of the MCR, 2016 which defines the term “sale value” and the Explanation thereto which stipulates that the royalty as well as the contributions made to DMF and NMET will not be deducted while computing the “sale value”. He pointed out a similar method of computation in Rule 45(8)(a) of the MCDR, 2017 which prescribes the manner of filing of monthly and annual returns. 86 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 25. He submitted that the present petition seeks to challenge the Explanation to Rule 38 of the MCR, 2016 and Explanation to Rule 45(8)(a) of the MCDR, 2017 as they mandate the non-exclusion of royalty and the contributions made to DMF and NMET, in the computation of the “sale value”. 26. The learned senior counsel contended that the Impugned Explanations lead to a situation where the royalty as well as payments to DMF and NMET made previously, are included in the ASP, which, in turn, is used as the basis to compute royalty for the next month. Such method of computation of ASP effectively results in the payment of royalty as well as DMF and NMET contributions not only on the value of the ore/mineral, but also on the royalty, DMF and NMET contributions paid in the previous month. Thus, there is an imposition of royalty on a royalty. It was contended that the Impugned Explanations create a twin charge on royalty: first, a charge on the value of the mineral before payment of royalty at the prescribed rate; and, secondly, a re-charge of royalty on royalty at a prescribed rate. It was submitted that such re-charge of royalty on royalty is ultra vires to the scope of Section 9(3) of the MMDR Act. 27. The learned senior counsel contended that the Impugned Explanations are manifestly arbitrary for the following reasons: (i) The present methodology for computing royalty leads to a compounding or cascading effect as it creates a charge of royalty on previous month’s royalty. (ii) It has been held by a 9-Judge Bench of this Court in Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. Steel Authority of India Limited & Anr. reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1974 that royalty is a consideration for extracting minerals. Therefore, such consideration cannot be compounded every month. (iii) Rule 42(2)(b) of the MCR, 2016 excludes actual expenditure incurred towards transportation, loading, unloading, rent for the plot at the stocking yard, charges for sampling and analysis and any other charges beyond mining lease area. However, the impugned Explanations do not exclude royalty, DMF and NMET contributions from such actual expenditure. It was contended that royalty is also an expense as it has been excluded from the category of taxes, therefore, it is illogical to not exclude the same from the ex-mine price.