While victims of child marriage are protected under the JJ Act, it further strengthens the effort to eliminate child marriages by creating a trained and skilled force of police officers to deal with children. The SJPUs are marked by their unique ability to inject humanity in law enforcement. The task of law enforcement officers, the police in particular, has traditionally been associated by the State’s ability to compel compliance to its norms. The formation of SJPUs reflects a refreshing outlook toward police work, one which is imperative in liberal democracies’ treatment of vulnerable groups. Law with a 122 ‘CWPO’ 123 ‘SJPU’ 1570 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports touch of humanity and law enforcement with a boost of sensitivity and empathy are the cornerstone of the law on children. The JJ Act therefore forms an important instrument in the contemporary legal framework concerning child marriages in India. D. The Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act 2005 89. The UN General Assembly adopted the Declaration on Survival, Protection and Development of Children in 1990. In 1989 the UN adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child124 which India ratified on 11 December 1992. To implement India’s obligations under these international instruments, Parliament enacted the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act 2005.125 90. The CPCRA seeks to assure child rights in two ways. Firstly, it establishes National and State Commissions for the protection of Child Rights.126 These bodies study, review, and oversee the implementation of child rights law in India. Secondly, the CPCRA establishes Children’s Courts for providing speedy trial of offences against children or for violation of child rights.127 Clause (b) of Section 2 of CPCRA defines child rights to include the rights stipulated in CRC. 91. The NCPCR under Section 13 and the State Commissions for the Protection of Child Rights under Section 24 of CPCRA are inter alia entrusted with performing the function of: (i) examining and reviewing the safeguards provided by any law for the protection of child rights and recommending measures for their effective implementation; (ii) inquiring into violation of child rights and recommend initiation of proceedings in such cases; and (iii) inquiring into complaints and taking suo motu notice of matters relating to,- (a) deprivation and violation of child rights; (b) non- implementation of laws providing for protection and development of children; (c) non-compliance of policy decisions, guidelines or instructions aimed at mitigating hardships to and ensuring 124 ‘CRC’ 125 ‘CPCRA’ 126 Sections 3 and 17, CPCRA. 127 Section 25, CPCRA. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1571 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. welfare of the children and to provide relief to such children, or take up the issues arising out of such matters with appropriate authorities. 92. The NCPCR and SCPCR serve the roles of review, monitoring and oversight of the legal framework on child rights in India. While the CPCRA enables the two commissions to effectively discharge their functions with appropriate resources, the effective implementation of the law is contingent on pro-active initiatives of the NCPCR and SCPCRs and the timely appointment of members to the two commissions.