The State Government has preferred the criminal appeal to challenge the of acquittal. 5. Considering the nature of the observations made by the High Court and the findings recorded by it, this Court appointed Ms. Madhavi Divan and Ms. Liz Mathew, the learned senior counsel, as amicus curiae to assist the Court. Both of them have rendered valuable assistance to the Court. Along with them, Ms. Nidhi Khanna, Advocate-on-Record, has also assisted the Court. We have heard Mr.Huzefa Ahmadi, the learned senior counsel appearing for the State Government and the learned counsel representing the accused 584 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and the victim. The learned senior counsel for the State Government has taken a fair stand. The accused and the victim are on the same page and want to continue their cohabitation. ANALYSIS OF EVIDENCE 6. We have perused the evidence of the prosecution witnesses and the statement of the accused under Section 313 of the Cr. PC. From the statement and the evidence on record, it becomes an admitted position that the age of the victim on the date of the incident was fourteen years, and the age of the accused was about twenty-five years. When the statement of the accused was recorded, the age of the victim’s daughter was about ten months. Though it is the case of the prosecution that the marriage between the accused and the victim was solemnised on 20th May 2018 in a temple, there is no evidence adduced by the prosecution on this aspect. 7. The evidence of the victim reveals that she also claimed that she married the accused. She stated that her daughter was ten months old. She stated in the cross-examination that she left her house of her own will and married the accused. She stated that since the year 2019, she has been residing in the house of the accused. She stated in the cross-examination that she would like to stay in the house of the accused. 8. The first informant, the victim’s mother, deposed that on 20th May 2018, the victim was fourteen years and three months old. She produced the victim’s birth certificate in the evidence. She stated that her daughter was kept in Narendrapur Sanlaap home, from where she was brought to her house. After staying in the house for a few months, she again went to the house of the accused. 9. We are not referring to the medical evidence as it is an admitted position that the accused kept physical relations with the victim, and the victim has given birth to a female child. There is no dispute that the accused is the biological father of the child. There is no explanation for the gross delay in investigation and the delay in arresting the accused. As stated earlier, the accused was arrested on 19th December 2021. Later on, he was enlarged on bail. GUILT OF THE ACCUSED 10. Section 6 of the POCSO Act reads thus: [2024] 8 S.C.R. 585 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents “6.