28. Sub-section (3) of Section 16 is of some relevance as it provides that if a registered person has claimed depreciation on the tax component of the cost of capital goods and plant and machinery under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, he is disentitled to ITC on the said tax component. In short, a registered person will not be entitled to ITC on the tax component of the cost of capital goods and plant and machinery if he claims depreciation on the said tax component under the Income Tax Act. The object is that a registered person does not take advantage of both depreciation and ITC. 29. Now we come to sub-Section (4) of Section 16. Before the amendment made by the Finance Act, 2022, the sub-section read thus: [2024] 10 S.C.R. 825 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. “16. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (4) A registered person shall not be entitled to take input tax credit in respect of any invoice or debit note for supply of goods or services or both after the due date of furnishing of the return under section 39 for the month of September following the end of financial year to which such invoice or debit note pertains or furnishing of the relevant annual return, whichever is earlier. Provided that the registered person shall be entitled to take input tax credit after the due date of furnishing of the return under section 39 for the month of September, 2018 till the due date of furnishing of the return under the said section for the month of March, 2019 in respect of any invoice or invoice relating to such debit note for supply of goods or services or both made during the financial year 2017-18, the details of which have been uploaded by the supplier under sub-section (1) of section 37 till the due date for furnishing the details under sub-section (1) of said section for the month of March, 2019.” The Finance Act, 2022, substituted the words “due date of furnishing return under Section 39 for the month of September” with “thirtieth day of November” with effect from 1st October 2022. Under Section 39(1), every registered person other than an Input Service Distributor is required to furnish for every calendar month or part thereof a return of inward and outward supplies of goods or services or both, ITC availed, tax payable, tax paid, etc. The meaning of sub-section (4) of Section 16 as amended is that a registered person can avail of ITC in respect of any invoice or debit note for the supply of goods or services before 30th day of November following the end of the financial year to which such invoice or debit note pertains, or furnishing of annual return, whichever is earlier. 30. Section 17 deals with apportionment of credit and blocked credits. The provision regarding blocked credits is in sub-section (5) of Section 17.