(5) The Government may, on the recommendations of the Council, by notification, specify categories of services the tax on intra-State supplies of which shall be paid by the electronic commerce operator if such services are supplied through it, and all the provisions of this Act shall apply to such electronic commerce operator as if he is the supplier liable for paying the tax in relation to the supply of such services: Provided that where an electronic commerce operator does not have a physical presence in the taxable territory, any person representing such electronic commerce operator for any purpose in the taxable territory shall be liable to pay tax: Provided further that where an electronic commerce operator does not have a physical presence in the taxable territory and also he does not have a representative in the said territory, such electronic commerce operator shall appoint a person in the taxable territory for the purpose of paying tax and such person shall be liable to pay tax.” (emphasis added) Thus, the GST is to be levied on supplies of goods or services or both, as provided in sub-section (1) of Section 9. Sub-sections (3) and (4) provide for certain categories of cases where the tax on the supply of goods or services or both shall be paid on a reverse charge basis by the recipient of such goods or services. As per Section 2(98) of the CGST Act, ‘reverse charge’ means the liability to pay tax by the recipient of the supply of goods or services, or both, instead of the supplier. Therefore, when sub-sections (3) or (4) of Section 9 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 821 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. are applicable, the recipients of goods, services, or both are liable to pay tax as if they were the suppliers. 27. Section 16 deals with ITC, which reads thus: “16. Eligibility and conditions for taking input tax credit—(1) Every registered person shall, subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed and in the manner specified in Section 49, be entitled to take credit of input tax charged on any supply of goods or services or both to him which are used or intended to be used in the course or furtherance of his business and the said amount shall be credited to the electronic credit ledger of such person. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, no registered person shall be entitled to the credit of any input tax in respect of any supply of goods or services or both to him unless,— (a) he is in possession of a tax invoice or debit note issued by a supplier registered under this Act, or such other tax paying documents as may be prescribed; (aa) the details of the invoice or debit note referred to in clause (a) has been furnished by the supplier in the statement of outward supplies and such details have been communicated to the recipient of such invoice or debit note in the manner specified under Section 37; (b) he has received the goods or services or both; Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, it shall be deemed that the registered person has received the goods or, as the case may be, services— (i) where the goods are delivered by the supplier to a recipient or any other person on the direction of such registered person, whether acting as an agent or otherwise, before or during movement of goods, either by way of transfer of documents of title to goods or otherwise; 822 [2024] 10 S.C.R.