However, the buyer vide reply letter dated 24th February, 2006 refuted the contents of the letter and emphasized that the sellers were bound to have the property vacated and the sale deed had to be executed only after all the tenants had vacated the property. It is noted that the last of the tenants vacated the property on 2nd February, 2006. d. The sellers vide letter dated 2nd March, 2006 asserted that the buyer has no right to claim purchase of the property as the Agreement had already been cancelled. The sellers reiterated that time is not the essence of the contract; the said period of 4 (four) months had expired; the fact of vacation of property by tenants was duly conveyed to the buyer multiple times; and despite multiple requests, the buyer did not come forward to execute the sale deed. For these reasons, the Agreement was cancelled vide letter dated 23rd February, 2006 and the pay of Rs. 25 lakh was returned. e. Despite the letter dated 23rd February, 2006 whereby the sellers cancelled the Agreement (reiterated vide letter dated 2nd March, 2006), the sellers vide a telegram dated 11th March, 2006 again expressed interest to sell the property and conveyed that they were ready to sell it; consequently, the buyer was called upon to complete the sale before 24th March, 2006. f. The buyer, claiming that she was out of station, sent a letter on 18th March, 2006. She asserted that as per the Agreement, she had four months’ time from the date of vacating of the property by all the tenants. A request was made calling upon the sellers to bring the original documents and ‘encumbrance certificate for 30 years’ to enable her advocate prepare the sale deed. g. The sellers then sent a letter dated 23rd March, 2006 asserting therein that the period of four months is to be counted from the date of the Agreement, and the demand for encumbrance certificate was not tenable as the buyer had already obtained encumbrance certificate from the sellers prior to entering into the Agreement and had also assured that she herself would verify the said certificate from the date of Agreement till date of sale. The sellers further stated that irrespective of the above, they have [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1105 R. Kandasamy (Since Dead) & Ors. v. T.R.K. Sarawathy & Anr. applied for encumbrance certificate and requested the buyer to execute the sale deed within a week from receipt of encumbrance certificate, failing which, the Agreement would stand cancelled. h. On 25th March, 2006, the sellers called upon the buyer to pay the sale consideration of Rs. 2.3 crore within 7 (seven) days. The buyer responded vide reply notice dated 29th March, 2006 and enclosed with it a draft sale deed and also demanded the sellers to hand over the encumbrance certificate. i. The sellers responded vide letter dated 6th April, 2006 and reiterated that photostat copies of the title deeds and encumbrance certificate up to the date of Agreement was already furnished to, and verified by the buyer before entering into the Agreement and that although it was not possible for them to deliver the original documents, they were ready to let the buyer verify the original documents.