It is also the case of the prosecution that to suit a case of escape of Shama @ Kalya from custody certain documents were created rather some entries were made in the station diary records. Thus, prosecution put forth such a case to establish that the accused persons had staged such a drama in a bid to create a belief that Shama @ Kalya escaped from their custody. Dipak Lokhande who was examined by the prosecution as PW-8, evidently did not support the case of the prosecution. It is to be noted that his evidence was appreciated by the Trial Court in paragraph 48 of its and observed that it is not expected from such a stock panch and a regular informant who is on the parole of police to go against local police. It is also a fact that though a charge under Section 202, IPC was framed against accused Nos. 1, 2 and 4 as well they were not found guilty on the said charge. The High Court instead of taking into account the fact that it was a case put forth by the prosecution and to prove the same PW-8 was examined and he turned hostile, observed that a specific case of Shama’s escape from custody was raised by the defence. The High Court went on to observe that having taken such a specific defence the appellants failed to establish the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 747 Manik & Ors. v. The State of Maharashtra same and therefore, it must have its consequences. In other words, it was held that proving the same was the burden of the appellants. In the contextual situation, another incongruency occurred in the consideration of the evidence by the Trial Court and the High Court is also noteworthy. As noticed hereinbefore, it is the case of the prosecution that such a drama was staged by the accused to show that Shama had escaped from their custody. As noticed earlier, Dipak Lokhande who was examined by the prosecution to prove the same did not support the case of prosecution. It is in this context that an dated 07.01.1996 passed by Railway Court, JMFC, Railway, Raipur in C.No.12/96 of S.E. Railway under Section 137/174 of Railways Act, 1989, the certified copy of which was produced by the accused No. 1 assumes relevance. The appreciation of the same by the Trial Court in paragraph 54 of its , is required be extracted, to know the nature of appreciation made by the Trial Court. It reads thus: - “……It is defence of accused No. 1 that a person by name Shama was convicted by Railway Court. Raipur on 7.1.96 for traveling without ticket. He has produced the certified copy of the of Railway Court. Raipur. This was an attempt to show that Shama was alive. Considering the circumstances and conduct of the policemen. It appears that the certified copy which is produced to show that Shama was convicted on 7.1.96 cannot be pertaining to Shama @ Kalya. It was an attempt to circumvent the case of prosecution.