[2024] 3 S.C.R. 1291 : 2024 INSC 267 Samaj Parivartana Samudaya & Ors. v. State of Karnataka & Ors. (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 562 of 2009) 14 March 2024 [Sanjiv Khanna, M.M. Sundresh and Bela M. Trivedi, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Various applications were filed before the Hon’ble Court seeking directions pertaining to demarcation of land for mining leases, implementation of R & R [Reclamation and Rehabilitation] Plans, imposition of a Maximum permissible annual production [MPAP] and District-level production ceiling for mining leases, etc. Headnotes Environmental Law – Background of illegal mining in Bellary, Chitradurga and Tumkur in Karnataka – Temporary ban on mining in the said Districts – Subsequent imposition of production ceiling on mining leases, enhanced from time-to- time – Categorization of mines into Category ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ based on severity of encroachment by the mines – Issue of demarcation of seven mining leases. Held: The Hon’ble Court by an dated 28.09.2022 had directed a Joint Team to prepare sketches of the seven mining leases – However, the said was deferred till the inter-state boundary was demarcated on the ground – The inter- state boundaries were fixed on the ground – Thereafter, a Joint Team was constituted comprising of Officers from the State of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh to render support to the CEC in surveying the seven mining leases – Direction issued to the National Institute of Technology, Suratkhal, Karnataka to carry out the survey on the ground level, based on the total station method, and satellite images of the seven mining leases – The survey was directed to be undertaken for one mining lease at a time – The CEC was directed to issue notice to the respective lessees after receipt of the survey/demarcation report, and pass appropriate s – The exercise was directed to be undertaken, even if the leases had expired – The Monitoring Committee 1292 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was also directed to be associated with the aforesaid exercise undertaken by the CEC, after the submission of the survey / demarcation reports. [Paras 5-14] Environmental law – Maximum permissible annual production [MPAP] and District-level production ceiling for mining leases – CEC fixed implementation of a Reclamation and Rehabilitation (R & R) Plan as a pre-condition for resumption of mining – Object of R & R Plan – CEC proposed implementation of MPAP for each mining lease, accepted by the Court – If total lease-wise annual production from all the leases in the District exceeds the ceiling limit fixed, then the MPAP for each mining lease to be scaled down on a pro-rata basis. Held: The Hon’ble Court reiterated the object of R & R Plans, and directed implementation of MPAP for mining leases – It was held that the objective of the R & R Plans is to (a) carry out the time-bound reclamation and rehabilitation of the areas found to be under illegal mining; (b) ensure scientific and environmentally sustainable mining; (c) ensure compliance with the various stands stipulated under the environment/mining statutes; and (d) regular and effective motoring, evaluation and corrective measures – The R & R Plans, with specifying actions to be undertaken for reclamation and rehabilitation works provided for an MPAP [i.e.