(3) The fees payable to the liquidator shall be deducted proportionately from the proceeds payable to each class of recipients under sub-section (1), and the proceeds to the relevant recipient shall be distributed after such deduction. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 165 BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED AND ANOTHER v. VIJAYKUMAR V. IYER AND OTHERS Explanation.—For the purpose of this section— (i) it is hereby clarified that at each stage of the distribution of proceeds in respect of a class of recipients that rank equally, each of the debts will either be paid in full, or will be paid in equal proportion within the same class of recipients, if the proceeds are insufficient to meet the debts in full; and (ii) the term “workmen’s dues” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).” 39. The Airtel entities have contested the conclusion by urging that Section 30 of the IBC seeks to ensure that the assets and liabilities of the corporate debtor, as recorded in the resolution plan, correspond to the liquidation estate of the corporate debtor in the event of liquidation. The provision is to ensure smooth transition between reorganisation under the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process and the liquidation process. In case a contrary view is taken, anomalies will arise. In the event the corporate debtor undergoes liquidation, Section 36(4)(e) and Regulation 29 would apply. However, if the Resolution Professional proceeds in terms of Section 25 and secures the assets from the creditors, the creditors would not be entitled to claim set-off during the course of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process, which is earlier in the point of time. 40. The arguments are fallacious and should not be accepted. Sub- section (2)(b)(ii) to Section 30 does not support the contention of the Airtel entities. Sub-section (2) to Section 30 deals with the resolution plan and the quantum of payment required to be made when considering a resolution plan under Chapter II Part II of the IBC. The provision requires that the Resolution Professional shall examine each resolution plan received by him to confirm that each plan provides for payment of debts of the operational creditor in the manner as may be specified by the Board. The Board has not specified the manner in which payment of debts to the operational creditor shall be made. However, the stipulation that the payment of debts to the operational creditor shall not be less than the amount that the operational creditors are entitled to in terms of the of priority in sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the IBC is mandatory. 166 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 41. There are several reasons why in our opinion clause (ii) to sub- section (2)(b) of Section 30 does not support the plea of insolvency set-off. The section does not make Chapter III Part II, that is, Section 36(4)(e) or Regulation 29, applicable to the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process under Chapter II Part II of the IBC.