[2024] 6 S.C.R. 298 : 2024 INSC 428 Mukatlal v. Kailash Chand (D) Through Lrs. and Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 6460 of 2024) 16 May 2024 [B.R. Gavai and Sandeep Mehta,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Matter pertains to the right of the legal heir of Hindu widow to enforce her right of succession in the unpartitioned Joint Hindu Family property by virtue of s. 14(1) of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956. Headnotes Hindu Succession Act, 1956 – s.14(1) – Property of a female Hindu to be her absolute property – Right of the legal heir of Hindu widow to enforce her right of succession in the unpartitioned joint hindu family property by virtue of s.14(1), when neither the widow nor her legal heir in possession of the suit land: Held: For establishing full ownership on the undivided joint family estate u/s. 14(1), the Hindu female must not only be possessed of the property but she must have acquired the property and such acquisition must be either by way of inheritance or devise, or at a partition or in lieu of maintenance or arrears of maintenance or by gift or be her own skill or exertion, or by purchase or by prescription – On going through the pleadings in the Revenue suit for partition filed by legal heir, it is clear that that the widow or the legal heir himself were never in possession of the suit property – As a matter of fact, the suit was filed by pleading that the suit property was a joint Hindu family property and appellant- beneficiary of the unpartitioned estate by way of Will, had consented to give half share of the suit property to the legal heir on his demand – This assertion was denied by appellant – Widow was never in possession of the suit property because the civil suit was filed by her claiming the relief of title as well as possession and the same was dismissed and she was held only entitled to receive maintenance from the undivided estate – This finding of the civil Court was never challenged – Since, widow was never in possession of the suit property, as a necessary corollary the * Author [2024] 6 S.C.R. 299 Mukatlal v. Kailash Chand (D) Through Lrs. and Ors. Revenue suit for partition claiming absolute ownership u/s. 14(1) could not be maintained by her adopted son, plaintiff by virtue of inheritance – Thus, the impugned s restoring the and decree of the Revenue Court that the plaintiff being the sole legal heir of the widow has coparcenary rights over the lands belonging to widow’s husband, cannot be sustained and are set aside. [Paras 17, 24-28] Case Law Cited M. Sivadasan (Dead) through Lrs. and Others v. A. Soudamini (Dead) through Lrs. and Others (2023) SCC OnLine SC 1078 – relied on. Ram Vishal(dead) by LRs. And Others v. Jagannath and Another (2004) 9 SCC 302; Vasant and Anr. v. Dattu & Ors. (1987) 1 SCC 160; Munni Devi alias Nathi Devi (Dead) Thr LRs & Ors.