[Para 35] 4. The experimentation in respect of GMOs, i.e. field trials, lab testing etc. would be in line with the development of a scientific temper along with the precautionary principle which has found its place within Article 21 of the Constitution of India – Field trials are a significant step in the development of crop varieties as the data representing the plant’s response to a particular agroecological environment can be collected only when such plant is grown outside in confined field trials – Without field trials, the performance of the plant in the field or environmental safety of such plant cannot be known – Studies, being conducted in open environment is necessary for studying the impact on human health and biodiversity, for the performance of a GM crop is dependent on a host environment – This would be essential to developing appropriate biosafety mechanisms as well. [Para 40] 5. Similar to when a legislative body enacts a legislation there is a presumption of constitutionality unless proven otherwise, a policy decision when taken by the competent authority enters the fray of enforcement with a presumption in its favour of being in public interest, unless otherwise shown, demonstrated and proven to [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1855 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. be among other grounds, manifestly arbitrary – This presumption extends, subject of course to just exceptions, to the authority having considered duties in framing policies for GMOs. [Para 43] 6. Interference by this Court would only be justified if it can be proven that the effect of a decision standing would be detrimental to the public, against its interest and would ultimately impact the enjoyment of fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution, to a degree which would be impermissible – That threshold cannot be said to have been breached – The field testing of DMH11, pursuant to the conditional approval of the GEAC, with sufficient safeguards and precautions, ought to continue and cannot be said to be violative of the precautionary principle and therefore, the constitutional challenge thereto, fails. [Paras 45.6 and 46] 7. It is clear that whether or not there should be a complete ban on Ht crops is not something this Court can issue a direction on – Such a decision has to be taken, keeping in view the opinion of various experts who have the knowledge and ability to comprehend scientific literature on the point as also the views of those persons specifically tasked with taking decisions in such matters – Courts, only on the basis of material placed on record or the indirect understanding passed on to it through counsel, is not in a position to take an informed decision – If such a decision is taken, it would be completely foreign to the standards of judicial review, for it is not within the Court’s purview to undertake cost benefit analysis of a policy decision of the executive. [Para 47] Case Law Cited In the of B.V. Nagarathna, J. Hanuman Laxman Aroskar v. Union of India [2020] 1 SCR 1030 : (2019) 15 SCC 401; Himachal Pradesh Bus-Stand Management & Development Authority v. Central Empowered Committee [2021] 1 SCR 344 : (2021) 4 SCC 309; Vellore Citizens’ Welfare Forum v. Union of India [1996] Supp.