From the statements of LW-1 Ravi, LW-2 Govindam, LW-3 Tamilarasu, LW-4 Dhandapani and LW-5 Andiappan the role of the accused no. 1 and 2 was also revealed. It was also observed that the charge was framed against all the accused based on material on record available with the Court, and that as per the settled legal position the charge could be altered at any stage of the proceedings. Being aggrieved by the said the Respondent [2024] 8 S.C.R. 705 K. Ravi v. State of Tamil Nadu & Anr. No.2 preferred the Revisional Application being Crl.R.C. No.1268 of 2016, wherein the High Court passed the impugned as stated hereinabove. 7. From the above conspectus of events, it clearly transpires that the Respondent No.2 after having failed to get himself discharged from the Sessions Court as well as from the High Court in the first round of litigation, filed another vexatious application before the Sessions Court under Section 216 of Cr.P.C., after the framing of charge by the Sessions Court, for modification of the charge. The Sessions Court having dismissed the said application, the Respondent No.2 preferred the Revisional Application before the High Court under Section 397 and 401 of Cr.P.C. The High Court in its unusual impugned , discharged the Respondent No. 2 (A-2) from the charges levelled against him, though his earlier application seeking discharge was already dismissed by the Sessions Court and confirmed by the High Court and that position had attained finality. The High Court utterly failed to realise that the impugned against it was the passed by the Sessions Court rejecting the application of the Respondent No. 2 seeking modification of the charge framed against him under Section 216 of Cr.P.C., and the said was an of interlocutory in nature. 8. It is pertinent to note that the dismissing application seeking modification of charge would be an interlocutory and in view of the express bar contained in sub-section (2) of Section 397 Cr.P.C., the Revision Application itself was not maintainable. 9. At this juncture, it would be apt to refer to the observations made by this Court in Amit Kapoor vs. Ramesh Chander and Another,1 explaining the scope of Section 397 Cr.P.C. It was held that - “12. Section 397 of the Code vests the court with the power to call for and examine the records of an inferior court for the purposes of satisfying itself as to the legality and regularity of any proceedings or made in a case. The object of this provision is to set right a patent defect or an error of jurisdiction or law. There has to be a well-founded error and it may not be appropriate for 1 [2012] 7 SCR 988 : (2012) 9 SCC 460 706 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the court to scrutinise the s, which upon the face of it bears a token of careful consideration and appear to be in accordance with law. If one looks into the various s of this Court, it emerges that the revisional jurisdiction can be invoked where the decisions under challenge are grossly erroneous, there is no compliance with the provisions of law, the finding recorded is based on no evidence, material evidence is ignored or judicial discretion is exercised arbitrarily or perversely.