In the light of the legal position crystalised by the above discussion, we proceed to discern the rationale of the High Court in allowing the review petition. 19. The proceedings of these civil appeals, as noted, have the writ petition as its genesis and not the civil suit, which was decreed in 2003. It is of utmost importance to bear in mind that the Division Bench (review) was called upon to review the and dated 16th August, 2018 of the Division Bench (original), which allowed the contempt appeal and the letters patent appeal and not any other final decree or . The Division Bench (review), in our opinion, has fundamentally confused both its remit and the subject matter of the review; whilst passing the impugned , it has merged the two proceedings (the civil suit and the writ petition) into one to ostensibly create necessary grounds of review. The additional documents discovered by the first respondent could have constituted a ground to review any other decree/ but, most certainly, were of no consequence for the purpose of the review petitions, which were decided by the impugned . This, we hold, for the reasons that follow. 22 [2008] 10 SCR 4 : (2008) 8 SCC 612 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1095 S. Tirupathi Rao v. M. Lingamaiah & Ors. 20. This Court in Aribam Tuleshwar Sharma v. Aribam Pishak Sharma 23 while clarifying the ambit of the review jurisdiction has categorically held that a decision cannot be reviewed merely because it is erroneous on merits, since that would fall squarely within the province of a court exercising appellate jurisdiction. 21. In Meera Bhanja v. Nirmala Kumari Choudhury,24 this Court affirmed the ratio in Aribam Tuleshwar Sharma (supra) and further expounded that review proceedings were not by way of an appeal, and would have to be strictly confined to the scope and ambit of XLVII, Rule 1 of the CPC. It was further held that an error apparent on the face of the record must be such an error which must strike one on mere looking of the record, obviating the need for long-drawn reasonings on two possible opinions. This Court in Haridas Das v. Usha Rani Banik,25 while reiterating the decisions in Meera Bhanja (supra) and Aribam Tuleshwar Sharma (supra), drew out the narrow contours within which review jurisdiction of this Court had to be exercised and held that XLVII, CPC does not allow for the rehearing of a dispute merely because a party had not highlighted all aspects of the case. 22. The Division Bench (original) had held that the decree was not enforceable against the State; this, because the State, though a party defendant originally, did not suffer any decree owing to the dismissal of the civil suit against the State vide and preliminary decree dated 06th April, 1959. The said Division Bench in its and dated 16th August, 2018 categorically noted that the first respondent committed fraud on the Court by obtaining a direction of mutation in the writ proceedings on the strength of a final decree rendered in a suit which had been given up against the State Government.