Depletion and disappearance of forests would ultimately lead to a massive extinction of organisms. Appreciation of this fact shall come from the point of view of a species rather than through the prism of a State or a nation. Regulation of temperature and prevention of water depletion is the primary role of forests. Destroying forests would lead to the depletion and destruction of our life source. It would lead to extreme droughts, rainfall would become scarce and even if it pours, there would not be any means for its natural storage. The concept of forests acting as a major sink of carbon dioxide has to be appreciated and encouraged. Destruction of forests also affects pollination and would ultimately impact the food chain. 35. A difference of one and half degree Celsius in temperature saves the global economy tens of trillions of dollars. We must realise 122 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that carbon emissions not only come from industrial activities but also agriculture. Such functions are to be valued for assessing forest wealth. The concept of carbon credit in carbon market is indeed a reality. With the need for imposing restrictions towards carbon emissions, the concept of carbon markets has come into being. Emissions of carbon dioxide worldwide, need to be seen holistically, as emissions from each nation ultimately disperses into the atmosphere. Thus, a country with excess forest cover would be in a position to sell its excess carbon credit to the one in deficit. This in turn underlines the significance of forests in contributing to the financial wealth of a country. From the economic perspective we wish to quote the report of the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India titled “India’s Forest and Tree Cover: Contribution as a Carbon Sink” (August 2009), as an aid to assess the valuation of forests in the Indian context, “Over the last two decades, progressive national forestry legislations and policies in India aimed at conservation and sustainable management of forests have reversed deforestation and have transformed India’s forests into a significant net sink of CO . From 1995 to 2005, the 2 carbon stocks stored in our forests and trees have increased from 6,245 million tonnes (mt) to 6,662 mt, registering an annual increment of 38 mt of carbon or 138 mt of CO equivalent. 2 Mitigation Service by India’s Forest and Tree Cover India’s forests serve as a major sink of CO . Our 2 estimates show that the annual CO removals by India’s 2 forest and tree cover is enough to neutralize 11.25 % of India’s total GHG emissions (CO equivalent) at 1994 2 levels, the most recent year for which comparable data is available for developing countries based on their respective National Communications (NATCOMs) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) . This is equivalent to offsetting 100% emissions from all energy in residential and transport sectors; or 40% of total emissions from the agriculture sector. Clearly, India’s forest and tree cover is serving as a major mode of carbon mitigation for India and the world.