Initially, there was an of status quo passed by the Learned Single Judge and on receiving the report from the Corporation the writ petition came to be dismissed vide dated 18.01.2018 on the ground that the writ petitioner (respondent No.1 herein) had no locus standi since she had participated in the selection process. Being aggrieved by the same the intra-court appeal came to be filed and the appellate court by the impugned allowed the appeal on the ground (a) that the successful applicant had not offered unencumbered land for construction of godown and showroom; (b) the land offered by the appellant was in contravention of clause 7.1(vi) and (vii) of the guidelines for selection of regular LPG Distributors; (c) the amendment of the said guidelines brought about subsequently, cannot be made applicable retrospectively. The allotment made in favour of the (appellant herein) was set aside by the impugned and as a consequence of it, the letter of intent, the letter of approval accepting the alternate land offered by the (appellant herein) and all subsequent permissions, licences and no objections issued in his favour were held to be of no effect. Hence, this appeal. 7. We have heard Shri Pijush K. Roy, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant and Shri Zoheb Hossain, learned counsel appearing for respondent No.1 and Shri Shekhar Naphade, learned Senior Counsel for the Corporation. Learned counsel for the appellant would vehemently contend that Learned Single Judge had rightly dismissed the writ petition on the ground of lack of locus standi of the writ petitioner and had dissolved the interim granted earlier. It is also contended that by the time the interim of status quo came to be passed by the Learned Single Judge on 20.07.2017, the appellant herein had already submitted an application for accepting the alternate land offered and which request came to be processed and the applicant (appellant herein) had been allowed to construct the godown and showroom on the alternate land so offered. These facts though being available, the Division Bench ignoring the same 510 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports had proceeded on tangent in accepting the plea of the writ petitioner without examining the aspect of delay and giving a complete go by for laches exhibited on the part of the writ petitioner and extended the olive branch on surmises and conjectures and as such the impugned is liable to be set-aside and consequently, writ petition which came to be dismissed by the Learned Single Judge has to be upheld. Shri Shekhar Naphade, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Corporation has fairly submitted that in the light of the appellant herein being successful in the allotment by draw of lots, had been issued with the letter of intent and the prayer for offering the alternate land was also accepted and having regard to the subsequent development namely the subsequent notification dated 30.04.2015 issued by the appropriate government directing the Oil Marketing Companies to provide flexibility in the selection guidelines by providing an “opportunity to offer alternate land in response to the advertisement” which clarified the position with regard to alternative land offered had been acted upon by the Corporation in the instant case and being satisfied with the bona fides of the applicant/appellant, the Corporation had permitted the construction, and accordingly the construction has been put up along with building, the godown and the showroom and as such he has prayed for suitable s being passed.