The operative portion of the said decision reads as under: - “106. In the result, both the appeals succeed and are hereby allowed. 107. The impugned and passed by the High Court is hereby set aside. 108. The respondent Bank shall refund the entire amount deposited by the borrowers i.e., an amount of Rs.129 crore paid by them in lieu of the redemption of mortgage of the secured asset at the earliest. The appellant herein shall pay an additional amount of Rs. 23.95 crore to the Bank within a period of one week from today and subject to such deposit, the Bank shall issue the sale certificate in accordance with Rule 9(6) of the Rules of 2002. 109. The pending applications if any shall stand disposed of.” 133. It is material to note that even in the review petition preferred by the Borrower including the application for additional grounds of review therein, the contention of the Borrower in the present contempt petition as to the illegality of the SARFAESI proceedings including the 9th auction or the contravention of the 30/15 days statutory period, does not figure. In fact, the Borrower in the review petition did not [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1693 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. even lay any challenge to the direction of this Court to issue the sale certificate in the Main Appeals. No averment at all was made in countenance of the S.A. No. 46 of 2022, or as regards the measures of the Bank under the SARFAESI Act, the 9th auction notice issued in lieu thereof, or the approval of the sale of the Secured Asset by issuance of the sale certificate in its respect. The said review petition was ultimately dismissed by this Court vide its dated 18.07.2024. 134. Thus, the Borrower having admittedly failed to even remotely indicate the aforesaid issues to this Court let alone contend it in both the Main Appeals and the review thereof, the only question that now remains to be answered is whether it is permissible for the Borrower to raise it and again litigate the same subsequently either in the present contempt petition or in the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 which is still pending before the DRT. b. The ‘Henderson’ Principle as a corollary of Constructive Res- Judicata. 135. The ‘Henderson Principle’ is a foundational doctrine in common law that addresses the issue of multiplicity in litigation. It embodies the broader concept of procedural fairness, abuse of process and judicial efficiency by mandating that all claims and issues that could and ought to have been raised in a previous litigation should not be relitigated in subsequent proceedings. The extended form of res-judicata more popularly known as ‘Constructive Res Judicata’ contained in Section 11, Explanation VII of the CPC originates from this principle. 136. In Henderson v. Henderson reported in [1843] 3 Hare 999, the English Court of Chancery speaking through Sir James Wigram, V.C. held that where a given matter becomes the subject of litigation and the adjudication of a court of competent jurisdiction, the parties so litigating are required to bring forward their whole case.