1594 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports It was thus held in Annapurna Carbon Industries Co. (supra) that, “10. We find that the term “accessories” is used in the schedule to describe goods which may have been manufactured for use as an aid or addition. A sense in which the word accessory is used is given in Webster›s Third New International Dictionary as follows: “An object or device that is not essential in itself but that adds to the beauty, convenience, or effectiveness of something else.” Other meanings given there are: “supplementary or secondary to something of greater or primary importance”, “additional”, “any of several mechanical devices that assist in operating or controlling the tone resources of an organ”. “Accessories” are not necessarily confined to particular machines for which they may serve as aids. The same item may be an accessory of more than one kind of instrument.” 11.11.10 Thus, in our opinion, the restricted meaning of accessory given by the CESTAT and not differed from by the Bombay High Court is not wholly correct in as much as the meaning of accessory can have different ascribed meanings as observed in the aforesaid decision. 11.11.11 There is no dispute to the fact that BTS is a composite system consisting of the transmitter, receiver, antenna and other equipment, and antenna can be said to be an integral part of BTS. As discussed above, and not disputed by the Revenue, tower is needed to keep the antenna at an appropriate height and keep it stable. Without the tower, it is not possible to hoist the antenna at the requisite height and without it being securely fastened to the tower, antenna cannot be kept firm and steady for proper receipt and transmission of radio signals. Thus, there cannot be any doubt that a mobile tower can be treated to be an accessory of antenna and BTS. Accordingly, since in terms of sub-clause (iii) of [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1595 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune Rule 2(a)(A), all components, spares and accessories of such capital goods falling under sub-clause (i) would also be treated as capital goods, a mobile tower can also be treated as “capital good”. 11.11.12 We, therefore, agree with the conclusion arrived at by the Delhi High Court that towers and shelters (PFBs) support the BTS/antenna for effective transmission of mobile signals and thus enhance their efficiency and since these articles are components/accessories of BTS/antenna which are admittedly “capital goods” falling under Chapter 85 within sub-clause (i) of Rule 2(a)(A) of CENVAT Rules, these items consequently are covered by the definition of “capital goods” within the meaning of sub-clause (iii) read with sub-clause (i) of Rule 2(a)(A) of CENVAT Rules. Further, since these are used for providing output service, i.e., mobile telecommunication service, and since these are “capital goods” received in the premises of the provider of output service as contemplated under Rule 3(1)(i), the Assessees would be entitled to CENVAT credit on the excise duties paid on these goods.