The evidence collected during the course of investigation in legal and proper manner and sought to be used in the course of trial with regard to the seized contraband substance could not be simply brushed aside, on the ground of procedural irregularity if any, committed by the concerned officer authorised in making application to the Magistrate as contemplated under Section 52A of the Act. 32. Significantly, the Authorised Officer can make the application under sub-section (2) of Section 52A for three purposes – (a) for certifying the correctness of the inventory prepared by him; or (b) taking in presence of such magistrate, photographs of the seized drugs, substances and conveyances and certifying such photographs as true; or (c) allowing to draw representative samples of such drugs or substances, in the presence of such Magistrate, and certifying the correctness of any list of samples so drawn. The use of the conjunction “OR” made in between the three purposes mentioned therein, itself makes it explicitly clear that the purposes for which the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1431 Narcotics Control Bureau v. Kashif application could be made under sub-section (2) are alternative and not cumulative in nature. Such provision specifying multiple alternative purposes could not be construed as a mandatory provision muchless its non-compliance fatal to the case of prosecution. 33. Though it is true that the inventory certified, photographs taken and the list of samples drawn under sub-section (2) has to be treated by the Court as primary evidence in view of sub-section (3), nonetheless the documents like Panchnama, seizure memo, arrest memo etc. prepared by the Investigating Officer on the spot or during the course of investigation are also primary evidence within the meaning of Section 62 of the Evidence Act, carrying the same evidentiary value as any other primary evidence. Such primary evidence with regard to Search and Seizure of the contraband substance could not be overlooked merely because some lapse or non-compliance is found of Section 52A of the Act. 34. In our opinion reliance placed by the High Court on the decision of this Court in Union of India Vs. Mohanlal and Another,7 is thoroughly misplaced. In the said case, the issue of pilferage of contraband was the main issue. The Court after noticing the non- compliance of the procedure laid down in the Standing No. 1 of 89 dated 13.06.1989, and the possibility of the pilferage of contraband goods and their return to the market place for circulation, had appointed an amicus curiae for making a realistic review of the procedure for search, disposal or destruction of the narcotics and remedial steps that need to be taken to plug the loopholes, if any. The Court, thereafter, had raised the queries with regard to the seizure, storage, disposal/destruction and also with regard to the judicial supervision in respect of the seized narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. The prime focal in case of Mohanlal was the disposal of seized contraband goods as contemplated in Section 52A. Though it held that the process of drawing samples has to be done in presence of and under the supervision of the Magistrate, it nowhere held that non-compliance or delayed compliance of the procedure prescribed under Section 52A (2) would vitiate the trial or would entitle the accused to be released on bail.