Explanation below sub-section (1) clarifies that for the purpose of sub-section (1), the date of payment of duty or interest in relation to a person, other than an importer, shall be construed as the date of purchase of goods by such person. 10.1. Sub-section (2) says that if on the receipt of such application the designated authority is satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty, paid by the applicant is refundable, he may make an accordingly and the amount so determined shall be credited to the Consumer Welfare Fund established under Section 12C of the Central Excise Act. However, as per the proviso, the amount of duty and interest so determined shall be paid to the applicant instead of being credited to the Consumer Welfare Fund if such amount is relatable, amongst others, to drawback of duty payable under Sections 74 and 75 of the Customs Act. 11. Section 27A of the Customs Act provides for interest on delayed refund. It says that, if any duty ed to be refunded under sub- section (2) of Section 27 to an applicant is not refunded within three months from the date of receipt of the application, there shall be paid to that applicant interest at such rate not below five percent and not exceeding thirty percent per annum as is for the time being fixed by the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, on such duty from the date immediately after the expiry of three months from the date of receipt of such application till the date of refund of such duty. 12. Chapter X of the Customs Act comprising of Sections 74 to 76 deals with drawback. While Section 74 allows drawback on re-export of duty-paid goods, Section 75 provides for drawback on imported materials used in the manufacture of goods which are exported. On the other hand, Section 75A deals with interest on drawback. Sub- 100 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports section (1) of Section 75A says that, where any drawback payable to a claimant under Section 74 or Section 75 is not paid within a period of one month (earlier it was two months and prior thereto it was three months) from the date of filing a claim for payment of such drawback, there shall be paid to that claimant in addition to the amount of drawback, interest at the rate fixed under Section 27A from the date after the expiry of the said period of one month till the date of payment of such drawback. 13. In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 3 of the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947, the Central Government notified the Export and Import (Exim) Policy for the period 1992-1997. It came into effect from 01.04.1992 and remained in force for a period of five years up to 31.03.1997. 14. After the enactment of The Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992, the Exim Policy, 1992-1997 was deemed to have been made under the aforesaid Act.