217,86,00,000 (rupees two hundred seventeen crore eighty six lakh only). The admitted claim of the appellant is Rs. 242,96,00,000 (rupees two hundred forty two crore ninety six lakh only). Thus, the appellant, notwithstanding the amendments to Section 30 of the Code, has been deprived of its due share given its superior security assets. Equating the appellant with financial creditors having inferior security interest has resulted in unjust enrichment and windfall benefits to the dissimilarly placed creditors to the detriment of the appellant. 21. To appreciate the legal question, which requires an answer, we would like to reproduce Section 30(2) and Section 30(4) of the Code, with the amendments made vide the IBC (Amendment) Act, 2019, which for clarity have been highlighted in italics and bold. Relevant portions of the two sections read: “30. Submission of resolution plan.— xx xx xx (2) The resolution professional shall examine each resolution plan received by him to confirm that each resolution plan— [2024] 1 S.C.R. 121 DBS BANK LIMITED SINGAPORE v. RUCHI SOYA INDUSTRIES LIMITED AND ANOTHER (a) provides for the payment of insolvency resolution process costs in a manner specified by the Board in priority to the payment of other debts of the corporate debtor; (b) provides for the payment of debts of operational creditors in such manner as may be specified by the Board which shall not be less than— (i) the amount to be paid to such creditors in the event of a liquidation of the corporate debtor under Section 53; or (ii) the amount that would have been paid to such creditors, if the amount to be distributed under the resolution plan had been distributed in accordance with the of priority in sub- section (1) of Section 53, whichever is higher, and provides for the payment of debts of financial creditors, who do not vote in favour of the resolution plan, in such manner as may be specified by the Board, which shall not be less than the amount to be paid to such creditors in accordance with sub-section (1) of Section 53 in the event of a liquidation of the corporate debtor. Explanation 1.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this clause shall be fair and equitable to such creditors. Explanation 2.—For the purposes of this clause, it is hereby declared that on and from the date of commencement of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Act, 2019, the provisions of this clause shall also apply to the corporate insolvency resolution process of a corporate debtor— (i) where a resolution plan has not been approved or rejected by the Adjudicating Authority; 122 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS (ii) where an appeal has been preferred under Section 61 or Section 62 or such an appeal is not time barred under any provision of law for the time being in force; or (iii) where a legal proceeding has been initiated in any court against the decision of the Adjudicating Authority in respect of a resolution plan; (c) provides for the management of the affairs of the corporate debtor after approval of the resolution plan; (d) the implementation and supervision of the resolution plan; (e) does not contravene any of the provisions of the law for the time being in force; (f) conforms to such other requirements as may be specified by the Board.