2. Cross-substitution between different categories of stakeholders can improve the financial management of the wetland. A part of the proceeds can go to the local management. Also, high-income tourists, scientists and even non-users with a stake in preservation can pay for or compensate low-income stakeholders for possible loss in welfare due to limits on extraction and use. 3. However, the limit to such a policy is determined by the number of visitors and their possible impact on the health of the wetland. Such a constraint did not appear to be operational in the context of the present park. Identification and ranking of values of different aspects of biodiversity resources as perceived and expressed by different categories of stakeholders namely scientists, tourists, local villagers and non-users is an important object in the process of valuation. In the KNP study, a fair degree of congruence in respect of ecological function value and livelihood value is discovered to exist in the perceptions of diverse groups. Stakeholders as diverse as scientists, tourists, local villagers and non-users give high rankings to these uses.” It has been so held hereunder that a Committee is to be constituted to formulate base on which NPV could be calculated. It has been further held that the NPV has to be worked out on economic principles. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 733 T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others 62. Pursuant to the afore-stated directions by this Court, the Committee so constituted had examined the recommendations of the Central Empowered Committee which was accepted and the NPV rate was fixed for a period of three years. The said Committee classified forest into three types, namely, (i) very dense; (ii) moderately dense and; (iii) open, which was based on the maps prepared by NRSC, Hyderabad. It would be pertinent to note that the appellant is attempting to import the figure of 1 (one) hectare in place of 5 (five) hectares (as indicated in the prescribed criteria by State of Goa) solely on the ground that the NPV cost therein was determined by this Court on per hectare basis. It is relevant to observe that the analogies employed to calculate the forest coverage area, which the appellant is attempting to introduce, may be incongruent and unrelated to the identification or demarcation of forest area. This process necessitates the application of a distinct yardstick. The process of identification has been gone into by the experts as reflected from the Sawant Committee report and accepted by this Court in Tata Housing (supra). Hence, it would not be apt and appropriate for us to sit in the arm chair of the experts and to substitute our opinion or that of the appellants in contrary distinction to the opinion expressed by the experts and as such we refrain from doing so. As a consequence of the same the contention raised by the appellants cannot be accepted and it deserves to be rejected and accordingly, it stands rejected. 63. In fact, the process of physical demarcation of such forests in the State of Goa seems to have attained finality by virtue of the reports.