372-373. Also see Fay v. New York 332 U.S. (1947) (Jackson, J. ), Pg. 261, 282. 290 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for acquisition of all private owned transport buses, which were to be plied by the state-owned corporation. The object and reasons of the Act showed that this was being done to implement Article 39 (b) and (c) of the Constitution. The High Court, however, held that there was no “public purpose” in the acquisition. This of the High Court was set aside by the Seven Judge Bench, where all the Judges were unanimous in holding that the High Court was wrong in setting aside the scheme of the Government as it was indeed for a “public purpose”. This was done by making a harmonious construction and reading down certain provisions of the Act. Three Judges (Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer, Justice P.N. Bhagwati and Justice Jaswant Singh) out of the seven, in their concurring but separate opinion went ahead to emphasise as to what the expression “material resources of the community” would mean in Article 39(b) of the Constitution of India. This opinion is significant for it is here that we get a clear and unequivocal description of what constitutes “material resources of the community”. It is respectfully stated that this opinion holds the field even today and has been followed by the Five Judge Bench in Sanjeev Coke and later in many other cases. 24. Although Shri Tushar Mehta, the learned Solicitor General of India, argued at length to convince this Court that the observations in Mafatlal are not obiter dicta and it is a binding precedent for this Court, the argument is not entirely convincing. In Mafatlal, the question before this Court primarily was of unjust enrichment. The observations of Justice Jeevan Reddy are only incidental and were not related to the core issue. I agree with the learned Chief Justice on this point and I adopt the detailed reasoning given by him in holding that the majority opinion in Mafatlal constitutes obiter dicta and is not binding on this Court. 25. Now coming back to Ranganatha Reddy, the reason why a separate opinion was required, was explained by Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer and the other two Judges, as under: “Because, to put it simplistically, a legislation for the nationalisation of contract carriages by the Karnataka State, where provision has been made for fair compensation under present circumstances, has still been struck down by the High Court on the surprising grounds of absence of public purpose, illusoriness of compensation State [2024] 11 S.C.R. 291 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. takeover being beyond the orbit of Article 39(b) and the like, and to express ourselves emphatically in reversal ... on the obvious, yet basic, issue we itemise below which is necessary to obviate constitutional derailment again. The public sector, in our constitutional system, is so strategic a tool in the national plan for transformation from stark poverty to social justice, transcending administrative and judicial allergies, that the questions raised and rulings thereon are of larger import for the country than one particular legislation and its vires and one particular Government and its policies.