Digital Supreme Court Reports 25 (a) 11. This decision has come to be followed by this Court in Singrauli Super Thermal Power Station v. Ashwani Kumar Dubey (2-Judge Bench).14 25 (a) 12. Keeping in view of the above, what this Court must examine is whether in the appointment and acceptance of the recommendation of the expert committee, the GEAC has delegated its core function, in view of the 1989 Rules. 25 (a) 13. Under the 1989 Rules, the GEAC functioning as a body under the Department of Environment, Forests and Wildlife has been made responsible for approval of proposals relating to release of genetically engineered organisms and products into the environment including experimental field trials. Therefore, the primary function that has been given to the GEAC, is this process of granting approvals. The composition of this Committee, along with representatives from different departments of the executive, has to include three outside experts in individual capacity. 25 (a) 14. On a perusal of the timeline for conditional approval of DMH-11, the GEAC has constituted a sub-committee and expert committee respectively, in its 126th and 146th meeting, with a specific purpose on each occasion. In my considered view, this cannot be said to be delegating its core function. 25 (a) 15. In Kantha Vibhag Yuva Koli Samaj (supra), which the Petitioners place reliance on, the body involved, i.e., the NGT exercises judicial functions, which is clearly distinct from the GEAC which is responsible for granting approvals for the release of GMOs and not performing any quasi-judicial function. Therefore, it cannot be said that the exposition in the above case, applies squarely to the case at hand. 25 (a) 16. Furthermore, in the said decision, it was explicitly stated in paragraph 22 that “expert committees may be appointed to assist the NGT in the performance of its task and as an adjunct to its fact-finding role”. In my view, this is squarely, the function performed by the sub-committee/expert committee constituted by the GEAC, i.e., assistance in granting approvals. 14 [2023] 10 SCR 440 : (2023) 8 SCC 35 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1885 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 25 (a) 17. The present factual circumstance is not a case, where the approval process itself has been delegated to the sub-committee/expert committee. A specific purpose was set out for the committee, on which a report was submitted back to the GEAC. Illustratively, the mandate of the expert committee may be referred to, the relevant extract is as under: “…In accordance with the decision taken in the aforementioned meeting of the GEAC, the Expert Committee has been constituted to examine the claim of CGMCP, University of Delhi in respect of availability of adequate evidence about impact of transgenic mustard on honey bees and other pollinators, in to assess the need for conducting field demonstration studies on honeybees and other pollinators.” 25 (a) 18. It is evident from the above extract that the expert committee was constituted for a limited purpose and was only a part of the larger decision-making process.