In the case at hand, the complainant has suffered physical pain for more than five years due to negligence of opposite parties no. 1 and 2. …we feel that compensation for Rs.5,00,000/- in lump sum is just and proper to meet out the injury of the complainant. …Opposite parties no. 3 and 4 have taken plea that they are only liable for bodily injury as per the contract for death, injury, illness or disease of or any person. In the present case the complainant was operated by opposite party no.2 for appendicitis but after operation, the complainant developed pain and pus started oozing out from stitches and she was operated at PGI where needle was extracted by the doctor from her abdomen. Therefore, the case of the complainant is covered under injury and illness and opposite parties no.3 2 For short, ‘District Forum’ 762 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and 4 are liable to pay compensation awarded against opposite parties no.1 and 2 being the insurers” 6. On appeal preferred by the present respondents (First Appeal No.70 of 2014 dated 23rd September 2014) the H.P. State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Shimla3 observed that:- “…needle was not left at the site of surgery, at the Hospital of the appellants, when the complainant was operated for removal of appendicitis, yet from an overall reading of the pleadings and evidence on record, it can be said that surgery conducted at the clinic of the appellants, was the cause of pain, which the complainant had been having at-least upto December, 2008, when the pus was drained out.” 7. The respondents herein were held liable to compensate the appellant for the physical pain, mental agony, and expenses incurred by her, to the tune of Rs.1,00,000/-, thereby partly allowing the respondent’s appeal. 8. The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission4, in the Revision Petition 57 of 2015 arising out of the of the State Commission observed that the post-operative care provided by the respondents was casual and fell short of the standard of medical care. They had failed to investigate the non-healing surgical wound thereby constituting a deficiency in service. The NCDRC refused to accept the argument that since the appellant had received care at other hospitals as well it would be difficult to determine who was responsible for the needle in the abdomen. 9. The egg-skull rule was applied to hold an individual liable for all consequences of their act. The compensation awarded by the State Commission was enhanced to Rs.2,00,000/-. 10. Hence, the claimant-appellant prefers the present appeal, seeking enhancement of compensation. We may state, for ample clarity, that, the present dispute arose within the contours of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, the predecessor legislation to the current Consumer Protection Act, 2019. 3 For short, ‘State Commission’ 4 For brevity, ‘NCDRC’ [2024] 4 S.C.R. 763 Jyoti Devi v. Suket Hospital & Ors. 11. The factum of negligence on the part of the respondent Hospital as well as respondent No.2 has not been doubted, across fora.