25,000/- with a default stipulation. The appeal filed by the appellant against the aforesaid conviction and sentence was dismissed by the High Court. 3. The prosecution case in brief is that wife of the appellant Rekha was a police constable and lived in the police colony at Ambajogai. Her husband i.e. the appellant was serving in the army. He had come home on leave. 3.1. On 22.07.2002, at about 08:30 PM, Rekha had sustained burn injuries in the quarter where she was residing. According to the prosecution, she was subjected to cruelty by her husband Rajendra and brother-in-law Suresh. She was also subjected to sustained cruelty at the hands of her other in-laws including father-in-law, mother-in-law and sister-in- law. On the fateful day, Rekha was beaten by her husband Rajendra and brother-in-law Suresh. They tied her hands with a gamcha and her feet by a towel. Then the husband gagged her face. Brother-in-law got a match box and a bottle of kerosene. Husband poured the kerosene on her person and lit the matchstick. In the process, she got completely burnt. She was taken to the hospital by the neighbours where her dying declaration was recorded by PW-6 being Ex. 59 on the basis of which Ambajogai Police Station registered Crime No. 182/2002 under Sections 307, 498A, 342, 323 and 504 read with Section 34 IPC. 3.2. Investigation of the crime was conducted by PW-10. He broke open the locked room where the incident had taken place and seized partially burnt lady’s clothes, a bottle containing residue of kerosene, broken mangalsutra etc. Later on, another dying declaration of the victim was recorded by the Special Executive Magistrate being Ex. 65. On 24.07.2002, at about 11:00 PM, Rekha expired due to the burn injuries. Following the same, Section 302 IPC was added to the FIR. 3.3. On completion of investigation, chargesheet was submitted by the police. Appellant alongwith the father-in-law, mother-in-law and sister-in-law of the deceased were arrayed as accused. In so far brother-in-law Suresh is concerned, he was found to 744 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports be a juvenile. Therefore, his case was segregated and sent to the Juvenile Justice Board. 3.4. In the trial of the appellant and the three others, prosecution examined in all 13 witnesses. Statements of the accused including the appellant were recorded under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr.PC). Stand of the defence was that it was not a case of homicide but a case of suicide. In addition to the above, appellant also tendered evidence of a doctor. 3.5. After considering the evidence on record and the rival contentions, the trial court came to the conclusion that prosecution could not prove that the accused persons in furtherance of their common intention had subjected the deceased to harassment and cruelty and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 498A IPC read with Section 34 thereof. The trial court also did not find any material against the father-in-law, mother-in-law and sister-in-law of the appellant for committing murder of Rekha.