Each item of the policy (if more than one) to which this memorandum applies was to be separately subject to the following provisions. e. This Memorandum was to be without force or effect if i. The Insured fails to intimate to the company within 6 months from the date of destruction or damage or such further [2024] 5 S.C.R. 303 New India Assurance Company Ltd. Through its Manager v. M/s Tata Steel Ltd. time as the Company may in writing allow, his intention to replace or reinstate the property destroyed or damaged. ii. The Insured is unable or unwilling to replace or reinstate the property destroyed or damaged on the same or another site.” 37. It is very clear from the above that the original terms of the policy which provided for payment by NIACL of the value of the property at the time of the happening of its destruction or the amount of such damage was varied and the basis was changed. The changed basis under the Memorandum of the Reinstatement Value Clause was that the amount payable was to be calculated based on the cost of replacing or reinstating the same, i.e. property of the same kind or type but not superior or more extensive than the insured property when new. 38. It is also clear that in view of the Reinstatement Value Clause, the question of NIACL on the facts of the present case opting to reinstate or replace under Clause 9 of the conditions of the policy does not arise and with the same reasoning, the question of the applicability of Clause 9 itself cannot arise. Relevant Facts as they unfolded:- 39. At this stage, it is important to deal with the correspondence that was exchanged between the parties to bring out as to how under the Reinstatement Value Clause, it was the Insured who attempted to reinstate or replace the property which was destroyed. As will be clear from the sequence of the events, it was the Insured who was either unable to or unwilling thereafter to reinstate the property. Let us see how the facts unfolded. On 12.12.1998 i.e., the date of the fire, the Insured intimated NIACL and requested for the surveyors to be deputed. On 14.12.1998, the surveyors wrote to the Insured requesting for various information including year wise capitalization, balance sheets of the previous two years, copy of the original invoices of affected items as well as fresh proforma invoice and the logbook and any other maintenance record. In the reply of 18.12.1998, crucial information with regard to the original invoice as well as proforma invoice were not furnished. An interim survey report was prepared on 04.02.1999 by the three surveyors in the joint report and that report had the following disclaimer: 304 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “Based on the physical inspection carried out and limited information made available by the Insured till then, the above surveyors submitted their joint survey report on 22nd December 1998. Subsequently, the underwriters appointed P.C.