11. The provision of Section 6 therefore, assumes immense significance and therefore, cannot be ignored and violated by the Defendant. Any such attempt on the part of the Defendant would cause an inroad to the constitutionalism and therefore, this Hon’ble Court being the conscience keeper of the Constitution ought not to permit the Defendant to do so. 12. In State of West Bengal and others v. Committee for Protection of Democratic Right, West Bengal and others reported in (2010) 3 SCC 571, this Hon’ble Court held that although Section 5(1), DSPE Act empowers the Central Government to extend power and jurisdiction of members of the DSPE force to any area in a State, Section 6 imposes a restriction on such power of the Central Government requiring it to obtain the consent of the concerned State Government. This Hon’ble Court further held that the only exception is when either the Hon’ble High Courts or this Hon’ble Court, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 or 32 of the Constitution, respectively, directs the CBI to investigate a cognizable offence allegedly to have been [2024] 7 S.C.R. 709 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India committed within the territory of a state without the consent of that particular state; such direction under Articles 226 or 32 of the Constitution will neither impinge upon the federal structure of the Constitution nor violate the doctrine of separation of power, and shall be valid in law. 13. In the instant proceeding, the Plaintiff is challenging the act of the defendant in registering suo moto cases for offences that have occurred within the territory of the plaintiff dehors any direction from any competent court or prior consent granted by the Plaintiff. 14. In this regard, Section 6 of the DSPE Act is crucial since it requires prior consent of the State Government for exercising power and jurisdiction under the DSPE Act by CBI to any area in a State not having Union Territory or Railways. Before the provision of DSPE Act are invoked to authorize the CBI to exercise its power and jurisdiction within any State, the following conditions are to be specified compulsorily. i) A notification must be issued by the Central Government specifying the offences to be investigated by CBI (Section 3); ii) An must be passed by the Central Government extending power and jurisdiction of CBI to any area (including railway area) in a State not being an Union Territory in respect of offences specified under Section 3 (Section 5); and iii) Consent of the State Government must be obtained for the exercise of power by CBI in the concerned State (Section 6). 15. Thus, from a plain reading of the law, it is evident that the CBI does not have any inherent jurisdiction in any area in a State including a railway area. The DSPE has to mandatorily meet the requirements of Section 3 and Section 5, DSPE Act, and thereafter its powers become subject to the consent of the State under Section 6, DSPE Act.