In case of any accident or damage while the trailer is on ONGC duty, there shall be no liability of any nature incurred by the ONGC; h. The contractor must take insurance of trailers covering all the risks and liabilities, which will cover unlimited third-party claims and the claims under the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923, made by the workmen. 38. Looking at these clauses, it is obvious that the contractor fully controls the trailers during the contract period, and therefore, again, this is a case of a license granted to ONGC to use the trailer, and the right to use the trailer is not transferred to ONGC. Hence, test (c) out of the five tests is not fulfilled in this case. 39. Now, we come to Civil Appeal no.383 of 2013. In this case, the contract was for operating tank trucks to deliver petroleum products at specified rates. The salient features of the contract are as under: a. The contractors shall operate the tank trucks; b. IOCL will have the right to requisition a further number of tank trucks in addition to what is provided in the contract; c. IOCL did not guarantee any minimum turnover, whether daily, monthly or annually, during the contract period and therefore, the contractor will not be entitled to take ideal charges or minimum charges from IOCL; 514 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports d. The entire operational cost, including salary and other emoluments of drivers, cleaners, cost of fuel and lubricating oil, maintenance and repairs of the tank trucks, road tax and other taxes, and insurance shall be borne by the Contractor; e. The contractor will be liable to any loss or damage caused to the IOCL, its employees or any third party resulting from fire, leakage, negligence, explosion, accident or any other cause in operating the said tank trucks at the time of loading and unloading and during transit; f. The personnel of IOCL will do the loading of the tank trucks at the depot with the help of the driver and the cleaner, but the unloading will be the responsibility of the contractor; g. The complete responsibility for delivering the correct quality and quantity of the products at the destination will be of the contractor; h. The contractor will keep the tank trucks in serviceable condition. In the event that a tank truck is not serviceable, the contractor shall be bound to effect supplies to outstation in drums by using stake trucks; i. The contractor shall remain fully responsible to IOCL for custody of the product, its quantity and quality; j. If the contractor fails to place its tank trucks at the depots of IOCL, it will be the contractor’s responsibility to engage tank trucks from outside. 40. On a conjoint reading of the clauses mentioned above, it is apparent that there is no intention to transfer the use of any particular tank truck in favour of IOCL. The contract is to provide tank trucks for the transportation of goods. Once the tank trucks provided by the contractor are loaded with goods, the entire responsibility of their safe transit, including avoiding contamination, delivery, and unloading at the destination, is of the contractor.