14. Section 37 of the Consolidation Act bars the jurisdiction of the Civil Courts and it reads as under: “No Civil Court shall entertain any suit or application to vary or set aside any decision or given or passed under this Act with respect to any other matter for which a proceeding could or ought to have been taken under this Act.” 15. In short, the scheme of the Consolidation Act provides that all rights in the land under consolidation, if any, would be determined by the consolidation authorities and the publication of the register of rights thereunder would be final and conclusive and it cannot be disputed at any subsequent stage. The aforesaid adjudication of the rights over the land under consolidation has not been specifically subjected to the rights of parties, if any, determined by the Civil Court. It is to be noted that the Legislature in its wisdom has provided for a separate [2024] 6 S.C.R. 7 Ram Balak Singh v. State of Bihar and Anr. forum to deal with any matter for which a proceeding could or ought to have been taken under the Consolidation Act in the course of consolidation and bars the jurisdiction of the Civil Court. 16. Under the scheme of the Consolidation Act, the consolidation authorities are fully competent to deal with the issue of title over the land under consolidation except under certain contingencies. Thus, the consolidation authorities have the powers of the Civil Court to decide the question of the title subject to the judicial review by the High Court under Articles 32, 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India. In other words, the consolidation authorities have the status of the deemed courts and have the powers akin to the Civil Courts to decide the rights and title of the parties over the land under consolidation and, at the same time, oust the jurisdiction of the Civil Court. 17. We are conscious of the fact that revenue entries are not documents of title and do not ordinarily confer or extinguish title in the land but, nonetheless, where the revenue authorities or the consolidation authorities are competent to determine the rights of the parties by exercising powers akin to the Civil Courts, any or entry made by such authorities which attains finality has to be respected and given effect to. 18. Here in the case at hand, there is no dispute to the fact that 0.32 decimal of R.S.P. No. 821 situate in village Kishanpur, Distt. Sitamarhi, Bihar, was settled by the ex-landlord Rambati Kuwer in favour of Makhan Singh through patta (lease deed), the execution of which is not in dispute. The said Makhan Singh adopted the plaintiff-appellant vide deed dated 27.05.1957 (Exh-2). The of the Chakbandi Officer, Bathnaha (Exh -7) demonstrates that the plaintiff-appellant had filed Case No.11 of 1979 under Section 10(B) of the Consolidation Act for the correction of the entry in respect of the suit land and that the Consolidation Officer vide dated 12.11.1979 on the basis of the documents and the oral evidence adduced before him ruled that plaintiff-appellant is the adopted son of Makhan Singh; that he is in possession of the suit land and no villager or any other party has any objection if the same is recorded in his name.