Special Permission for Demolition: If the owner or occupier is not found, special permission from the Nodal officer is required before proceeding with the demolition. Mr. M.R. Survey of the Neighborhood: If an officer Shamshad, Sr. believes a dwelling unit, house, or shop is Adv. subject to demolition, they must first conduct a neighborhood survey to determine how many properties in the area are also liable for demolition based on municipal law. Preparation of Demolition List: After completing the neighborhood survey, the officer shall prepare a list of all houses or units deemed fully or partially liable for demolition. Mr. Mohd. of demolition must record reasons Nizammudin therefor inter alia including the following: Pasha & Ms. I. Documents relied upon by owner to Rashmi Singh, prove ownership/validity of property; Advs. II. Relevant provisions under which property is illegal/encroachment; III. Alternative rehabilitation or compensation provided to owner; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 741 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures S.No. TOPIC/ ISSUE COUNSEL’S/ SUMMARY OF SUGGESTIONS PARTY NAME IV. Time given to owner to move belongings etc. from property sought to be demolished; No of demolition ought to be passed till sufficient time has been granted to the owner of property to take recourse to effective legal remedies including appeal/challenge against the of demolition. In any proceedings where demolition is challenged on the ground of the same being punitive, the fact that the aggrieved person has been singled out for action and no action has been taken against similarly situated persons in the vicinity must be a valid consideration for grant of relief; 5. CHALLENGE TO Mr. C.U. Singh, Judicial Examination of Demolition THE OF Sr. Adv. and s: Courts must assess whether the DEMOLITION Ms. Fauzia proposed demolition is motivated by malice Shakil, Adv. or bad faith. Presumption of Malice in Law: (a) If the demolition is triggered by the owner’s or a family member’s involvement in a criminal case, it will be presumed punitive and illegal, making the action malicious. (b) If the authority acts with undue haste after the owner or family member becomes involved in a criminal case, malafide intent will be presumed. (c) If the authority selectively targets a property while ignoring neighbouring properties with similar violations, this “pick and choose” action will also be presumed malicious. Mr. M.R. 4. After service of notice as per the procedure Shamshad, Sr. set out above, the aggrieved person shall take Adv. appropriate remedy within fifteen days and the appropriate authority, after giving opportunity of personal hearing shall decide the same within fifteen days thereafter and the of disposal shall be communicated to the aggrieved person on WhatsApp, email etc. as provided on the application challenging the notice. Further, the disposing the appeal shall also be uploaded on the respective Municipal Corporation Website. 742 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports S.No. TOPIC/ ISSUE COUNSEL’S/ SUMMARY OF SUGGESTIONS PARTY NAME 5. In case the Appellate remedy is provided and appeal is filed, the demolition shall not be carried out till disposal of the said appeal.