In light of the stand taken by Union of India that implementation of the DMR Act, 1954 lies in the hands of the State Governments/UT Licensing Authorities, all of them were also directed to be impleaded in the present proceedings. 5. Mr. K.M. Natraj, learned Additional Solicitor General who is already appearing for the Ministry of Ayush and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Union of India submits that besides an earlier affidavit filed by the Ministry of AYUSH, an additional affidavit has been filed. Ministry of Consumer Affairs and the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting have also filed separate affidavits. He submits that the Department of Food and Public Distribution (under the Ministry of Consumer Affairs) and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology do not have a major role to play in respect of the issue being examined by the Court. The relevant ministries are the Ministry of AYUSH, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Ministry of Consumer Affairs and the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner-IMA submits that as was permitted by this Court, service has been effected on the Standing counsel of all the State Governments/Union Territories. Only the following State Governments/Union Territories have been served: (i) Himachal Pradesh; (ii) Jharkhand; (iii) Kerala; (iv) NCT of Delhi; (v) Odisha; (vi) Puducherry; 3 In short DMR Act, 1954 4 In short DC Act, 1940 5 In short C.P. Act, 1986 382 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (vii) Rajasthan; (viii) Tamil Nadu; (ix) Telangana; (x) Uttarakhand; and (xi) West Bengal Appearance has been entered by learned counsel for the NCT of Delhi, States of Gujarat, Nagaland, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and U.T. of Ladakh. 7. Learned counsel for the State of Uttarakhand submits that an affidavit has already been filed by the State Licensing Authority and an additional affidavit is proposed to be filed. 8. Learned counsel for all the State Governments/Union Territories besides those mentioned above, are directed to file independent affidavits of the Licensing authorities in each State/UT regarding the action taken by them in respect of misleading advertisements being published/displayed in the press/electronic media that run contrary to the provisions of the DMR, 1954 and Rules, DC Act, 1940 and C.P. Act, 1986. The affidavits shall focus on the action taken for the period from the year 2018 onwards. 9. Coming to the issue highlighted on the last date of hearing when the Union of India was called upon to explain its letter dated 29th August, 2023 issued by the Ministry of AYUSH and addressed to all State Governments/Union Territories and Drug Controllers of the Ministry of AYUSH informing that the Ayurvedic Siddha and Unani Drugs Technical Advisory Board6 had recommended in its meeting that Rule 170 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 be deleted from the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 and pending action on the said recommendation, all authorities were directed not to initiate any action under the said rule, Learned ASG seeks to explain that Rule 170 has been challenged in different proceedings pending before various High Courts including the High Courts of Delhi, Bombay and Kerala.