The alternatives identified should balance the conservation and protection of the GIB with the arrangement of power lines in a manner that would facilitate the fulfilment of the international commitments made by India for developing renewable sources of energy. f. Engaging with relevant stakeholders, including government agencies, environmental organizations, wildlife biologists, local communities, and energy industry representatives, to solicit inputs, build consensus, and promote collaborative efforts towards achieving conservation and sustainable development goals; g. Conducting a thorough review of conservation efforts and innovative approaches in similar contexts globally, such [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1357 M K Ranjitsinh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. as the Houbara Bustard in the Middle East or the Black Stilt in New Zealand, to inform best practices; h. Implementing a robust monitoring and research program to track GIB populations, habitat dynamics, and the effectiveness of conservation measures over time. This may include employing techniques such as satellite tracking, camera trapping, and ecological surveys to gather essential data for informed decision-making; and i. Adopting any additional measures both in regard to the priority and potential areas, as the Committee considers appropriate including considering the efficacy and suitability of installing bird diverters on existing and future power lines on the basis of a scientific study. The installation of sub- standard bird diverters which are of a poor quality would give the impression that conservation efforts are underway even as such efforts are destined for failure. Hence, it is of utmost importance to ensure that any direction by the Committee to install bird diverters by any party whose activities concern the GIB (including private operators) is implemented by installing bird diverters of a requisite standard and quality. Accordingly, if the Committee is of the view that the installation of bird diverters would subserve the conservation of the GIB species, it shall identify the indicators of high-quality bird diverters and specify the parameters that they must meet before they are installed. The Central Electricity Authority, Ministry of Power has released a document titled ‘Technical Specification for Bird Flight Diverter’. These specifications concern the GIB in particular. By its undated letter to various power transmission companies and other concerned parties, the Central Electricity Authority noted that it had received complaints stating that the quality of the bird diverters being installed was unsatisfactory. It also requested the addressees to install diverters which are of a high quality. The relevant portion of the letter is extracted below: “We are in receipt of complaint/representation that poor quality bird flight diverters are being installed on the lines and sometimes disc of bird 1358 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports diverter is found strewn in the farm and land below transmission lines that may be due to poor quality of the product, inadequate designe by manufacturer, not installed properly due to lack of experienced manpower etc. CEA’s “Technical Specifications for Bird Flight Diverter” were prepared after consultation with utilities and manufacturers. The document specifies that the minimum expected service life of the bird flight diverter should be at least 15 years and to ensure that the supplied bird diverter is of good quality, various tests have also been specified.