First, if Article 30 were contingent only on the establishment by the minority community, it would render the provision susceptible to significant misuse. In a bid to attain special protection under Article 30, majority communities could purchase or takeover institutions established by minorities and then administer such institutions with reduced State interference in perpetuity. This will potentially lead to all communities ultimately enjoying the special right guaranteed by Article 30, denuding the very purpose of this Article. 126. Second, it is clear that Article 30 carves out an exception to the general power of the Government to regulate and intervene in educational institutions. It has also been defined broadly, extending to all religious and linguistic minorities, potentially encompassing a significant portion of India’s population. If not interpreted narrowly,Article 30 would undermine governmental control over educational institutions and compromise the quality of higher education. 127. Therefore,if the institutions not administered by minorities were also brought under the purview of Article 30, it could face misuse by institutions camouflaging as minority institutions when, in reality, they are not. I find support to this view in A.P. Christian Medical Educational Society v. Govt. of A.P.,72 which held: 72 A.P. Christian Medical Educational Society v. Govt. of A.P & Anr. (1986) 2 SCC 667, para 8. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1821 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. “8. […] The government, the University and ultimately the court have the undoubted right to pierce the ‘minority veil’ — with due apologies to the corporate lawyers — and discover whether there is lurking behind it no minority at all and in any case, no minority institution. The object of Article 30(1) is not to allow bogies to be raised by pretenders but to give the minorities ‘a sense of security and a feeling of confidence’ not merely by guaranteeing the right to profess, practise and propagate religion to religious minorities and the right to conserve their language, script and culture to linguistic minorities, but also to enable all minorities, religious or linguistic, to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. These institutions must be educational institutions of the minorities in truth and reality and not mere masked phantoms […] What is Important and what Is imperative is that there must exist some real positive index to enable the institution to be identified as an educational institution of the minorities […].” [Emphasis supplied] 128. Several other existing case laws support the notion that administration too, ought to be regarded as a pre-requisite. For instance, In St. Stephen’s College (supra), a five-judge bench of this Court analysed the facets regarding both establishment and administration of St. Stephen’s College under the Delhi University Act,to conclude whether it could be characterised as a minority institution. In DAV College (supra) a two-judge bench reiterated the principle that administration has to be exercised by the minority community. This view was also reinforced by another two-judge bench in T. Varghese George v. Kora K. George.73 Similarly, in Manager, Rajershi Memorial Basic Training School v. State of Kerala,74 the Kerala High Court held that an institution merely being founded by a member of a minority community is insufficient, and it has to be administered by the minority community in question.