(b) The power of the States in the case of such an industry is only to see and ensure that rectified spirit, whether in the course of its manufacture or after its manufacture, is not diverted or misused for potable purposes. They can make necessary regulations requiring the industry to submit periodical statements of raw material and the finished product (rectified spirit) and are entitled to verify their correctness. For this purpose, the States will also be entitled to post their staff in the distilleries and levy reasonable regulatory fees to defray the cost of such staff. (2) So far as industries engaged in the manufacture of rectified spirit exclusively for the purpose of 2098 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports obtaining or manufacturing potable liquors — or supplying the same to the State Government or its nominees for the said purpose — are concerned, they shall be under the total and exclusive control of the States in all respects and at all stages including the establishment of the distillery. In other words, where the entire rectified spirit produced is supplied for potable purposes — or to the extent it is so supplied, as the case may be — the levy of excise duties and all other control shall be that of the States. (3) So far as industries engaged in the manufacture of rectified spirit, both for the purpose of (a) supplying it to industries (other than industries engaged in obtaining or manufacturing potable liquors/ intoxicating liquors) and (b) for obtaining or manufacturing or supplying it to Governments/ persons for obtaining or manufacturing potable liquors are concerned, the following is the position: (a) The power to permit the establishment and regulation of the functioning of the distillery is concerned, it shall be the exclusive domain of the Union. But so far as the levy of excise duties is concerned, the duties on rectified spirit removed/ cleared for supply to industries (other than industries engaged in obtaining or manufacturing potable liquors), shall be levied by the Union; b) the duties of excise on rectified spirit cleared/ removed for the purposes of obtaining or manufacturing potable liquors shall be levied by the State Government concerned. The disposal, i.e., clearance and removal of rectified spirit in the case of such an industry shall be under the joint control of the Union and the State concerned to ensure evasion of excise duties on rectified spirit removed/cleared from the distillery. c) It is obvious that in respect of these industries too, the power of the States to take necessary steps to ensure against the misuse or diversion of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2099 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons rectified spirit meant for industrial purposes (supply to industries other than those engaged in obtaining or manufacturing potable liquors) to potable purposes, both during and after the manufacture of rectified spirit, continues unaffected. d) Any rectified spirit supplied, diverted or utilised for potable purposes, i.e., for obtaining or manufacturing potable liquors shall be supplied to and/or utilised, as the case may be, in accordance with the State excise enactment concerned and the rules and regulations made thereunder.