7. The appellant challenged the passed by the Special Judge before the High Court of Kerala, wherein the High Court, vide dated 30.06.2023 (“impugned ”), affirmed the passed by the Special Judge and refused to grant anticipatory bail to the appellant. Relevant observations made by the High Court in the impugned are extracted hereinbelow: - “8. Now the question arises whether the offence under Section 3(1)(r) will be attracted, in the absence of reference to the caste status of the second respondent in the news item. In my opinion that question cannot be decided, oblivious of the object behind the enactment and the reason for amending the Act in 2019. The Act was brought into force for preventing the commission of atrocities against members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and to establish Special Courts for the trial of such offences and provide relief and rehabilitation to the victims of such offences. The Act was amended on finding that, despite various measures to improve the socio-economic conditions of the scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, they still remained vulnerable. Of course, as held by the Apex Court in Hitesh Verma and Ramesh Chandra Vaishya (supra), all insults or intimidation will not be an offence under the Act, unless such insult or intimidation is on account of the victim belonging to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes. As observed earlier, materials on record do [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1101 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr. indicate that the video is intended to insult and humiliate the second respondent. At this stage, the court can only go by the allegations in the complaint and the attendant circumstances. The allegation is specific to the effect that the appellant has been insulting and humiliating the second respondent only for the reason that he belongs to the Scheduled Caste. The attendant circumstances are the wanton nature of the allegations and the repeated news items published against the second respondent. Going by the wording of Section 3(1)(r), reference to the caste name of the victim is not necessary for attracting the offence. This is clear from the distinction between the wording of Section 3(1) (r) and 3(1)(s). As such, it is not possible to hold that there are no prima facie materials to attract the offence under Section 3(1)(r). In view of the finding on Section 3(1)(r), I am not venturing to decide whether the offence under Section 3(1)(u) is attracted or not. For the aforementioned reasons, the impugned of the Special Court is upheld. In the result, the Criminal Appeal is dismissed.” (Emphasis supplied) 8. In view of the aforesaid, the appellant is before this Court with the present appeal. B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 9. Mr. Sidharth Luthra and Mr. Gaurav Agrawal, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant made the following submissions: a. The appellant had no intention to insult the complainant and merely stated the facts without mentioning the name of the complainant’s caste or community. The appellant being a journalist, had published facts gathered through research and sources.