Thus, the entire circumstances discussed based on the documents in the s of the District Forum and the State Commission hereinbefore in this , in the light of the decision in D. Srinivas’s case (supra) constrain us to hold that the proposal was accepted. 25. When the aforesaid being the circumstances revealed from the conclusions and concurrent findings by the District Forum and the State Commission entered with reference to the documents perused by them, in exercise of revisional power the NCDRC could not have arrived at a finding that the forums below acted in the exercise of jurisdiction illegally or that there occurred a material irregularity. In [2024] 6 S.C.R. 469 Mrs. Bhumikaben N. Modi & Ors. v. Life Insurance Corporation of India fact, all the circumstances discussed above justify the conclusion of acceptance of the proposal prior to the death of ‘the deceased’. 26. There is no case for the respondent that Annexure B viz., the First Premium Receipt carrying the assurance, as mentioned earlier, was not issued. Annexure B would justify drawing of presumption of acceptance of the policy and not otherwise. We have also found that no material irregularity or illegality could be found in the conclusions drawn with regard to the acceptance of proposal by the District Forum which was confirmed by the State Commission with reasons. We are fortified in our view by the following further reasons/ circumstances. The entry 15.07.1996 in Annexure B and the contentions that the factum of death was made known on 15.07.1996 and the acceptance of policy also on 15.07.1996 cannot co-exist. If the amount received on account of encashment of cheque is kept as deposit/suspense and was not accepted by way of premium, as has been contended before the State Commission and duly recorded in paragraph 3 of its what was the necessity to prepare the First Premium Receipt on 15.07.1996. There is incongruity in the contentions and the documents. Along with the written submission on behalf of the respondent herein, true copy of the suspense memorandum/First Premium Receipt is produced in this proceeding as Annexure B. A perusal of the same with reference to what is extracted from paragraph 6 of the of the State Commission, would reveal certain disturbing aspects. As stated in paragraph 6 thereunder Annexure B would reveal that the date for next premium would become due on 28.12.1996. At the same time a dubious entry ‘NIL’ is also appearing thereon. Another dubious entry is the writing on the right top corner of Annexure B i.e., 15.07.1996. The dubiousness on account of that entry is because of the specific stand taken by the respondent. As noted earlier, the stand of the respondent is that the policy was prepared on 15.07.1996 and that the First Premium Receipt was issued earlier. If it be so why an entry of 15.07.1996 should be made in Annexure B. As stated in paragraph 6 of the of the State Commission, the next premium date is shown as due as 28.12.1996.