126. Citizenship provides a bouquet of rights to the person who is conferred with it. It was pointed by Shri Bholanath Sen, Member of the Lok Sabha, during the discussions on the Citizenship Amendment Bill, 1985, that: - [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1195 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 "All those who had come between 1966 and 1971 had no such right before. No such law was there in this country which could have given them this protection. This protection is now being given. Many people go to Haj for religious reasons and they need a Passport. They will be given Passport. They might like to go even to Bangladesh to see their own relations. They will be given Passport. Passport will be given to them and that is recognised by this legislation clearly. The only thing that is being taken away from them is that they will not be able to cast vote for ten years from the date of detection as foreigners.” (Emphasis supplied) 127. One of the ideas behind providing for a stricter citizenship regime for the immigrants belonging to the 1966-71 category was expressed by Shri Bir Bhadra Pratap Singh, Member of the Rajya Sabha, during the discussions on the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill was expressed thus: - "[...] People from East Pakistan have come here. We have welcomed them. We love them. But we will ensure whether they have come with genuine intentions to stay in this country and they will be good citizens. Let them register themselves. Let them get their claim decided. For ten years their voting right will be suspended, but after ten years we will confer full citizenship on them. De you think we do not have a right to scrutinise the bona fides of these people? We have a right to scrutinise to see whether they have come here with genuine intentions to settle in this country. But we have never intended to throw them out. We have welcomed them [...]” 128. The statutory scheme of Section 6A(3), which doesn’t envisage voluntary detection at the option of the immigrant, marks a clear departure, for no intelligible reason, from the prevalent scheme noticed under the rest of the Citizenship Act. Even across other international jurisdictions, citizenship by registration or naturalisation is a process that is initiated at the behest of the person seeking to avail the benefit of citizenship by registration or naturalization. Articles 6(b) and 7 respectively of the Constitution, which deal with citizenship by registration and the permit system introduced to meet the exigencies of partition, too, place the onus of registration and obtaining permit 1196 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on the person who wishes to claim such benefit. Thus, there is no discernible reason why the mechanism prescribed under Section 6A does not require, or at the very least, permit an immigrant to come forward and make an application to avail the benefit. e. temporal reaSonaBleneSS 129. Oxford Advanced Learner’s Dictionary defines ‘temporal’ as ‘connected with or limited by time’.