Noting the details of the financial transactions sought to be put forth by respondent No.2 in relation to the receipt of ₹14.66 crore, the NCLT observed that this aspect needed to be probed as the undisputed fact remained that the said sum was remitted into the account of respondent No.2. The NCLT observed that it was necessary to go into the issue as to whether this amount was actually remitted at the instance of L. Ramesh as there was no evidence at that point of time in proof of the claims of respondent No.2 in that regard. The NCLT noted that it was a question to be 242 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports enquired into as to whether respondent No.2 has returned ₹5.66 crore, which he claimed to have received as a loan, and this was a question to be thoroughly looked into during a full inquiry. The NCLT further noted that on the strength of these oral contentions, it was not possible to accept at that stage that the said monies were given to him only as a loan and not for the sale of his shares. His further claim that he had signed various blank papers, judicial stamp papers, letter heads, etc. also required to be examined at the time of final disposal of the matter. It was noted that respondent No.2 was a doctor by profession. The NCLT went on to observe that Form SH-4 was a printed form, as were the share certificates, and it was not believable that the same could have been fabricated on signed blank papers. Dealing with the contention that respondent Nos. 3 and 4 were not even in the country on the date in question, the NCLT noted that none had appeared on their behalf and they had not chosen to file any counter in support of the stand taken by them. As on that date, per the NCLT, respondent No.2 relied upon the communication allegedly received by him from respondent Nos. 3 and 4, but the authenticity of the same still remained to be proved, as respondent Nos. 3 and 4 had not filed any affidavit. The NCLT also noted that there were conflicting materials produced by both sides and at that stage, it could not be decided whether the signatures in the share certificates did not belong to respondent Nos. 3 and 4 and the issue required to be thoroughly examined at the time of final hearing. 9. Dealing with the issue of limitation, the NCLT observed that the case of the appellants was that they came to know of their names being excluded only after the company filed financial accounts and statements for the years 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17, and the petition was filed within three years from the date of such knowledge. Opining that limitation was a mixed question of fact and law, the NCLT stated that it needed to be examined at the final hearing stage, after the parties filed all their documents. The NCLT also rejected the contention of the respondents that it had no jurisdiction to try the petition as it involved issues of fraud, etc.