Therefore, in situations where several opinions are authored, dealing with the same questions of law, to identify the propositions of law that are binding on subsequent benches, the greatest common measure of agreement by a majority of judges would be binding on future benches. 102. It must be noted, however, that there is a difference between whether an observation is a binding precedent and whether it is a position of law that may have persuasive value on subsequent benches. In the absence of disagreement by a majority of judges (either express or implied), nothing precludes subsequent benches of this Court from relying on observations made in a concurring opinion(on behalf of the minority of judges) which are not discussed by the other judges at all. It is assumed in such cases, that all judges on the bench have read the opinions of one another, and did not deem it necessary 103 [1955] 1 SCR 290 : (1954) 2 SCC 82 : 1954 INSC 69 114 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to either state their express disagreement with the opinion or lay down a different understanding of the proposition of law (implied disagreement).104 103. For instance, in Navtej Singh Johar v Union of India,105 one of us (DY Chandrachud, J) authored a concurring opinion, recognising the concept of ‘indirect discrimination’. While technically this was an opinion on behalf of only one judge, the other judgements in the case did not discuss this issue at all. Neither did the other judges expressly disagree with the view, nor did they present a view on the subject that could be seen as being at odds with the view taken in the concurring opinion. In the absence of such disagreement, express or implied, subsequent benches of this Court were not precluded from relying on the observations as having persuasive value. In Lt. Col. Nitisha & Ors. vs. Union of India & Ors,106 a two-Judge Bench of this Court relied on the conception of ‘indirect discrimination’ while analysing an evaluation criteria set by the army, which was facially neutral but disproportionately impacted women officers. The bench was not violating judicial discipline merely because a majority of judges did not expressly agree with the view or discuss the concept at all. The fact that the observations of the concurring opinion were not disagreed with or even discussed is sufficient for a subsequent bench to rely on the same if they choose to do so. In such cases, the court is not bound by the view but may choose to rely on it. 104. However, the above example is distinguishable from the situation in Ranganatha Reddy. The majority in Ranganatha Reddy not only refrained from making observations about the interpretation of Article 39(b) but also indicated an express disagreement with the observations in the of Justice Krishna Iyer on the point. It was to prevent future benches from relying on the observations of that , by presuming concurrence, that the majority opinion clarified that it must not be understood to agree with the observations in the judgement of Justice Krishna Iyer.