The plaintiff has neither paid the duty nor penalty till today. Therefore, stricto sensu the instrument is not admissible in evidence. Mr Desai, however, wanted us to refer the instrument to the authority competent to adjudicate the requisite stamp duty payable on the instrument and then recover the duty and penalty which the party who tendered the instrument in evidence is in any event bound to pay and, therefore, on this account it was said that the document should not be excluded from evidence. The duty and the penalty has to be paid when the document is tendered in evidence and an objection is raised. The difficulty in this case arises from the fact that 1000 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the learned trial Judge declined to decide the objection on merits and then sought refuge under Section 36. The plaintiff was, therefore, unable to pay the deficit duty and penalty which when paid subject to all just exceptions, the document has to be admitted in evidence. In this background while holding that the document Ext. I would be inadmissible in evidence as it is not duly stamped, we would not decline to take it into consideration because the trial court is bound to impound the document and deal with it according to law.” [emphasis added] 30. We find no reason to disagree with the findings of the Trial Court regarding the inadmissibility of the agreement to sell dated 29.03.1999. The document, being insufficiently stamped, was rightfully barred from being admitted as evidence in the absence of the requisite stamp duty and penalty being paid and certified by the Collector. The High Court, in treating this document as admissible without resolving the stamp duty deficiency, overlooked the statutory mandate under the Stamp Act. As the document is foundational to the suit, the failure to comply with the statutory requirements renders the entire claim unenforceable. Consequently, the suit must be dismissed, as it is based on an instrument that is legally inadmissible as evidence. The plaintiff cannot claim relief on the basis of a document that has not satisfied the legal requirements for admissibility. 31. We need not deal with other arguments on merits regarding the validity of the instrument dated 29.03.1999 and deal with the issue of coercion as alleged by defendant no.1. 32. Accordingly, the appeals are liable to be allowed. The amount of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees ten thousand only) admittedly received by defendant no.1 although under abnormal conditions as alleged by defendant no.1 in the interest of the parties would be liable to be returned to the plaintiff. The said amount has remained with defendant no.1 for almost 25 years right from 1999 till the present. Now that the appellants have purchased the property from defendant no.1, we fasten the liability on the appellants to return the amount to the plaintiff. We quantify the said amount to be a rounded of figure at Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees five lakhs only) to be paid within a period of three months.