Significantly, the report states that the ILC specifically discussed and concluded that Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules, 2016 may not be adopted for withdrawal of CIRP, and instead Rule 8 of the CIRP Rules may be appropriately amended. The observations in the ILC Report on this aspect are as follows: “29.2. On a review of the multiple NCLT and NCLAT s in this regard, the consistent pattern that emerged was that a settlement may be reached amongst all creditors and the debtor, for the purpose of a withdrawal to be granted, and not only the applicant creditor and the debtor. On this basis read with the intent of the Code, the Committee unanimously agreed that the relevant rules may be amended to provide for withdrawal post admission if the CoC approves of such action by a voting share of ninety per cent. It was specifically discussed that rule 11 of the National Company Law Tribunal Rules, 2016 may not be adopted for this aspect of CIRP at this stage (as observed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Uttara Foods and Feeds Private Limited v. Mona Pharmacem) and even otherwise, as the issue can be specifically addressed by amending rule 8 of the CIRP Rules.” 51. Accepting the recommendation of the ILC, the legislature introduced Section 12A in the IBC by the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Second Amendment) Act, 2018 with effect from 6 June 2018.41 It reads as follows: “12A. Withdrawal of application admitted under section 7, 9 or 10. – The Adjudicating Authority may allow the withdrawal of application admitted under section 7 or section 9 or section 10, on an application made by the applicant with the 41 Act No. 26 of 2018. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1835 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. approval of ninety per cent. voting share of the committee of creditors, in such manner as may be specified.” (emphasis supplied) 52. The provision provides for the withdrawal of an application under Sections 7, 9 and 10 after it has been admitted, with the approval of ninety-percent voting share of the CoC. Evidently, Section 12A was made more stringent in comparison to Section 30(4) of the IBC, which pertains to approval of the Resolution Plan by the CoC. Whereas under Section 30(4) of the IBC, the voting share of the CoC for approving the Resolution Plan is sixty-six percent, the requirement under Section 12A of the IBC for withdrawal of CIRP is ninety percent. The reason for this divergence and high threshold appears to be rooted in the reasoning provided in the ILC report that once an application is admitted it is no longer a proceeding only between the applicant creditor and the corporate debtor but is a proceeding involving all creditors of the debtor. Significantly, the text of Section 12A only details the procedure for the withdrawal of the application after the formation of the CoC (with ninety percent of the voting share), but is silent about the withdrawal of an application after the application is admitted, but before the CoC is formed.