The High Court has observed that the evidence of Kovilraj (PW-1) insofar as accused Nos.2 and 3 are concerned appears to be unnatural. The High Court has also observed that, since the incident had taken place at around 300 metres away from the Church, it is difficult to believe that Kovilraj (PW-1) could have actually witnessed the overt act attributed to accused Nos.2 and 3. However, strangely, the High Court, on the basis of very same evidence of Kovilraj (PW-1), has believed it qua the appellant herein and confirmed his conviction. 10. In paragraph 21 of the impugned , the learned Judges of the High Court have observed that in the course of natural events, except the appellant herein (accused No.1), no one else could have [2024] 12 S.C.R. 775 George v. The State of Tamil Nadu and Others caused the injury to the deceased. In our considered view, the said finding is based purely on conjectures and surmises. 11. No doubt that a conviction could be based on the sole testimony of a witness. Equally the principle that falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus is not applicable in Indian criminal jurisprudence. However, in the present case, on the basis of sole testimony of the same witness (PW-1), the appellant herein has been convicted and the other two accused, involved in the same incident have been acquitted by giving them benefit of doubt. 12. Further, in paragraph 23, while disbelieving the testimony of PW-1 qua accused Nos. 2 and 3, the High Court has taken note of the fact that the incident occurred 300 metres away from the Church and that could not have enabled PW-1 to have actually witnessed the overt act that is attributed to accused Nos.2 and 3. However, the appellant herein involved in the same overt act has been convicted on the basis of the same testimony of PW-1. 13. It is further to be noted that, in the present case, Kovilraj (PW-1) is the father of the deceased and is an interested witness. No doubt that merely because a witness is an interested witness, it cannot be a ground to discard the testimony of such a witness. However, the testimony of such a witness has to be scrutinized with greater caution and circumspection. 14. In the present case, when the High Court comes to a conclusion that it is difficult to believe that Kovilraj (PW-1) could have witnessed the incident in the manner narrated by him and granted benefit of doubt to accused Nos.2 and 3, the conviction of accused No.1 on the basis of the evidence of the very same witness only on the basis of conjectures and surmises, in our view, is not permissible. 15. Insofar as the other circumstance with regard to seizure of knife as could be found from the evidence of Inspector of Police, the testimony of PW-18 would show that the recovery was made from an open place accessible to one and all. As such, we are of the considered opinion that only on the basis of the circumstance of such a recovery, the conviction could not have been based.