6. In all these matters while issuing notices, interim relief was also granted that the State Governments were restrained from making any further realization of B Tax/Authorization Fee. 7. Upon notice, States appeared and filed their counter affidavits. The submission advanced by the States is that the demand being raised by them is primarily under the rules framed by the respective State Governments under Entries 56 & 57 of List II of Schedule VII of the Constitution. They have defended their competence to frame the rules, to levy and collect the taxes, which according to them, are in accordance to law. 8. It is also their submission that the petitioners, in case, had any grievance ought to have approached the respective High Courts under Article 226 of the Constitution rather than approaching this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution. Lastly, and most importantly, it was contended that State Acts/Rules levying such tax has not been put to challenge and therefore, the petitions deserve to be dismissed. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 639 Muthyala Sunil Kumar v. Union of India & Ors. 9. Although counsel for the parties have raised their arguments on merits, but we are not inclined to go into the merits of the matter at this stage, as apparently, the fundamental question to be decided would be whether levy and realization of taxes by the respective states is covered by the Act and Rules framed by the respective States under Entries 56 & 57 of List II of Schedule VII of the Constitution or not. 10. The State enactments, rules and regulations being not under challenge, it cannot be said that the demand of B Tax/Authorization Fee at the bs by the respective State Governments is bad under law. The petitioners, in to succeed, have to consider challenging the State provision contained in the Act. There is another reason why we are not entertaining the matters on merit is that the petitioners ought to have first approached their jurisdictional High Courts to challenge their respective State enactments. 11. We, accordingly, dispose of these petitions without interfering with the demands being raised by the State Governments while giving liberty to the petitioners to approach the jurisdictional High Courts for their reliefs. It is made clear that we have neither entered into the merits of the matter nor examined the same. 12. Insofar as the tax already recovered, the same would be subject to final outcome of the petitions that may be filed before the High Courts. Insofar as the period of interim passed by this Court is concerned, the petitioners would give undertakings before the High Courts that, in case they fail, they will make good on demands which would have been raised for the period for which the stay has been enjoyed. Result of the case: Writ Petitions disposed of. †Headnotes prepared by: Bibhuti Bhushan Bose (With assistance from: Sanyam Mishra)