in excess of the amount Section 28. specified in the notice. (2A) Where any notice has (9) The proper officer shall This is an analogous been served on a person under determine the amount provision. sub- section (1), the proper of duty or interest under Sub-section (9)(a) officer - sub-section (8),- of the new Section (i) in case any duty has not (a) within six months 28 is analogous to been levied or has been from the date of notice sub-section (2A)(ii) short-levied, or the interest in respect of cases falling of the old provision has not been paid or has under clause (a) of sub- and provides for been part paid or the section (1); a time period of duty or interest has been six months for (b) within one year from the erroneously refunded by adjudication of date of notice in respect of reason of collusion or any notices issued cases falling under sub- wilful mis-statement or under new Section section (4). suppression of facts, where 28(1)(a). it is possible to do so, shall Sub-section (9)(b) determine the amount of of the new Section such duty or the interest, 28 is analogous to within a period of one year: sub-section (2A)(i) and of the old provision (ii) in any other case, where it and provides for a is possible to do so, shall time period of one determine the amount of year for adjudication duty which has not been of notices issued in levied or has been short- cases of collusion, levied or erroneously wilful mis-statement refunded or the interest and suppression of payable which has not facts. been paid, part paid or erroneously refunded, within a period of six months, from the date of service of the notice on the person under sub- section (1). [2024] 12 S.C.R. 311 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. (2B) Where any duty has not (1) … In both the old and been levied, or has been short- new Section 28, the (a) … levied or erroneously refunded, law has provided an (b) the person chargeable or any interest payable has opportunity to the with the duty or interest, not been paid, part paid or person chargeable may pay before service of erroneously refunded, the with duty or interest notice under clause (a) on person, chargeable with the to make payment the basis of,- duty or the interest, may pay before the show the amount of duty or interest (i) his own ascertainment cause notice is before service of notice on of such duty; or issued to him and him under sub-section (1) inform the proper (ii) the duty ascertained in respect of the duty or the officer of such by the proper officer, the interest, as the case may be, payment in writing. amount of duty along and inform the proper officer of with the interest payable The legislature, in such payment in writing, who, thereon under section the new Section on receipt of such information, 28AA or the amount of 28(1)(b) has shall not serve any notice under interest which has not clarified the basis sub-section (1) in respect of been so paid or part-paid.