The large blank spaces on the first and second pages of the disputed agreement and the absence of thumb impression/signatures of the parties and the attesting witnesses on these two pages, fortifies the conclusion that the disputed agreement was transcribed on one of the blank stamp papers on which the thumb impression of the appellant-defendant had been taken beforehand. 33. It may be mentioned here that the appellant-defendant appeared before the trial court, to give evidence as DW-1 and emphatically denied the factum of the execution of the disputed agreement. 96 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports He also denied having received a sum of Rs.16,00,000/- from the respondent-plaintiff. The trial Court disbelieved the version of the respondent-plaintiff on the aspect that the disputed agreement, for the execution whereof the subject suit was filed, was an agreement to sell and instead treated the amount mentioned in the disputed agreement to be a loan. However, on-going through the cross- examination conducted from the appellant-defendant, we do not find any suggestion whatsoever that the amount of Rs. 16,00,000/- was given to the appellant-defendant by way of loan. 34. On perusal of the plaint and the affidavit by way of examination- in-chief of the respondent-plaintiff, a very significant fact can be culled out. The respondent-plaintiff did not even make a whisper in his deposition affidavit that when he proceeded to the office of the Sub-Registrar on 19th September, 2008, he was carrying the balance sale consideration with him. Furthermore, it is not the case of the respondent-plaintiff that he ever offered the balance sale consideration in terms of the disputed agreement to the appellant- defendant at any point of time either before 19th September, 2008 or on 19th September, 2008, when the respondent-plaintiff appeared before the Sub-Registrar. 35. The respondent-plaintiff admitted that he did not seek permission from his department before entering into the agreement for purchase of property having high value. It is not the case of the respondent-plaintiff that he and the appellant-defendant were on such close terms that he would readily agree to give cash loan to the appellant-defendant without any security. 36. The factors enumerated above, are sufficient for this Court to conclude that the entire case of the respondent-plaintiff regarding the execution of the disputed agreement; the alleged payment of Rs. 16,00,000/- in cash to the appellant-defendant on 7th May, 2007 and the alleged appearance of the respondent-plaintiff in the office of the Sub-Registrar in the purported exercise of getting the sale deed executed in terms of the disputed agreement is nothing but a sheer piece of fraud and concoction. 37. These vital factual aspects were totally glossed over by the Courts below while deciding the suit, the first appeal and the second appeal. In these facts and circumstances, we find it to be a fit case to exercise [2024] 10 S.C.R. 97 Lakha Singh v. Balwinder Singh & Anr. our powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India so as to interfere with the impugned judgements.