Ltd. v. Uttarakhand Jal Vidyut Nigam Ltd. reported in 2023 INSC 976 as follows: “26. Taking cognizance of the legislative change, this Court in Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Ltd. [Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Ltd., (2017) 9 SCC 729 : (2017) 4 SCC (Civ) 764], noted that post 2015 Amendment, the jurisdiction of the Court under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act is limited to examining whether an 212 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports arbitration agreement exists between the parties — “nothing more, nothing less.”” (Emphasis supplied) 29. A Constitution Bench of this Court in In Re: Interplay Between Arbitration Agreements under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and the Stamp Act, 1899 reported in 2023 INSC 1066, speaking through one of us (Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI), considered the scope of judicial interference by the referral court in a Section 11 application. A few relevant observations made therein are reproduced hereinbelow: “81. One of the main objectives behind the enactment of the Arbitration Act was to minimise the supervisory role of Courts in the arbitral process by confining it only to the circumstances stipulated by the legislature. For instance, Section 16 of the Arbitration Act provides that the Arbitral Tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction “including ruling on any objection with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement”. The effect of Section 16, bearing in view the principle of minimum judicial interference, is that judicial authorities cannot intervene in matters dealing with the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal. Although Sections 8 and 11 allow Courts to refer parties to arbitration or appoint arbitrators, Section 5 limits the Courts from dealing with substantive objections pertaining to the existence and validity of arbitration agreements at the referral or appointment stage. A Referral Court at Section 8 or Section 11 stage can only enter into a prima facie determination. The legislative mandate of prima facie determination ensures that the Referral Courts do not trammel the Arbitral Tribunal’s authority to rule on its own jurisdiction.” 30. In a recent decision in SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning reported in 2024 INSC 532, it was observed by us that the arbitral tribunal is the preferred first authority to look into the questions of arbitrability and jurisdiction, and the courts at the referral stage should not venture into contested questions involving complex facts. A few relevant paragraphs of the said decision are extracted hereinbelow: [2024] 9 S.C.R. 213 Cox & Kings Ltd. v. Sap India Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. “98. What follows from the negative facet of arbitral autonomy when applied in the context of Section 16 is that the national courts are prohibited from interfering in matters pertaining to the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal, as exclusive jurisdiction on those aspects vests with the arbitral tribunal. The legislative mandate of prima facie determination at the stage of Sections 8 and 11 respectively ensures that the referral courts do not end up venturing into what is intended by the legislature to be the exclusive domain of the arbitral tribunal.