Clause 7(4) mandates the authorized bank to treat the information furnished by a buyer as confidential which shall not be disclosed to any authority, except when directed by a competent court or upon registration of criminal case by any law enforcement agency. This provision protects the privacy and personal details of the buyer vis-a-vis the state; and v. Clause 11 mandates that all payments for the purchase of electoral bonds shall be accepted through banking channels. This provision curbs the circulation of black money. The right of a citizen to know how political parties are being funded must be balanced against the right of a person to maintain privacy of their political affiliations. Donating money to one’s preferred party is a form political self-expression, which lies at the heart of privacy; Maintaining anonymity of donations to political parties is a part of the concept of secret ballot because it enables a person to make political choices without any fear of victimization or retaliation; h. The right to information only operates against information in the possession or in the knowledge of the state. It cannot operate for seeking information not in the knowledge or possession of the state; The amendments to the RBI Act, RPA, and the IT Act are intended to curb donations made by way of cash and other means to political parties and secure the anonymity of donors; The amendment to Section 182 of the Companies Act removes the limitation of seven and a half percent of the net profits on the amount contributed by political parties. The removal of the contribution limit was intended to disincentivize creation of shell companies; [2024] 2 S.C.R. 477 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. k. This Court has recognized that the legislature has a wide latitude in matters concerning economic policy. Further, the mere possibility that the law might be abused cannot be a ground for holding the provision procedurally or substantially unreasonable; and The fact that one party receives substantially more support through donations than other parties cannot in itself be a legal ground to challenge the validity of the Electoral Bond Scheme. D. The Scope of Judicial Review 39. The Union of India submitted that this Court must exercise judicial restraint while deciding the challenge to the Electoral Bond Scheme and the statutory amendments because they relate to economic policy. For this purpose, the Union of India relied on a series of decisions where this Court has held that Courts must follow judicial restraint in matters concerning economic and financial policy. ** AO. It is a settled position of law that Courts must adopt a less stringent form of judicial review while adjudicating challenges to legislation and executive action which relate to economic policy as compared to laws relating to civil rights such as the freedom of speech or the freedom of religion.®° More recently, in Swiss Ribbons v. Union of India®, this Court while deciding a challenge to the constitutional validity of provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 observed that the legislature must be given “free play” in the joints to experiment with economic policy.