In Delhi Cloth Mills [AIR 1963 SC 791 : 1977 ELT 199] it having been held that the word ‘goods’ applies to those goods which can be brought to market for being bought and sold it is implied that it applies to such goods as are moveable. The requirement of the goods being brought to the market for being bought and sold has become known as the test of marketability which has been reiterated by this Court in CCE v. Ambalal Sarabhai Enterprises [(1989) 4 SCC 112 : 1989 SCC (Tax) 162 : (1989) 43 ELT 214]. The Court has held in Union Carbide India Ltd. v. Union of India [(1986) 2 SCC 547 : 1986 SCC (Tax) 443] that even if the goods was capable of being brought to the market, it would satisfy the test of marketability. The basic test, therefore, of levying duty under the Act is twofold. One, that any article must be goods and second, that it should be marketable or capable of being brought to market. Goods which are attached to the earth and thus become immovable and do not satisfy the test of being goods within the meaning of the Act nor it can be said to be capable of being brought to the market for being bought and sold. Therefore, both the tests, as explained by this Court, were not satisfied in the case of appellant as the tube mill or welding head having been erected and installed in 1584 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the premises and embedded to earth ceased to be goods within meaning of Section 3 of the Act. 6. Learned counsel for the Revenue urged that even if the goods were capable of being brought to the market it would attract levy. True, but erection and installation of a plant cannot be held to be excisable goods. If such wide meaning is assigned it would result in bringing in its ambit structures, erections and installations. That surely would not be in consonance with accepted meaning of excisable goods and its exigibility to duty. 11.9.16 The Revenue has also relied on the decision in Mittal Engineering Works (P) Ltd. (supra) by referring to paras 9 and 10 of the said which are reproduced as below: “9. Upon the material placed upon record and referred to above, we are in no doubt that the mono vertical crystalliser has to be assembled, erected and attached to the earth by a foundation at the site of the sugar factory. It is not capable of being sold as it is, without anything more. As was stated by this Court in the case of Quality Steel Tubes (P) Ltd. [(1995) 2 SCC 372] the erection and installation of a plant is not excisable. To so hold would, impermissibly, bring into the net of excise duty all manner of plants and installations. 10. The Tribunal took an unreasonable view of the evidence. It was the case of the appellants, not disputed by the Revenue, that mono vertical crystallisers were delivered to the customers in a knocked-down condition and had to be assembled and erected at the customers’ factory.