Admittedly the defendants nowhere have pleaded that they are in possession of the suit property, adverse to the interest and right against to the plaintiff. Under such circumstances this Court of the considered opinion that the suit is not barred by limitation as contended by the defendants and the suit is in time and the plaintiff is entitled the relief as sought for.” (Emphasis supplied) k. The operative part of the First Appellate Court’s reads thus: “The appeal filed by appellants/ legal heirs of plaintiff under 41 Rule 1 and 2 r/w Sec.151 CPC is hereby allowed. The and decree in OS No.67/2011 dated 6.9.2014 on the file of Civil Judge and JMFC, Huvinahadagali is hereby set aside by modifying the findings. Suit of the plaintiff is hereby decreed. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1893 Mallavva and Anr. v. Kalsammanavara Kalamma (Since Dead) by Legal Heirs & Ors. The legal heirs of plaintiff are hereby declared as an absolute owner of the suit properties and the defendants are hereby directed to handover the possession of the suit properties within 60 days from this .” l. The appellants herein being dissatisfied with the and decree passed by the First Appellate Court went before the High Court by filing Second Appeal under Section 100 of the CPC. m. The High Court found that there was no substantial question of law involved in the Second Appeal and accordingly proceeded to dismiss the same holding as under: “The present appellants have also contended that the suit for declaration and possession is barred by limitation under Article 58 of the Limitation Act. Since First Appellate Court has held that the plaintiff is the absolute owner of the suit property, she is entitled for possession, and the case is not covered under Article 58 of the Limitation Act. It is also not the case of the defendants that they are in adverse possession of the suit property over the statutory period, and they have perfected their title over suit properties by adverse possession. When this is not the case of the defendants, Article 65 of the Limitation Act has to be applied and consequently, the suit of the plaintiff cannot be held as barred by limitation. Moreover, when the suit of the plaintiff is based on title, the question of limitation does not arise. Under these circumstances, it is held that the appellants have not at all made out any substantial questions of law for consideration in the present appeal. Therefore, the appeal being devoid of merit is liable to be dismissed. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed.” 4. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellants (original defendants) are here before this Court with the present appeal. WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS a. The High Court committed a serious error in dismissing the Second Appeal without even formulating any substantial 1894 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports question of law. Trial court was justified in dismissing the suit on the ground that the appellants herein (defendants) are in possession of the suit property since 1981-82 and the suit filed without seeking relief of possession was liable to be dismissed.