No doubt, “one swallow does not make a summer” meaning thereby that if few members of a particular caste/class advances in the society the entire caste or class would not cease to be backward. Nonetheless if any member of designated backward class acquires a higher status and attains equality with the forward class, it is difficult to comprehend how his children would be treated as depressed, downtrodden or backward in any manner be it socially, economically or educationally. Therefore, the caste to which this person belongs may not be excluded as a whole from the benefit of reservation but [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1671 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. certainly the family which has obtained the benefit once shall not be allowed to take advantage of reservation in the next generation. The reservation to such families has to be confined to one generation only. 81. It has rightly been stated by my brother Justice Gavai in his opinion that Justice Krishna Iyer in N. M. Thomas (supra) has repeatedly observed that State is entitled to take steps for weeding out socially, economically and educationally advanced sections of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes from the ambit of reservation. 82. It has rightly been observed that a child studying in St. Stephen’s College or any good urban college cannot be equated with a child studying in a rural school/college and that he cannot be grouped into a same bracket. 83. In these circumstances my brother Justice Gavai has rightly concluded that the State must evolve a policy of identifying the creamy layer even from the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes so as to exclude them from the benefit of reservation. 84. Agreeing with the scholarly separate opinions authored by the Chief Justice and Brother Gavai, J., I summarise my views as under: (i) The policy of reservation as enshrined under the Constitution and by its various amendments requires a fresh re-look and evolvement of other methods for helping and uplifting the depressed class or the downtrodden or the persons belonging to SC/ST/OBC communities. So long no new method is evolved or adopted, the system of reservation as prevailing may continue to occupy the field with power to permit sub-classification of a class particularly scheduled caste as I would not be suggesting dismantling of an existing building without erecting a new one in its place which may prove to be more useful; (ii) In the Constitutional regime, there is no caste system and the country has moved into a casteless society except for the deeming provision under the Constitution for the limited purposes of affording reservation to the depressed class of persons, downtrodden or belonging to SC/ST/OBC. Therefore, any facility or privilege for the promotion of the above categories of persons has to be on a totally different criteria other than the caste may be on economic or financial factors, status of living, vocation and the facilities available to each one of them based upon their place of living (urban or rural); 1672 [2024] 8 S.C.R.