119. At this stage, we may also answer one another submission that was canvassed on behalf of the respondent as regards the other aspect of public interest besides the monetary gain. It was submitted on behalf of the respondent that the decision to cancel the tender was also keeping in mind the considerations such as being able to engage experts for maintenance of critical public infrastructure. It is the case of the respondent that the tender was cancelled in to float separate tenders, one for the maintenance work and another for licensing advertisement rights to ensure expertise in each respective field. 120. We are not impressed by the above submission either. We need not refer to a copious amount of documents in this regard, as just a bare perusal of the notice inviting tender shows that the eligibility criterion for participating in the tender process prescribed a comprehensive threshold of requirement of experience in structural works and successful completion of similar natured projects, thus ensuring 606 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that the bidders participating in the tender possess the necessary expertise for the work of maintenance. 121. Even otherwise, if at all the respondent was very much concerned about the maintenance of the underpasses due to lack of expertise of the appellant, it was always open to the respondent to terminate the contract in terms of the termination clause as envisaged in Clause 35 of the Special Terms & Conditions of the Memorandum for the breach or non-compliance of any of the obligations or terms of the tender. Mere apprehension of lack of expertise was no ground for the respondent to cancel the tender by taking recourse to its executive powers in complete ignorance of the contractual terms that were agreed upon by them. 122. From the above discussion, we are of the considered opinion that the present lis is nothing but a classic textbook case of an arbitrary and capricious exercise of powers by the respondent to cancel the tender that was issued to the appellant on the basis of extraneous considerations and at the behest of none other but the concerned Minister-In-Charge. II. Sanctity of Public-Private Partnership Tenders 123. Before we close this , we must also address one very important aspect as regards the importance of maintaining the sanctity of tenders in public private procurement processes. 124. Public tenders are a cornerstone of governmental procurement processes, ensuring transparency, competition, and fairness in the allocation of public resources. It emanates from the Doctrine of Public Trust which lays down that all natural resources and public use amenities & structures are intended for the benefit and enjoyment of the public. The State is not the absolute owner of such resources and rather owns it in trust and as such it cannot utilize these resources as it pleases. As a trustee of the public resources, the State owes i) a duty to ensure that community resources are put to fair and proper use that enures to the benefit of the public as-well as ii) an obligation to not indulge in any favouritism or discrimination with these resources.