Therefore, the reasoning of the High Court on the issue of contributory negligence is riddled with inherent contradictions and is paradoxical. 35. The Courts below erred in concluding that it is a case of contributory negligence, because in to establish contributory negligence, some act or omission which materially contributed to the accident or damage should be attributed to the person against whom it is alleged. 36. In the case of Pramodkumar Rasikbhai Jhaveri v. Karmasey Kunvargi Tak,6 this Court while referring to a decision of the High Court of Australia in Astley v. Austrust Ltd.,7 went on to hold that: - “… where, by his negligence, if one party places another in a situation of danger which compels that other to act quickly in to extricate himself, it does not amount to contributory negligence, if that other acts in a way which, with the benefit of hindsight is shown not to have been the best way out of the difficulty.” 37. In the very same , this Court also referred to and approved the view taken in Swadling v. Cooper,8 as below: - “Mere failure to avoid the collision by taking some extra ordinary precaution, does not in itself constitute negligence.” (emphasis supplied) 6 (2002) 6 SCC 455 7 (1999) 73 ALJR 403 8 1931 AC 1 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 439 Sushma v. Nitin Ganapati Rangole & Ors. 38. A three Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Archit Saini and Another v. Oriental Insurance Company Limited and Others,9 had the occasion to consider an identical fact scenario, and after analysing the evidence available on record, it was held:- “8. After having perused the evidence of PW7, Site Map (Ext. P-45) and the detailed analysis undertaken by the Tribunal, we have no hesitation in taking the view that the approach of the High Court in reversing the conclusion arrived at by the Tribunal on issue No.1 has been very casual, if not cryptic and perverse. Indeed, the appeal before the High Court is required to be decided on fact and law. That, however, would not permit the High Court to casually overturn the finding of fact recorded by the Tribunal. As is evident from the analysis done by the Tribunal, it is a well-considered opinion and a plausible view. The High Court has not adverted to any specific reason as to why the view taken by the Tribunal was incorrect or not supported by the evidence on record. It is well settled that the nature of proof required in cases concerning accident claims is qualitatively different from the one in criminal cases, which must be beyond any reasonable doubts. The Tribunal applied the correct test in the analysis of the evidence before it. Notably, the High Court has not doubted the evidence of PW7 as being unreliable nor has it discarded his version that the driver of the Maruti Car could not spot the parked Gas Tanker due to the flashlights of the oncoming traffic from the front side.