38. It could thus be seen that apart from the above two statements of Preetha Pradeep dated 5th July 2023 and 6th July 2023, the Detaining Authority has taken into consideration one statement of Suresh Babu recorded on 7th July 2023; three statements of the detenu recorded on 20th June 2023, 11th July 2023 and 17th July 2023; and two other factual aspects respectively. 39. It could thus also be seen that the said Preetha Pradeep is a vital link for transactions between the said Suresh Babu and the detenu. It, therefore, cannot be said that the statements of Preetha Pradeep are just a casual or a passing reference. On the contrary, the said [2024] 9 S.C.R. 339 Jaseela Shaji v. The Union of India & Ors. statements, as has been seen from the preamble of the grounds of detention as well as the beginning of paragraph 2 of the detention dated 31st August 2023, formed the basis for arriving at a subjective satisfaction by the Detaining Authority. It is difficult to determine as to whether in the absence of the said statements of Preetha Pradeep the subjective satisfaction arrived at by the Detaining Authority could have been arrived at or not. However, the very recording of the factum of the statements of Preetha Pradeep make them a relevant aspect taken into consideration by the Detaining Authority for arriving at its subjective satisfaction. 40. Insofar as the reliance placed by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents on the provisions of section 5A of the COFEPOSA is concerned, no doubt that if the detention is made on several grounds and if the said is vitiated on one of the grounds and it can be sustained on the other grounds, the detention would not be vitiated. However, a distinction will have to be drawn between the detention passed on various grounds and the detention passed on one ground relying on various materials. If the detention is passed on one ground taking into consideration 8 factual aspects, the question would be as to whether non-supply of the material containing the factual aspects relied on by the Detaining Authority would vitiate the detention or not. The question, therefore, for our consideration is as to whether though the grounds of detention could be severed, whether the materials which have been relied on by the Detaining Authority for arriving at its subjective satisfaction could also be severed. 41. No doubt, as has been reiterated time and again by this Court, it may not be necessary to supply each and every document to which a passing or casual reference is made. However, all such material which has been relied on by the Detaining Authority while arriving at its subjective satisfaction will imperatively have to be supplied to the detenu. 42. In our view, the documents relied on by the Detaining Authority which form the basis of the material facts which have been taken into consideration to form a chain of events could not be severed and the High Court was not justified in coming to a finding that despite eschewing of certain material taken into consideration by the 340 [2024] 9 S.C.R.