35. The Respondents also, without any delay, filed their affidavits in consonance and agreement with the State Government’s affidavit. Since the parties have reached a ‘settlement’ during the pendency of these appeals, we are introspecting as to whether or not to allow the Government to make such exemption for the Respondents’ land. 36. We are not oblivious to ground realities. This Court is aware that the subject land is prime real estate. The proposed acquisition and development is located between the Shivalik Range and the Union Territory of Chandigarh. One side touches the Sukhna lake, while the other side abuts a notified forest. The land is contiguous with well-developed residential areas like the Mansa Devi Complex. Its idyllic natural surroundings and strategic proximity to urban areas and limited supply of similarly placed alternative areas, makes the land priceless. 2296 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 37. Furthermore, we are also aware of the fact that the acquisition, in its entirety, was under challenge before the High Court, with a batch of writ petitions pending at the stage of final hearing, at the time when the State Government agreed to release the subject land. The High Court has meanwhile dismissed those petitions, upholding the acquisition, and presently, Special Leave Petitions (hereinafter ‘SLPs’) are pending before this Court. 38. Be that as it may, given the land’s premium nature, and its criticality to the subject acquisition, it is rather intriguing why the State Government has opted to enter into a compromise, knowing full well that doing so would weaken its case in defending the major chunk of the acquisition. We, therefore, in to satisfy ourselves that the State Government has considered thoroughly all the pros and cons and acted in a bona fide manner to serve the public interest, before making the offer of release, deemed it imperative to delve deeper. 39. A perusal of the original record casts a cloud of doubt on the legal necessity of the entire exercise and has disappointed us regarding the manner in which the State Government’s decision to release the land has been taken. The record reveals that this issue was first discussed in the letter dated 08.09.2023, in which the Appellant (HUDA) noted on record that the land in question cannot be spared. Nevertheless, the Appellant deferred the final decision to the State government. This note was authored by an official in the rank of an Assistant. Following this, the file moved with remarkable celerity and received approval from various departments and officials, including as high as the office of the Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development on the very same date. Unfortunately, none of the officers thought it appropriate to write even a single word while agreeing with the proposal to release the land. This rapid progression raises questions on whether all relevant factors were considered before recommending such approval. The only so called self-speaking note is of the Director General, Urban Estate of the even date, i.e., 08.09.2023, which noted that the file may be “submitted to govt.