5. As per the 2001 Rules, the provisions relevant are Rules 14, 18, 21 and 22. These Rules read:- “14. Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing Rule, it shall be open to the High Court to require the candidate at any stage of the selection process or thereafter, to furnish any such additional proof or to produce any document with respect to any matter relating to his suitability and/or eligibility as the High Court may deem necessary. 18. Before the start of the examination, the High Court may fix the minimum qualifying marks in the Preliminary Written Entrance Test and thereafter minimum qualifying marks in the main examination. Based on such minimum qualifying marks, the High Court may decide to call for viva-voce such number of candidates, in of merit in written examination, depending upon the number of vacancies available as it may appropriately decide: Provided that in the case of candidates belonging to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes and candidates belonging to other reserved categories, such minimum qualifying marks may not be higher than 45% of the total aggregate marks : [2024] 2 S.C.R. 223 Sushil Kumar Pandey & Ors. v. The High Court of Jharkhand & Anr. Provided also that in determining the suitability of a particular candidate based on both the minimum qualifying marks as well as in of merit, the total marks obtained in the examination as a whole and the marks obtained in any individual paper, both shall also be taken into consideration, depending upon any guidelines that the High Court may issue in this behalf in the Regulations to be framed for this purpose. 21. A candidate, irrespective of the marks obtained by him in the Preliminary Written Entrance Examination and/or the Main Written Examination shall not be qualified to be appointed unless he obtains a minimum of 30% marks in the viva-voce test. The marks obtained at the viva voce test shall then be added to the marks obtained by the candidate at the main written examination. The names of the candidates will then be tabulated and arranged in of merit. If two or more candidates obtain equal marks in the aggregate, the shall be determined in accordance with the marks secured at the main written examination. If the marks secured at the main written examination of the candidates also are found equal then the shall be decided in accordance with the marks obtained in the Preliminary Written Entrance Test. From the list of candidates so arranged in of merit the High Court shall prepare a select list and have it duly notified in a manner as prescribed in the regulations. Such select list shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of being notified. 22. From out of the aforesaid select list, depending upon the number of vacancies available or those required to be filled up, the High Court shall recommend to the Government the names for appointment as Additional District Judge.” 6. There appears to be one inconsistency in relation to minimum marks prescribed between the content of Rule 21 of the said Rules and paragraph 12 of the 2017 Regulation.