[Para 83] 1.2. Upon the commencement of the Constitution, citizens received the protective cover of Part III – Article 372 read with Article 13(1) stipulates that laws which pre-date the Constitution are unconstitutional if they contravene the fundamental rights – The provisions do not stipulate that laws which pre-date the Constitution cannot receive the additional protection which the fundamental rights offer – The right to administration in Article 30(1) is one such protection. [Para 84] 2.1. ‘Incorporation’ signifies the legal existence of the institution. In contrast, ‘establishment’ signifies the founding or bringing into [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1649 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. existence of the institution – The possibility of distinguishing the establishment and incorporation of universities arose with the advent of teaching Universities – Two kinds of institutions were incorporated as teaching universities – They consisted of institutions which were established and incorporated at the same time, and institutions in which the establishment of the institution predated its incorporation – Universities in the latter category, however, were teaching colleges converted into teaching universities – The instance of conversion of teaching collages to teaching universities elucidates the distinction between the ‘establishment’ and ‘incorporation’ of educational institutions. [Para 94] 2.2. The word ‘establish’ as used in Article 30(1) cannot and should not be understood in a narrow and legalistic sense – The words used in clause (1) of Article 30 have to be interpreted in view of the object and purpose of the article, and the guarantee and protection it confers – The guarantee and protection are not dependent on the basis or the manner in which the legal requirements were/are complied with, rather it concerns the persons who have founded and created the establishment – The incorporation by a statute or the procedure and requirements in law are not determinative factors – The persons behind it, that is, the promoters and founder(s) are important – They should belong to a linguistic or a religious minority – There will always be individuals and groups instrumental in catalysing and setting up the institution – Thus, giving a legal character to an educational institution through state or sovereign action, it does not ipso facto follow that the university so established deprives the group of persons/individuals the guarantee under clause (1) of Article 30 of the Constitution – Universities are as much educational institutions as schools and colleges – The interpretation in Azeez Basha confers a legalistic meaning to the word ‘established’, sans the context of clause (1) of Article 30 – No distinction exists between universities and other educational institutions such as schools and colleges for the purpose of Article 30(1). [Para 95] 2.3. It cannot be argued that a university was established by Parliament merely because the long title and preamble of the statute incorporating the university states that it is an Act to establish and incorporate – If such a formalistic 1650 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports interpretation is adopted, fundamental rights would be made subservient to legislative language – The courts must identify the circumstances surrounding the incorporation of the University (including through a reading of the statute) to identify who established the university – Formalism must give way to actuality and to what is real.