[2024] 4 S.C.R. 427 : 2024 INSC 273 M/s. Jaiprakash Industries Ltd. (Presently known as M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Ltd.) v. Delhi Development Authority (Civil Appeal No. 8336 of 2009) 05 April 2024 [Abhay S. Oka* and Pankaj Mithal, JJ.] Issue for Consideration High Court had sanctioned the scheme for amalgamation of M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Pvt Ltd and M/s. Jaypee Rewa Cement, directing that the properties in the Schedule thereto which included four plots perpetually leased to M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Pvt Ltd shall stand vested in M/s. Jaypee Rewa Cement-transferee (now known as the appellant). Whether amalgamation amounted to transferring the plots. Respondent- DDA’s demand for an unearned increase in the value (i.e. difference between the premium paid and the market value) from the appellant, if justified. Headnotes Lease – Perpetual lease deeds – Demand for unearned increase in the value of the plot at the time of sale, transfer, assignment, or parting with the possession – Perpetual lease deeds of four plots in favour of lessee (M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Pvt Ltd) – Scheme for amalgamation sanctioned by High Court, directing that the properties in the Schedule thereto which included the aforesaid plots shall stand vested in the transferee company (now known as the appellant ) – Demand by respondent-DDA for an unearned increase in the value from the appellant – Justification: Held: Perpetual leases put an embargo on the lessee selling, transferring, assigning or otherwise parting with the possession of the whole or any part of the commercial plots except with the previous consent of the lessor in writing – The second proviso makes it clear that the respondent-DDA, which has stepped into the shoes of the lessor, will be entitled to recover a portion of the unearned increase in the value – Further, there was a specific clause in the of amalgamation passed by the High Court which * Author 428 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports held that the plots stood transferred from the original permanent lessee to the transferee M/s. Jaypee Rewa Cement Ltd, now known as M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Ltd-appellant – Relevant clause II(4)(a) covers all the categories of transfers as it provided that the lessee shall not sell, transfer, assign or otherwise part with the possession of the whole or any part of the commercial plots without the written consent of the lessor – The said clause does not exclude involuntary transfers – In the facts of the case, it cannot be said that there was an involuntary transfer, as the transfer was made based on a petition filed by the lessee and the transferee for seeking amalgamation – In a sense, this is an act done by them of their own volition – Nothing illegal in the impugned dismissing the appeal filed by the appellant against dismissal of its writ petition. [Paras 6, 8 and 12] Transfer of Property Act, 1882 – s.5 – “Transfer of property” defined – High Court had sanctioned the scheme for amalgamation of M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Pvt Ltd and M/s.