For example, let us assume a situation where the Class III and Class IV posts in the State are filled by members of a certain class while the higher positions of authority and power are filled by members of a certain class. This demographic of representation, if the service is taken as a whole unit, does not paint a realistic picture of the inequality that persists within the sphere. If numerical representation is used as an indicator, provision for representation will have to be made in favour of classes which are unrepresented in Class III and Class IV which does not align with the purpose of the provision. In fact, that would be nothing but another indicator of the existence of unequal social structures where members of the backward classes are subject to the authority and power of the more advanced. Thus, a numeric-representation focused interpretation of the phrase ‘inadequate representation’ does not fulfill the purpose of the provision. 173. In view of the discussion above, the following principles are summarized with respect to the objective and yardstick for identifying the beneficiary class under Articles 15(4) and 16(4): a. The beneficiary class in Article 15(4) must be a socially and educationally backward class. “Socially and educationally backward” are not mutually exclusive concepts. The phrase constitutes a constitutional recognition of the sociological reality that educational backwardness is caused by the social backwardness of the class; b. The beneficiary class in Article 16(4), similar to the class under Article 15(4), must predominantly be socially backward. The purpose of both the provisions is to ensure substantive equality of opportunity to the socially backward communities. The beneficiary class in Article 16(4) subsumes the socially and educationally backward classes under Article 15(4); 1428 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c. The qualifier of inadequate representation in Article 16(4) is not mutually exclusive of the requirement of backwardness. The inadequate representation of the class in the services of the State must be because of social backwardness; and d. The adequacy of representation must be determined based on the standard of effective representation and not numerical representation. d. Yardstick for sub-classification 174. This takes us to the next question. What must be the rational basis for sub-classification within the beneficiary classes? Since the purpose of Articles 15(4) and 16(4) is to ensure equality of opportunity of the socially backward classes, the criterion for sub-classification within a class (be it the Other Backward Classes or the Scheduled Castes or Tribes) must be an indicator of social backwardness. The yardstick for classification must differentiate the class based on inter-se social backwardness. The inter-se backwardness could be identified based on the same or different identity. The State has identified the Other Backward Classes, the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.232 Here, the State sub-classifies based on the same identity, that is, social backwardness because of caste identity. Horizontal reservation is provided to classes which face backwardness due to identities other than caste such as gender233 and disability.234 Here, the State sub-classified based on a different identity.