Pertinently, this direction has been otherwise provided in Section 33(1)(b) IBC when an adjudicating authority rejects a resolution plan under Section 31. In this context, we hold that the existing insolvency framework in India provides no scope for effecting further modifications or withdrawals of CoC-approved resolution plans, at the behest of the successful resolution applicant, once the plan has been submitted to the adjudicating authority. A resolution applicant, after obtaining the financial information of the corporate debtor through the informational utilities and perusing the IM, is assumed to have analysed the risks in the business of the corporate debtor and submitted a considered proposal. A submitted resolution plan is binding and irrevocable as between the CoC and the successful resolution applicant in terms of the provisions of IBC and the CIRP Regulations. In the case of Kundan Care, since both, the resolution applicant and the CoC, have requested for modification of the resolution plan because of the uncertainty over the PPA, cleared by the ruling of this Court in Gujarat Urja [Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. v. Amit Gupta, (2021) 7 SCC 209 : (2021) 4 SCC (Civ) 1] , a one-time relief under Article 142 of the Constitution is provided with the conditions prescribed in Section K.2.” (emphasis supplied) 116. In light of the aforesaid, it is clear that the existing insolvency framework does not provide any scope for effecting further [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2133 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. modifications or withdrawals of the Resolution Plan approved by the CoC, at the behest of the successful resolution applicant, once the plan has been submitted to the adjudicating authority. The submitted Resolution Plan is binding and irrevocable as between the CoC and the successful resolution applicant in terms of the provisions of the IBC, 2016 and the 2016 Regulations as well. In other words, once a CoC-approved resolution plan is submitted to the Adjudicating Authority i.e., NCLT, it immediately becomes binding on the CoC and the SRA, even if the Adjudicating Authority has not yet given its stamp of approval on the same. While deciding so, this Court re-emphasized the object under Section 31(1) of the IBC, 2016 and observed that once the Adjudicating Authority has approved the plan under Section 31(1) of the IBC, 2016, the Resolution Plan is binding on all the stakeholders including those stakeholders who are not direct participants of the CIRP. Therefore, there is absolutely no scope for modification of the terms of a Resolution Plan which has received the imprimatur of the Adjudicating Authority, be it by the Adjudicating Authority itself, the CoC or the SRA. 117. When the aforesaid is the position of law, and the NCLT had approved the present Resolution Plan vide dated 22.06.2021, the Resolution Plan was immune to any modification or alteration whatsoever. Therefore, the Appellants could have only proposed an offer under the Lender’s Affidavit dated 16.08.2023 which stood true to the terms of the Resolution Plan approved by the NCLT.