The Statement of Objects and Reasons stated that four different Acts were in force for the regulation of prisons, which were different on important points such as the enumerated jail offences and their punishments, and were thus resulting in divergent jail management systems across provinces, non-uniform enforcement of sentences, and lack of administrative uniformity. 147. The Act provided for various aspects of prison administration including maintenance of prisons, officers of prisons, duties of prison officers, admission, removal and discharge of prisoners, discipline, food and other amenities for civil and non-convicted prisoners, employment of prisoners, health of prisoners, visits to prisons, and prison offences. Chapter II provides for the duties of prison officers. All officers are supposed to obey the directions of the Superintendent and act in accordance with the directions of the Jailer (and sanctioned by the Superintendent) and in line with the rules under Section 59 of the Act. The officers are proscribed from dealing with the prisoners, or to have an interest in the contracts for supply of the prison. The Superintendent is responsible for managing the prison in matters relating to discipline, labour, expenditure, punishment and control, subject to the s of the Inspector General.231 The Chapter 231 Section 11, Prisons Act, 1894. 586 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports further provides for provisions regarding jailers, medical officers and subordinate officers, including convict officers. Chapter V of the Act contains provisions regarding ‘Discipline of Prisoners’. It provides for separation of prisoners based on gender, age, conviction and civil or criminal imprisonment232 and the confinement of convicts in association or by segregation. The Act further provides for employment of prisoners under Chapter VII. It provides that civil prisoners may be permitted to follow any trade or profession and that certain safeguards need to be observed in engaging criminal prisoners in labour.233 Chapter VIII and IX pertain to the health of prisoners and visits to prisoners respectively. Chapter X and XI provide for offences in relation to prisons and prison offences respectively. The miscellaneous chapter contains provisions regarding extramural custody, control and employment of prisoners, confinement in irons for safe custody, and the power to make rules. 148. In a constitutional set-up, the Act is governed by constitutional principles. Though the Act was enacted in the colonial era, its provisions and subsequent manuals/rules enacted therein are subject to constitutional provisions. (ii) Prison manuals/rules 149. The impugned prison manuals and rules are listed below: The Uttar Pradesh Jail Manual, 2022 ● 158. Remission to convicts on scavenging duty - Subject to good work and conduct in jail, convicts of the scavenger class working as scavengers in jails, or convicts who on administrative grounds it is not found expedient to promote to the grades of convict officers, shall, though they may not be appointed convict officers, be titled to receive ordinary remissions at the scales sanctioned in the preceding paragraph for convict night watchmen and convict overseers, respectively, with effect from the first day of the month following the one on which they would, but for this rule, be eligible for promotion to those grades.