Digital Supreme Court Reports of repeated demands by the accused. Getting fed up my sister consumed some poisonous thing on 19-11-93. On learning that my sister had consumed some poisonous thing, we came to Karnal. Police met me at G.H. Karnal where my statement Ex. PJ was recorded by the police which was read over to me and after admitting the contents, I signed the same. After post mortem, the dead body of my sister was handed over to us on 20-11-93.” 4. PW-5 Narata Ram (father of the deceased) in his examination in chief has deposed as under:- “I have four sons and 9 daughters. My daughter Rani was married to Naresh accused on 10-5-92 at Kurukshetra. After about 2½ months of marriage all the accused started harassing my daughter. They raised demand of Rs. 50,000/- for opening a shop for Naresh. Being poor people we could not arrange the amount. By arranging some amount we opened a shop for accused Naresh at Raison. Accused Naresh continued the shop for about 7 or 8 months. The accused Naresh Dulian Kha Pee Kay left the shop and went to Delhi. After about 5 or 7 months accused Naresh came to take my daughter Rani to Delhi. On 17-11-93 accused Naresh alongwith my daughter Rani came to our house. My daughter Rani told that all the accused are demanding a sum of Rs. 20,000/- for starting business at Delhi. I expressed my inability to pay same day. At this Naresh told that either pay the amount or he shall finish himself by consuming some poison. Accused Naresh then left with my daughter. My daughter used to remain tense due to repeated demands of the accused. On learning that Rani had consumed some poisonous thing we came to G.H. Karnal.” 5. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant convict submitted that the Courts below committed an error in holding the appellant guilty of having abetted the commission of suicide by the deceased. He would submit that there is not an iota of evidence to even remotely suggest that there was any kind of harassment, physical or mental, to the deceased by her husband. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 837 Naresh Kumar v. State of Haryana 6. In such circumstances, he would submit that the conviction be set aside and the appellant convict be acquitted. 7. On the other hand, Ms. Sabarni Som, the learned counsel appearing for the State of Haryana, submitted that no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the Courts below in holding the appellant guilty of the alleged offence. Much emphasis was laid on the fact that the deceased committed suicide within seven years from the date of her marriage. 8. The learned counsel appearing for the State tried to fortify her above referred submission by relying on Section 113A of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short ‘the Evidence Act’) which enables raising of presumption as to abetment of suicide by a married woman.