If two views are possible, the acquittal recorded by the trial Court should not be interfered with unless perversity or misreading of evidence is reflected from the recording acquittal. 19. Learned counsel further urged that the learned Division Bench of the High Court, while rendering the reversing acquittal of the appellant barely referred to the findings on the basis of which the trial Court had acquitted the accused by extending them the benefit of doubt. Rather, the High Court went on to record its own fresh conclusions after re-appreciation of the evidence. Such an approach is de hors the well-settled principles governing consideration of an appeal against acquittal and hence, the impugned deserves to be set aside. 20. They advanced pertinent submissions assailing the of the High Court seeking acquittal of the accused appellants. 21. It was urged that the complainant(PW-1), father of the deceased Malagounda and the four labourers(PW-2, PW-3, PW-4 and PW-5) abandoned the deceased victim whom they claimed to have seen being belaboured with their own eyes. They neither made any efforts to take stock of the victim’s condition nor was the matter reported to the police promptly which makes it clear that the so called eye witnesses actually never saw the incident happening with their own eyes and a case of blind murder has been foisted upon the appellants on account of prior enmity. 22. The attention of this Court was drawn to the following excerpts from the evidence of complainant, Chanagouda(PW-1):- “….Again I returned back and went near my land and entered the bushes to hide myself. I sat at that place up to 6 or 7 PM in the evening. After the sun-set I returned to my village. I told the incident to my family members. In the night myself and my brothers and relatives went to the place and saw the dead body. Thereafter we informed to the police. The cousins informed about the incident to the police. At that time the police came to our house and took me to the police 186 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports station. The police enquired me and I informed them about the incident and they made a writing. It was about 2 or 3 AM in the morning. In the morning hours the police came to the place. I now see the complaint at ex.P.1, and it bears my signature at Ex.p.1(a)…. ….The police recorded what I have stated to them in the police station. Thereafter I signed to that writing. On the next day the police have taken my statement. The Poujadar recorded my statement. The inspector also questioned me. It is not correct to suggest that the inspector has not recorded my statement….. ….My relatives did not made a telephone call and personally went to the police station and brought the police. At that time initially the police came and thereafter the Poujadar came. They came to our house. The poujadar questioned me what has happened. I told the Poujadar what I was knowing.