The poujadar made a writing about it. The writing was made after the police visited the place of incident….. …..Myself and my relatives went to see the dead body in the night and at that time it was 10 to 11 PM. When we returned to house it was 10 or 11 PM. Phone facilities are available in our village. I did not made any telephone call to the police. I also did not tell-to my relatives to make a telephone call to the police station. Shivanagouda and Banagouda are my other two sons. Both of them are educated. They were present in the house when I returned from the land. When I told my son about the incident, they went on motor-cycle to the police station but did not made any telephone call to the police station. My son Shivanagouda and Sangond went on the motor-cycle to the police station. They went to the police station at about 12 o’clock in the night. The distance between Tikota Police Station and my village is 10 KMS….. ….On the day of incident only the police showed the weapon of offence..” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 5 S.C.R. 187 Babu Sahebagouda Rudragoudar and Others v. State of Karnataka 23. In this very context, the attention of the Court was drawn to the evidence of ASI Tikota Police Station(PW-18), who recorded the FIR(Exhibit P-10) wherein he admitted that he did not know whether prior to 4.00 am on that day, the information of the murder was already provided at the police station. 24. Learned counsel thus urged that the police had already been informed about the incident by none other than the sons of the complainant(PW-1) around 12 o’ clock in the night and hence, there was no reason as to why the FIR was not registered immediately on receiving such information. 25. Learned counsel contended that the complainant(PW-1) admitted in cross examination that the Poujadar scribed a complaint and he was made to append his signatures thereupon. It was submitted that the said complaint was not produced on record. Hence, there is a genuine doubt regarding the FIR(Exhibit P-10) being a subsequently created post investigation document. 26. He then referred to the statement of Revappa(PW-2) who admitted in cross-examination that the police came to the village at about 10 or 11 pm and he was sleeping in his house when the call came from the police. A police officer from Tikota Police Station came to call him. He along with the police officer went to the place of incident where the dead body was lying. The time was about 11.00 pm. They went to the police station at 12 o’ clock in the night where his statement was recorded. 27. The Court was taken through the statement of Hiragappa(PW-4) who also stated that police came to their village at 8.00 or 9.00 pm in the night. They inquired from him and he divulged as to how the incident had happened. He and the other witnesses were questioned and their statements were noted whereafter they proceeded to the crime scene.