Thus, the said must be followed for the sake of judicial propriety. 15.2. As to the nature of the requirement under Section 432 (2) of the CrPC, i.e., whether mandatory or directory, it was submitted that as observed by this Court in Ram Chander the opinion so obtained is not to be mechanically followed and the government has the discretion to seek an opinion afresh. That the said view would demonstrate that the discretion vests with the concerned government as to whether or not to seek and rely upon the opinion of the Presiding Judge of the Trial Court. 15.3. As regards the contentions of the learned counsel for the petitioner-victim as to non-payment of fine, it was submitted that a fine of Rs.6,000/- was paid by respondent No.7 without any objection on 27.09.2019 before the Sessions Court, Greater Mumbai. However, without prejudice to the said payment, there is no provision in the Prison Manual of Gujarat, which bars remission from being granted if the fine is not paid. The grant of remission cannot be restricted just because a convict is not financially capable to bear the fine. The same would cause discrimination based on the economic and financial capacity of a convict to pay fine, resulting in the violation of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. 15.4. We have heard learned counsel for the other respondents. With the aforesaid submissions, it was prayed that these writ petitions be dismissed. Reply Arguments: 16. Ms. Shobha Gupta, learned counsel for the petitioner-victim submitted in her rejoinder on the point that the writ petition was maintainable under Article 32 of the Constitution as follows: [2024] 1 S.C.R. 811 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others (i) that the of grant of remission being an administrative , there was neither a statutory nor substantive right of appeal available to the aggrieved parties. The only remedy available was to file a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Gujarat, or to file a writ petition before this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution. (ii) that this Court has on multiple occasions entertained writ petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution in those cases where there existed a “gross violation of fundamental rights”, or when an executive or administrative decision “shocked the conscience of the public, the nation or of this Court”. In this context, reliance was placed on the s of this Court in Epuru Sudhakar; Satpal vs. State of Haryana, (2000) 5 SCC 170 (“Satpal”) and Mohammed Ishaq vs. S. Kazam Pasha, (2009) 12 SCC 748 (“Mohammed Ishaq”). It was submitted that a similar issue of maintainability arose in Mohammed Ishaq, wherein this Court observed that the mere existence of an alternative remedy in the form of Article 226 does not preclude an aggrieved person from approaching this Court directly under Article 32. The rule requiring the exhaustion of alternative remedies was described as being one of “convenience and discretion” as opposed to being absolute or inflexible in nature.