Since both situations cannot co-exist and are self-contradictory, the High Court is directed to report on the compliance of the aforementioned directions. (ii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.5, there is partial non-compliance insofar as several districts are insisting for bail application under Section 88 of CrPC. Therefore, the High Court is required to inform on its compliance alone. (iii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.7, it has come to our attention that the affidavit of the High Court is silent over the constitution of Special Courts in consultation with the State Government. The latest status of the same needs to be duly updated and furnished. (iv) In terms of directions contained in para 100.8, though the High Court has identified prisoners who are unable to furnish sureties despite bail, detailed information and steps taken to alleviate the situation has however not been provided. Therefore, needful be done in this regard. (v) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of judicial academy. (vi) To furnish information on whether the directions in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC or not. 29. State of Rajasthan -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41 and 41-A of CrPC has not been followed, and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. (ii) In terms of para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. 1106 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the final outcome of the same. 29.1 High Court of Rajasthan -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of directions contained in para 100.7, it has come to our attention that the affidavit of the High Court is silent over the constitution of Special Courts in consultation with the respective State Government. The latest status of the same needs to be duly updated and furnished. (ii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.8 and 100.9, though the High Court has endeavoured to identify prisoners who are unable to comply with the bail conditions and is stated to have informed them about their rights under Section 440 of CrPC. However, subsequently no bail applications were received under Section 440 of CrPC in most districts. Therefore, the High Court is required to inform on its compliance alone. (iii) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the judicial academy curriculum.