Such a power, according to learned senior counsel for the respondents, is beyond the purview of Section 49 of the 1953 Act. As regard to Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, it is urged that since Kalyan Singh was co-owner in the subject land along with his uncle Ramji Lal or his successors, the possession of the subject land continued in favour of all the co-owners. Consequently, even if one of them was in actual physical possession, such possession was of permissible nature, for and on behalf of all the co-owners. It is thus maintained that, no consequential relief like a decree for possession was required to be sought by Kalyan Singh in his declaratory suit. 8. Section 49 of the 1953 Act reads as follows: “49. Bar to Civil Court jurisdiction — Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law Courts for the time being in force, the declaration and adjudication of rights of tenure-holder in respect of land, lying in an area, for which a notification has been issued under sub-section (2) of Section 4, or adjudication of any other right arising out of consolidation proceedings and in regard to which a proceeding could or ought to have been taken under this Act, shall be done in accordance with the provisions of this Act and no Civil or Revenue Court shall entertain any suit or proceeding with respect to rights in such land or with respect to any other matters for which a proceeding could or ought to have been taken under this Act: Provided that nothing in this section shall preclude the Assistant Collector from initiating proceedings under Section 122-B of the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land [2024] 5 S.C.R. 497 Prashant Singh & Ors. Etc. v. Meena & Ors. Etc. Reforms Act, 1950 (U.P. Act 1 of 1951) in respect of any land, possession over which has been delivered or deemed to be delivered to a Gram Sabha under or in accordance with the provisions of this Act.” 9. On a plain reading, we find that Section 49 of the 1953 Act contemplates bar to the jurisdiction of the Civil or Revenue Court for the grant of declaration or adjudication of rights of tenure holders in respect of land lying in an area for which consolidation proceedings have commenced. Section 49 of the 1953 Act is a provision of transitory suspension of jurisdiction of Civil or Revenue Court only during the period when consolidation proceedings are pending. Notably, such suspension of jurisdiction of these Courts through the non obstante provision is only with respect to the declaration and adjudication of rights of tenure holders. In other words, unless a person is a pre- existing tenure holder, Section 49 does not come into operation. 10. The expression “tenure holder” has been defined in Section 3(11) of the 1953 Act and it reads as follows: “(11) “Tenure-holder” means a bhumidhar with transferable rights or bhumidhar with non-transferable rights and includes— (a) an asami, (b) a Government lessee or Government grantee, or (c) a co-operative farming society satisfying such conditions as may be prescribed;” 11.