This is compliant with the mandate of article 22(1) of the Constitution. It is not unknown that at times FIR does not reveal all aspects of the offence in question. In several cases, even the names of persons actually involved in the commission of offence are not mentioned in the FIR and described as unknown accused. Even, the particulars as unfolded are not fully recorded in the FIR. Despite that, the accused named in any ordinary offence is able to apply for anticipatory bail or regular bail, in which proceeding, the police papers are normally perused by the concerned court. On the same analogy, the argument of prejudice pressed into service by the petitioners for non-supply of ECIR deserves to be answered against the petitioners. For, the arrested person for offence of money-laundering is contemporaneously informed about the grounds of his arrest and when produced before the Special Court, it is open to the Special Court to call upon the representative of ED to produce relevant record concerning the case of the accused before him and look into the same for answering the need for his continued detention. Taking any view of the matter, therefore, the argument under consideration does not take the matter any further.” 23. The paragraphs in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), while recording that there is a difference between ECIR and FIR, hold that the ECIR need not to be furnished to the accused, unlike an FIR recorded under Section 154 of the Code. The PML Act, a special legislation for the offence of money laundering, creates a unique mechanism for inquiry/investigation into the offence. An analogy [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2385 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement cannot be drawn with the provisions of the Code. ECIR is an internal document for initiating penal action or prosecution. Having held so in paragraphs 178 and 179, it is observed that Section 19(1) of the PML Act postulates that after arrest, as soon as may be, the arrestee should be contemporaneously informed of the grounds of arrest to ensure compliance with Article 22(1) of the Constitution. Non-supply of ECIR is not to be faulted. ECIR may contain details of material in possession of the authority, which if revealed before the inquiry/ investigation, may have a deleterious impact on the final outcome of the inquiry/investigation. The states that the accused, upon filing of the prosecution complaint, will get all relevant materials forming part of the complaint. For the same reason, it is argued by the DoE that the accused is entitled to the “grounds of arrest” and not the “reasons to believe”. Grounds of arrest may only summarily refer to the reasons given for arrest. 24. In the present case, we are examining Section 19(1) of the PML Act and the rights of the accused. We are not concerned with the ECIR. The relevant question arising is – whether the arrestee is entitled to be supplied with a copy of the “reasons to believe”? Paragraph 89 in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) refers to the importance of recording the “reasons to believe” in writing, and states this is mandatory.