The bank locker register maintained at the HDFC bank states that the Smt Sunita Khemka has operated the Bank Locker at 11.53 am. The CCTV footage was has validated the fact that Smt Sunita Khemka aided by the HDFC Bank Exhibition Branch, Patna has breached the under section 132(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and has unlawfully operated her Bank locker no 462 in the HDFC Bank.” 18. It will be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Arnab Manoranjan Goswami (supra): “62. Now in this backdrop, it becomes necessary to advert briefly to the contents of the FIR in the present case. The FIR recites that the spouse of the informant had a company carrying on the business of architecture, interior design and engineering consultancy. According to the informant, her husband was over the previous two years “having pressure as he did not receive the money of work carried out by him”. The FIR recites that the deceased had called at the office of the appellant and spoken to his accountant for the payment of money. Apart from the above statements, it has been stated that the deceased left behind a suicide note stating that his “money is stuck and following owners of respective companies are not paying our legitimate dues”. Prima facie, on the application of the test which has been laid down by this Court in a consistent line of authority which has been noted above, it cannot be said that the appellant was guilty of having abetted the suicide within the meaning of Section 306 IPC. These observations, we must note, are prima facie at this stage since the High Court is still to take up the petition for quashing. Clearly however, the High Court in failing to notice the contents of the FIR and to make a prima facie evaluation abdicated [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1913 HDFC Bank Ltd. v. The State of Bihar & Ors. its role, functions and jurisdiction when seized of a petition under Section 482 CrPC. The High Court recited the legal position that the jurisdiction to quash under Section 482 has to be exercised sparingly. These words, however, are not meaningless incantations, but have to be assessed with reference to the contents of the particular FIR before the High Court. If the High Court were to carry out a prima facie evaluation, it would have been impossible for it not to notice the disconnect between the FIR and the provisions of Section 306 IPC. The failure of the High Court to do so has led it to adopting a position where it left the appellant to pursue his remedies for regular bail under Section 439. The High Court was clearly in error in failing to perform a duty which is entrusted to it while evaluating a petition under Section 482 albeit at the interim stage. 63. The petition before the High Court was instituted under Article 226 of the Constitution and Section 482 CrPC.