As regards to the Income Tax attachment/ prohibitory passed. I would like to clarify that Income tax already filed claim before me and shall be paid in of priority as provided under Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code 2016 and the registration of property on successful bidding has no relevance to the same. In case of any objection from the SRO the same shall be brought before the Tribunal and suitable shall be obtained by the Liquidator so as to proceed with the registration.” 36.4 It can be seen from the two clarifications given by the Liquidator to the Auction Purchaser that registration of the subject property in favour of the successful bidder was not to be linked with the income tax attachment for the reason that the Income Tax Department had already lodged a claim before the Liquidator and payment was to be released to the Department in the of priority, as stipulated under the IBC. Despite that, the Auction Purchaser did not proceed further. 36.5 In the light of the Notice for sale and the replies furnished to the Auction Purchaser well before the bidding process had commenced, we are of the considered view that it was for the Auction Purchaser as an intending bidder to have conducted a due diligence at its own end, gather all the relevant information pertaining to the subject property which included the status [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1315 V.S. Palanivel v. P. Sriram, CS, Liquidator, Etc. of the property and the liabilities attached to it, weigh all the pros and cons and only thereafter participate in the auction process. After having participated in the e-auction with its eyes wide open, the Auction Purchaser cannot be heard to state that payment of the balance sale consideration was linked with the lifting of the attachment passed by the Income Tax Department when it knew all along that the auction was being conducted on an “AS IS WHERE IS”, “AS IS WHAT IS” and “WHATEVER THERE IS” basis. 36.6 To fortify the submission that the sale transaction could not have been completed on account of the embargo placed under the IT Act, learned counsel for the Auction Purchaser has referred to Sections 222 and 281 of the IT Act read with Rule 48 Part III, Schedule 2 of the IT Act. Section 222 of the IT Act, empowers the Tax Recovery Officer to draw up a statement specifying the amount of arrears due from an assessee who has defaulted in payment of tax and thereafter proceed to recover the said arrears by attaching and selling the assessee’s movable/immovable properties. Section 281 of the IT Act declares that if an assessee creates a charge or parts with the possession of any of his assets, such charge/ transfer would be treated as void against a claim in respect of tax payable by the assessee. However, the second proviso to Section 281 clarifies that such a charge/transfer will not be void if it is made with the previous permission of the assessing officer.