Section 70 reads thus: “70. Form of warrant of arrest and duration.—(1) Every warrant of arrest issued by a Court under this Code shall be in writing, signed by the presiding officer of such Court and shall bear the seal of the Court. (2) Every such warrant shall remain in force until it is cancelled by the Court which issued it, or until it is executed.” (emphasis added) Thus, sub-section (2) of Section 70 confers power on the Court to cancel the warrant. When a bailable warrant is issued to an accused on the grounds of his non-appearance, he is entitled to be enlarged on bail as a matter of right when he appears before the Court. Therefore, he need not apply for cancellation of the warrant. 18. When a warrant is issued in the cases mentioned in paragraph 16 above, the Special Court can always entertain an application for cancellation of the warrant and can cancel the warrant depending upon the conduct of the accused. While cancelling the warrant, the Court can always take an undertaking from the accused to appear before the Court on every date unless appearance is specifically exempted. When the ED has not taken the custody of the accused during the investigation, usually, the Special Court will exercise the power of cancellation of the warrant without insisting on taking the accused in custody provided an undertaking is furnished by the accused to appear regularly before the Court. When the Special Court deals with an application for cancellation of a warrant, the Special Court is not dealing with an application for bail. Hence, Section 45(1) will have no application to such an application. 19. At this stage, we may refer to a decision of this Court in the case of Satender Kumar Antil 3. While dealing with Sections 88, 170, 204, and 209 of the CrPC, in paragraphs 100.5, this Court held thus: 888 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “100.5. There need not be any insistence of a bail application while considering the application under Sections 88, 170, 204 and 209 of the Code.” At this stage, we may note here that from paragraphs 86 to 89 of the same decision, this Court dealt with category of special acts. In paragraph 89, this Court held thus: “89. We may clarify on one aspect which is on the interpretation of Section 170 of the Code. Our discussion made for the other offences would apply to these cases also. To clarify this position, we may hold that if an accused is already under incarceration, then the same would continue, and therefore, it is needless to say that the provision of the Special Act would get applied thereafter. It is only in a case where the accused is either not arrested consciously by the prosecution or arrested and enlarged on bail, there is no need for further arrest at the instance of the court. Similarly, we would also add that the existence of a pari materia or a similar provision like Section 167(2) of the Code available under the Special Act would have the same effect entitling the accused for a default bail.