5.8 It is submitted that at the stage of framing of charges, the trial Court must confine itself to the material brought on record by way of the chargesheet filed under Section 173 Cr.P.C and merely because some other Authority has taken a different view with regard to the complicity of some co-accused who are public servants and denied the request made by the respondent-CBI for sanctioning their prosecution, is irrelevant. 5.9 As for case law cited by learned counsel for the appellants to substantiate their submission that sanction under Section 197 Cr.P.C is mandatory for prosecuting public servants (A-1 to A-5 in the instant case), the submission made is that for the said purpose, facts and circumstances of each case have to be examined and there cannot be any universal findings in this regard. 65 SLP (Crl.) Dy No. 20094/2023 titled S.M. Jaamdar & Others v. CBI [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1207 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation 5.10 Learned counsel for the respondent – CBI has strenuously disputed as incorrect, the argument advanced on behalf of the appellants that the respondent – CBI has filed the Chargesheet solely on the basis of the CAG Report and submitted that a reading of the FIR dated 31st March, 2015 would demonstrate that this case was not triggered by the Report of the CAG. In fact, PE 5/2012 was registered on 28th September, 2012 in connection with the irregularities noticed in the allocation of coal blocks under the Government Dispensation route for the period between 1993 and 2006. Asserting that PE 5 did not emanate from the CAG Report and originated independently thereof, learned counsel submitted that during the course of the preliminary enquiry, several documents including the CAG Report were examined by the respondent – CBI. In fact, the respondent – CBI had conducted its own independent enquiry into the allegations for arriving at a conclusion relating to the commission of the offence or quantification of the extent of misappropriation. In view of the aforesaid submission, the contentions of the appellants based on a reading of the provisions of the CAG Act and the Constitution of India are stated to be extraneous to the controversy raised before this Court just as the case law cited by them regarding the nature of the CAG Report. Learned counsel has cited the of the Gauhati High Court in M.S Associates and others v. Union of India66 to urge that even if the CAG Report has not been placed before the Parliament/State Legislature, contents thereof can serve as information for starting an investigation into a criminal offence. 5.11 Coming next to the judgement passed by the Karnataka High Court in the case of Aryan Energy (supra) and cited by the other side, it is submitted on behalf of the respondent-CBI that the said was passed on 22nd July, 2021, much after institution of the chargesheet by the respondent–CBI in the present case. Learned counsel submits that the said judgement addresses a situation where no criminal case has been registered against any of the parties appearing before the High Court.