6. Rule 7 prescribes the procedure for conducting direct recruitment. Rule 8 provides for the procedure for promotion for assessing and testing the merit and suitability of the judicial officers. Rule 9 provides for a limited competitive examination for the promotion of members of the Haryana Civil Service (Judicial Branch) pursuant to Rule 6(b). Rules 7, 8 and 9 are set out below: “Procedure for direct recruitment. 7. The High Court shall before making recommendations to the Governor invite applications by advertisement and may require the applicants to give such particulars as it may specify and may further hold written examination and viva voce test for recruitment in terms of rule 6(c) above and the maximum marks shall be in the following manner:- (i) Written Test 750 marks (ii) Viva Voce 250 marks Procedure for promotion. 8. Procedure for promotion for assessing and testing the merit and the suitability of a member of the Haryana Civil Service (Judicial Branch) for promotion under clause (a) of sub-rule (1) of rule 6, the High Court may- (i) hold a written objective test of 75 marks and viva voce of 25 marks in to ascertain and examine the legal knowledge and efficiency in legal field; [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1143 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors (ii) take into consideration Annual Confidential Reports of the preceding five years of the officer concerned: Provided that any officer having grading as C (integrity doubtful) in any year shall not be eligible to be considered for promotion. Limited competitive examination. 9. The High Court shall hold a limited written competitive examination for promotion of members of the Haryana Civil Service (Judicial Branch) as per rule 6(b) and the maximum marks shall be in the following manner: (i) Written Examination 600 marks (ii) Assessment of Record 150 marks (iii) Viva Voce 250 marks Provided that the High Court shall in addition to the above competitive examination take into consideration any of the criteria as specified in rule 8 above: Provided further that any officer having grading as C (integrity doubtful) in any year, shall not be eligible to appear in the limited competitive examination.” 7. In terms of Rule 8, the High Court is required to hold a written objective test comprising 75 marks and a viva voce comprising 25 marks to ascertain and examine the legal knowledge and efficiency of the candidates in the legal field. In addition, the High Court is required to take into consideration the Annual Confidential Reports3 of the preceding five years of each officer under consideration. A. Background of the present dispute 8. On 29 January 2013, the High Court, on its administrative side, resolved that an aggregate of 50% marks in the written test and in the viva voce would be required so as to render a candidate eligible for promotion. The relevant part of the resolution is extracted below: “i) In terms of Rule 8(a) of the Haryana Superior Judicial Service Rules, 2007, the suitability test shall consist 3 “ACRs” 1144 [2024] 2 S.C.R.