5. Ever since the offence was filed against the accused in this matter, he is on the run till date and the other co-accused in this matter are hiding information about them, which also needs to be investigated so that the police custody of accused person is essentially required. Considering the above grounds, we request to approve the police custody remand of the accused on Day-07. A copy of the diary is enclosed herewith which please note by Your Honor. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 271 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. 13/12/2023 R.Y Raval Police Inspector I/c Vesu Police Station Surat City” 34. At para No. 3 of the remand application, the Investigating Officer(contemnor-respondent No.4) has noted that the accused- petitioner did not admit having taken cash to the tune of Rs. 1.65 crores which the complainant claims to have paid to the accused- petitioner in various instalments. Para No. 4 of the application reads that Crime No. 62/2019 had been registered against the accused at P.S. Umra for the offences punishable under Sections 447, 448, 451, 427 and 114 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and it was imputed that the accused had a criminal history and that he was giving evasive replies to the questions being put to him. However, it is pertinent to note that the Investigating Officer never made any effort to re- summon the accused for investigation even for a single time after 12th December, 2023 when abruptly a notice to appear before the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate was given to the accused for seeking his police remand. The language of the notice has been reproduced at para 5 (supra) and it does not give a whisper of indication that the accused was not cooperating in the investigation. 35. We are of the firm opinion that non-cooperation by the accused is one matter and the accused refusing to confess to the crime is another. There would be no obligation upon the accused that on being interrogated, he must confess to the crime and only thereafter, would the Investigating Officer be satisfied that the accused has cooperated with the investigation. As a matter of fact, any confession made by the accused before a police officer is inadmissible in evidence and cannot even form a part of the record. 36. This Court vide dated 12th July, 2024 passed in Petition for Special Leave to Appeal (Crl.) No.10536/2023 titled as ‘Sanuj Bansal v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr.’ has held that such confessions recorded in the interrogation notes of the accused cannot form part of the charge sheet. 37. Looking at the allegations in the FIR, we are of the firm view that the Investigating Officer should have, at the first instance, put the complainant to serious questioning and strict proof because while alleging in FIR that he had given a huge sum of Rs. 1.65 crores 272 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the accused-petitioner, the complainant (contemnor-respondent No. 6) himself had acted in gross contravention of the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (for short ‘PMLA’).