[…] xxx xxx xxx 4. As we shall point out later, the problem has since grown in dimensions, because there is unmistakable testimony that the standards of the judicial officers recruited from the bar and other sources have, during recent years, fallen in a substantial degree for various reasons. That has been almost the unanimous view expressed by the witnesses before us. It is thus obvious that no scheme of reform of judicial administration will be effective or worth- while, unless the basic problem of providing trained and capable judicial personnel is satisfactorily solved. Before we can suggest adequate measures for raising the level of judiciary, we have to examine the causes which have led to the decline in its efficiency.” (Emphasis supplied) 46. Accordingly, the Law Commission made a slew of recommendations in to deal with the afore-stated problems. The Law Commission, inter-alia, recommended devising a more robust mechanism for 1102 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports recruitment and in-service training of judicial officers with a view to improve their calibre. It further recommended that a third source of recruitment to the Higher Judiciary i.e., the cadre of District & Sessions Judge, should be created. It stated that this third category should be recruited purely by way of a competitive examination, and recruitment through the existing two categories i.e., by promotion and from the Bar should continue as per the existing process. The Law Commission was of the view that the new avenue as recommended would enlarge the field of selection and bring in Judicial Officers of high calibre and brilliance. The relevant observations read as under: - “10. If we are to improve the personnel of the subordinate judiciary, we must first take measures to extend or widen our field of selection so that we can draw from it really capable persons. A radical measure suggested to us was to recruit the judicial service entirely by a competitive test or examination. It was suggested that the higher judiciary could be drawn from such competitive tests at the all-India level and the lower judiciary can be recruited by similar tests held at State level. Those eligible for these tests would be graduates who have taken a law degree and the requirement of practice at there Bar should be done away with. Such a scheme, it was urged, would result in bringing into the subordinate judiciary capable young men who now prefer to obtain immediate remunerative employment in the executive branch of Government and in private commercial firms. The scheme, it was pointed out, would bring to the higher subordinate judiciary the best talent available in the country as a whole, whereas the lower subordinate judiciary would be drawn from the best talent available in the State.” (Emphasis supplied) 47. In All India Judges’ Association (1) v. Union of India reported in (1992) 1 SCC 119, the issues pertaining to the working conditions of the District Judiciary throughout the country came up for consideration, including the issues pertaining to uniformity in the judicial cadres in different States and Union Territories, and for adequate provisions for in-service training and promotion.