(b) Submission and approval of the Business Plan to DGCA & MoCA The Business Plan of the Resolution Applicant shall have been submitted after the Approval Date to the DGCA and MoCA for their review, and approval. The Resolution Applicant agrees to modify its business plan to incorporate all reasonable changes required by the DGCA/ MoCA, which otherwise does not make the business unviable for the Resolution Applicant. (c) Slots Allotment Approval The DGCA and MoCA shall have approved the reinstatement of all the suspended slots (including the bilateral rights and traffic rights) back to Jet Airways/ Corporate Debtor. The slots (along with related bilateral rights and traffic rights) can be allotted to the Corporate Debtor gradually as per its Business 3 “NCLT” 4 “Plan Approval ” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1049 State Bank of India and Ors v. The Consortium of Mr Murari Lal Jalan and Mr Florian Fritsch and Anr Plan with immediate slots allotment approval (along with related bilateral rights and traffic rights) for sectors on which Jet 2.0 proposes to recommence operations after the Effective Date. (d) International Traffic Rights Clearance The Corporate Debtor shall have received the International Traffic Rights Clearance in compliance with Applicable Laws. (e) Demerger - The Scheme filed as part of this Resolution Plan shall have been approved under Applicable Laws and the Demerged Employees shall have demerged from the Corporate Debtor to AGSL along with all their past dues, liabilities and outstanding’s with effect from the Approval Date, without the requirement of any further consent or approval of any other stakeholder of AGSL (since we understand that AGSL currently does not have any creditor) or any stakeholder of the Corporate Debtor (including existing or past employee or workmen or employees’ unions of the Corporate Debtor).” 3. Clause 7.6.4 contains a stipulation for “automatic withdrawal”: “Automatic Withdrawal - The Resolution Applicant is confident of completing all the Conditions Precedent (as set out in Clause 7.6.1 above) within 90 (ninety) days from the Approval Date. In the unlikely event that all the Conditions Precedent cannot be fulfilled within 90 (ninety) days, the Resolution Applicant takes the responsibility of completing the outstanding Conditions Precedent at the earliest and seeks to extend the Conditions Precedent fulfilment period by another term of maximum 180 (one hundred and eighty) days. If all the Conditions Precedent are not fulfilled within such period (i.e. 270 (two hundred and seventy) days from the Approval Date), then this Resolution Plan shall automatically stand withdrawn without any further acts, deeds, or things. On such withdrawal, the members of the Resolution Applicant in the Monitoring Committee shall resign, and the remaining members of the Monitoring Committee shall assume absolute control of the Corporate Debtor.” 1050 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4. In terms of Clause 7.6.1 of the Resolution Plan, the SRA is obligated to re-commence operations as an aviation company subject to the fulfilment of five conditions precedent, namely- (i) Validation of Airline Operator Permit of the Corporate Debtor by the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA); (ii) Submission and Approval of Business Plan by DGCA and MoCA, (iii) Slot Allotment Approval, (iv) International Traffic Rights’ Clearance; and (v) Approval of Demerger of ground handling business into a company, namely AGSL.