yd rates were released by NOIDA towards the latter half of 1989, and considering how the acquisition process began on 05.01.1991, it would be appropriate to apply a 15% escalation for one year to this price-bringing total guesstimate to Rs. 403 per sq. yd – Therefore, in the light of the evidence produced by both, the State and the landowners, and on employing the principle of guesstimation, it stands conclusively surmised that the landowners herein are entitled to an enhancement in the compensation awarded – Accordingly, this Court partly allow these present appeals and revise the rate of compensation to INR 403 per sq. yd. for the entire acquired land except such part of it which was subject matter of the decision in Bir Singh. [Paras 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 41, 42, 44] Land Acquisition Act, 1894 – Maintainability of the Miscellaneous applications – Miscellaneous Applications seek parity with the rate of compensation awarded in Bir Singh: Held: It would indeed be unfair to single out a few individual landowners and deny them the benefit of just compensation, owing to factors and processes outside their control – Comparing the impact of not allowing these miscellaneous applications solely [2024] 7 S.C.R. 445 New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Harnand Singh (Deceased) through LRs & Ors. on grounds of maintainability vis-à-vis allowing them marginally higher compensation in the larger interest of justice, this Court is persuaded to accede to the landowners’ prayers – Disallowing these applications would in a way be against the spirit of Article 14 of Constitution and will defy the right to treat those placed equally in an equal manner – Consequently, compensation is enhanced using powers u/Art. 142 of the Constitution – Moreover, it is clarified that since the analysis is agnostic to the decision in Bir Singh, this Court is, therefore, not applying a subsequent change of law, but instead only correcting a judicial error and restoring uniformity in a case involving peculiar circumstances – Consequently, the landowners in these miscellaneous applications are also held entitled to the new revised rate of INR 403 per sq. yd. for their acquired land. [Paras 47, 48, 49] Land Acquisition Act, 1894 – Can the landowners rely upon Section 28A of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 to seek parity with Bir Singh: Held: In the instant case, this Court is not delving deep into the landowners’ prayer for parity based on Section 28A of the 1894 Act in consonance with the Bir Singh judgement – There are three reasons to do so: (a) Bir Singh would not bind this Court given its precarious and sui generis facts; (b) the landowners have not demonstrated compliance with the procedural technicalities of this provision, such as writing to the Collector within the prescribed limitation period; and (c) the issue is rendered academic in light of the analysis where this Court has independently revised the rate of compensation to INR 403 per sq. yd for one and all. [Para 52] Doctrine/Principle – Principle of Guesstimation: Held: Guesstimation is a heuristic device that enables the court, in the absence of direct evidence and relevant sale exemplars, to make a reasonable and informed guess or estimation of the market value of the land under acquisition, and concomitantly the compensation payable by the appropriate Government – In that sense, guesstimation hinges on the Court’s ability to exercise informed judgement and expertise in assessing the market value of land, especially when the evidence does not tender a straightforward answer – This principle accentuates the fundamental understanding that determining compensation for land is not a matter of exact science but involves a significant element of estimation.