33. He further submitted that the High Court in its Impugned failed to look into Section 67B of the IT Act. The High Court whilst quashing the criminal proceedings neither discussed nor gave any due consideration to Section 67B, eventhough chargesheet had been filed for an offence under it. 34. It was submitted that both Section 15 of the POCSO and Section 67B of the IT Act had been enacted with the salutary object of curtailing child abuse by penalizing any form of use of child pornography, including watching of such pornographic content in to tackle the larger problem of creation and dissemination of such material by the perpetrators. 35. He submitted that more than hundred pornographic videos were found stored in the mobile phone of the respondent no. 1 / accused herein. Furthermore, the accused had himself admitted before the High Court that he along with his friends would regularly watch such pornographic material. In such circumstances it was argued that the accused had stored such material in his phone with the intention of sharing it with his friends. 36. It was further submitted that the marginal note of Section 15 of the POCSO i.e. “Punishment for storage of pornographic material involving child” is self-explanatory and that sub-section (1) of the 188 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports said provision punishes the storage or possession of any such pornographic material when done with an intention to share or transmit it. Reliance was placed on Section 30 of the POCSO to argue that the said provision specifically provides for presumption of a culpable mental state on part of the accused for any offence under the Act which requires such mental state, and as such the onus was on the accused to prove that he had no intention to share the material that was found stored in his phone, which was also overlooked by the High Court. 37. In the last, it was submitted that once the chargesheet and the other materials on record prima-facie disclosed the commission of an offence, more particularly the pornographic videos that were found stored in the mobile phone of the accused, it was not proper for the High Court to exercise its inherent powers under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C to quash the criminal proceedings. D. ISSUES FOR DETERMINATION 38. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the following questions of law fall for our consideration: - I. What is the scope of Section 15 of the POCSO? In other words, what is the underlying distinction between sub-section(s) (1), (2) and (3) respectively of the POCSO? II. Whether, mere viewing, possessing or storing of any child pornographic material is punishable under the POCSO? III. What is the true scope of Section 67B of the IT Act? IV. What is the scope of Section 30 of the POCSO? In, other words, what are the foundational facts necessary for invoking the statutory presumption of culpable mental state in respect of Section 15 of the POCSO?