If after inquiry, the Caste Scrutiny Committee finds the claim to be false or spurious, they should pass an cancelling the certificate issued and confiscate the same. It should communicate within one month from the date of the conclusion of the proceedings the result of enquiry to the parent/guardian and the applicant. 10. In case of any delay in finalizing the proceedings, and in the meanwhile the last date for admission into an [2024] 4 S.C.R. 133 Navneet Kaur Harbhajansing Kundles @ Navneet Kaur Ravi Rana v. State of Maharashtra and Other educational institution or appointment to an officer post, is getting expired, the candidate be admitted by the Principal or such other authority competent in that behalf or appointed on the basis of the social status certificate already issued or an affidavit duly sworn by the parent/guardian/candidate before the competent officer or non-official and such admission or appointment should be only provisional, subject to the result of the inquiry by the Scrutiny Committee. 11. The passed by the Committee shall be final and conclusive only subject to the proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution. 12. No suit or other proceedings before any other authority should lie. 13. The High Court would dispose of these cases as expeditiously as possible within a period of three months. In case, as per its procedure, the writ petition/miscellaneous petition/matter is disposed of by a Single Judge, then no further appeal would lie against that to the Division Bench but subject to special leave under Article 136. 14. In case, the certificate obtained or social status claimed is found to be false, the parent/guardian/ the candidate should be prosecuted for making false claim. If the prosecution ends in a conviction and sentence of the accused, it could be regarded as an offence involving moral turpitude, disqualification for elective posts or offices under the State or the Union or elections to any local body, legislature or Parliament. 15. As soon as the finding is recorded by the Scrutiny Committee holding that the certificate obtained was false, on its cancellation and confiscation simultaneously, it should be communicated to the educational institution concerned or the appointing authority by registered post with acknowledgement due with a request to cancel the admission or the 134 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports appointment. The Principal etc. of the educational institution responsible for making the admission or the appointing authority, should cancel the admission/appointment without any further notice to the candidate and debar the candidate from further study or continue in office in a post. In furtherance of the said guidelines, streamlined procedure was formulated and State Acts were enacted to deal with caste claim cases. 10. As the present case arises from Maharashtra, it is necessary to deal with the respective State Act, i.e., the 2000 Act enacted with effect from 18.10.2001 containing elaborative procedure and mechanism for regulation and verification of caste claims. Since the moot point in this case is arising from the verification and issuance of caste validity certificate in favour of Appellant, it becomes imperative to look into the relevant provisions of the Act, in particular Section 6, Section 7 and Section 9, which are reproduced below for ready reference – Section 6 – Verification of Caste Certificate by Scrutiny Committee.