The purpose of the scheme relating to counterclaim is to avoid multiplicity of proceedings.112 121. In Afcons Gunanusa JV (supra), after considering a plethora of precedents and authoritative texts, this Court summarized the legal principles relating to counterclaims, in the context of arbitral proceedings, as under: “168. On our analysis of the statutory framework of the Arbitration Act and the CPC, related academic discourse and judicial pronouncements, the following conclusions emerge: (i) Claims and counter-claims are independent and distinct proceedings; (ii) A counter-claim is not a defense to a claim and its outcome is not contingent on the outcome of the claim; (iii) Counter-claims are independent claims which could have been raised in separate proceedings but are permitted to be raised in the same proceeding as a claim to avoid a multiplicity of proceedings; and (iv) the dismissal of proceedings in relation to the original claim does not affect the proceedings in relation to the counter-claim.” 112 Rajni Rani v. Khairati Lal, (2015) 2 SCC 682, paragraph 9.6. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 593 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. 122. Section 23 (2A)113 of the 1996 Act gives respondent to a claim a right to submit a counterclaim or plead a set off, which shall be adjudicated upon by the arbitral tribunal, if such counterclaim or set off falls within the scope of the arbitration agreement. Section 43 (1)114of the 1996 Act provides that the 1963 Act shall apply to arbitrations as it applies to proceedings in court. Section 3(2)(b)115 of the 1963 Act provides that any claim by way of set off or a counterclaim, shall be treated as a separate suit and shall be deemed to have been instituted – (i) in the case of a set off, on the same date as the suit in which the set off is pleaded; (ii) in the case of a counterclaim, on the date on which the counterclaim is made in court. It is thus clear that a counterclaim is to be treated as a separate suit for the purposes of limitation and, to ascertain whether it is within limitation, the date of reckoning is the date when the counterclaim is filed and not when the claim/ suit is filed. At this stage, it be noted that Section 21 of the 1996 Act is not relevant for determining the date of institution of a counterclaim as it is for a claim. There is however one exception. Where the respondent against whom a claim is made, had also made a claim against the claimant and sought arbitration by serving a notice to the claimant but subsequently raises that claim as a counterclaim in the arbitration proceedings initiated by the claimant, instead of filing a separate application under Section 11 of the 1996 Act, the limitation for such counterclaim should be computed, as on the date of service of notice of such claim on the claimant and not on the date of filing of the counterclaim.116 123.