Also, all forms of dealings in liquor have, due to their inherent nature, been treated as a class by themselves by all civilized communities. Therefore, the contention that the persons who carry on trade or business in liquor have an unrestricted fundamental right as such was rejected. Thus, it was observed that while a citizen has a right to do business in liquor, the State can make law imposing reasonable restrictions on the said right in public interest. Summarising the aforesaid s in Har Shankar, it was observed that there is no fundamental right to carry out trade or business in intoxicants. The State, under its regulatory powers, has the right to prohibit absolutely every form of activity in relation to intoxicants, its manufacture, storage, export, import, sale and possession. In all their manifestations, these rights are vested in the State and indeed without such vesting there can be no effective regulation of various forms of activities in relation to intoxicants. Therefore, the States’ right to regulate activities in relation to intoxicants to the extent of prohibiting would imply that even when permission to deal with intoxicants is granted, the same can be regulated. This is because the rights in regard to intoxicants belong to the State and 2072 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports it is open to the Government to part with those rights for a consideration. The power of the Government to charge a price for parting with its rights and not the mode of fixing that price is what constitutes the essence of the matter. It was also held that neither does the label affixed to the price determine the true nature of the charge levied by the Government nor its right to levy the same. By use of the expression “licence fee” or “fixed fee”, what is meant is the price or consideration which the Government charges to the licencees for parting with its privileges and granting them the licences. That the object of imposing licence fee is for the purpose of regulation so that the number of persons who wish to engage in liquor trade are kept under check and within reasonable limits. It was also observed that the Government can, on its own, trade in its own rights or privileges and can deal with liquor or grant leases of its rights and issue requisite permits or licences or passes on payment of such fees as may be prescribed. Ultimately, it was observed that the amount payable by the licencees on the basis of the bids offered by them in auctions is neither a fee in the technical sense, nor a tax, but is in the nature of the price of a privilege. It was also held that the State has the power to grant liquor licences on payment of such fees as the consideration for parting with the privileges that the State has. That the payment demanded is in the form of excise revenue, which could be in the form of any payment, duty, fee, tax or fine ed under the provisions of a particular enactment or Rules made thereunder relating to liquor or intoxicating drugs but would not include a fine imposed by a Court of law.