Reason being that acknowledgment is just a piece of evidence, like an admission. An admission can always be explained. Therefore, even if it is used for extending the limitation, it cannot be regarded as conclusive proof of either the claim or the counterclaim regarding which there is an acknowledgement. Because the Court or the Tribunal would have to decide the claim or the counterclaim, if within limitation, upon consideration of the entire evidence led before it. No doubt, in that process, the acknowledgement would also have to be considered as a piece of evidence. Thus, in our view, the tribunal was well within its jurisdiction in drawing a conclusion, based on consideration of the entire evidence, at variance with the recitals in the acknowledgement. 146. Otherwise also, as is clear from the award, the claimant had challenged the recital in the minutes i.e., regarding its liability for liquidated damages and customs duties, by claiming that it was economically coerced into making such admission. Circumstances, proven on record, indicated that (a) soon after the meeting dated 19 April 2018, the claimant had sent a denial of its liability; and (b) later, on 26 May 2018, the appellant(s) herein had made an offer of Rs.3 crores to Enexio towards full and final settlement of all its claim. In these circumstances, based on the evidence led by the parties, the tribunal was well within its remit to conclude that the claimant was not liable in respect of those items which formed part of the counterclaim. Such conclusion, which is based on proven circumstances, is a plausible view and cannot be termed perverse. Hence, it is not amenable to interference in a challenge under Section 34 of the 1996 Act. In our view, therefore, the learned Single Judge of the High Court erred in law while interfering with the arbitral award. 147. Before closing discussion on the issue, it would be necessary to address an alternative submission raised on behalf of the appellants. It was argued that the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court, admittedly, were exercising jurisdiction under 606 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Sections 34 and 37, respectively, of the 1996 Act. As, while exercising jurisdiction under Section 34, the Court does not sit in appeal over the award, it cannot substitute the reasoning in the award with its own. Likewise, the appellate court exercising power under Section 37 cannot have greater power than what a Court possesses under Section 34. Consequently, it was argued, the appellate court (i.e., the Division Bench of the High Court) exceeded its jurisdiction while providing its own reasons to support the conclusion in the award. It was also urged that in absence of proper reasons in the award, the only course available was to set aside the award with liberty to the parties to undertake fresh arbitration. 148. We have given due consideration to the above submission. In our view, a distinction would have to be drawn between an arbitral award where reasons are either lacking/unintelligible or perverse and an arbitral award where reasons are there but appear inadequate or insufficient.132 In a case where reasons appear insufficient or inadequate, if, on a careful reading of the entire award, coupled with documents recited/ relied therein, the underlying reason, factual or legal, that forms the basis of the award, is discernible/ intelligible, and the same exhibits no perversity, the Court need not set aside the award while exercising powers under Section 34 or Section 37 of the 1996 Act, rather it may explain the existence of that underlying reason while dealing with a challenge laid to the award.