The rules hereinafter mentioned contain canons of conduct and etiquette adopted as general guides; yet the specific mention thereof shall not be construed as a denial of the existence of others equally imperative though not specifically mentioned.” 24. The Preamble makes it imperative that an advocate has to conduct himself and his duties in an extremely responsible manner. They must bear in mind that what may be appropriate and lawful for a person who is not a member of the Bar, or for a member of the Bar in his non- professional capacity, may be improper for an advocate in his professional capacity. 25. Section II of the said Chapter II provides for duties of an advocate towards his client. Rules 15 and 19 of the BCI Rules, have relevance to the subject-matter and therefore, they are extracted below: “15. It shall be the duty of an advocate fearlessly to uphold the interests of his client by all fair and honourable means without regard to any unpleasant consequences to himself or any [2024] 6 S.C.R. 521 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr. other. He shall defend a person accused of a crime regardless of his personal opinion as to the guilt of the accused, bearing in mind that his loyalty is to the law which requires that no man should be convicted without adequate evidence. ***** 19. An advocate shall not act on the instructions of any person other than his client or his authorised agent.” 26. While Rule 15 mandates that the advocate must uphold the interest of his clients by fair and honourable means without regard to any unpleasant consequences to himself or any other. Rule 19 prescribes that an advocate shall only act on the instructions of his client or his authorised agent” 41. When we examine the relationship between an Advocate and his Client from this point of view, the following unique attributes become clear: 1) Advocates are generally perceived to be their client’s agents and owe fiduciary duties to their clients. 2) Advocates are fastened with all the traditional duties that agents owe to their principals. For example, Advocates have to respect the client’s autonomy to make decisions at a minimum, as to the objectives of the representation. 3) Advocates are not entitled to make concessions or give any undertaking to the Court without express instructions from the Client. 4) It is the solemn duty of an Advocate not to transgress the authority conferred on him by his Client. 5) An Advocate is bound to seek appropriate instructions from the Client or his authorized agent before taking any action or making any statement or concession which may, directly or remotely, affect the legal rights of the Client. 522 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6) The Advocate represents the client before the Court and conducts proceedings on behalf of the client. He is the only link between the court and the client.