The respondent-landlords have completely failed in this aspect. Such non-disclosure is a relevant consideration in the context of determining both the reasonability as well as bona fides. 1122 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 55] The tenants have managed to bring on record the material in the context of occupation and control of several premises by the respondent-landlords. Looking to the conduct of the respondent- landlords, there is no certainty as to whether the premises in respect of which the tenants have obtained and produced documents, are only premises which are in the occupation or control of the respondent-landlords or whether there are some others as well. However, even on basis of the existing material on record, there was no question of making any decree under Section 16(1) (g) of the Rent Act.” We affirm the view taken by the High Court that there was no satisfaction in the manner contemplated in Section 16 (2) of the 1999 Act as far as bona fide need in terms of Section 16(1)(g) was concerned. In the impugned , the High Court has dealt with in detail the list of properties which were with the landlords and on that basis gave its own finding in that regard. We do not find any perversity in such view taken by the High Court. 12. Sub-section (6) of Section 16 also mandates satisfaction of the conditions stipulated in sub-clauses (a) to (d) thereof. Sub-clause (d) in particular, contemplates the landlord to give undertaking in terms of paragraphs (i), (ii), (iv) and (v) of that sub-clause, while dealing with landlord’s eviction claim based on Section 16(1)(i) of the said statute. These are all mandatory requirements and we cannot find any flaw with the of the High Court to the extent it rejects the claim of the landlord for non-compliance of the aforesaid provisions. 13. Section 16(1)(k) of the said Act permits recovery of possession of tenanted premises on the ground that the premises are required for immediate purpose of demolition ed by any municipal or other competent authority. In the present case, the respective suits were instituted seeking recovery of possession, inter-alia, under this provision. We have already referred to the demolition notice issued by the municipal authority. The High Court opined that it was necessary to satisfy itself that the suit premises were required for immediate purpose of demolition. Contention of the appellants is that the Statute does not require the Court to come to a satisfaction on this point. In the event a tenant questions immediacy of demolition, [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1123 Baitulla Ismail Shaikh and Anr. v. Khatija Ismail Panhalkar and Ors. then the proper course for him would be to question legality of the said notice. Section 195 of the Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Nagar Panchayats and Industrial Townships Act, 1965 (“1965 Act”) to which the High Court has also referred to, stipulates:- “195. (1) If it shall at any time appear to the Chief Officer that any building or other structure or anything affixed to such building or structure is in a ruinous condition or likely to fall, or in any way dangerous to any person occupying, resorting to or passing by such building or structure or any other structure or place in the neighbourhood thereof, the Chief Officer may, by written notice, require the owner or occupier of such building or structure to pull down, secure, remove or repair such building, structure or thing or do one or more such things and to prevent all causes of danger therefrom.