In such a society we clearly see that the real welfare of the masses, of the toiling millions can neither be secured nor protected, unless the society is made clear of the exploiter class, and that can only be possible when we establish a socialist democratic , and transfer to public ownership the “important means of production, communication, credit and exchange, mineral resources and the resources of natural power and such other large economic enterprise as are matured for socialisation;” bring about the “municipalisation of public utilities”; and “the encouragement of the organisation of agriculture, credit and industries on co-operative basis”. 153. The response of Dr BR Ambedkar to this proposal is particularly instructive. He opposed the amendment and stated that there was a misunderstanding among members who proposed such amendments. He was of the view that along with a ‘parliamentary democracy’, the Constitution sought to establish as an ideal, the concept of an ‘economic democracy’. However, he noted there are various ways in which this ideal of ‘economic democracy’ can be achieved – ranging from individualism to socialism to communism. Dr Ambedkar observed as follows: “…. As I stated, our Constitution as a piece of mechanism lays down what is called parliamentary democracy. By parliamentary democracy we mean ‘one man, one vote’. We also mean that every Government shall be on the anvil, both in its daily affairs and also at the end of a certain period when the voters and the electorate will be given an opportunity to assess the work done by the Government. The reason why we have established in this Constitution a political democracy is because we do not want to install [2024] 11 S.C.R. 139 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. by any means whatsoever a perpetual dictatorship of any particular body of people. While we have established political democracy, it is also the desire that we should lay down as our ideal economic democracy. We do not want merely to lay down a mechanism to enable people to come and capture power. The Constitution also wishes to lay down an ideal before those who would be forming the Government. That idea is economic democracy, whereby, so far as I am concerned, I understand to mean, ‘one man, one vote’. The question is : Have we got any fixed idea as to how we should bring about economic democracy ? There are various ways in which people believe that economic democracy can be brought about; there are those who believe in individualism as the best form of economic democracy; there are those who believe in having a socialistic state as the best form of economic democracy; there are those who believe in the communistic idea as the most perfect form of economic democracy.” 154. According to Dr Ambedkar, the idea was to leave enough room for different schools of economic thought and for the electorate to decide which ideals are the best way to achieve ‘economic democracy’. With this intent in mind, the language used in the Directive Principles was ‘not fixed or rigid’.