7 Section 5(1) of IBC– “Adjudicating Authority”, for the purposes of this Part, means National Company Law Tribunal constituted under Section 408 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013). 8 For short- ‘Telenor India’. 148 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS of the bank guarantees. Bharti Airtel Limited was asked to pay Rs.112.87 crores to Aircel entities, which were undergoing Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process, failing which the Resolution Professional would be obligated to take steps for recovery. The Airtel entities objected on several grounds, and also claimed set-off of the amount due to them by the Aircel entities from the amount payable by them to the Aircel entities. Their reply and claim for set-off was rejected by the Resolution Professional. 2.11 The Airtel entities thereupon approached the Adjudicating Authority in Mumbai, who, vide dated 1st May 2019 held that the Airtel entities had a right to set off Rs.112.87 crores from the payment, which was retained, and due and payable to Aircel entities. 2.12 This was challenged by the Resolution Professional before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal9. The NCLAT vide dated 17th May 2019 allowed the appeal, inter alia, holding that set-off is violative of the basic principles and protection accorded under any insolvency law. Set-off is antithetical to the objective of the IBC. Reference was made to the non-obstante provisions in the form of Section 238 of the IBC. As moratorium under Section 14(4) applies till the date of completion of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process, which is till the resolution plan is approved or the liquidation is passed, to permit set-off will be contrary to law. Further, the set-off being claimed is in respect of two separate and unrelated transactions. Meaning of set-off and types and principles of set-off. 3. Set-off in generic sense recognises the right of a debtor to adjust the smaller claim owed to him against the larger claim payable to his creditor.10 Philip R. Wood11 calls it a form of payment. Palmer12 notes a distinction between ‘set-off’ as in accounting, and ‘set-off’ as a defence. The former focuses on the practical effect of set-off which 9 For short- ‘NCLAT’. 10 Philip R. Wood, Set-off and Netting, Derivatives, Clearing Systems, (Sweet & Maxwell 2007). 11 Ibid. 12 Kelly R. Palmer, The Law of Set Off in Canada (Canada Law Book 1993). [2024] 1 S.C.R. 149 BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED AND ANOTHER v. VIJAYKUMAR V. IYER AND OTHERS results in discharge of reciprocal obligations, while the latter focuses on set-off pleaded as a defence to a claim, albeit not as a ‘sword’. 4. Set-off is given legal preference for three reasons. First, in economic terms, set-off is a form of security recognised in law. It is, however, not a security in a strict sense, but a right that enhances provision of credit and acts as a stimulus to trade and commerce by giving a degree of confidence to parties dealing with each other. Secondly, it helps reduce litigation, promotes economy of time and is an efficient method in resolving debt between parties.