2235 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company affected by the proposed action gets a fair hearing.”158 The non- observance of natural justice is itself a prejudice to any person who has been denied justice depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case.159 The principle of procedural fairness is rooted in the principles of the rule of law and good governance.160 In Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited v. Union of India,161 this Court held that the requirement of procedural fairness “holds an inherent value in itself.” It was further observed: “42. Inherent value in fair procedure: Fair procedure is not only a means to the end of achieving a fair outcome but is an end it itself. Fair procedure induces equality in the proceedings. The proceedings ‘seem’ to be and are seen to be fair.” 81. We recognize that arbitration is a private dispute settlement mechanism. Yet, it is statutorily subject to the principles of equality and fairness contained under the Arbitration Act. Section 18 of the Arbitration Act mandates the equal treatment of parties and fairness in arbitral proceedings as a mandatory principle governing the conduct of arbitration. Thus, the resolution of disputes arising in a private contractual relationship is subject to certain inherent principles which a quasi-judicial body like an arbitral tribunal is required to adhere to. Resolution of private disputes following the minimum statutory standards of equality and fairness is essential not only in the interest of justice, but also to uphold the integrity of arbitration in India. ii. Doctrine of bias 82. In A K Kraipak v. Union of India,162 the Central Government constituted a Special Selection Board for selecting officers to the Indian Forest Service in the senior scale and junior scale from the serving officers of the Forest department of the State of Jammu and Kashmir. One of the members of the selection board was the officiating Chief Conservator of Forests of Jammu and Kashmir. However, the 158 Bank of Patiala v. S K Sharma (1996) 3 SCC 364 [29] 159 S L Kapoor v. Jagmohan (1980) 4 SCC 379 [24] 160 Dharampal Satyapal Ltd. v. CCE (2015) 8 SCC 519 [26] 161 2023 SCC OnLine SC 366 [53] 162 (1969) 2 SCC 262 2236 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Chief Conservator was also one of the candidates in contention for the posts in the Indian Forest Service. Although the Chief Conservator was not present when his name was considered for selection by the board, he was present and participated in the deliberations when the names of other candidates were being considered. 83. The Constitution Bench held that the real question was not whether the Chief Conservator was biased, but whether there was a reasonable ground for believing that he was likely to have been biased. It was observed that a reasonable likelihood of bias has to be determined by taking into consideration human probabilities and the ordinary course of human conduct.163 It was observed that the Chief Conservator had an interest in keeping his rivals out and securing the position for himself.