11. Per contra Mr. V.K. Shukla, Learned Senior Counsel for the Plaintiffs contended that the Appellant is not entitled to impleadment as he is not a bona fide purchaser. He argued that despite having knowledge of the pendency, no permission was sought from the Court to execute the RSD and hence, the Appellant is not entitled to any relief. To buttress his contention, reliance is placed on Bibi Zubaida (supra) wherein this Court held that transferees pendente lite cannot, as a matter of right, seek impleadment. In that case, this Court upheld the decision of the trial court rejecting impleadment on grounds that the transferee was not bona fide and was only attempting to complicate and delay the pending suit. 12. Mr. Shukla also contends that the of this Court in Thomson Press (supra) is entirely distinguishable on facts from the present matter and is hence inapplicable. To that extent, he highlights that contrary to the factual position in Thomson Press (supra), in this [2024] 7 S.C.R. 673 Yogesh Goyanka v. Govind & Ors. case, the title of the Appellant itself is in question and additionally, the Appellant is not in possession of the Subject Land. 13. Going a little further, Mr. Huzefa Ahmadi, Learned Senior Counsel for Respondent No. 21 contends that the Appellant cannot seek impleadment as he is not even a purchaser of the Subject Land. Mr. Ahmadi submits that out of the 6 cheques issued under the RSD, 2 cheques bounced on 01.10.2018 rendering the consideration unpaid. He highlights that the RSD contains an express clause to the effect that if the payment made under the 6 cheques are not completed, the purchasers will not receive any legal rights over the Subject Land through the RSD. On the question of unpaid consideration, Mr. Sundaram asserts that the entire consideration was paid by the Appellant via RTGS. 14. He further highlights that this contention was neither raised before the ADJ nor the High Court and is merely an afterthought, pointing further to the Appellant’s suspicion of collusion between the parties. It is also brought to the notice of this Court that Respondent No. 21 previously filed a suit for declaration to the effect that the RSD is null and void but the same was dismissed in default on 28.02.2020. 15. We have heard the Learned Counsel for the parties and have carefully perused the record. 16. The fulcrum of the dispute herein concerns the impleadment of a transferee pendente lite who undisputedly had notice of the pending litigation. At the outset, it appears pertinent to reiterate the settled position that the doctrine of lis pendens as provided under Section 52 of the Act does not render all transfers pendente lite to be void ab-initio, it merely renders rights arising from such transfers as subservient to the rights of the parties to the pending litigation and subject to any direction that the Court may pass thereunder. 17. Therefore, the mere fact that the RSD was executed during the pendency of the Underlying Suit does not automatically render it null and void.