1 who also stands convicted and sentenced for the same offences like the present appellant. This is also mentioned by the High Court while deciding the appeal that they have before them only the criminal appeal of accused No. 2 i.e. the present appellant- Sasikumar, and the court is not aware of any Criminal Appeal being filed by accused no.1 – Yugadhithan. Before us, thus, is only accused no. 2. Accused no.1, who is the main accused inasmuch as it was accused no.1 against whom the prosecution additionally has a case of motive to commit this murder. 8. The prosecution case is that when Harini (PW2)-the elder sister of the deceased was a student in Mahendra Engineering College, accused no. 1 (Yugadhithan) was also studying in the same college and was totally infatuated by her. His feelings were never reciprocated 92 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by the elder sister of the deceased. It is because of this reason that he was enraged and had even started stalking the elder sister of the deceased. He had even reached her present place of work L&T Company at Chennai, causing much anxiety to her. PW2 had also complained against accused no. 1 to the principal of Mahendra Engineering College earlier stating that he had been harassing her. The prosecution case further, is that accused no. 1 had threatened the elder sister of the deceased warning her that if she does reciprocate his feelings, he would kill her entire family. 9. But the one who is before us today and whose conviction stands confirmed by the High Court is not accused No.1 but accused no.2. The entire question before us here is of identification of accused no. 2. From all available evidences which the prosecution has placed before the Trial Court, inter alia, in the form of PW-1 and PW-5 have stated that accused No.2 i.e., the present appellant was seen by them wearing a “green colored monkey cap”. When this accused had entered the premises, when he knocked the door of the house of the deceased, when he was coming down from the stairs along with accused no.1 and at all other relevant times the witnesses who have seen and identified the accused no.2 i.e., the present appellant, had seen the appellant for the first time on 13.11.2014 while he was wearing a green colored monkey cap. None of them had seen him earlier. PW-5 who is the closest witness in this case states as under :- “…I know Duraiaj. It could be 6.30 hours in the evening on 13.11.2014. At that time I was taking good water in balcony at that time a person went wearing monkey cap. Another person went wearing a helmet. The time could be 6.35, 640 hrs in the evening. They both knocked the door of Tejashree house and went inside the house. They both were found talking inside in a sofa. They are the present accused. They were asking phone number with Tejashree for that Tejashree has told them that father has gone out and he has to come.