Nevertheless, in either case that may be, the aforesaid proposition of law found favour with the High Court. ii. Section 67B of the IT Act only makes the act of transmission, publication or creation of material depicting children in sexually explicit manner an offence. Mere watching or downloading of child pornography in private domain is not punishable under the same. iii. In the absence of any material to indicate any transmission or publication of pornographic content involving child, no offence could be said to have been committed under the POCSO or the IT Act, and the criminal proceedings would be liable to be quashed. In other words, to attract the provisions of the POCSO or the IT Act it is not sufficient to merely establish storage or possession of child pornography and that transmission or publication of the same is also required to be established. In the absence of the same the criminal proceedings are liable to be quashed. 13. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellants being aggrieved with the Impugned passed by the High Court have come up before this Court with the present appeal. C. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES i. Submissions on behalf of the Appellants. 14. Mr. H.S. Phoolka, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants submitted that the interpretation of the relevant provisions of POCSO by the High Court for the purpose of holding that mere storage or possession of any child pornographic material does not amount to an offence, poses a significant threat to the well-being of children and may result in proliferation of child pornography, posing a significant threat to the very social fabric of the society at large. 184 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports In support of his submissions, Mr. Phoolka relied on the Convention on Cybercrime and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, 1989. 15. He further submitted that the chargesheet filed by the investigating agency specifically records that, as per the information received from the National Commission for Missing and Exploited Children, USA (NC-MEC), the accused had been watching child pornographic videos for the past two years. 16. He further contended that the High Court erroneously proceeded under Section 14(1) of the POCSO, which deals with the use of children for pornographic purposes, without giving due consideration to Section 15(1) of the Act. 17. He further submitted that Section 15(1) explicitly penalizes the downloading and failure to delete child pornography. In the present case, the respondent’s stance that he had received two files containing child pornography via WhatsApp is falsified by the NC-MEC report. Furthermore, there is nothing on record to substantiate that the videos were received on WhatsApp. 18. It was further argued that the High Court committed a serious error in quashing the criminal proceedings without addressing itself on Section 15 of the POCSO. He submitted that the impugned poses a significant threat to child welfare and is contrary to several national and international commitments. 19. He further submitted that the High Court also failed to distinguish between adult pornography and child pornography, as Sections 67 and 67A of the IT Act deal with adult pornography, while Section 67B was specifically introduced in 2009 to provide more stringent punishment for collecting, downloading, or watching child pornographic material.