However, power under Section 156(3) can be exercised by the Magistrate even before he takes cognizance provided the complaint discloses the commission of cognizable offence. Since in the instant case the complaint does not do so, the of the Magistrate stated above cannot be sustained in law and is accordingly quashed.” 18. The aforesaid decision was in context with the power of the Magistrate to police investigation under Section 156(3) of the CrPC. What is sought to be conveyed in the said decision is that when the Magistrate s police investigation under Section 156(3) of the CrPC he does not take cognizance upon the complaint. It is only upon receipt of the police report that the Magistrate may take cognizance. If at the stage of pre-cognizance, the Magistrate is expected to be careful or to put it in other words, the Magistrate is obliged to look into the complaint threadbare so as to reach to a prima facie conclusion [2024] 8 S.C.R. 689 Delhi Race Club (1940) Ltd. & Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. whether the offence is disclosed or not, then he is expected to be more careful when he is actually taking cognizance upon a private complaint and ing issue of process. 19. The aforesaid aspect could be said to have been completely lost sight of by the High Court, while rejecting the application filed by the appellant herein under Section 482 of the CrPC, seeking quashing of the summoning . 20. In Mehmood Ul Rehman v. Khazir Mohammad Tunda reported in (2015) 12 SCC 420, this Court held thus: — “22… The satisfaction on the ground for proceeding would mean that the facts alleged in the complaint would constitute an offence, and when considered along with the statements recorded, would, prima facie, make the accused answerable before the court…In other words, the Magistrate is not to act as a post office in taking cognizance of each and every complaint filed before him and issue process as a matter of course. There must be sufficient indication in the passed by the Magistrate that he is satisfied that the allegations in the complaint constitute an offence and when considered along with the statements recorded and the result of inquiry or report of investigation under Section 202 of CrPC, if any, the accused is answerable before the criminal court, there is ground for proceeding against the accused under Section 204 of CrPC, by issuing process for appearance. Application of mind is best demonstrated by disclosure of mind on the satisfaction…To be called to appear before criminal court as an accused is serious matter affecting one’s dignity, self respect and image in society. Hence, the process of criminal court shall not be made a weapon of harassment.” (Emphasis supplied) 21. The Principle of law discernible from the aforesaid decision is that issuance of summons is a serious matter and, therefore, should not be done mechanically and it should be done only upon satisfaction on the ground for proceeding further in the matter against a person concerned based on the materials collected during the inquiry.