It was the appellant who refused to co-habit with the Respondent and she herself did not desert him. Thus, the Appellant has approached this Court against the of High Court which denied him divorce. 12. Afterwards, allegedly the Respondent visited residence of Appellant and made unsavoury enquiries in neighbourhood. She further filed a Missing Persons Complaint alleging that Appellant is missing. On 07.10.2019, the Respondent entered into the workplace of Appellant in OPD area of department of Ophthalmology in Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow along with police personnel, causing disturbance in the department. The Appellant 938 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports even got a warning letter from the head of the department to resolve personal grievances outside the premises. The police frequently visited the department and made enquiries about appellant in connection with the Missing complaint filed by Respondent. 13. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material on record. We are of the opinion that this is a fit case to exercise powers conferred on this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Shilpa Shailesh v. Varun Sreenivasan3 has held that this Court has the discretion to dissolve the marriage on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage in to do ‘complete justice’ to the parties, even if one spouse opposes such prayer. Relevant portion of Paragraph 50 of the is reproduced hereunder: “……… …………. ……….. (iii) Whether this Court can grant divorce in exercise of power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India when there is complete and irretrievable breakdown of marriage in spite of the other spouses opposing the prayer? This question is also answered in the affirmative, inter alia, holding that this Court, in exercise of power under Article 142 (1) of the Constitution of India, has the discretion to dissolve the marriage on the ground of its irretrievable breakdown. This discretionary power is to be exercised to do ‘complete justice to the parties, wherein this Court is satisfied that the facts established show that the marriage has completely failed and there is no possibility that the parties will cohabit together, and continuation of the formal legal relationship is unjustified. The Court, as a court of equity, is required to also balance the circumstances and the background in which the party opposing the dissolution is placed.” 14. In the present case we are convinced that the marriage has failed completely and there is no possibility of parties living together and thus the continuation of further legal relationship is unjustified. 3 [2023] 5 SCR 165 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 544 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 939 Vikas Kanaujia v. Sarita 15. The husband and wife have lived together on their own will for hardly 23 days since marriage. They further lived together for 20 more days from 15.06.2005 to 05.07.2015 as Sessions Court passed for conciliation. Thus, in total the parties have not lived together for more than 43 days.