Anna Dorai also surrendered along with Jeeva as he too was arraigned as an accused in the same case. (iv) That advocate Shri Patanwadia was not examined in evidence in support of the prosecution case. (v) That Anna Dorai who surrendered at the police station along with Jeeva(deceased) in the same case, did not suffer any injuries during the period of detention at the police station. Anna Dorai was surprisingly not examined as a witness by the prosecution. (vi) That Meena, wife of Jeeva(deceased), who went to meet him in the morning of 11th June, 1992 was not examined in evidence. (vii) Jeeva(deceased) had sufficient exposure to the legal system and procedure as he had previously also been arraigned in numerous [2024] 7 S.C.R. 377 Vinod Jaswantray Vyas (Dead) Through Lrs v. The State of Gujarat criminal cases. Association of advocate Shri Patanwadia in the process of Jeeva’s surrender is ample proof of this fact. (viii) Before being presented in the Court of the Magistrate, Jeeva (deceased) was taken to the Karanj Bhavan and was presented before DCP Shri Surelia whose office was located at the fifth floor of the building and that Jeeva(deceased) ascended and descended the multiple flight of stairs without exhibiting any discomfort or signs of pain whatsoever. (ix) Jeeva(deceased) was produced in the Court of Magistrate in evening of 11th June, 1992 but he did not make any kind of complaint whatsoever to the Magistrate that he had been beaten by the accused at the police station. (x) That as per Jeeva’s sister, Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1), Jeeva(deceased) had complained after coming out of the Magistrate’s Court that he had been beaten/tortured at the police station but he could not make any complaint to the Magistrate owing to the threat of retribution at the hands of the police officials. However, the fact remains that Jeeva’s sisters(PW-1 and PW-2) were free birds and nothing prevented them from lodging a prompt complaint regarding the custodial torture allegedly meted out to Jeeva(deceased) while he was in police custody. (xi) That the first complaint of the custodial torture meted out to Jeeva(deceased) in form of the telegram(Exhibit-14) came to be forwarded by Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1) to the DGP office, Ahmedabad on 13th June, 1992. When no action was forthcoming on this telegram(Exhibit-14), a formal complaint came to be filed in the Court of the Magistrate concerned on 1st July, 1992. (xii) That as per the evidence of Medical Jurist(PW-9), the injuries noticed on the body of the deceased at the time of the postmortem examination which was conducted on 12th June, 1992(between 4:15 pm to 5:30 pm) were fresh and were caused within six to eight hours of the death. The Medical Jurist(PW-9) observed in the postmortem report(Exhibit-50) that he noticed 600 ml fluid blood and clotted blood in the thoracic cavity and 1600 ml of fluid blood and clotted blood in peritoneal cavity. He also gave a pertinent reply to a question put in cross-examination that looking to the number of injuries 378 [2024] 7 S.C.R.