Finally, before concluding, Professor KT Shah clarified that his proposed amendment deliberately did not include ‘land’ in the list of resources, because “the various measures that have been in recent years adopted to exclude landed proprietors – zamindars to oust them and take over the land, would automatically involve the proposition that the agricultural or culturable land of this country belongs to the country collectively, and must be used and developed for its benefit.” 162. Mr Shibban Lal Saxena supported the amendments moved by Professor KT Shah to draft Article 31(ii). He opined that the proposed 146 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports amendments, in essence, suggested that the system of our State shall be ‘socialist’. He urged Dr Ambedkar “at least to incorporate the spirit of those amendments somewhere in the Constitution”. In the specific context of the amendment proposed to Article 31(ii), he opined that the enunciation is “very wide”, such that any system of economy could be based on it. The clause in its existing form, according to Mr Saxena, left it open to future Parliaments to evolve an economic plan of their choice. However, he was of the view, that there must at least be a Directive Principle that states that key industries of the country shall be owned by the State. He noted: “Now, this enunciation “ownership and control of the material resources of the community to be distributed so as to sub serve the common good” is a very wide enunciation of a most important principle. The enunciation is so general that any system of economy can be based upon it. Upon it can be based a system of socialist economy where all the resources of the country belong to the State and are to be used for the well being of the community as a whole. But a majority in the next Parliament can also come forward and say that the New Deal evolved by Roosevelt is the best system, and it should be adopted. This clause leaves it open to any future parliament to evolve the best plan of their choice. But I feel personally that we should today at least lay down that the key industries of the country shall be owned by the State. […] Unless we lay down in the Constitution itself that the key industries shall be nationalized and shall be primarily used to serve the needs of the nation, we shall be guilty of a great betrayal. Even if the principle is not to be enforced today, we must lay down in this clause (ii) about directive principles that the key industries shall be owned by the State. That is, according to the Congress, the best method of distributing the material resources of the country. I therefore think that Professor Shah’s amendment has merely drawn attention to this fundamental principle.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 147 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 163. Mr Jadubans Sahay disagreed with the text of Professor KT Shah’s proposed amendments as he was of the view that it was ‘loosely worded’.