Both the agreements required the respondents to furnish the petitioner with necessary permissions and certificates,which they failed to do. 8. The petitioner prayed for a decree for specific performance upon the receipt of the balance sale consideration of Rs. 5,39,150. The petitioner sought alternative reliefs of (a) delivery of possession of the suit land; or (b) a direction to refund the consideration of Rs. 34,80,850 paid with interest of 36% per annum. B. s of the Trial Court, High Court and this Court 9. By a dated 12 December 2010, the Additional District Judge dismissed the suit instituted by the petitioner. The Trial Court held [2024] 11 S.C.R. 675 M/s Siddamsetty Infra Projects Pvt. Ltd. v. Katta Sujatha Reddy & Ors. that the petitioner is not entitled to a decree or specific performance for the following reasons: a. The respondents did not dispute the execution of the two agreements to sell. There is also no dispute over the identity of the property. The petitioner is only required to prove that he was always willing to perform his part of the agreement; b. It can be inferred from the evidence on record that the petitioner does not have possession of the suit property and that a false plea that possession has been delivered has been made because: i. The alternative prayer of the petitioner in the suit was to put him in possession of the property if, for any reason, the Court concludes that the possession of the suit property was not delivered. The petitioner would not have sought the alternative prayer if he were confident about being in possession of the suit property; ii. The petitioner did not plead when he was put in possession of the property. PW-1 (the petitioner) was not able to respond to a question during cross-examination on when he was put in possession of property; iii. Though PW-2 (the owner of the land adjacent to the suit property) deposed that the petitioner developed the suit property by fencing it and constructing internal roads, these aspects did not find a mention in either the deposition of PW-1 or the plaint. Further, the photographs of the suit property also did not reflect these developments; iv. The sale agreements also did not conclusively indicate that the petitioner was put in possession of the suit property; v. The first legal notice issued by the petitioner does not mention that possession was delivered. The claim is only made in the second legal notice; and vi. The draft sale deed that the petitioner allegedly prepared and sent to the respondents also does not mention that possession was delivered. c. A cheque of Rs. 5,40,000 issued by the petitioner towards consideration was dishonoured. So, the petitioner paid Rs. 676 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 29,30,000 towards the sale consideration and not Rs. 34,70,000, as claimed by him. The petitioner made a false plea that he had paid Rs. 34,70,000. The table indicating the payments made by the petitioner is below: 26.3.1997 Rs.