19. The same question of law again knocked on the doors of this Court in Khatoon Nisa v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others (2014) 12 SCC 646 wherein the 5-Judge Bench also took the assistance of the observations made in the decision in Danial Latifi (supra). While acknowledging the similar parameters and considerations for the purpose of adjudicating petitions under both the laws, secular and personal, it held that a divorced Muslim woman is entitled to invoke the jurisdiction under Section 125 of CrPC 1973 to seek her right of maintenance even if she does not exercise her choice of election as stipulated under Section 5 of the 1986 Act. The relevant paragraph number 10 is reproduced herein below: “10. Subsequent to the enactment of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Divorce) Act, 1986 (for short “the Act”) as it was considered that the jurisdiction of the Magistrate under Section 125 CrPC can be invoked only when the conditions precedent mentioned in Section 5 of the Act are complied with, in the case in hand, the Magistrate came to a finding that there has been no divorce in the eye of law and as such, the Magistrate has the jurisdiction to grant maintenance under Section 125 CrPC. This finding of the Magistrate has been upheld by the High Court. The validity of the provisions of the Act was for consideration before the Constitution Bench in the case of Danial Latifi v. Union of India [(2001) 7 SCC 740]. In the said case by reading down the provisions of the Act, the validity of the Act has been upheld and it has been observed that under the Act itself when parties agree, the provisions of Section 125 CrPC could be invoked as contained in Section 5 of 1262 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Act and even otherwise, the Magistrate under the Act has the power to grant maintenance in favour of a divorced woman, and the parameters and considerations are the same as those in Section 125 CrPC. It is undoubtedly true that in the case in hand, Section 5 of the Act has not been invoked. Necessarily, therefore, the Magistrate has exercised his jurisdiction under Section 125 CrPC. But, since the Magistrate retains the power of granting maintenance in view of the Constitution Bench decision in Danial Latifi case [(2001) 7 SCC 740] under the Act and since the parameters for exercise of that power are the same as those contained in Section 125 CrPC, we see no ground to interfere with the s of the Magistrate granting maintenance in favour of a divorced Muslim woman. In fact, Mr Qamaruddin, learned counsel appearing for the appellants, never objected to pay maintenance as ed by the Magistrate. But, he seriously disputes the findings of the Magistrate on the status of the parties and contends that the Magistrate was wholly in error in coming to the conclusion that there has been no divorce between the parties in the eye of law.” (Underlining is ours) 20.