17. When the Technical bid of the Appellant was rejected by the Respondents on 06.05.2024 on the ground that it did not comply with the Clause 10 of the NIT namely Part I/ Cover I Other Important Documents (OID) Point No. 02 Appendix II (Power of attorney for signing of bid), there was no justification on the part of the Respondent authorities for accepting the Technical bid of the Respondent No.8, which clearly was not in compliance with the same mandatory Clause 10 of NIT. The Respondent BCCL has miserably failed to justify as to how the Technical bid of the Respondent no.8 was accepted when it had not submitted the requisite important documents related to the qualification criteria as mentioned in Clause 10 of the NIT. 18. A lame submission was made on behalf of the Respondent BCCL that the Tender Evaluation Committee could call for the shortfall of documents and could not allow replacement of the documents, and that the Respondent no.8 was asked to submit the shortfall documents only. We are neither impressed nor can accept the said submissions. Further, apart from the fact that the Technical bid of the Respondent no.8 deserved to be rejected at the threshold for non-compliance of Clause 10 of NIT, there was also no legal and justifiable reason for rejecting the Technical bid of the Appellant. Admittedly when the 438 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports tender documents were submitted by the Appellant, the Power Of Attorney authorising the concerned signatory to act on behalf of the Appellant was duly notarised. Merely because the bid documents were signed on 13.11.2023 by the authorized signatory Ms. Lalti Devi on the basis of the Power of Attorney executed in her favour on 07.11.2023, and the said Power Of Attorney was notarised on 14.11.2023, it could not be said that the said representative of the Appellant Company did not possess the requisite authority to submit the documents on the day when the bid documents were submitted, nor could it be said that there was any non-compliance of the mandatory requirement of the Clause 10 of the NIT as sought to be projected by the Respondent BCCL. It was nowhere stated in the NIT that the Power Of Attorney had to be notarised before signing the bid documents. As per Part-1/Cover I of Clause 10 of NIT, pertaining to the other important documents, the only requirement was to furnish the scanned copies of documents (self certified and notarised/certified) to be uploaded by the bidder in support of the information/declaration furnished online by the Bidder against each criteria, and against the criteria for Power Of Attorney, it was stated that it should be as per the format annexed. The Power Of Attorney submitted by the Appellant was as per the format and duly notarised on 14.11.2023, and all the requisite documents along with notarised POA were submitted before the last date fixed for submission. 19. It would be apposite to note that as per Section 2 of the Power Of Attorney Act, 1882, the donee of a power-of-attorney may, if he thinks fit, execute or do any instrument or thing in and with his own name and signature, and his own seal, where sealing is required, by the authority of the donor of the power; and every instrument and thing so executed and done, shall be as effectual in law as if it had been executed or done by the donee of the power in the name, and with the signature and seal, of the donor thereof.