Thus, as the civil court in this case was the 338 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports adjudicating authority having inherent jurisdiction to decide the suit under Section 9 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908, the adjudicatory part of determining the liability couldn’t be said to have been barred by Section 22 of the Act. It is only the execution of such a decree arrived at as a result of the adjudicatory process which could be said to be barred under Section 22 of the 1985 Act during the period when the sick company is under the protection of the BIFR. 34. The learned counsel further submitted that the reliance placed by the original defendants on the decision of this Court in Tata Motors (supra) is also misplaced as the said decision pertains to Section 26 of the 1985 Act while the case on hand pertains to the applicability of Section 22 of the 1985 Act. He contended that even the said decision supports the case of the original plaintiff as it explains the distinction between the adjudicatory authority of a civil court and the BIFR and holds that the jurisdiction of a civil court is barred in respect of any matter for which the BIFR or the Appellate Authority for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (“AAIFR”) is empowered. 35. The learned counsel, while placing reliance on the decision of the Delhi High Court in Sunil Mittal (supra), argued that the facts of the present case are squarely covered by the said decision. It was submitted that in the said case, a distinction was drawn between the ‘process of assessment’ and ‘quantified recoveries’ and it was held that while the realisation of the latter is stayed by virtue of Section 22 of the 1985 Act, the former, which is the process of finalisation of liability, does not get stayed by operation of Section 22 of the 1985 Act. 36. The learned counsel submitted that the contention of the original defendants that the decision in Sunil Mittal (supra) is rendered per-incuriam as the same failed to consider the decision in Bhoruka Textiles (supra) is incorrect as the court therein had based its decision on the of a division bench of the Delhi High Court in Saketh India Limited v. W. Diamond India Ltd. reported in 2010 SCC OnLine Del 1786. The decision in Saketh India (supra) has exhaustively considered the various decisions of this Court on the issue of applicability of jurisdictional bar under Section 22 of the 1985 Act and thus the decision in Sunil Mittal (supra) cannot be characterised as per-incuriam. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 339 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited 37. The learned counsel submitted that the High Court in its impugned has determined the issue of rate of interest under Section 4 of the 1993 Act. The High Court, after looking into the relevant material, observed that the floor rate charged by the State Bank of India (“SBI”) for the financial year 1993-94 was 19% and thus awarded interest at 24% which is 5 per-cent points above the floor rate.