‘Compensation’ is a general term comprising any payment which a party would be entitled to claim on account of any loss or damage arising from a breach of a contract, and the expression has not been limited only to a claim for unliquidated damages. The expression is wide enough to include a claim for payment of a certain sum.81 96. In Mahomed Ghasita v. Siraj-ud-Din and others,82 the plaintiff was to supply Italian marble and other stone required for flooring and was also to do all the work necessary for constructing the floor. The plaintiff sued for the balance of the money due to him based on this contract and the plaint made no mention of the price of the materials as distinct from the price of the work. The matter came before a Full Bench of the then Lahore High Court. Before the Full Bench the question was, what Article of the Limitation Act, 1908 is applicable to the suit. Sir Shadi Lal C.J., as His Lordship then was, speaking for the Bench held: “The action brought by the plaintiff was for the recovery of the balance of the money due to him on the strength of the contract described above; and the question for consideration is what article of the Limitation Act governs the claim. Our attention has been invited, in the first instance, to article 52,83 which prescribes a period of three years (enlarged to six years by the Punjab Loans Limitation Act of 1904) for the recovery of the price of goods sold and delivered to the defendant; and also to article 56,84 which lays down a period of three years for a suit to recover the price of work done by the plaintiff for 81 See U. N. Mitra’s Law of Limitation and Prescription, Sixteenth Edition, Volume 2, at pages 1342 & 1343, published by LexisNexis. 82 AIR 1922 Lah 198 (FB) : ILR (1921) 2 Lah 376 (FB) : 1921 SCC OnLine Lah 303 83 First Schedule of Limitation Act, 1908 Article Description of Suit Period of Limitation Time from which Period begins to run 52 For the price of goods sold and Three years The date of the delivered, where no fixed period of delivery of the goods. credit is agreed upon. 84 First Schedule of Limitation Act, 1908 574 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the defendant. Now, as stated above, the plaintiff supplied not only the materials, but also the labour, and it is clear that neither of the aforesaid articles governs the suit in its entirety. It is, however, urged that the action comprises two claims, one for the price of the material supplied by the plaintiff, and the other relating to the price of the work done by him, and that these two claims should be dealt with separately, and that they are governed by article 52 and article 56, respectively. The rule of law is no doubt firmly established that a combination of several claims in one action does not deprive each claim of its specific character and description.