Forming political beliefs and opinion is the first stage of political expression. The freedom of political expression cannot be exercised freely in the absence of privacy of political affiliation. Information about a person’s political beliefs can be used by the State at a political level, to suppress dissent, and at a personal level, to discriminate by denying employment or subjecting them to trolls. The lack of privacy of political affiliation would also disproportionately affect those whose political views do not match the views of the mainstream. 135. In the specific context of exercising electoral franchise, the lack of privacy of political affiliation would be catastrophic. It is crucial to electoral democracy that the exercise of the freedom to vote is not subject to undue influence. It is precisely for this reason that the law recognizes certain ‘corrupt practices’ by candidates. These ‘corrupt practices’ do not merely include ‘financial’ corrupt practices such as bribery. They also include undue influence of the voters by an attempt to interfere with the free exercise of electoral right"*', publication of false information about the personal character of any candidate'*?, and providing vehicles for the free conveyance of electors’. The law penalizes practices which have the effect of dis-franchising the voter through illegitimate means. 136. Information about a person’s political affiliation can be used to dis- enfranchise voters through voter surveillance. '** Voter databases which are developed through surveillance identify voting patterns of the electors and attempt to interfere with their opinions based on the information. For example, the data of online purchase histories such as the books purchased (which would indicate the ideological leaning 151 RPA, Section 123(2). The provision includes the threatening with injury including social ostracism and ex-communication from any caste or community. 152 RPA; Section 123(4) 153 RPA; Section 123(5) 154 See Philip N Howard and Daniel Kreiss, Political Parties and Voter privacy: Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, and United States in Comparative Perspective, First Monday 15(12) 2010 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 521 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. of the individual), clothing brands used (which would indicate the social class to which the individual belongs) or the news consumed or the newspapers subscribed (which would indicate the political leanings or ideologies) can be used to draw on the relative political affiliation of people. This information about the political affiliation of individuals can then be used to influence their votes. Voter surveillance gains particular significance when fewer people have attachments to political parties. '°° 137. At a systemic level, information secured through voter surveillance could be used to invalidate the foundation of the electoral system. Information about political affiliation could be used to engage in gerrymandering, the practice by which constituencies are delimited based on the electoral preference of the voters. 138. Informational privacy to political affiliation is necessary to protect the freedom of political affiliation and exercise of electoral franchise. Thus, it follows from the of this Court in JusKtS iPutctasewam y (93) (Supra) and the observations above that the Constitution guarantees the right to informational privacy of political affiliation.