16 21. Protection of life and personal liberty.— No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1153 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 a constitutionally actionable impact. He has taken the view that the impact caused in the State of Assam due to immigration can be attributed to several factors other than just Section 6A of the Citizenship Act. For such reasons, he has held Section 6A to be non-violative of Article 21 of the Constitution.17 18. The next issue considered by Justice Surya Kant is whether Article 32618 of the Constitution stood violated by Section 6A of the Citizenship Act. After traversing the history and evolution of adult franchise in India and the case laws on this aspect, he has held that the petitioners have failed to show how their rights under Article 326 have been violated by Section 6A. He has also observed that the language of Article 326 unambiguously confers the power to set out the mechanism for excluding people from the electoral rolls on the legislature. It is, thus, open to the petitioners to follow the mechanism prescribed under the Representation of People Act, 1951 to seek the removal of individual immigrants, wherever such immigrants are wrongly enrolled on the electoral rolls.19 19. Justice Surya Kant has also examined the contention raised by the petitioners that whether on account of continued presence of illegal immigrants, Section 6A of the Citizenship Act is violative of Article 35520 of the Constitution. Relying on the decision of this Court in Sarbananda Sonowal v. Union of India reported in (2005) 5 SCC 665, he has rejected the preliminary contention of the respondents that Section 6A of the Citizenship Act cannot be held unconstitutional for violating Article 355 simplicter. However, he has held that the magnitude and degree of immigration in the case governed by Section 6A is much lesser than that referred to in 17 Paragraphs 310 and 315 of the of Justice Surya Kant. 18 326. Elections to the House of the People and to the Legislative Assemblies of States to be on the basis of adult suffrage.— The elections to the House of the People and to the Legislative Assembly of every State shall be on the basis of adult suffrage; that is to say, every person who is a citizen of India and who is not less than 2 [eighteen years] of age on such date as may be fixed in that behalf by or under any law made by the appropriate Legislature and is not otherwise disqualified under this Constitution or any law made by the appropriate Legislature on the ground of non-residence, unsoundness of mind, crime or corrupt or illegal practice, shall be entitled to be registered as a voter at any such election. 19 Paragraph 342 of the of Justice Surya Kant. 20 355. Duty of the Union to protect States against external aggression and internal disturbance.— It shall be the duty of the Union to protect every State against external aggression and internal disturbance and to ensure that the Government of every State is carried on in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution.