Therefore, subjecting it to stringent regulations under the Act would hinder its object, purpose and functions. He also submitted that the Board itself takes all measures to ensure that the health of the devotees is never compromised. As a matter of principle, it is submitted that Food Safety and Standards (Licensing and Registration of Food Businesses) Regulations, 2011, do not contemplate regulating religious offerings integral to religious and cultural practices. 16. Learned counsel appearing for respondent no. 1 made submissions regarding their bonafide action in initiating the PIL in this case. It asserted that its primary intent was not to hinder the distribution of Aravana Prasadam but to highlight malpractices within the administration of the Sabarimala Temple, one such issue is the opaque manner in which the supply was issued to respondent no. 2 i.e., without open tenders. The respondent no. 1 also raised an issue regarding the supply being issued without a proper quality check. 17. Sri Natraj, learned ASG, representing the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and FSSAI, submitted that he is not concerned with the factual matrix of the case but confined his arguments to the legal issue. He submitted that prasadam is understood as offerings made to a deity and returned to devotees. It is considered sacred. While [2024] 3 S.C.R. 371 The Travancore Devaswom Board v. Ayyappa Spices & Ors. it is sacred and symbolical, it is not meant for appetite satiation. He also submitted that there is no fundamental or statutory right to enforce a specific form or standard of prasadam. He would submit that judicial review based on an individual’s claim of quality is not permissible, and therefore, the High Court should not have interfered in the matter. 18. Two questions emerge for our consideration – (i) whether the writ petition at the behest of respondent no. 1 should have been entertained by the High Court; and (ii) whether the appellant-Board qualifies as a “food business operator” as defined under Section 3(1)(j) of the Act. Re: Whether the writ petition at the behest of Respondent No. 1 should have been entertained by the High Court? 19. The principle that in matters of public tenders for procurement, judicial review is restrained is well established4. In cases where a party invoking writ jurisdiction has been a participant in the tender process, courts should be slow and cautious in exercising the power of judicial review. In a recent decision, UFLEX Ltd. v. Government of Tamil Nadu, Civil Appeal Nos. 4862-63 of 2021, this Court has held that constitutional courts should exercise caution while interfering in contractual and tender matters, disguised as public interest litigations. The following observations are important for the purpose of this case: “1. The enlarged role of the Government in economic activity and its corresponding ability to give economic “largesse” was the bedrock of creating what is commonly called the “tender jurisdiction”. The objective was to have greater transparency and the consequent right of an aggrieved party to invoke the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, beyond the issue of strict enforcement of contractual rights under the civil jurisdiction.