“Manufacture” is defined in Section 2 (19) to include every process whether natural or artificial, by which any fermented, spirituous or intoxicating liquor or intoxicating drug is produced or prepared and also redistillation and every process for the rectification of liquor. As per Section 3(1), the state government may appoint, by notification, an officer not below the rank of Deputy Commissioner as the Excise Commissioner in the State of Karnataka. He shall be the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the administration of the Excise Act. Powers of the Excise Commissioner are dealt with in sub-section (2) of Section 3. He shall have the overall control of the administration of the Excise Department. 9.1. Section 17 deals with the power to grant lease of right to manufacture etc. Sub-section (1) thereof says that the state government may grant lease to any person on such conditions and for such period, as it may think fit, the exclusive or other right- (a) of manufacturing or sale by wholesale or of both; or (b) of selling by wholesale or by retail; or (c) of manufacturing or supplying by wholesale, or of both and of selling by retail, any Indian liquor or intoxicating drug within any specified area. 300 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9.2. Though sub-section (1A) provides that no lease granted under sub-section (1) shall be transferred, the proviso thereto empowers the state government to grant permission to the lessee to transfer the lease or a part thereof in favour of any other person. As per sub-section (2), the licencing authority may grant to a lessee under sub-section (1) or to a transferee under sub-section (1A), a licence in terms of his lease. Sub- section (3) deals with determination of a lease for violation of the conditions mentioned therein. Under sub-section (4), when a lease is determined in terms of sub-section (3), the state government may direct the Deputy Commissioner to take over the right under his management and to lease it again by resale or otherwise. 9.3. Section 71 confers power on the state government to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Excise Act. 10. The Karnataka Excise (Arrack Vend Special Conditions of Licenses) Rules, 1967 (already referred to “the 1967 Rules” hereinabove) have been framed by the Government of Karnataka in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 71 of the Excise Act. Rule 2 of the 1967 Rules deals with selling of arrack of prescribed strength etc. by the licensee. Rule 2(1) says that every licensee licensed to vend arrack by retail sale shall sell only arrack of prescribed strength. As per sub-rule (2), no arrack except in sealed bottles or in sealed polythene sachets obtained from a warehouse or depot shall be kept for sale or sold in the licensed premises. Rule 3 provides for construction of counter. As per Rule 3, the licensee to vend arrack shall construct a counter in the shop which is not more than one metre high.