This Court ultimately summed up its findings with the following conclusions reproduced below: - “Conclusion 194. In view of the above discussion, we are of the considered opinion that the Arbitration Act, 1996 has accepted the territoriality principle which has been adopted the Uncitral Model Law. Section 2(2) makes a declaration that Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 shall apply to all arbitrations which take place within India. We are of the considered opinion that Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 would have no application to international commercial arbitration held outside India. Therefore, such awards would only be subject to the jurisdiction of the Indian [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1193 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze courts when the same are sought to be enforced in India in accordance with the provisions contained in Part II of the Arbitration Act, 1996. In our opinion, the provisions contained in the Arbitration Act, 1996 make it crystal clear that there can be no overlapping or intermingling of the provisions contained in Part I with the provisions contained in Part II of the Arbitration Act, 1996. 195. With utmost respect, we are unable to agree with the conclusions recorded in the s of this Court in Bhatia International and Venture Global Engg. In our opinion, the provision contained in Section 2(2) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 is not in conflict with any of the provisions either in Part I or in Part II of the Arbitration Act, 1996. In a foreign-seated international commercial arbitration, no application for interim relief would be maintainable under Section 9 or any other provision, as applicability of Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 is limited to all arbitrations which take place in India. Similarly, no suit for interim injunction simpliciter would be maintainable in India, on the basis of an international commercial arbitration with a seat outside India. 196. We conclude that Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 is applicable only to all the arbitrations which take place within the territory of India. 197. The in Bhatia International was rendered by this Court on 13-3-2002. Since then, the aforesaid has been followed by all the High Courts as well as by this Court on numerous occasions. In fact, the in Venture Global Engg. has been rendered on 10-1-2008 in terms of the ratio of the decision in Bhatia International. Thus, in to do complete justice, we hereby , that the law now declared by this Court shall apply prospectively, to all the arbitration agreements executed hereafter.” (Emphasis supplied) 38. This Court in Union of India v. Reliance Industries Ltd. & Ors. reported in (2015) 10 SCC 213 clarified the true import and effect of 1194 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the decision in BALCO (supra). It held that although the doctrine of concurrent jurisdiction had been prospectively overruled in BALCO (supra) yet it would not mean or understood that all arbitration agreements prior to the date of pronouncement of BALCO (supra) will continue to be governed by Bhatia International (supra).