14.5. Adverting to the definition of “buyer”, Explanation (a) says that a person who obtains in any sale by way of auction, tender or by any other mode, goods of the nature specified in the table in sub-section (1) or the right to receive any such goods is a buyer. But as we have seen above, there is an exclusion clause to the definition of “buyer”. If the buyer is a public sector company or it has obtained the goods in further sale or if the goods are not obtained by him by way of auction and where the sale price of such goods to be sold by the buyer is fixed by or under any state enactment, then such a person would not come within the ambit of “buyer” as per the definition in Explanation(a). Since much emphasis has been placed on Explanation(a)(iii), we may extract the same again to understand the significance thereof: a buyer where the goods are not obtained by him by way of auction and where the sale price of such goods to be sold by the buyer is fixed by or under any State Act. Thus, Explanation(a)(iii) visualizes two conditions for a person to be excluded from the meaning of “buyer” as per the definition in Explanation(a). The first condition is that the goods are not obtained by him by way of auction. The second condition is that the sale price of such goods to be sold by the buyer is fixed under a state enactment. These two conditions are joined by the word ‘and’. The word ‘and’ is conjunctive to mean that both the conditions must be fulfilled; it is not either of the two. Therefore, to be excluded from the ambit of the definition of “buyer” as per Explanation(a)(iii), both the conditions must be satisfied. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 311 The Excise Commissioner Karnataka & Anr. v. Mysore Sales International Ltd. & Ors. 15. In view of the above, let us examine the position of an excise contractor. In the scheme under consideration which we have discussed above, would such an excise contractor be construed as a “buyer” within the meaning of Explanation(a) to the Section 206C of the Income Tax Act? Going back to the Excise Act and the rules framed thereunder, it is seen that Mysore Sales is the licensee for the manufacture and bottling of arrack for specified area(s). By a process of auction or tender or auction-cum-tender etc., excise contractors are shortlisted who are thereafter granted permits to vend arrack by retail in their respective area(s). These retail vendors i.e. excise contractors have to procure the arrack from the warehouse or depot maintained by Mysore Sales on payment of the issue price fixed by the Excise Commissioner. The arrack is procured in sealed bottles or in sealed polythene sachets. Pausing here for a moment, what is discernible is that by a process of auction etc., excise contractors are shortlisted. Thereafter, they are provided permits. On the strength of the permits, they obtain arrack in bottled condition (or in sealed polythene sachets) from the warehouse or depot on payment of issue price fixed by the Excise Commissioner.