Further, even if teaching or administrative staff may include non-minority persons, the final authority exercising functional, directional, and policy control over these authorities must be from the minority community. This ensures that the thoughts, beliefs, and ideas of the minority community regarding administration are implemented in reality. This represents the real decision-making authority of the institution being of the minority community. 2036 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports In ascertaining the above, it would be open for the Court to look at the true purpose behind each of the above factors and to pierce the veil. iv. The notion that Azeez Basha [supra] categorically prohibits minorities from establishing universities due to statutory requirements is unfounded. The bench in Azeez Basha [supra] and present bench are faced with a unique situation and needs to adopt a suitably modulated approach. The in Azeez Basha [supra] does not preclude minorities from establishing universities but rather highlights the importance of legislative intent and statutory provisions in determining an institution’s character. v. The minority community may conceptualize the idea of an institution and may advocate for the same, however, if during exchange or negotiation, the actual institution which was established had primacy of governmental efforts and control, then such institution cannot be held to be predominantly established by the efforts and actions of the minority community. vi. In the pre-independence and pre-UGC era, in the absence of a provision like Section 23 of the UGC Act, 1956, it was open for any institutions to adopt the titles such as “university” or in some cases “vidyapeeth” or “jamia” asserting their capability to grant degrees. The absence of a legislative embargo from private establishment of Universities prior to 1956 would be critical for the scope of enquiry. vii. The use of the phrase ‘establish and incorporate’ by the Legislature may be relevant in the larger enquiry but cannot be said to be conclusively determinative of the factum of establishment or not by the minority community. If the intention of the Legislature is to establish or incorporate or recognise a minority University, the Legislatures have incorporated suitable provisions to colour the University with a minority identity. viii. There were no rights, fundamental or otherwise, prior to the Constitution coming into force and therefore, there is [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2037 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. no question of surrendering any right. The British Indian Government was a supreme Imperial power in the country, and the question of surrender is illusionary and does not arise in the present case. The coming into force of the Constitution and fundamental right after 1950, cannot alter the events that occurred during the decade of 1910-1920 which led to the establishment of the AMU. ix. There is no legal requirement for the AMU ‘Court’ to be manned by the people from the minority community ever since 1951 and therefore, merely because de facto the persons from the minority community may have manned the posts in the institution, would not be relevant to adjudicate the question.