131. Hon’ble Surya Kant J. has extensively dealt with the interplay among the reference, NCMEI Act amendment, UGC Act, and the holding in Prof Yashpal (supra). Azeez Basha (supra) holds that a university established by the legislature cannot have the character of a minority institution, however, the NCMEI Act provides for establishment of minority universities; to compound matters, as per the UGC Act degrees can only be conferred by universities that are established “by or under” a statute. In Prof Yashpal (supra), this Court held that a statute would not give legal sanction to a university unless certain infrastructural facilities were already in place. To resolve this apparent contradiction, His Lordship has clarified and modified Azeez Basha (supra) to the extent that in the new legal regime a university established “by or under” a statute can have a minority character as long as it fulfils the requirements under the UGC Act. According to His Lordship, a university could either be (i) recognised by statute, (ii) brought into existence by statute, (iii) created by statute. It is only if the university falls into the third category that it is prevented 1912 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports from assuming the character of a minority educational institution due to it being a creature of statute. With this reasoning, His Lordship has harmonised the amended portions of the NCMEI Act, the UGC Act, and the holding of Prof. Yashpal (supra) while simultaneously modifying Azeez Basha (supra) to that extent. Resultantly, a minority community can establish a university under Article 30, if it complies with the rigours of the UGC Act. 132. When Azeez Basha (supra) was decided, the UGC Act and the NCMEI Act were not on the statute-book. Hence, the decision therein was based on the facts and circumstances before the Court. The test that was laid may not apply to present day facts and circumstances, which are governed by the UGC Act and the NCMEI Act. concludIng remarks 133. Judges of the Supreme Court of India are no doubt the final arbiters in resolving disputes and differences between the parties; however, the recent judicial trend of eschewing all that is old, for the sake of progress and constitutional dynamism, is disturbing. We, the Judges, at times tend to forget the confines of our own jurisdiction and that we too, like every other human, are fallible. We are meant to be guided in our approach by Constitutional morality and the words of the architects of the Constitution. Facilitating history to be re-written, more than a century later by a judicial opinion, is not what we, as Judges, are supposed to do. Additionally, in matters such as the one under consideration, there is no warrant for the thought process to gain ground that Judges of this Court who had authored opinions in the relevant past were wrong and that the present generation of Judges are correct. Judicial deference, in my view, ought to have leaned towards the interpretation of Article 30(1) that has stood the test of time for almost 75 (seventy-five) years since the Constitution has been in existence.