Wife of the accused was striking her head on the jeep…..” (Emphasis supplied) 21. PW-4 O.P. Tiwari has deposed as under: “3. ….When we caught hold of the accused he was not having money. The applicant then told that the accused has thrown the money in the dark. Thereafter the Inspector started searching the money by starting the torch. The Inspector found in the light of the torch, one 50 rupees note lying. Inspector Parihar took that note up and gave it to me and asked me to keep it. Other notes were also searched there but notes could not be found there. 4. After that we tried to apprehend the accused patwari and forced him to sit in the vehicle to take him to police station Naryaoli but the accused Patwari objected to it. In spite of the objection taken by the accused anyhow the accused was made to sit in the vehicle. At the same time the wife of the accused arrived and lay down before the vehicle. In such a condition the vehicle was reversed and turned back and we had to go to police station. When the vehicle moved the wife of the accused started her head striking with the bonnet of the vehicle. Other persons present there, caught hold of the wife of the accused and removed her from there only then we people took the vehicle and started for police station Naryaoli….” (Emphasis supplied) 942 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 22. PW-8 N.K. Parihar has deposed as under: “6. ….Therefore the trap team surrounded the accused and tried to apprehend him. The accused objected to it forcefully so they could not catch him all of a sudden. 7. The accused had shouted so crowd had assembled there. In the meanwhile the accused took out the bribe notes from his pocket and had thrown them. The accused was apprehended. On searching the notes on the ground only one note of Rs.50/- was seen which panch witness Shri Tiwari picked up. Looking to the opposition, we took accused to police station Naryaoli where solution of sodium carbonate was prepared, which was colouring less…. xxx xxx xxx 9. ….I had given one application in regard to the incident to Station House Officer Naryaoli, photocopy of which is enclosed. On 30.6.2004 I had filled MLC form for getting medically examined the head constable Niranjan Singh, myself & Rajkumar Sen, on which I had signed which are P-22 to P-25 respectively. After that I had handed over the case for investigation to D.S.P. Shri Ranjan Tiwari.” (Emphasis supplied) 23. We have also perused the original record insofar as the application given to the Station House Officer is concerned, the translated portion obtained officially reads as under: “To The PS In-charge Sic Narayavali (Madhya Pradesh) Subject - Regarding the accused Mahendra Kumar of trap. (Sic) Shri Mahendra Sonkar was caught taking bribes on 29/06/03 at 8 O’clock. He called out to his wife. The woman clung to her husband to free him.