Delhi Race Course Club President JS Bedi and Secretary HK Uppal are delaying the payment of horse feed purchased by them. The people of the above two firms have colluded with each other and do not want to pay for the goods taken. Vipin Agarwal, proprietor of Agarwal Udyog, is my father hence I am aware of the entire matter” (iv) The Magistrate also recorded the statement of one Manish Kumar in course of the inquiry under Section 202 of the CrPC. The statement reads thus: “Witness name Manish Kumar Sharma father’s name aged 33 years occupation labourer resident of Nawalpura, Khurja Police Station Khurja Nagar District Bulandshahar today on 08.03.22 on oath gave statement that:- I have been working as a bookkeeper for the last 17 years at Vipin Kumar Agarwal’s firm Agarwal Udyog, which is located in New Mandi Khurja. From the above mentioned firm, Delhi Race Course Club 1940 Limited which is a New Delhi based firm. Have been buying 678 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports horse grain and oats. President of this firm J S Bedi and Secretary H K Uppal have been coming to our firm to buy horse feed and oats and the firm has been paying for the purchased goods. It was said by the above two that now the bills for horse feed and oats will be made in the name of Delhi Horse Trainers Association Delhi and the Head of this firm, Kazim Ali and Secretary Sanjeev Charan will pay it. On the request of the above people, horse grain and oats continued to be supplied from our firm. The above mentioned people owes Rs. 9,11,434/- to our firm, upon being repeatedly asked for payment, the above mentioned people are evading. Once Chirag Agarwal and I went to their office in New Delhi, they refused to talk to Vipin Agarwal and us and they threatened that if they come here again, it will be very bad and they started scuffle. The outstanding amount of Rs. 9,11,434/- has not yet been paid by the officials of the above two firms. The above mentioned people have fraudulently obtained the goods from our firm in bad faith and do not want to pay for the same. They have used the supplied goods. Certified after reading and listening.” (v) At the end of the magisterial inquiry, the court issued process for the offence punishable under Section 406 of the IPC. The issuing process reads thus: “Date:- 28.02.2023 The file was presented for s. The complainant has been heard on the question of summons on an earlier date. On behalf of the complainant Vipin Kumar Aggarwal, the above complaint was presented against the opposite parties Delhi Race Club etc. to the effect that the firm of the complainant was supplying horse grain, barley and oats to Delhi Race Club since the year 1990. In the year 1995, the President of the Race Club, Mr. P.S. Vedi and the then Sachin Sehgal [2024] 8 S.C.R.