36. Accused Afshar Ali was arrested on 14.04.2023 in ECIR/RNZO/18/2022 (a different ECIR) and his statement was recorded on 17.04.2023 in the present ECIR. Afshar Ali is supposed to have stated that since he came to know that the land was under vigilance by the Police and the land had certain disputes. He met with the appellant and the appellant was informed about the disputes and the vigilance of the Police. According to the statement of Afshar Ali, the appellant took stock of the status of the land and called the then Deputy Commissioner - Chhavi Ranjan and told him that the registry of [2024] 8 S.C.R. 979 Prem Prakash v. Union of India Through The Directorate of Enforcement the Cheshire Home property was to be done after removing the vigilance observed by the Police. Thereafter, the appellant fixed the consideration of Rs. 1.5 crores and after accepting the consideration as fixed, he requested the appellant to arrange for unblocking the two plots of land, which were blocked by the Deputy Commissioner Office. That the appellant demanded Rs. 1 crore for the above work and the amount was adjusted in the said consideration and that it was appellant who asked to do the registration in the name of Punit Bhargava. He also stated that it was the appellant who fixed the deal with Bishnu Kumar Agarwal. 37. Being a co-accused with the appellant, his statement against the appellant assuming there is anything incriminating against the present appellant will not have the character of substantive evidence. The prosecution cannot start with such a statement to establish its case. We hold that, in such a situation, the law laid down under Section 30 of the Evidence Act by this Court while dealing with the confession of the co-accused will continue to apply. In Kashmira Singh vs. State of Madhya Pradesh [1952] SCR 526, this Court neatly summarized the principle as under:- “…. The proper way to approach a case of this kind is, first, to marshal the evidence against the accused excluding the confession altogether from consideration and see whether, if it is believed, a conviction could safely be based on it. If it is capable of belief independently of the confession, then of course it is not necessary to call the confession in aid. But cases may arise where the judge is not prepared to act on the other evidence as it stands even though, if believed, it would be sufficient to sustain a conviction. In such an event the judge may call in aid the confession and use it to lend assurance to the other evidence and thus fortify himself in believing what without the aid of the confession he would not be prepared to accept.” Hence, insofar as Afshar Ali’s statement is concerned, the Investigating Agency will have to first marshal the other evidence and can at best look at the statement for lending assurance. Independently, the statement of Afshar Ali does not prima facie indicate anything about the role of the appellant in the forgery of sale deed and other documents or being involved in the offence of money laundering.