Appendix IX to the second EC notification provided for exempting certain cases from the requirement of obtaining EC. By the impugned notification, Appendix-IX was substituted. The substituted Appendix-IX provided that the prior EC will not be required in the thirteen cases set out therein. We are concerned with items 6 and 7 of the substituted Appendix-IX, which read thus: “Appendix-IX Exemption of certain cases from requirement of Environmental Clearance: The following cases shall not require Prior Environmental Clearance, namely:- .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6. Extraction or sourcing or borrowing of ordinary earth for the linear projects such as roads, pipelines, etc. 7. Dredging and de-silting of dams, reservoirs, weirs, barrages, river and canals for the purpose of their maintenance, upkeep and disaster management. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..” Thus, item 6 in Appendix IX of the second EC notification was maintained but was renumbered as item 7. Item 6 was newly added. 5. Before we go into the challenge to the impugned notification, we must note here that items 6 and 7 were substituted by further notification dated 30th August 2023 (for short, ‘amended impugned notification’) issued during the pendency of these appeals. Substituted items 6 and 7 in the amended impugned notification read thus: “6. Extraction or sourcing or borrowing of ordinary earth for the linear projects such as roads, pipelines, etc. shall be subject to the compliance of standard operating procedures and environmental safeguards issued in this regard from time to time. 7. Dredging and de-silting of dams, reservoirs, weirs, barrages, river and canals for the purpose of their [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1255 Noble M. Paikada v. Union of India maintenance, upkeep and disaster management shall be subject to the compliance of environmental safeguards issued in this regard from time to time.” 6. The impugned notification was challenged on several grounds before the NGT by filing the Original Application subject matter of these appeals. Apart from other grounds, it was contended that the impugned notification violated the directions issued by this Court in the case of Deepak Kumar & Ors. v. State of Haryana & Ors1. Even the ground that the impugned notification was arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India was invoked. We must note that in the Original Application, the specific challenge was only to item 6 of the impugned notification. 7. By the impugned , it was held that the exemption under item 6 should strike a balance. The finding recorded on this aspect in paragraph 8 of the impugned reads thus: “8. The second issue is exemption from requirement of EC for extraction or sourcing or borrowing of ordinary earth for the linear projects such as roads, pipelines, etc and for dredging and de-silting of dams, reservoirs, weirs, barrages, river and canals for the purpose of their maintenance, upkeep and disaster management.