G.1. Locus of pre-Constitution institution 103. It is a settled principle of law that Fundamental Rights are not retrospectively applicable.64 The Constitution of India was framed in a social context that marked a significant departure from an exacting colonial regime to a system based on rights and self- governance. Hence, the legal milieu in these two regimes inevitably differed, with the Constitution imposing more stringent restrictions on governmental actions. Consequently, if the previous actions of the colonial government were to be tested on the touchstone of the Constitution, nearly all such acts would need to be overturned. 104. Such a wholesale invalidation of past actions would have far-reaching consequences. It could undermine the stability of the legal system, as people’s lives and rights—such as property rights, contractual relationships, etc.—have been shaped by those earlier actions. Hence, the social and economic disruption resulting from such a scenario would be severe. Furthermore, the retrospective application of Fundamental Rights could also lead to a legal quagmire, where Courts would be crippled with cases in which relevant documents and evidence might no longer be available. Moreover, such an unscrambling of the egg might nearly be impossible in some instances, such as cases of criminal convictions from decades ago. 105. The non-retrospective application of Fundamental Rights therefore is a pragmatic principle aimed at ensuring effective governance in society without being hindered by ghosts from the past. 64 Sushila Rao, “The Doctrine of Eclipse in Constitutional Law: A Critical Reappraisal of its Contemporary Scope and Relevance” National Law School of India Review, (2006) Vol. 18 No. 1 pp. 49. 1814 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 106. At this point, it is essential to distinguish between retrospective and retroactive laws. A retrospective law imposes new obligations or rights on transactions that have already been completed. In contrast, retroactive legislation applies to ongoing transactions, affecting obligations that arise after the law’s enactment, even if the transactions began beforehand.65 For example, if a law prohibits houses from having more than two floors and requires existing houses exceeding this limit to be demolished, it is retrospective. If the law only affects houses under construction when it comes into force, it is retroactive. 107. While the retrospectivity of Fundamental Rights is generally restricted, their application on transactions that arose before and continued post-1950 are not. The temporal boundary in the application of Fundamental Rights prevents pre-Constitution violations from being agitated, and it does not proscribe institutions created before the Constitution to plead their rights post its enactment. If we were to hold otherwise, it would lead to an untenable situation where a significant portion of the population or institutions with a long history would be excluded from the protection of Fundamental Rights simply because they existed before 1950. 108. Similarly,practices prevailing before 1950 but prohibited afterwards must be struck down if it does not align with the constitutional ethos. The significance of 26.01.1950 lies in its role as a golden date for eradicating unconstitutional practices and safeguarding the rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution.