51. It has also come on record that Central Warehousing Corporation had deposited a sum of Rs.56,10,294.00 with the respondent as 910 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports custom establishment charges in respect of the aforesaid notified public bonded warehouse for the period 1992-1993 to 2007-2008. This would mean that the warehousing in the aforesaid notified public bonded warehouse continued during the said period. Thus, the period of warehousing had not expired and continued to remain operational in terms of the proviso to Section 61 of the Customs Act. 52. This would further be borne out from the fact that it is not the case of the respondent that the 304 cases found inside the notified warehouse were kept there beyond the warehousing period. In fact, the allegation of the respondent is that 264 cases were improperly or unauthorisedly removed from the notified warehouse as those were found lying outside the notified area but within the industrial/factory premises of the appellant. That apart, 27 cases were neither found inside the notified warehouse nor outside the said warehouse but within the factory premises of the appellant. 53. In such a scenario, the provisions of Sections 71 and 72 would not be applicable. Therefore, the decision of the respondent to invoke Section 71 and thereafter levy interest on the goods covered by the 264 cases under Section 28AB of the Customs Act was not justified. Since the imported goods covered by the 264 cases were never warehoused inside the notified public bonded warehouse but were unloaded outside the notified area but within the factory premises of the appellant and kept under a shed on permission granted by the Superintendent which permission was neither cancelled nor revoked, question of warehousing the goods covered by the 264 cases within the notified public bonded warehouse did not arise. As a corollary, the further question of improperly or unauthorisedly removing the 264 cases from the notified warehouse to outside the said area but within the factory premises of the appellant attracting Section 71 and the consequences following the same did not arise. Inference drawn by the respondent that the permission granted by the Superintendent was only temporary and therefore, the rigor of Section 71 would be attracted, in our view, would not be a correct understanding of the situation and the law. 54. Having said that, we find that there is no explanation on the part of the appellant qua the missing 27 cases. Therefore, the view taken by the respondent and affirmed by the CESTAT that those 27 cases were improperly or unauthorisedly removed from the notified public [2024] 3 S.C.R. 911 M/s. Bisco Limited v. Commissioner of Customs and Central Excise bonded warehouse is correct and requires no interference. 55. Reverting back to the 264 cases, we are of the view that in a case of this nature, Section 15(1)(b) would have no application. Rather, Section 15(1)(c) would be attracted. 56. In so far the Board’s circular dated 12.07.1989 is concerned, the subject matter of the said circular was what would be the relevant date for calculation of customs duty in cases where warehoused goods were cleared after expiry of the warehousing period.