The above observation (b) lends credence to the submission made before us that a change in the eligibility cut off, after evaluation is done, denies the evaluator an opportunity to modulate the marks for placing the candidate in a category to which he/she, in the view of the evaluator, is entitled to be placed. 22. In the reference the correctness of the decision in K. Manjusree has been doubted on two counts: (a) if the principle laid down in K. Manjushree is applied strictly, the High Court would be bound to recruit 13 of the “best” candidates out of the 21 who applied irrespective of their performance in the examination held, which would not be in the larger public interest or the goal of establishing an efficient administrative machinery; and (b) the decision of this Court in Subash Chander Marwaha (supra) was neither noticed in K. Manjusree nor in the decisions relied upon in K. Manjusree. 23. Insofar as the first reason to doubt K. Manjusree is concerned, we are of the view that the apprehension expressed in the referring that all selected candidates regardless of their suitability to the establishment would have to be appointed, if the principle laid down in K. Manjusree is strictly applied, is unfounded. Because K. Manjusree does not propound that mere placement in the list of selected candidates would confer an indefeasible right on the empanelled candidate to be appointed. The law in this regard is already settled by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Shankarsan Dash26 in the following terms: "7. It is not correct to say that if a number of vacancies are notified for appointment and adequate number of candidates are found fit, the successful candidates acquire an indefeasible right to be appointed which cannot be legitimately denied. Ordinarily the notification merely amounts to an invitation to qualified candidates to apply for recruitment and on their selection they do not acquire 26 Shankarsan Dash v. Union of India (1991) 3 SCC 47, which has been consistently followed. See also All India SC & ST Employees Association v. A. Arthur Jeen & Others (2001) 6 SCC 380; M. Ramesh v. Union of India (2018) 16 SCC 195; and Rakhi Ray and Others v. High Court of Delhi and Others (2010) 2 SCC 637 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 53 Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. any right to the post. Unless the relevant recruitment rules so indicate, the State is under no legal duty to fill up all or any of the vacancies. However, it does not mean that the State has the license of acting in an arbitrary manner. The decision not to fill up the vacancies has to be taken bona fide for appropriate reasons. And if the vacancies or any of them are filled up, the State is bound to respect the comparative merit of the candidates, as reflected at the recruitment test, and no discrimination can be permitted”. 24. As regards the second reason (i.e., K. Manjusree not considering earlier decision in Subash Chander Marwaha), it would be appropriate for us to first examine the facts of Marwaha’s case.