37 of 1996 Act: Held: In the statutory scheme of the Arbitration Act, a recourse to s.37 is the only appellate remedy available against a decision u/s. 34 – The Constitution, however, provides the parties with a remedy u/Art. 136 against a decision rendered in appeal u/s. 37 – This is the discretionary and exceptional jurisdiction of the Supreme Court to grant Special Leave to Appeal – While adjudicating the merits of a Special Leave Petition and exercising its power u/Art. 136, this Court must interfere sparingly and only when exceptional circumstances exist, justifying the exercise of this Court’s discretion – The Court must apply settled principles of judicial review such as whether the findings of the High Court are borne out from the record or are based on a misappreciation of law and fact – In particular, this Court must be slow in interfering with a judgement delivered in exercise of powers u/s. 37 unless there is an error in exercising of the jurisdiction by the Court u/s. 37. [Paras 42 and 43] Curative Petition – The petitioner-DMRC and DAMEPL (a special purpose vehicle incorporated by a consortium) entered into the Concession Agreement (2008 agreement) – DAMPEL was to undertake among other things, the design, supply, installation, testing and commissioning of railway [2024] 4 S.C.R. 475 Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. v. Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt. Ltd. system – Dispute arose between the parties – DAMEPL alleged that the line was unsafe to operate – Operations were stopped – DAMEPL issued a notice to DMRC listing defects attributable to faulty construction and deficient designs which affected project safety – DMRC was requested to cure the defects within 90 days from the date of this notice – Thereafter, DAMPEL issued another notice terminating the 2008 agreement as defects were not cured within 90 days – Arbitral Tribunal passed award in favour of DAMPEL – Single Judge of the High Court dismissed the petition filed u/s. 34 of 1996 Act – Division Bench of the High Court allowed the appeal u/s. 37 of 1996 Act in part – DAMEPL moved a SLP u/Art. 136 of the Constitution – A two-judge bench of the Supreme Court allowed the appeal, and restored the award – Correctness: Held: Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety (CMRS), after inquiry and inspection had issued sanction for running of the metro line – In the instant case, the Division Bench of the High Court found the award to be perverse, irrational and patently illegal since it ignored the vital evidence of CMRS certification in deciding the validity of termination – It underlined the significance of the CMRS sanction under the Metro Railways (Operation and Maintenance) Act, 2002 – Also, clause 29.5.1(i) of the 2008 agreement entitles the concessionaire to terminate the agreement if DMRC “failed to cure such breach or take effective steps for curing such breach” within the cure period – Pertinently, the clause uses two separate phrases, “cure” and “effective steps to cure” – The Tribunal found that since certain defects remained after the cure period, this was indicative of the fact that the defects were not cured and that no effective steps were taken – The Tribunal fails to explain what amounts to an ‘effective step’ and how the steps taken by DMRC were not effective, within the meaning of the phrase – Parties clearly intended that once a cure notice was served on a party, it would be open to them to either cure defects or to initiate effective steps, even if they could not culminate into the complete curing of defects within the cure period – Incremental progress, even if it does not lead to complete cure, is an acceptable course of action to prevent termination according to the 2008 Agreement – The decisions of the Single Judge of the High Court and this Court (two-judge bench) are similarly silent on the aspect of “effective steps” – The of this Court also never tested the relevance 476 [2024] 4 S.C.R.