The underlying rationale of the basic structure doctrine concerning constitutional amendments is that the amendment must not impermissibly deviate from the core principles that structure and govern our constitutional democracy. An amendment can be invalidated when it modifies, obliterates, or adds some feature to the Constitution that is anathema to the principles that emerge upon a structural reading of the constitutional text. While Parliament undoubtedly has a constitutional prerogative to amend the Constitution and continually give constitutional character to the citizens’ democratic aspirations, the question in basic structure review is a question of the degree of deviation from the principles that undergird the Constitution. If an amendment is invalidated because it causes a drastic deviation from the principles that govern our constitutional democracy, the consequences must be a return to those principles. Article 31-C represented a delicate balance between the goals of Part IV and the rights of Part III of the Constitution. This balance was held to not impermissibly deviate from the core principles that govern our Constitution by the thirteen judges’ decision of this Court in Kesavananda Bharati. However, in Minerva Mills, Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment was held to violate these core principles that form the basic structure. The logical result of such a ruling is that the constitutional text must return to within the fold of the basic structure. To give effect to the repealing portions of Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment while also invalidating the enactment would not result in a return to a constitutional text that is in conformity with the basic structure. Rather, it would result in a novel third outcome, the constitutionality of which would be uncertain, untested, and may itself violate the basic structure. Therefore, the consequence of invalidating Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment must be that the unamended Article 31-C is revived. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 95 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. D. Article 39(b) 73. The second question framed for our determination is: “Whether the interpretation of Article 39(b) adopted by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy and followed in Sanjeev Coke must be reconsidered. Whether the phrase ‘material resources of the community’ in Article 39(b) can be interpreted to include resources that are owned privately and not by the state.” 74. To answer this question, we will first briefly summarise the submissions of the counsel on this issue. Next, we will address the arguments that relate to the judicial discipline followed in the s of this Court which have given rise to the reference. Finally, we analyse the interpretation of Article 39(b) adopted in the judgements that have been doubted and determine the correctness of such an interpretation. i. Submissions a. Submissions of the appellants and intervenors 75. Mr Zal Andhyarujina,learned senior counsel, and Mr Sameer Parekh, learned counsel for the appellants broadly made the following submissions: a. Article 31C gives primacy to the Directive Principles contained in Articles 39(b) and overrides the fundamental rights guaranteed in Articles 14 and 19.