In their conciliatory role, the Lok Adalats are guided by the principles of justice, equity and fair play. When the LSA Act refers to “determination” by the Lok Adalat and “award” by the Lok Adalat, the said Act does not contemplate nor require an adjudicatory judicial determination, but a non-adjudicatory determination based on a compromise or settlement, arrived at by the parties, with guidance and assistance from the Lok Adalat. The “award” of the Lok Adalat does not mean any independent verdict or opinion arrived at by any decision- making process. The making of the award is merely an administrative act of incorporating the terms of settlement or compromise agreed by parties in the presence of the Lok Adalat, in the form of an executable under the signature and seal of the Lok Adalat.” 18. The process of mediation has been described in Perry Kansagra v. Smriti Madan Kansagra.26 The following extract, although, in regard 25 [2008] 1 SCR 922 : (2008) 2 SCC 660 26 [2019] 3 SCR 991 : (2019) 20 SCC 753 890 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports to the importance of confidentiality in such proceedings are none the less important for the instant case. “27. We, thus, have line of cases dealing with mediation/ conciliation and other proceedings in general and Rule 8 of the Rules dealing inter alia, with custody issues which is in the nature of an exception to the norms of confidentiality. It is true that the process of mediation is founded on the element of confidentiality. Qualitatively, mediation or conciliation stands on a completely different footing as against regular adjudicatory processes. Instead of an adversarial stand in adjudicatory proceedings, the idea of mediation is to resolve the dispute at a level which is amicable rather than adversarial. In the process, the parties may make statements which they otherwise would not have made while the matter was pending adjudication before a court of law. Such statements which are essentially made in to see if there could be a settlement, ought not to be used against the maker of such statements in case at a later point the attempts at mediation completely fail. If the statements are allowed to be used at subsequent stages, the element of confidence which is essential for healthy mediation/conciliation would be completely lost. The element of confidentiality and the assurance that the statements would not be relied upon helps the parties bury the hatchet and move towards resolution of the disputes. The confidentiality is, thus, an important element of mediation/ conciliation.” 19. As can be seen, there are certain similarities in the two processes, however, there are certain undeniable differences, foremost among them being that the former is governed by independent legislation and now, so are the certain aspects of the latter (Mediation Act, 2023). 20. It is inconceivable as to how a reference to mediation under the CPC can be read to be the same or equal to proceeding before a Lok Adalat for any reference thereto, to be helpful to the case put forward by the appellant.