With due respect and utmost humility at my command, although the Chief Justice of India is primus inter pares and on the administrative side has powers and authority which no puisne Judge has, the Chief Justice of India while discharging judicial functions on the bench with a puisne judge or judges may not enjoy any power greater than what the puisne judge or judges forming the quorum has/have in authoring s/ passing s. Therefore, the re-referral merely by reason of the presence of the Chief Justice on the bench did not get sanctified. It was not that the bench of 3 (three) Judges were not alive to the settled law and the principles of judicial propriety, discipline and comity; yet, any doubt touching upon the correctness or otherwise of the view expressed in Azeez Basha (supra), if at all, should not have been sought to be resolved by referring the matter directly to a bench of 7 (seven) Judges. Such an of reference, apart from being in the teeth of Pradip Chandra Parija (supra), Hansoli Devi (supra) and Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community (supra), could not have been justified by reasoning that earlier, the issue had been referred to a bench of 7 (seven) Judges. It was incumbent on the bench while hearing Aligarh Muslim University (supra) to examine 33 NCMEI Act, hereafter 1876 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports whether the referral made in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) was legal and valid. Answering the said question could have obviated the need for a further referral. Nothing much turns on the fact that all of us are now sitting in a combination of 7 (seven) Judges. The Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) referral being non-est, to my mind, any premised thereon is also non-est. At best, the bench of 3 (three) Judges in Aligarh Muslim University (supra) could have required a bench of 5 (five) Judges to reconsider whether question 3(a), which fell for consideration in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra), does at all require an answer [not in the light of whatever Azeez Basha (supra) had held while interpreting Article 30(1)] and only upon formation of an opinion that it does, should the further referral been made to a bench of 7 (seven) Judges to maintain judicial propriety, discipline and comity. The course of action adopted in Aligarh Muslim University (supra), thus, does not commend to me to be in accordance with established principles of law and should have well been avoided, being unnecessary. However, I repeat, any issue arising out of the law laid down in Azeez Basha (supra) was not open to be referred once again even after noticing that the earlier endeavours to overturn Azeez Basha (supra) had proved abortive. 36. More often than not, this Court treats procedure as a hindrance towards attaining justice rather than treating it as a guardrail to ensure fairness and non-arbitrariness while conducting judicial proceedings. It must be remembered that at times, leaving aside the urge to render substantive justice without following the laid down procedure, it is perhaps advisable to follow the procedure as the means towards the end.