4.11.2023 under Sections 299, 469, 499 and 505 IPC against the complainant.” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 447 Sanjay Kundu v. Registrar General, High Court of Himachal Pradesh & Ors 11. The High Court observed that in the backdrop of the status report, the FIR registered at the behest of the petitioner, the surveillance of the complainant and communication between the petitioner and the complainant, the failure of the Police to act on the complaint was not explained by the SP, Kangra. It noted that the FIR was registered belatedly on 16 November 2023 only after the Court had entertained the Writ Petition. The High Court then proceeded to observe that the material collected by the SP, Shimla indicated prima facie that the Director General of Police: (i) Had been in touch with “Y”, the alleged business partner of the complainant; (ii) Had made 15 missed calls in an effort to contact the complainant on 27 October 2023; (iii) Had spoken to the complainant on 27 October 2023 and after he refused to come to Shimla, the complainant was threatened in an incident at Mcleodganj; (iv) Placed the complainant under surveillance; and (v) Lodged FIR No 98/2023 on 4 November 2023 against the complainant. 12. The High Court observed that there is a real possibility that the investigation would not be carried on fairly. It accordingly directed that the petitioner, who is holding the post of DGP, and the SP, Kangra should be moved to any other post to ensure that a fair investigation takes place. 13. The petitioner was neither impleaded in the proceedings nor was he heard before the above was passed. On that ground, the petitioner challenged it in a Special Leave Petition before this Court. 14. The principal grievance urged before this Court was that the petitioner was directly affected by the of the High Court dated 26 December 2023, but he was neither made a party to the proceedings nor was he furnished a notice of the proceedings. 15. This Court permitted the petitioner to move an application for recall of the High Court’s dated 26 December 2023. The recall application was directed to be disposed of within a period of two weeks and until then, the directions of the High Court for transfer of the petitioner were stayed. This Court also stayed the issued 448 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports pursuant to the High Court’s directions posting the petitioner as Principal Secretary (Ayush), Government of Himanchal Pradesh. 16. This Court recorded that both petitioner and complainant had no objection if the investigation were to be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation3 so as to obviate any allegation of interference at the behest of the petitioner. The present Special Leave Petition: 17. The present SLP stems from the rejection of the petitioner’s recall application mentioned above. The High Court has dismissed it and has directed the State Government to consider within a week, forming a Special Investigation Team4 consisting of IG level officers to coordinate the investigation in all the FIRs and to advise the government on providing effective security to the complainant and his family.