[2024] 2 S.C.R. 33 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu 23. It was submitted that the High Court was not correct in reading down Rule 9(5) and holding that the same must yield to the principles recognized in Section 73 of the 1872 Act, notwithstanding the wide words used in Rule 9(5) of SARFAESI Rules. 24. It was further submitted that the High Court failed to appreciate that the auction sale under consideration was a statutory sale conducted by the appellant in accordance with the SARFAESI Rules and as Section 35 of the SARFAESI Act gives an overriding effect, this would not be a case of breach of contract which would attract principles underlying Section 73 of the 1872 Act. 25. Mr. Mehta placed strong reliance on a recent decision of this Court in Authorized Officer State Bank of India v. C. Natarajan reported in 2023 SCC Online SC 510, wherein whilst dealing with a similar issue, it was held that Rule 9 which is part of a special enactment will have precedence over Sections 73 and 74 respectively of the 1872 Act which is a general provision. 26. It was further submitted that Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules, ought to be interpreted strictly because often the borrowers use subversive methods to hinder the auction process which may lead to erosion of the secured asset’s value in light of reauctions. 27. In the last, Mr. Mehta submitted that clause 11 of the e-auction notice dated 24.10.2016 explicitly provided that the failure of the auction purchaser in paying the balance amount would result in forfeiture of the earnest-money deposit. 28. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned Senior Counsel prayed that there being merit in his appeals, the same be allowed and the impugned and of the High Court be set aside. D. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT 29. Dr. S. Muralidhar, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondent on the other hand vehemently submitted that no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned and . 30. It was submitted that Section 35 of the SARFAESI Act only gives the Act an overriding effect over other laws, and is not applicable to the SARFAESI Rules made under it. Therefore Rule 9(5) of SARFASI Rules is only an enabling provision and cannot override the statutory provisions of the 1872 Act. 34 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 31. It was submitted that the High Court committed no error in holding that the appellant bank could not have forfeited the amount deposited by a third party being the auction purchaser without any real damage or loss being caused to it. 32. It was further submitted that under the SARFAESI Rules, the authorized officer is left with an unguided power of forfeiture. Such unguided power conferred on a delegated authority like the authorized officer in a bank is opposed to public policy and would result in unjust enrichment.