In the provisional merit list published on 26.08.2024, the name of the appellant figured at 42091. Under the Information brochure, candidates with disability have to submit a disability certificate issued for the year 2024 and have to undergo medical examination at the Disability Assessment Board. 678 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. The appellant approached the Designated Disability Certification Centre at Sir JJ Group of Hospitals on 16.08.2024. The Certification Centre certified that the appellant has physical disability of speech and language of 44% (in some reports, it was mentioned as 45%) and recorded that based on quantification of disability, the appellant was not eligible to pursue the medical course as per NMC norms. In view of that, the appellant was rendered ineligible person to obtain PwD reservation or to pursue medical course as per the NMC Gazette notification. 7. The Board of Governors of the Medical Council of India, the previous avatar of the NMC, had amended the Graduate Medical Education Regulations, 1997, vide notification dated 13.05.2019. The existing Appendix “H” was substituted with Appendix “H-1” providing for guidelines regarding admission to students with “specified disabilities” under the RPwD Act with respect to admission in MBBS course. As per clause 1(D) thereof, persons who have equal to or more than 40% disability were not eligible for Medical Course. The relevant clause of the schedule is extracted hereinbelow:- Type of Disability Range Disabilities Eligible for Eligible for Not Eligible Medical Medical for Medical Course, Not Course, Course Specified Eligible for Eligible for Disability PwD Quota PwD Quota D. Speech Organic/ Less than Equal to or & language neurological 40% Disability more than disability$ causes 40% Disability $ Persons with Speech Intelligibility Affected (SIA) shall be eligible to pursue MBBS Courses, provided Speech Intelligibility Affected (SIA) score shall not exceed 3 (three), which is 40% or below. Persons with Aphasia shall be eligible to pursue MBBS Courses, provided Aphasia Quotient (AQ) is 40% or below. Proceedings before the High Court: 8. Disappointed but by no means dispirited, the appellant moved the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in writ petition being W.P. Stamp No. 24821 of 2024 contending that the Medical Council of India/NMC is not empowered to lay down eligibility criteria in such a manner as to altogether take away the benefits under the RPwD [2024] 10 S.C.R. 679 Omkar Ramchandra Gond v. The Union of India & Ors. Act. Challenging the notification dated 13.05.2019 as well as the certificate issued by the Disability Certification Centre rendering him ineligible for pursuing the MBBS Course only on the ground of disability exceeding 40% without anything more, the appellant also sought interim relief permitting him to participate in the centralized admission process in admission to MBBS Course without considering the certificate issued by the Disability Certification Centre - Sir J.J. Group of Hospitals, Mumbai pending final disposal of the writ petition. 9. The appellant contended that there is nothing which would show he is not competent to pursue the course.