93 See Yun-chien Chand & Peng-Hsiang Wang, The Empirical Foundation of Normative Arguments in Legal Reasoning (Univ. Chicago Coase-Sandor Inst. For |. & Econ., Res. Paper No. 745, 2016). 94 Lee Epstein & Andrew D. Martin, An Introduction to Empirical Legal Research 6 (2014). 95 See Joshua B. Fischman, Reuniting “Is” and “Ought” in Empirical Legal Scholarship, 162 U. Pa. L. Rev. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 589 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. of addressing the quantitative/empirical deficit for a contextual and holistic balancing analysis, the pitfalls of selective data sharing must be kept in mind. After all, if a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure. ** 36. To avoid this from becoming complex, | have enclosed as an annexure a chart giving different viewpoints on the doctrine of proportionality as a test for judicial review exercised by the courts to test the validity of the legislation. The same is enclosed as Annexure-A to this .%” 37. When we turn to the reply or the defence of the Union of India in the present case, which we have referred to above, the matter of concern is the first submission made regarding the purpose and rationale of the Scheme and amendments to the Finance Act of 2017. Lest remains any doubt, | would like to specifically quote from the transcript of hearing dated 01.11.2023, where on behalf of the Union of India it was submitted: “the bottom line is this. What was really found? That what is the reason, why a person who contributes to a political party chooses the mode of unclean money as a payment mode and Your Lordships would immediately agree with me if we go by the practicalities of life. What happens is, suppose one state is going for an election. There are two parties, there are multiple parties, but by and large there are two parties which go neck to neck. Suppose | am a contractor. I’m not a company or anything. | am a contractor and |’m supposed to give my political contribution to Party A and Party B or Party A or Party B, as the case may be. But the fear was if | give by way of accounted money or by clean money, by way of cheque, it would be easily identifiable. If | give to party A and Party B forms the Government, | would be facing victimization and retribution and vice 117 (2013). 96 Marilyn Strathern, Improving Ratings: Audit in the British University System, European review, Vol. 5 Issue 3, pp. 305-321 (1997). 97 Annexure A should not be read as an opinion of this Court or even as obiter dicta expressed by this Court. The Annexure is only for the purpose of pointing out different viewpoints on the test of proportionality. 98 See paragraph 23 of this . [2024] 2 S.C.R. 590 Digital Supreme Court Reports versa. If | give money to Party 3 and Party A continues to be in Government, then | would be facing retribution or victimization.