He referred to the Thirteenth Amendment to the American Constitution, which 21 Narendra Jadhav, Ambedkar: Awakening India’s Social Conscience. (Konark Publishers Pvt. Ltd. 2014). 22 Ibid. 1554 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports abolished slavery, to demand accountability and action from the oppressor castes. He stated: “I am aware that some Touchables are suggesting that the matter of equal rights for the Untouchables should be allowed to be resolved by the Touchables amongst themselves. It cannot be resolved by the movement of the Untouchables. The Untouchables should wait till the Touchables willingly allow them such equal rights. How can it be trusted that they will willingly grant such rights to the Untouchables? It will be sheer stupidity to wait for such a miracle to happen … Another section of the Touchables tells us that even if we launch our movement, we will not succeed. If we launch a struggle, whatever few Touchables who have sympathy with our cause will feel offended and we will lose their sympathy. The progressive Touchables will then join the orthodox Hindus against us. I want to tell them that if they have sympathy for us, if they feel anguished about the injustice caused to us, then they should support us wholeheartedly like the Whites supported the Blacks in America to end slavery. Otherwise, it does not matter whether you have sympathy or hatred towards us.””23 180. Accordingly, when I consider the present issue, I will have to consider it in this background. 181. It is a matter of great coincidence that Dr. Ambedkar, who fought for the cause of social equality and eradication of inhuman treatment for generations, got an opportunity to work as the Chief Architect of the Constitution of India. 182. I have already referred to his speech on draft Article 300A and draft Article 300B (now Articles 341 and 342). It will also be apposite to refer to the relevant part of Dr. Ambedkar’s speech on 30th November 1948 on Article 16 (which was draft Article 10), which reads thus: 23 Ibid. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1555 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. “Article 16 (Article 10 in Draft Constitution) The Hon’ble Dr. B.R. Ambedkar: ……..As I said, the Drafting Committee had to produce a formula which would reconcile these three points of view, firstly, that there shall be equality of opportunity, secondly that there shall be reservations in favour of certain communities which have not so far had a ‘proper look-in’ so to say into the administration. If honourable Members will bear these facts in mind–the three principles, we had to reconcile,–they will see that no better formula could be produced than the one that is embodied in sub-clause (3) of article 10 of the Constitution; they will find that the view of those who believe and hold that there shall be equality of opportunity, has been embodied in sub-clause (1) of Article 10. It is a generic principle. At the same time, as I said, we had to reconcile this formula with the demand made by certain communities that the administration which has now–for historical reasons–been controlled by one community or a few communities, that situation should disappear and that the others also must have an opportunity of getting into the public services.