Circumstance No. 1: The appellant last seen with the deceased 13. It is the consistent case of the prosecution that the deceased child Rohit @ Shital was barely four years old and was playing near his 1080 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports house when the accused took him from there under the pretext of getting him ice-cream. PW-10 Jyotsnaben, who was the aunt of the deceased and who lived nearby, clearly deposed that on the day of the incident when she was cooking near the front side of the house, the appellant came to her and asked for water. Thereafter, while leaving, the accused took the victim. When she asked the appellant where he was taking the victim, the appellant replied that he was taking the victim to get ice-cream and he will send him after that. When PW-10 told him not to do so, the appellant stated that he would send him back after getting the child ice-cream, and so saying took the child with him. 14. It is undisputed that the family of the deceased knew the appellant and his family. PW-10 further deposed that when after a long time the deceased did not return, she informed the same to her sister-in- law PW-13.2 Artiben. PW-10 maintained her narration in the cross where it also emerges that she searched for child at the ice-cream shop of Kabo and Yogesh in the village and was told that the victim had not been there. 15. The deposition of PW-10 Jyotsnaben is fully corroborated by the evidence given by PW-11 Manoj Kumar. PW-11 states that he was running a garment shop at Piludara village; that on the day of the incident, the appellant Shambhu passed by his shop at about 12 O’clock; that Pravingiri’s son was with the appellant; that on being asked the appellant informed that he was going to the shop of Kaliya to get ice-cream. PW-11 also stated that when the appellant was passing by the shop along with victim, PW-12 Somabhai Ranchhodbhai, Ranjitbhai Fatesang and Raysangbhai Manorbhai were also present. The defence contends that PW-12 did not support the case of the prosecution and was declared hostile. This aspect of the matter does not detract from the clinching evidence of the evidence of aunt of the deceased - PW-10 Jyotsnaben which we find very natural or the evidence of PW-11 Manoj Kumar who had no reason to falsely depose to the said fact. The only suggestion given to PW-11 is that he was deposing because he was friend of the father of the deceased. We are not persuaded to discredit the testimony of PW-11 on this score. 16. Apart from PW-10 and PW-11, PW-13.1 Sursangbhai also speaks about the appellant taking the deceased and the appellant stating [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1081 Sambhubhai Raisangbhai Padhiyar v. State of Gujarat that he was going to get the child ice-cream. PW-13.1 states that thereafter he went inside the house and left for the farm. It was strongly contended by the defence that in the cross-examination, he had deposed that he had not seen the appellant passing by the shop along with the deceased.