The party may be a villager or may belong to a rural area and may have no knowledge of the court’s procedure. After engaging a lawyer, the party may remain supremely confident that the lawyer will look after his interest. At the time of the hearing of the appeal, the personal appearance of the party is not only not required but hardly useful. Therefore, the party having done everything in his power to effectively participate in the proceedings can rest assured that he has neither to go to the High Court to inquire as to what is happening in the High Court with regard to his appeal nor is he to act as a watchdog of the advocate that the latter appears in the matter when it is 1 (1981) 2 SCC 788 2080 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports listed. It is no part of his job. Mr A.K. Sanghi stated that a practice has grown up in the High Court of Allahabad amongst the lawyers that they remain absent when they do not like a particular Bench. Maybe, we do not know, he is better informed in this matter. Ignorance in this behalf is our bliss. Even if we do not put our seal of imprimatur on the alleged practice by dismissing this matter which may discourage such a tendency, would it not bring justice delivery system into disrepute. What is the fault of the party who having done everything in his power expected of him would suffer because of the default of his advocate. If we reject this appeal, as Mr A.K. Sanghi invited us to do, the only one who would suffer would not be the lawyer who did not appear but the party whose interest he represented. The problem that agitates us is whether it is proper that the party should suffer for the inaction, deliberate omission, or misdemeanour of his agent. The answer obviously is in the negative. Maybe that the learned Advocate absented himself deliberately or intentionally. We have no material for ascertaining that aspect of the matter. We say nothing more on that aspect of the matter. However, we cannot be a party to an innocent party suffering injustice merely because his chosen advocate defaulted. Therefore, we allow this appeal, set aside the of the High Court both dismissing the appeal and refusing to recall that …..” 10. In the present case, the appellant has trusted his counsel to manage the suit proceedings. However, he was not made aware of the ex- parte decree by his previous counsel. It is only after the appointment of the new counsel, the appellant got to know about the ex-parte decree. Therefore, the Additional Sessions Judge ought not to have exercised the revisional jurisdiction in interfering with the of the Trial Court where it had exercised its discretion in setting aside the ex-parte decree for justifiable reasons accepting the reasons given by the defendant-appellant. 11. The Appellant has relied upon the following s in support of his submissions.