As there is no comprehensive categorization of all Solid waste processing operations/activities in modified CPCB categorization for Solid Waste Management, Board is not granting the consent for Solid Waste Management Facility/operations/activities. Presently, Board is granting authorization under The Solid Waste Management rules, 2016, for setting up and operation of solid waste management facilities. The Board in its 176th meeting held on 25/O2/2O2I passed resolution on consent management for solid waste processing plants / facilities and decided to grant Consent to Establish/Operate for Solid Waste Management facilities. The Consent fees is charged as per Env. Dept. GoM GR dated 25.8.2011 to individual/Integrated Solid Waste Management facility depending upon type of ULB. The term of consent for Red, Orange, and Green category of Industry is one, two and three years respectively”. Local Bodies to pay the consent fees to the Board as per the statement given below. • Urban Local Bodies- Sr. No. Urban Local Body Fees 1. Municipal Corporation Rs.1,00,000/- 2. Municipal Council Class-A Rs.50,000/- 3. Municipal Council Class-B Rs.5,000/- 4. Municipal Council Class-C Rs.2,000/- 390 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports • Other than Local Body- Individual Operator/ Based on gross capital Industry installing MSW investment as per prevailing based processing plant. rules for industries. Delegation of powers to various authorities for grant of consent will be as per “revised delegation of powers for consent Management” issued vide Office No. 12, Dated- 23/12/2O2O. Therefore, all Ros and SROs are hereby directed to communicate all local Bodies/Cantonment Boards of Concern area of jurisdiction for submission of application to obtain Consent to Establish/Operate for setting up and operation of existing as well as proposed solid waste management facilities.” 37. It could thus be seen that prior to 6th September 2021, the MPCB was not granting Consent for Solid Waste Management facility/ operations/activities. The MPCB was granting authorization for setting up and operation of solid waste management facilities. Only in the meeting dated 25th February 2021, a Resolution was passed on consent management and it was decided to grant Consent to operate for Solid Waste Management Facilities. Vide the said communication, all ROs and SROs were directed to communicate to all local Bodies/Cantonment Boards of concerned areas for submission of applications to obtain Consent to establish/operate for setting up and operation of existing as well as proposed Solid Waste Management Facilities. 38. Admittedly, after the said date i.e. 6th September 2021, the Consent to Operate was granted by the MPCB on 1st November 2022. The said Consent to Operate has been further renewed till 30th September 2025 and authorization to set up and operate has been granted till 31st July 2027. It can thus clearly be seen that the MPCB started granting Consent only after 6th September 2021 and prior to that, it was only issuing a composite authorization. We find that the learned Tribunal has failed to take this into consideration and as such, the finding in that regard also deserves to be set aside. 39. The next contention is that the Checklist issued by the MPCB which was published in 2003 would also apply to the GPP.