Thus, it was said that the guiding idea of the eventuality specified therein were the parameters required to be taken by employer in public interest and, the interest of an employee cannot be given prominence over the public interest. In our view, the said has no application in the facts of instant case wherein the charge of Principal was given on the date of intimation of resignation itself, to one Mrs. Purvi Shah who was appointed as “officiating Principal” with immediate effect, directing the appellant to proceed on leave. 27. In view of the foregoing discussion, we answer question (A) and (B) in favour of appellant and hold that letter dated 25.03.2003 is an intimation of resignation from a prospective date i.e., 24.09.2003, which could have been withdrawn by the appellant prior to the effective date. There is no Rule or Regulation brought to our notice which restrains such withdrawal. There was no prior consent to the letter dated 08.04.2003 for accepting resignation w.e.f. 24.09.2003 as ‘final, binding and irrevocable’ which is on record and therefore, by using such words, the acceptance of resignation was unilateral. As discussed, there was no implied contract and understanding 636 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with prior consent. Therefore, the withdrawal of such resignation by appellant prior to the effective date is permissible as per the law laid down in the case of Gopal Chandra Misra (supra) and Srikantha S.M. (supra). Learned counsel for the parties have also relied on some more case law, but there is no need to burden our as the question of law as decided in those cases is one and the same. It is further required to be observed that in view of the findings recorded hereinabove, we are not examining the question about how far the Tribunal was justified in dealing with the issue on merits. In view of the above discussion, both the questions are answered in favour of appellant. ANALYSIS OF QUESTION (C) 28. In the absence of anything contrary in the provisions governing the terms and conditions of the office or post and in the absence of any legal contractual or constitutional bar, a prospective resignation can be withdrawn at any time before it becomes effective as discussed above. The Trust had made arrangements giving officiating charge to the Principal in the place of appellant and as such there was no prejudice to public interest. 29. In the peculiar facts of this case, it is clear that the effective date of resignation was 24.09.2003. The College Tribunal granted stay on 20.09.2003 which remained operative till the final was delivered by the College Tribunal on 30.04.2004. On filing of the writ petition and appeal against the of Writ Court, it was decided against the appellant by the impugned . During pendency of litigation before the High Court, the appellant got selected on the post of Principal in M.P.P. Shah College and on joining duty on 01.10.2007 worked till attaining the age of superannuation i.e., 31.10.2015.