As rightly observed by Dalveer Bhandari, J. in the case of Naveen Kohli vs. Neelu Kohli, (2006) 4 SCC 558, “since there is no acceptable way in which a spouse can be compelled to resume life with the consort, nothing is gained by trying to keep the parties tied for ever to a marriage that in fact has ceased to exist.” 12. Apart from the irreconcilable status of the relationship between the parties, in the present case, another factor that has weighed with this Court in favour of the exercise of the power under Article 142(1) is that there is no child born out of the wedlock and therefore, any direction to allow the parties to part ways would only affect the parties themselves and not any innocent child. 13. Thus, this is a fit case for us to exercise our discretion under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India to dissolve the marriage between the parties on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage. Hence, the application is liable to be allowed and is allowed. Maintenance / Permanent Alimony: 14. We have to now consider the question of assessing the alimony for the petitioner upon the dissolution of marriage between the parties. 1396 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports It was for the limited purpose of determining the quantum of alimony or maintenance or other rights of the petitioner-wife that this Court had transferred the case to the Family Court, Pune. The Family Court has considered the pleadings and evidence of the parties in detail, and has sent us its report in the form of an dated 22.03.2024. In essence, the petitioner-wife has sought permanent alimony commensurate to the assets and income of the respondent-husband and on the same principles on which the alimony was paid to the first wife of the respondent. The respondent-husband has denied the exorbitant claims of the petitioner and submitted that Rs.20 lakhs to Rs.40 lakhs would be an appropriate amount of permanent alimony for the petitioner. Finally, the Family Court, Pune has suggested a permanent alimony of Rs.2 lakhs per month for the petitioner-wife or Rs.10 crores in lumpsum. 14.1 We have perused the application of the petitioner for fixation of alimony, the reply of the respondent to the said application, the dated 22.03.2024 passed by the Family Court, Pune, and the submissions advanced in this aspect. 14.2 The dispute with respect to the amount of alimony is generally the most contentious point between parties in such marital proceedings, supplemented by a plethora of accusations to remove the cover from the opposite party’s income and assets. The judicial dicta in this context could be discussed as under: 14.2.1 In the passed by a three-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Shakti vs. Anita, Civil Appeal No. 7427/2023, MANU/SCOR/139017/2023 decided on 02.11.2023, it was observed as under: “That brings us to the aspect of permanent alimony over which the real dispute is. We looked to the offer of the appellant as also the desire of the respondent.