Thus, possession and ownership of the land shall be with appellants/ defendants. Mansha Ram and Khazana Ram also recorded their statements on 20.06.1984, that they have reached a settlement and the suit may be dismissed. These four statements are on record of the High Court and of this Court. 6. Appellants submit that Bakshi Ram’s three son got exclusive possession and mutation in revenue records by virtue of the sale deed dated 22.08.1983. However, the Respondents submit that by virtue of dismissal of suit by first Appellate Court, all four brothers- Julfi, Tihru, Bakshi and Nighu became owners and the sale deed executed in favour of the three sons of Bakshi Ram shall be subject to compromise decree passed by first Appellate Court. 7. On 23.02.1988, the present suit (Civil Suit No. 41 of 1988) was instituted by Respondents/Plaintiffs- Julfi Ram, Prem Chand, Dharam Singh, Premi Devi, Atmi Devi, Asha Devi, Subhash Chand and Gian Chand- two sons of Nighu represented by their mother Premi Devi (hereinafter referred as “Julfi Ram and others”) against appellants/ Defendants- Bakshi Ram(since deceased), Tihru Ram, Amro Devi (wife of Bakshi Ram), Sansar Chand, Kartar Chand, Rajinder Kumar (minor son of Bakshi Ram), Mansha Ram, Khazana Ram, Ramji Das, Bihari Lal and Asha Devi- widow of Suresh Kumar (hereinafter referred as “Bakshi Ram and others”). Thus, the erstwhile owners Mansha Ram and others were also impleaded as defendants. The suit was filed for declaration and permanent prohibitory injunction claiming that plaintiffs are owners in possession of half share i.e. 3 kanals [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1403 Amro Devi & Ors. v. Julfi Ram (Deceased) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. 15 marlas in the suit land as per the compromise between parties in Civil Appeal decided by District Court on 20.08.1984. Plaintiffs also stated that they continued to be in possession and they were cultivating the land. However, in June 1987 the defendants started interfering with the land in suit stating that they have purchased the land and plaintiff cannot continue to cultivate. Only at this stage plaintiffs claim to have received knowledge about mutation entries where only the names of defendants have been recorded. 8. On the other hand, defendants (Bakshi Ram and others) submitted a written statement on 28.01.1992, contending that there was no compromise in earlier proceedings since no compromise deed was executed and placed on record before the Court in appeal. They also claimed that they have spent Rs. 9,000/- on improvement of suit land after the purchase. 9. The Trial Court, by dated 19.12.1992, dismissed the suit. It held that for proceeding under XXIII Rule 3 of Code of Civil Procedure, 19081 the existence and production of written compromise between the parties duly signed by them is most important. It relied upon the ruling of this Court in Gurpreet Singh vs Chaturbhuj Gopal.2 Since the said compromise was not presented in written form duly signed by the parties, the mandate under XXIII Rule 3 CPC is not fulfilled and thus it lacks legal force.