(ix) It will put serious pressure on available land for development of the State and bonafide aspirations of its people including conservation imperatives. (x) In the State of Goa, geographically available land of 3702 Sq. Km has been divided into Eco Zone 1, Eco Zone 2 and Developable Zones, under the Regional Plan Goa 2021 under the Town and Country Planning Act, 1974. In so far as Eco Zone- 1 IS concerned, it comprises Forest (Protected/Reserved/National Park/Wildlife Sanctuaries), 738 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Mangrove Forest, identified Private Forests till 2008, Water Bodies/nallas/ponds and paddy fields/khazan lands. Eco Zone 1 constitutes 50.94 % of the geographical area of the State and is completely a ‘No Development Zone’. In so far as Eco Zone- 2 is concerned, it comprises orchards, natura! cover, cultivable land, salt pans and fish farms/mud flats. Eco Zone-2 constitutes 31.42% of the geographical area of the State where development is restricted to the land use which is completely regulated. Together Eco Zone 1 & 2 constitutes 82.37% of the geographical area of the State leaving behind 17.63% of land as Developable Zones in which also development is regulated and restricted. A copy of the forest cover map of state of Goa as per India State of Forest Report, 2017, FSI Dehradun is annexed hereto and marked as Annexure – B. 68. It is necessary to mention at this juncture, the application of criteria cannot be universally standardized across the country, as it is contingent upon the specific geography and geographical conditions prevalent in each State. Each State possesses its distinctive geographical features, and as a result, the criteria may vary from one State to another. In this regard, it would be apt to consider the criteria/parameters formulated by various States to identify the private forest as indicated in the affidavit filed on behalf of the respondent No. 1, 4 to 8 dated 07.05.2019 are as under: State Description of the Criteria/parameters Andhra Pradesh All private lands bearing natural tree growth more and Telangana than 0.40 density and having an extent of 10 hectares, shall be treated as forest subject to the conditions that it should not adversely affect customary rights of ‘Tribal Land owners’. Arunachal Areas recorded as forest in the government records were only treated as forests for the purpose of the Pradesh FC Act. Expert committee did not formulate any parameter to classify an area as ‘forest’ by dictionary meaning. Assam Minimum forest area of Ten hectare and more under private ownership were treated as ‘forest’ by dictionary meaning. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 739 T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others Chhattisgarh A patch of land irrespective of their ownership will and Madhya be deemed as ‘forest’ if Pradesh (a) Its area is not less than 10 hectares. (b) It is covered with naturally growing timber, fuel wood and yielding trees. (c) Average number of trees standing on it is 200 or more tree per hectare. Goa A patch of land irrespective of their ownership will be deemed as forest if a.