5. Every legal right has a title, that is to say, certain facts or events by reason of which the right has become vested in its owner. [Source: PJ Fitzgerald, Salmond on Jurisprudence, Page No.221 (Universal Law Publishing Co. Pvt. Ltd., 12th Edition, 1966)] 15. Salmond also believed that no right can exist without a corresponding duty. Every right or duty involves a bond of legal obligation by which two or more persons are bound together. Thus, there can be no duty unless there is someone to whom it is due; there can be no right unless there is someone from whom it is claimed; and there can be no wrong unless there is someone who is wronged, that is to say, someone whose right has been violated. This is also called as vinculum juris which means “a bond of the law”. It is a tie that legally binds one person to another. [Source: PJ Fitzgerald, Salmond 138 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports on Jurisprudence, Page No.220 (Universal Law Publishing Co. Pvt. Ltd., 12th Edition, 1966)]. 16. Salmond’s classification of proprietary and personal rights are encapsulated as under: Proprietary Rights Personal Rights 1 Proprietary rights means a Personal rights are person’s right in relation to rights arising out of any his own property. Proprietary contractual obligation or rights have some economic rights that relate to status. or monetary value. 2 Proprietary rights are Personal rights are not valuable. valuable in monetary terms. 3 Proprietary rights are not Personal rights are the residual in character. residuary rights which remain after proprietary rights have been subtracted. 4 Proprietary rights are Personal rights are not transferable. transferable. 5 Proprietary rights are the Personal rights are merely elements of wealth for man. elements of his well-being. 6 Proprietary rights possess Personal rights possess not merely judicial but also merely judicial importance. economic importance. [Source: PJ Fitzgerald, Salmond on Jurisprudence, Page No.238 (Universal Law Publishing Co. Pvt. Ltd., 12th Edition, 1966)]. 17. Salmond’s classification of inheritable and uninheritable rights is stated as under: Inheritable Rights Uninheritable Rights A right is inheritable if it A right is uninheritable if it dies survives the owner. with the owner. [Source: PJ Fitzgerald, Salmond on Jurisprudence, Page Nos.415 & 442 (Universal Law Publishing Co. Pvt. Ltd., 12th Edition, 1966)]. 18. On a reading of the above, it is clear, when it comes to personal rights (as opposed to a proprietary rights) are rights arising out of any [2024] 3 S.C.R. 139 Vinayak Purshottam Dube (Deceased), Through Lrs v. Jayashree Padamkar Bhat & Others contractual obligations or the rights that relate to status. Such personal rights are not transferable and also not inheritable. Correspondingly, Section 306 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (for short, “1925 Act”) applies the maxim “actio personalis moritur cum persona” (a personal right of action dies with the person) which is limited to a certain class of cases and would apply when the right litigated is not heritable. By the same logic, a decree holder cannot enforce the same against the legal representatives of a deceased debtor unless the same survives as against his legal representatives.