633 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. f) The District Education Officer dealing with literacy programmes. g) District Social Welfare Officer h) District Employment Officer i) District Agricultural Officer j) District Industrial Officer The Board shall make at least one visit per quarter and for this purpose, presence of three members and the chairman shall constitute quorum. 29.04 The Board of Visitors shall also comprise the following Non-Official Members:- a) Three Members of the Legislative Assembly of the state of which one should be a woman. b) A nominee of the State Human Rights Commission c) Two social workers of the District/Sub-Division; one of them shall be a woman having an interest in the administration of prisons and welfare of prisoners. 29.05 The District Judge shall be the Chairman of the Board of visitors at District level and the Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate shall be the Chairman at Sub-Division level. The Non-official visitors after their appointment must be sensitised and trained about their duties, roles and responsibilities.” 226. The duties of the Board have been provided as follows: “29.22 All Visitors, official and non-official, at every visit shall: (a) examine the cooked food; (b) inspect the barracks, wards, work-sheds and other buildings of the prison generally; (c) ascertain whether considerations of health, cleanliness and security are attended to, whether proper management 634 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and discipline is maintained in every respect and whether any prisoner is illegally detained, or is detained for undue length of time while awaiting trial; (d) examine prison registers and records, except secret records and records pertaining to accounts; (e) hear and attend to all representation and petitions made by or on behalf of the prisoners; (f) direct, if deemed advisable, that any such representation or petition be forwarded to the Government; (g) suggest new avenues for improvement in correctional work.”310 The comments of the Board of Visitors are recorded in the visitors’ book of the prison and are forwarded to the Inspector General (IG) of Prisons. Any action on the comments is at the discretion of the IG Prisons. 227. The Model Prisons and Correctional Services Act, 2023 also envisages inspection of prisons, including by a Board of Visitors headed by the district judge/additional district judge/sub-divisional judicial magistrate.311 It also includes the provision for “free legal aid to the prisoners in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987” and the relevant standard operating procedure.312 XIX. The Future of Substantive Equality & Institutional Discrimination 228. What does the future hold for India? Dr Ambedkar had expressed this concern in his last address to the Constituent Assembly. The concern holds true even today. More than 75 years since independence, we have not been able to eradicate the evil of caste discrimination. We need to have a national vision for justice and equality, which involves all citizens. As Jamal Greene noted: 310 Rule 29.22, Model Prison Manual, 2016. 311 Section 54 312 Section 56 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 635 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors.