This approach would support the arguments of the respondents concerning the interpretation of Article 31-C. However, like the decisions in Bhim Singh and Sanjeev Coke, no argument was raised that the unamended Article 31-C did not automatically revive absent legislative intervention and the two-judge Bench has proceeded on an assumption that the unamended Article 31-C is enforceable. 51. In the above decisions interpreting Article 31-C, this Court has consistently taken the position that Article 31-C, as it stood prior to the Forty-Second Amendment, has legal effect and can be invoked to defend legislations against Article 14 and Article 19 challenges. However, as the appellants correctly point out, no jurisprudential explanation has been provided for why this is the case and, in most [2024] 11 S.C.R. 65 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. decisions, this Court has assumed that Article 31-C continues to have legal effect. In light of the specific contentions raised by the appellants in the present case, and the significant consequences flowing from the appellants’ arguments, this Court must examine the constitutional question of whether, after Minerva Mills invalidated the Forty-Second Amendment, the text of the unamended Article 31-C can be enforced. iii. Precedents concerning invalidation of amendments 52. The first decision which the appellants relied on was Shamarao Parulekar v District Magistrate, Thana.45 The case concerned the Preventive Detention Act, 1950 which at the time was scheduled to expire on 1 April 1952. A few months prior to this, on 15 November 1951, the petitioner (Shamarao) was detained. However, the statute was subsequently amended to extend its lifespan by six months till 1 October 1952. Shamarao contended that the extension of the Act could not extend his detention past 1 April 1952, when the Act was originally scheduled to expire. Justice Vivian Bose, speaking for a Constitution bench of this Court observed that the amendment to the Preventive Detention Act, 1950 expressly stated that detention s shall remain in force “so long as the principal Act is in force” and “principal Act” had been defined as the 1950 Act. The learned Judge went on to explain: “7. … The rule is that when a subsequent Act amends an earlier one in such a way as to incorporate itself, or a part of itself, into the earlier, then the earlier Act must thereafter be read and construed (except where that would lead to a repugnancy, inconsistency or absurdity) as if the altered words had been written into the earlier Act with pen and ink and the old words scored out so that thereafter there is no need to refer to the amending Act at all. This is the rule in England [citation omitted]; it is the rule in America [citation omitted] and it is the law which the Privy Council applied in India in Keshoram Poddar v. Nundo Lal Mallick. Bearing this in mind it will be seen that the 1950 Act remains the 1950 Act all the way through even with its subsequent amendments.