128 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 21. The limitation on the extent of the amount receivable by a dissenting financial creditor is innate in Section 30(2)(b) of the Code and has been further exposited in the decisions aforesaid. It has not been the intent of the legislature that a security interest available to a dissenting financial creditor over the assets of the corporate debtor gives him some right over and above other financial creditors so as to enforce the entire of the security interest and thereby bring about an inequitable scenario, by receiving excess amount, beyond the receivable liquidation value proposed for the same class of creditors.” 30. Our attention is also drawn to paragraph 17 and 22 of India Resurgence ARC Private Limited (supra), wherein after elucidating on the ratio in Jaypee Kensington (supra), the Bench has observed: “17. Thus, what amount is to be paid to different classes or subclasses of creditors in accordance with provisions of the Code and the related Regulations, is essentially the commercial wisdom of the Committee of Creditors; and a dissenting secured creditor like the appellant cannot suggest a higher amount to be paid to it with reference to the value of the security interest. xx xx xx 22. It needs hardly any emphasis that if the propositions suggested on behalf of the appellant were to be accepted, the result would be that rather than insolvency resolution and maximisation of the value of assets of the corporate debtor, the processes would lead to more liquidations, with every secured financial creditor opting to stand on dissent. Such a result would be defeating the very purpose envisaged by the Code; and cannot be countenanced. We may profitably refer to the relevant observations in this regard by this Court in Essar Steel as follows: “85. Indeed, if an “equality for all” approach recognising the rights of different classes of creditors as part of an insolvency resolution process is adopted, secured financial creditors will, in many cases, be incentivised to vote for liquidation rather than resolution, as they [2024] 1 S.C.R. 129 DBS BANK LIMITED SINGAPORE v. RUCHI SOYA INDUSTRIES LIMITED AND ANOTHER would have better rights if the corporate debtor was to be liquidated rather than a resolution plan being approved. This would defeat the entire objective of the Code which is to first ensure that resolution of distressed assets takes place and only if the same is not possible should liquidation follow.”” 31. We believe that there is a contradiction in the reasoning given in the of this Court in India Resurgence ARC Private Limited (supra), which is in discord with the ratio decidendi of the decisions of the three Judge Bench in Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Limited (supra) and Jaypee Kensington (supra). 32. In Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Limited (supra), this Court had referred to the UNCITRAL Legislative Guide on the treatment of dissenting creditors to observe that it is essential to provide a way of imposing a plan agreed upon by a majority of a class upon the dissenting minority to increase the chances of success of the reorganisation.