If the cess is taken as a tax, then, unless it can be described as land revenue or a tax on land or a tax on mining rights, it cannot be upheld under Entry 45, 49 or 50 - List II. It was further observed that the question whether royalty is a tax or not does not assist much in furnishing an answer to the two questions posed in the case. 18.1 Considering the Scheme of the MMDR Act, 1957 and the Rules made thereunder, it was opined that levy of tax had to be struck down insofar as the Bihar Act was concerned. As far as the Madhya Pradesh Act was concerned, the levy of cess was not on land in general but only on land held in connection with mineral rights, which, in the State of Madhya Pradesh is 1798 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports principally in regard to coal and limestone. Reiterating that cess is not referrable either under Entry 49 or 50 - List II, the State’s petition was dismissed. It was held that the State legislature had no competence to impose the cess. The same reasoning was also applied insofar as the levy of cess in the State of Orissa was concerned. Mahalaxmi Fabric Mills: 19. In Mahalaxmi Fabric Mills, two questions fell for consideration in the said appeals – firstly, whether Section 9(3) of the MMDR Act, 1957 was ultra vires the Constitution; and, secondly, whether the notification dated 01.08.1991 issued by the Central Government under Section 9(3) of the Act was ultra vires, illegal and inoperative in law. This Court followed the earlier dicta in India Cement as well as Orissa Cement and was observed that the contention of the Central Government that prices of minerals for exports were fixed and could not be escalated with the enhancement of the royalties by different States as their working would become impossible. Therefore, the Parliament had placed an embargo on enhancement of the royalty directly or indirectly except by the Union and in the manner specified under the MMDR Act, 1957. In paragraph 20 of the , it was observed that enhancing uniformly the rates of royalty for the entire country even though minerals might be extracted from different States is necessary for having a uniform pattern of price of minerals and that has a direct linkage with the development of minerals. Further, regulating the rates of royalty on extraction of minerals also has an important role to play in opening up new mining areas for winning minerals. In this connection, Section 18 of the Act which deals with mineral development was referred to and it was observed that fixation of royalty rates is in the realm of development of minerals as envisaged by Section 18 of the MMDR Act, 1957 and the contrary submission to the above was not accepted. 19.1 Referring to the definition clause which defines, inter alia, ‘minerals and minding operations’, it was observed that ‘mining operation’ means any operation undertaken for the purpose of winning any mineral.