4.10 The impugned s and s came to be challenged before this Court and after hearing all the parties, this Court vide dated 12th August 2024 reserved the and by way of an ad-interim directed the respondent/State to keep seven seats vacant in MBBS course, so that in the event the appellants succeed, they can be accommodated against the said seats. 5. We have heard Shri K. Parameshwar, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants and Shri Nachiketa Joshi, learned Additional Advocate General (AAG) appearing on behalf of the respondents. 6. Shri Parameshwar, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants submitted that the GS quota was introduced by the State of Madhya Pradesh on 10th May 2023. However, the procedure followed by the respondents in sub-classifying the candidates further into categories as UR-GS, SC-GS, ST-GS, OBC- GS and EWS-GS was totally illegal. It is submitted that, in view of the settled position of law as laid down by this Court in the case of Saurav Yadav and Others v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others,1 even in case of horizontal reservation, the candidates from the reserved categories like SC/ST/OBC, if they are entitled on their own merit in the GS quota, will have to be admitted against the GS quota (UR seats). He submitted that, on account of erroneous application of policy, an anomalous situation has arisen wherein, in the UR-GS seats, the persons who are much less meritorious than the appellants, who have secured as low as 214, 150 marks, have secured admission, whereas the appellants, who are much more meritorious than the UR-GS candidates have been deprived the admission. It is submitted that the cut-off for UR-GS was 291, OBC-GS was 465, SC-GS was 314 and EWS-GS was 428. He therefore submitted that, on account of erroneous application of the policy, as many as 77 seats classified as UR-GS, were not 1 [2020] 11 SCR 281 : (2021) 4 SCC 542 : 2020 INSC 714 922 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports filled from the GS quota and had to be released to the open pool of candidates. 7. Shri Parameshwar further submitted that the State, realizing its mistake, has now carried out an amendment on 2nd July 2024 thereby intending to apply horizontal reservation correctly for this academic year in accordance with the and decision of this Court in the case of Saurav Yadav (supra). 8. To meet the situation of the admission for the Academic Session 2023-24 which being already complete, the learned Senior Counsel, relying on the of this Court in the case of S. Krishna Sradha v. State of Andhra Pradesh and Others,2 submitted that the Court should mould the relief and direct the admission to be granted to the appellants in the next academic session by issuing appropriate directions. 9. Shri Joshi, learned AAG appearing on behalf of the respondents submitted that, since the reservation in the GS category was horizontal, the State was justified in making a further sub- classification into OBC-GS, ST-GS, SC-GS, UR-GS and EWS-GS.