However, there are certain rights that are also made available to non-citizens, including the right to equality before the law, the prohibition of forced labour, etc. Additionally, the category of Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) represents a unique position within the spectrum of citizenship and 3 Citizenship, supra note 1; rousseAu, J.J., 1762, On the Social Contract with Geneva Manuscript and Political Economy, R. D. Masters (ed. ), J. R. Masters (trans. ), New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1978, Chapter 15. 4 ulriCh preuss, The Ambiguous Meaning of Citizenship, University of Chicago Law School (2003). 5 1963 SCC OnLine SC 3, para 13. 6 stephAnie DeGooyer et Al, The Right to Have Rights,Verso Books, 2018, 7; romilA thApAr et. al., On Citizenship, Aleph Book Company, 2021, 35. 7 Perez v. Bromwell [1958] 356 US 44, 46 1004 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports non-citizenship since they have more rights than non-citizens (such as a lifelong visa for visiting India) but have fewer rights in comparison to citizens (such as the absence of the right to vote). 7. The bundle of rights accompanying ‘citizenship’ differs in other countries. For instance, in the United Kingdom, the British Nationality Act, 1981 creates six different classes of people: British Citizen, British Overseas Territories Citizen, British Overseas Citizen, British Subject, British National (Overseas), and British Protected Person. These classes are based on varying levels of association with the United Kingdom and its overseas territories, former colonies, and protectorates; and they carry different sets of rights. For instance, while British citizenship bestows the right to vote, it is also available to some Commonwealth citizens.8 8. Similarly, Mexico establishes two distinct categories of “national” and “citizen”.9 A citizen is defined as a national who is 18 years of age and has an “honest way of life”.10 Once a national becomes a citizen, they get the right to vote, the right to assembly, the right to join the army, etc.11 Hence, while nationals and citizens can live in Mexico, only citizens get the extra right to vote. The situation is also similar in the United States of America (USA). Here, the residents of certain territories like American Samoa are only granted nationality and not citizenship of the USA. Like Mexico, such nationals can reside freely in the USA but cannot vote or hold certain elected offices.12 Further, while the residents of some other territories, like Puerto Rico, are granted citizenship, they still do not get the right to vote.13 9. The trans-national comparison examined above aids us by providing three definite conclusions. First, globally, citizenship can be conceptualized as the right to be a member of a society. In that sense, citizenship is essential to one’s identity since it determines whether that person would be perceived as an alien or as ‘one of us’. This is particularly true given the historical context of the partition 8 Representation of the People Act, 1983 (c. 2), Acts of Parliament, 1983 (United Kingdom), Section 4; Immigration Act, Acts of Parliament, 1971 (UK), Section 2.