This concept is based on the recognition that humans, as but one part of life on earth, must live within their ecological limits rather than see themselves as the purpose of environmental protection, as the ‘anthropocentric’ approach proposes. Humans are trustees of the Earth rather than being mere stewards. The idea is based on the proposition that ecosystems of air, water, land, and atmosphere are a public trust and should be preserved and protected as habitat for all natural beings and natural communities.” (emphasis supplied) ● T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India, (2012) 3 SCC 277 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 119 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. “17. Environmental justice could be achieved only if we drift away from the principle of anthropocentric to ecocentric. Many of our principles like sustainable development, polluter-pays principle, intergenerational equity have their roots in anthropocentric principles. Anthropocentrism is always human interest focussed and that non-human has only instrumental value to humans. In other words, humans take precedence and human responsibilities to non-human based benefits to humans. Ecocentrism is nature-centred where humans are part of nature and non-humans have intrinsic value. In other words, human interest does not take automatic precedence and humans have obligations to non- humans independently of human interest. Ecocentrism is therefore life-centred, nature-centred where nature includes both humans and non-humans. The National Wildlife Action Plan 2002-2012 and the Centrally Sponsored Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitats Scheme, 2009 are centred on the principle of ecocentrism.” The concept of natural rights theory is being evolved, which encapsulates recognizing and acknowledging the rights of nature. As stated, such a right is meant for the benefit of nature, inclusive of all species, both present and future. The concept of trusteeship and inter-generational equity ought to be understood from this perspective, as any deviation would cause not only degradation of the environment but also serious inequality between different species as well as amongst them. The idea is to recognize the importance of forests qua the society as their significance has to be seen in the light of their effect on the Earth. Christopher D. Stone: Should Trees Have Standing? – Toward Legal Rights For Natural Objects, Southern California Law Review, 45 (1972) (pp. 464, 473, 474, 476), “It is not inevitable, nor is it wise, that natural objects should have no rights to seek redress on their own behalf. It is no answer to say that streams and forests cannot have standing because streams and forests cannot speak. Corporations cannot speak either; nor can states, estates, infants, incompetents, municipalities or universities… …If the environment is not to get lost in the shuffle, we would do well, I think, to adopt the guardianship approach 120 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports as an additional safeguard, conceptualizing major natural objects as holders of their own rights, raisable by the court- appointed guardian. …There is also a good case to be made for taking into account harm to the environment-in its own right.