The Constitution has with foresight visualized this and empowered Parliament to impose “any limitations” on the subject of taxing mineral rights under Entry 50 of List II. 249. It was contended by the respondents that States already have multiple revenue streams arising from the mining and minerals sector. They are: (i) royalty and dead rent payable under Section 9 and 9A of the MMDR Act respectively; (ii) contributions to the District Mineral Foundation under Section 9B; and (iii) auction premium received from successful bidders for mineral blocks for mines allocated under the Mineral (Auction) Rules 2015. The above levies are statutorily collected and the revenue flows to the State as part of the regime for mineral development in place under the MMDR Act. All of these levies, which are statutory in nature, cannot impliedly limit the legislative power of the state legislature to levy a tax on mineral rights. The States have a constitutional and sovereign authority to exercise their taxing powers, within the bounds of the Constitution, to raise adequate revenues for the welfare of the people. I. Scope of Entry 49 i. Land System in India 250. The issue is whether the State legislatures are competent to levy a tax on mineral-bearing land as a unit under Entry 49 of List II. A connected issue is whether mineral produce or royalty can be used as the measure to tax mineral-bearing lands. 251. The general rule in England was that the rights of an owner of land extended to everything in, on, or over land. The position has been explained in Megarry & Wade on The Law of Real Property304: “There is an ancient maxim: cujus est solum, ejus est usque ad coelum et ad inferos, meaning that the owner 304 Megarry and Wade, The Law of Real Property (9th edn, Sweet and Maxwell) [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1705 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. of the soil is presumed to own everything “up to the sky and down to the centre of the earth.” It has been criticized, but it is a presumption that remains firmly part of English law “encapsulating, in simple language, a proposition of law which has commanded general acceptance.” Above the surface, the development of powered flight has made it impossible to apply the presumption literally. An owner’s rights in the airspace above the land extend only to such height as is necessary for the ordinary use and enjoyment of the land and structures upon it. As regards right beneath the surface, the maxim applies and the owner is presumed to own the minerals beneath. For practical purposes the rights downwards are unlimited.” “An owner can divide the land horizontally or in any other way. He or she can dispose of minerals under the surface, or top floor of a building, so as to make them separate properties. But unless some contrary intention is shown a grant will normally pass the owner’s whole interest in space above and below the land, so that, for example, a lease will give the tenant the right to the airspace above the land let.” The position under the common law in England is that the owner of land is entitled to all mines and minerals underlying the land which they own, subject to certain exceptions.305 252.