17. Learned counsel for the second respondent-State also submitted that there is no merit in the arguments of the first respondent’s counsel that the appellant herein ought to have been slow in carrying out the demolition inasmuch as the application for regularisation was pending before the Department and therefore the act of demolition of the illegal structure was an instance of excess as demonstrated by the various dicta of this Court. He submitted that in view of the conspectus of facts in the instant case, it was not at all a case of excess inasmuch as the Department which had to consider the application for regularisation was a different wing and the representation made for regularisation was not an impediment for carrying out the demolition. It was therefore submitted that appropriate s may be made in this appeal. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1611 Gurmeet Kaur v. Devender Gupta & Another 18. It was also submitted that this Court may be mindful of the fact that when an officer or an official of the State is carrying out the duty entrusted, the object and purpose of passing an of sanction for prosecution under Section 197 of the CrPC must be borne in mind that a public servant ought not to be exposed to criminal prosecution or other kinds of litigation which would be wholly unjustified. 19. In the circumstances, learned counsel for the second respondent submitted that the impugned may be set aside and appropriate relief may be granted to the appellant herein. 20. We have considered the arguments advanced at the bar in light of the facts which emanate in this case. At this stage itself, we may opine that we would confine the scope of this appeal to the question whether it was necessary for the first respondent herein to have made an application seeking sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC and thereafter proceeded to file the complaint under Section 200 of the CrPC. We also state that having regard to our reasoning and our decisions, it may not be necessary to go into the merits whether the appellant herein had indeed committed the offences alleged against her and therefore, the same ought to be quashed also. 21. For ease of reference, Section 197 of the CrPC is extracted as under: “197. Prosecution of Judges and public servants. (1) When any person who is or was a Judge or Magistrate or a public servant not removable from his office save by or with the sanction of the Government, is accused of any offence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty, no Court shall take cognizance of such offence except with the previous sanction- (a) in the case of a person who is employed or, as the case may be, was at the time of commission of the alleged offence employed, in connection with the affairs of the Union, of the Central Government; (b) in the case of a person who is employed or, as the case may be, was at the time of commission of the alleged offence employed, in connection with the affairs of a State of the State Government :[Provided that where the alleged 1612 [2024] 11 S.C.R.