This was put to the learned Solicitor General and it was also put to him that if his submissions are correct, then it would be better for the Union of India to have the 99th Constitution Amendment Act struck down so that absolute power resides in the President making him/her an imperium in imperio so far as the appointment of Judges is concerned. The learned Solicitor General smiled but obviously had no answer to give. It must, therefore, be 84 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports held that the constitutional provisions amended by the 99th Constitution Amendment Act spring back to life on the declaration that the 99th Constitution Amendment Act is unconstitutional.” The above extract highlights how following a two-step approach advanced by the appellants may result in a situation where the ultimate consequence of invalidating an amendment is a graver perpetuation of the harms sought to be prevented by the striking down of the amendment. The Constitution Bench in the NJAC Decision invalidated the Ninety-Ninth Amendment on the ground that it interfered with judicial independence which is part of the basic structure of the Constitution. But as Justice Lokur’s opinion points out, disaggregating the substitution and giving effect to the repealing portion of the amendment while also invalidating the new enactment would lead to a situation where judicial independence was further compromised. Such an approach would be neither legally tenable nor normatively desirable. 62. We may briefly advert to three more decisions on the relationship between the principles of the judgement in question and the outcome of invalidating an amendment to demonstrate the significance of this issue. In the NJAC Decision, it was evident that absent the pre-existing regime reviving, the principles set out in the judgement would be significantly undermined. However, the opposite may also be true. This may be seen from the decision in BN Tewari v Union of India,69 which was a writ petition under Article 32 filed on the heels of the decision of this Court in T Devadasan v Union of India.70 The case concerned a Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) notification reserving 12.5 per cent of seats for candidates from the Scheduled Castes and 5 per cent of seats for candidates from the Scheduled Tribes. In 1952, the UPSC instituted a carry-forward rule whereby unfilled reserved seats each year were added to the subsequent year’s reserved seats for up to two years. This rule was subsequently amended in 1955, challenged in T Devadasan, where the carry forward rule “as modified in 1955” was struck down 69 [1965] 2 SCR 421 70 [1964] 4 SCR 680 : 1963 INSC 183 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 85 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. as unconstitutional.71 In BN Tewari, the petitioners contended that it was only the 1955 substitution that was invalidated, and as a result the 1952 carry-forward rule was revived and continued to be in effect. Justice KN Wanchoo, speaking for a Constitution Bench of this Court, negatived this contention by noting: “6.