In State of Gujarat v. Ambica Mills,105 this Court dealt with the argument of under-inclusiveness for the first time. In this case, the definition of the phrase ‘establishment’ in the Bombay Labour Welfare Fund Act 1953 was challenged on the ground of under-inclusiveness. The enactment defined an ‘establishment’ to mean (a) a factory; (b) a tramway or motor omnibus service; and (c) any establishment including a society or a trust which employs more than fifty persons but not to include an establishment (not being a factory) of the Central or State Government. The enactment provided for the constitution of a Fund to finance activities to promote labour welfare. The definition of ‘establishment’ was challenged for being under-inclusive since it excluded places that employed less than fifty persons. 62. Justice K K Mathew, writing for the Constitution bench observed that to identify if a provision is under-inclusive or over-inclusive, the Court must determine if all persons similarly situated for the purpose of law have been grouped.106 This Court observed that while dealing with a challenge on the ground of under-inclusiveness, the administrative 104 See State of Tamil Nadu v. National South Indian River Inter-linking,(2021) 15 SCC 534 [32] ; State of Gujarat v. Ambica Mills (1974) 4 SCC 656 [55] “A classification is under-inclusive when all who are included in the class are tainted with the mischief but there are others also tainted whom the classification does not include. In other words, a classification is bad as under-inclusive when a State benefits or burdens persons in a manner that furthers a legitimate purpose but does not confer the same benefit or place the same burden on others who are similarly situated. A classification is over-inclusive when it includes not only those who are similarly situated with respect to the purpose but others who are not so situated as well. In other words, this type of classification imposes a burden upon a wider range of individuals than are included in the class of those attended with mischief at which the law aims.” 105 [1974] 3 SCR 760 : (1974) 4 SCC 656 106 [1974] 3 SCR 760 : (1974) 4 SCC 656 [55] 1278 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports convenience of the State must be taken into consideration. The learned Judge referred to the observations of Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes in Missouri Kansas & Texas Railway v. May107 that the Courts must be deferential to under-inclusive legislation. 63. On the facts of the case, Justice Mathew observed that the justification of the State for under-inclusion, that unpaid accumulations will be less in establishments which employ less than fifty persons and it would not be sufficient to meet administrative costs, was fair and reasonable.108 In Ambica Mills (supra), this Court tested whether the under-inclusiveness was justified. 64. The reference to Missouri Kansas & Texas Railway (supra) must not be read detached from the context.109 In multiple places in the , this Court observed that a deferential approach must be adopted in challenges to laws dealing with economic activity.110 This is also evident from the manner in which this Court dealt with the argument of over-inclusion.