NTBCL did not apply economic prudence and allowed liberal increases in benefits, concessions, and remuneration to its employees, management, O&M contractor etc., which burdened the Project, resulting in O&M expenses of the Project exceeding the project feasibility norms by more than 100%. This inflated the Total Project Cost due to the compounding effect of the formula. 62. The CAG Report shockingly reveals that the Directors of NTBCL, including Pradeep Puri (who it seems was a senior bureaucrat), apparently did not perform any responsibility, yet all their expenses, including high-end remuneration were added in the Total Project Cost. Further, legal fees amounting to Rupees 11 crores, travelling expenses amounting to Rupees 400 lakhs, and the cost of restructuring deep discount bonds at Rupees 33 crores, were also added to the Total Project Cost. More egregiously, NTBCL seems to have incurred an expenditure of Rupees 72.25 lakhs on account of purchase and distribution of ‘Corporate Gifts’, including the generous distribution of gold coins to its employees, sub-staff and drivers. 63. It is evident that, despite approval from various authorities, the formula used was far from reasonable. The compounding nature of the formula granted NTBCL the right to collect user fees indefinitely; the absence of a cap on O&M expenses allowed for potential inflation of costs by including extraneous expenditures in the Total Project Cost; and the fixed, unrealistic return rate of 20% ensured that the Total Project Cost would escalate yearly without possibility of adjustment by the parties involved. 2034 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 64. This situation reflects serious impropriety not only by IL&FS and NTBCL but also by the then officers of NOIDA, the State of UP, and the NCT of Delhi. It is inconceivable that multiple layers of Government, advised by some of the most astute financial minds, failed to foresee that this formula would impose an undue and unfair burden on the users—the general public. Such an outcome could only arise through extraneous considerations influencing several stakeholders. This blatant misuse of power and breach of public trust has profoundly shocked the conscience of this Court. The manner in which some senior bureaucrats manipulated the siphoning of project funds for their personal gains clearly make out a fit case for investigation under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, although the ship might have sailed for such action at this stage. 65. In our considered view, the method used to calculate the Total Project Cost was fundamentally a mechanism for unjust enrichment by a select few and, as such was rightly deemed to be inherently arbitrary by the High Court. Accordingly, we have no hesitation to hold that the formula outlined in Annexure F of the Concession Agreement is unreasonable and contravenes Article 14 of the Constitution. G.4.2. Perpetuity of the Concession Agreement 66. NTBCL argued that under Section 2.4 of the Concession Agreement, the concession period could not be extended without NOIDA’s explicit consent. Section 2.4 lacks any provision for an automatic or ‘deemed’ extension, requiring instead that NOIDA actively extend the Concession Agreement by two-year increments.