Supreme Court Reports the non-mandatory provisions such wording as “unless otherwise agreed by the parties.”55 The Secretariat considered it unnecessary to include a list of mandatory provisions given the overall scheme of the Model Law.56 It was also of the opinion that mandatory provisions could be discerned from the content of such provisions. 30. Holtzmann and Neuhaus give the following examples of mandatory provisions under the Model Law: “Examples of provisions that appear to be mandatory and therefore cannot be waived under Article 4 are the following: the requirement that the arbitration agreement be in writing (Article 7(2)); the requirement that the parties be treated with equality and that each party be given a full opportunity of presenting his case (Article 18); the requirement that a party be given notice of any hearing and be sent any materials supplied to the arbitral tribunal by the other party (Article 24(2), (3)); the requirement that an award – including an award on agreement terms – be in writing, that it state its date and place, and that it be delivered to the parties (Article 30(2), 31(1), (3), (4))”57 31. The above extract suggests that an arbitration agreement entered into by the parties is subject to certain well-defined and mandatory legal principles. For instance, Section 34(2)(a)(v) allows for refusal of enforcement of arbitral awards if the composition of the arbitral tribunal or arbitral procedure was not following the agreement of the parties unless such agreement conflicts with the mandatory provisions 55 Composite draft text of a model law on international commercial arbitration: some comments and suggestions for consideration, A/CN.9/WG.II/WP.50 56 Composite draft text of a model law on international commercial arbitration: some comments and suggestions for consideration: note by the secretariat (A/CN.9/WG.II/WP.50) [The secretariat gave the following reasons for not providing a list of mandatory provisions in the Model Law itself: “Firstly, a considerable number of provisions are obviously by their content of a mandatory nature. Secondly, there are a number of provisions granting freedom to the parties, accompanied by suppletive rules failing agreement by the parties; here the question of mandatory nature seems to be a philosophical one and equally redundant. Thirdly, with respect to some draft articles only a part of the provisions (e.g. a time limit) is non-mandatory. Fourthly, in respect of some of the provisions already decided to be non- mandatory, the Working Group was of the view that this should, for the sake of emphasis, be expressed in the individual provision, despite the general listing in article 3. Fifthly, it is suggested that, in addition to the provisions already decided to be non-mandatory and drafted accordingly, […] there are only few further provisions which may be regarded as non-mandatory and, if so, could be easily marked as such by adding the words “unless otherwise agreed by the parties;”] 57 Holtzmann and Neuhaus (supra) 198 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2211 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company of the law.58 The composition of the arbitral tribunal or the arbitral procedure must not only be in accordance with the agreement of the parties but also be consistent with the mandatory standards laid down under the Arbitration Act.59 In case of a conflict, mandatory provisions of the Arbitration Act prevail over the arbitration agreement between the parties.60 32.