For this purpose, the High Courts should devise and evolve a test in to ascertain and examine the legal knowledge of those candidates and to assess their continued efficiency with adequate knowledge of case-law. The remaining 25 per cent of the posts in the service shall be filled by promotion strictly on the basis of merit through the limited departmental competitive examination for which the qualifying service as a Civil Judge (Senior Division) should be not less than five years. The High Courts will have to frame a rule in this regard.” (emphasis supplied) 37. The submission of the unsuccessful officers, that there is no valid basis in law to impose a minimum eligibility cut-off of obtaining 50% marks individually in the written test and the viva voce, when 1160 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports such a requirement is not imposed either for direct recruitment or for the limited competitive examination cannot hold substance. This argument is premised on the fact that the three different modes of recruitment are meant for the same post. It is argued that since the purpose of all the three sources is to recruit persons for the same post, a different requirement such as the 50% cut-off requirement for the viva voce in one of the three modes, is arbitrary. Though the recruitment is meant to fill vacancies in the same post in the higher judicial service, the candidates taking the three routes to reach that post are placed differently and thus must be tested differently. In- service candidates seeking recruitment through promotions cannot be considered on par with the candidates seeking direct recruitment or for that matter with candidates seeking accelerated promotion through a limited competitive test.9 38. Even among the candidates seeking promotion, there is a clear distinction between those who are recruited under Rule 6(1)(a) based on merit-cum-seniority and those who are recruited under Rule 6(1)(b) based strictly on merit, in to avail of a quicker promotion. This Court in All India Judges’ Association (supra) clearly noted that the rationale for accelerated promotions was to afford an incentive to those who were relatively junior but desirous of promotion.10 Similarly, in Dheeraj Mor v. High Court of Delhi,11 a three-Judge Bench of this Court held that the purpose of promotion through a limited competitive examination is to ensure that in-service candidates are able to “take march to hold the post of District Judges on the basis of their merit.” 39. The Rules prescribe different criteria for assessing the in-service judicial officers eligible for promotion - while one is based on merit- cum-seniority,12 the other is based strictly on merit de hors seniority.13 This difference justifies the distinct methods of evaluation prescribed under Rules 8 and 9. A comparison of Rules 8 and 9 would show that the written examination under Rule 9 carries 600 marks and is much more elaborate and rigorous, as opposed to the 75 marks’ objective 9 Dheeraj Mor v. High Court of Delhi, [2020] 2 SCR 161 : (2020) 7 SCC 401 10 All India Judges’ Association (supra), [27].