[Paras 17.9, 22.4] Constitution of India – Art.300A – Art. 300A states that no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law – Expressions “law”, “person”, “property” and “by authority of law” – Meaning of – Whether having regard to 850 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Art. 300A, taking possession of the enemy property for the purpose of administration of the same by the Custodian, is an instance of transfer of ownership from the true owner to the Custodian and thereby to the Union – Enemy Property Act, 1968. Held: The word “law” is with reference to an Act of Parliament or of a State Legislature, a rule or a statutory having the force of law – Although, to hold property is not a fundamental right, yet it is a constitutional right – The expression person in Article 300-A covers not only a legal or juristic person but also a person who is not a citizen of India – The expression property is also of a wide scope and includes not only tangible or intangible property but also all rights, title and interest in a property – Before a person can be deprived of his right to property, the law must expressly and explicitly state so – Thus, the expression by authority of law means by or under a law made by the competent Legislature – Having regard to the salutary principles of Art. 300-A, one cannot construe the taking of possession of the enemy property for the purpose of administration of the same by the Custodian, as an instance of transfer of ownership from the true owner to the Custodian and thereby to the Union – This position is totally unlike the position under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 or the subsequent legislation of 2013 which are expropriatory legislations under which acquisition of land would inevitably result in transfer of the ownership of the land from the owner to the State which is the acquiring authority, but the same would be subject to payment of a reasonable and fair compensation to the owner. [Paras 18 and 18.2] Words and Phrases – Expression “vest” and “vesting” – Meaning of. Held: The expression ‘vest’ or ‘vesting’ has no precise definition and it would depend upon the context in which the expression is used under a particular enactment – The word ‘vesting’ is a word of variable input and has more than one meaning which must be discerned and the exact connotation must be found by looking into the scheme of law and the context in which it is used – The setting in which it is used would lend colour to it and divulge the legislative intent – Vesting of property in a person or authority does not always mean transfer of absolute title in the property. [Para 16] [2024] 2 S.C.R. 851 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others Enemy Property Act, 1968 – Jurisprudential aspects of ownership of property vis-à-vis the status of the Custodian of Enemy Property for India under the Act – Jurisprudential aspects of vesting or taking possession as per provisions of the Act – Relationship between possession and ownership.