[2024] 2 S.C.R. 1099 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. (vi) To inform on whether the in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC. 22. State of Manipur -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed, and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of whether any steps are underway for creation of Special Courts and Additional Special Courts and if so, then at what stage. Furthermore, details of assessment as to the High Court’s request for 3 Special Courts shall also be provided. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 22.1 High Court of Manipur -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of directions contained in para 100.2, it has come to our attention that there are certain Courts namely JMFC Imphal East, JMFC Jiribam and JMFC Thoubal where bail has been granted in non-compliance of Sections 41 & 41-A of CrPC. State affidavit is silent on the disciplinary or administrative action as indicated in the Standing . The same is mandated to be duly furnished. (ii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.7, it has been stated that the High Court is pursuing with the State Government for constituting three Additional Special Courts. The latest status of the same needs to be duly updated. (iii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.8 and 100.9, the High Court should inform this Court as to the steps taken for a list of identified prisoners who are unable to comply with 1100 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports bail conditions and unable to furnish sureties in many cases, though bail stands granted and what steps have been taken to alleviate this situation. (iv) In terms of directions contained in para 100.11, there is no adequate compliance and incomplete information with respect to some of the Courts has been provided. Therefore, needful be done in this regard. The relevant information should also be furnished. (v) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of judicial academy. (vi) To furnish information on whether the directions of Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC or not. 23. State of Meghalaya -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed, and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers.