It is their case that they are prepared to allow the teachers and non-teaching staff to continue, provided some modalities are complied with, relevance of which may not present itself immediately. According to the teachers and non-teaching staff, they have a right to continue as such. 4. We would think that the interest of justice requires that the arrangement, which has been ed by the Court in Writ Petition No. 776 of 2015 (M/S) must be modified. Accordingly, we modify the and direct that AWES can take over the management of the school and the teaching and other non-teaching staff will be allowed to continue, however, with the modification that the pay will be such as they would be entitled to treating it as another Army Public School. This arrangement will 2184 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports be provisional and subject to the result of the litigation and without prejudice to the contentions of the parties. The Committee will handover the management to the AWES upon production of a certified copy of this . The accounts, etc., will also be handed over to the Principal of the school. We record the submission of the learned counsel appearing for St Gabriel’s that they will handover the amount representing gratuity, earned leave encashment and the installment of the sixth pay commission directly to the teachers and other nonteaching staff. We make it clear that the school can be run in terms of the Rules of AWES otherwise. The payment of salary as per AWES can commence from 1st January, 2016.” 4. The Division Bench eventually dismissed the Special Appeal against the of the Single Judge, which has given rise to the proceedings before this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution. 5. On behalf of the petitioners, it was submitted that the teaching and nonteaching staff were employees of St Gabriel’s Academy and since the erstwhile management has ceased to conduct the school, the staff would have no claim as against AWES which is conducting the school, at present. 6. In to resolve the dispute, a suggestion has been made by learned counsel for the petitioners to the effect that the teaching and non-teaching staff of the erstwhile school which is continuing with the present school, which is conducted by AWES, would be continued on a permanent basis. However, it has been submitted that their conditions of service will be those which are applicable to the teaching and non-teaching staff of Army Public Schools. It has been submitted that under the of the High Court the petitioners would be obligated to provide service conditions at par with the teaching and nonteaching staff which was recruited by the erstwhile management which [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2185 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. would involve an outlay which the Army Public School will not be in a financial position to meet. That apart, it has been submitted that there cannot be two sets of service conditions in respect of the same school.