The Age of Consent Act was passed in 1891. The marital rape exception had come to the defence of Hari. Raising the age of consent by two years meant that any sexual intercourse with a girl under the age of twelve would be statutory rape regardless of the marital status of the aggressor with the victim. B. Regulating the age of marriage 29. In 1921, the League of Nations held a conference on the trafficking of women and recommended raising the age of consent to twenty- one years for girls. In 1922, Bakshi Sohanlal unsuccessfully tried to raise the age of consent to 14 by introducing a Bill. Bills that sought to raise the age of consent were introduced and thrown out regularly for five years thereafter. Among these bills was an Age of Marriage Bill which was sought to be introduced by Ranglal Jajodia in 1924 in the Legislative Assembly.57 The Bill prescribed a minimum age before which no marriage could take place. This was a shift from the 55 Ratna Kapur & Brenda Cossman (1996). Subversive Sites: Feminist Engagements with Law in India. Sage Publications 49-50; Charles H. Heimsath (1964). Indian Nationalism and Hindu Social Reform. Princeton University Press 163-165. 56 Ishita Pande (2020). Sex, Law, and the Politics of Age Child Marriage in India, 1891–1937. Cambridge University Press 32. 57 Joshi Committee Report, 15; Also see Tahir Mahmood (1980). Marriage Age in India and Abroad – A Comparative Aspect. Journal of Indian Law Institute 22, 41. 1544 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports approach taken by other reformers and legislators of not interfering with the age of marriage but to merely protect girls from forced sex by raising the age of consent in penal laws. While this Bill was never introduced, a similar Bill was introduced by Haribilas Sarda in 1927 after another failed attempt to raise the age of consent by Hari Singh Gour. The ‘Sarda Bill’ was circulated widely to attract opinions. The Select Committee altered various provisions, and the Government eventually appointed the Age of Consent Committee under the chairmanship of MV Joshi. The consideration of the Sarda Bill was postponed till the report of the Joshi Committee was received.58 30. The terms of reference of the Joshi Committee did not include the examination of the age of marriage. However, the committee found it impossible to delink the question of marriage age with the question of age of consent for cohabitation.59 The committee heard over twelve hundred oral witnesses out of which one hundred and thirty four witnesses strongly opposed any law regulating the age of marriage. The committee submitted its report dated 20 June 1929. It recommended that the age of consent be raised to fifteen years under penal statutes as well as the enactment of a law which penalizes marriage below the age of fourteen years.60 The committee was of the opinion that it would be easier to regulate the age of marriage by law than to regulate the consummation of marriage after it had already taken place.