The plaintiff had become a major by 1984. By virtue of Article 60 of the Limitation Act, 1963, the plaintiff has a right to seek a declaration that the alienation of a property in which he had a right, was void within 3 years. Though the Article prima facie looks to be applicable only to cases, where there was an alienation by the guardian, we feel that the period of limitation would be applicable even when a third party had alienated the share or property of a minor. Even otherwise, Article 58 would come into operation and the plaintiff ought to have filed the suit within three years from the date when he became a major to seek any declaratory relief, as it is the date on which his right to sue first is deemed to have been accrued. The plaintiff has asserted that by government resolutions in 1980 and 1984 he has acquired the title over the properties. Therefore, as a prudent man, he ought to have initiated necessary steps to protect his interest. Having failed to do so and created a fictional date for cause of action, the plaintiff is liable to be non-suited on the ground of limitation. 20. As noted in the preceding paragraphs, the court auction was held in 1938 and sale deed was registered in the year 1952 in favour of the Defendant No.1 in respect of the suit properties, whereas, the suit was filed only in the year 2008, though the Respondent No.1 / Plaintiff and his predecessors were aware of the existence of the said registered sale deed of the suit properties. In fact, there is no 1472 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports averment in the plaint to the effect that the predecessors were not aware of the transactions. The limitation period for setting aside the sale deed would start running from the date of registration of the same and as per Article 59 of the Limitation Act, 1963, after three years of the registration, the Plaintiff is barred from seeking cancellation of the said registered sale deed or the decree that was passed before 50 years and the consequential judgements. We have already referred to Section 3 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. The plaintiff, in our view, has miserably failed to ascertain the existence of the fact by being diligent. The question as to when a period of limitation would commence in respect of a registered document is no longer res integra. In this regard, this Court in Dilboo v. Dhanraji,25 held as follows: “20…… Whenever a document is registered the date of registration becomes the date of deemed knowledge. In other cases where a fact could be discovered by due diligence then deemed knowledge would be attributed to the plaintiff because a party cannot be allowed to extend the period of limitation by merely claiming that he had no knowledge” 21. It will also be useful to refer to the judgement of this court in Mohd. Noorul Hoda v. Bibi Raifunnisa,26 wherein the effect of willful abstention from making enquires was laid down and the following paragraphs are relevant: “5.