I shall now analyse the s of this Court on the points in controversy. 10.1 In Indian Mica, the question which came up was whether the fee levied under Rule 111 of the Bihar and Orissa Excise Rules 2108 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports framed under Section 90 of the Bihar and Orissa Excise Act, 1915 on denatured spirit used and possessed by the appellants therein had sufficient quid pro quo for the levy. This Court struck down the levy as being unjustified and excessive as there was no co-relationship between the levy and the services rendered. 10.2 In Southern Pharmaceuticals and Chemicals vs. State of Kerala, AIR 1981 SC 1863 (“Southern Pharmaceuticals”), being aggrieved by the dismissal of their writ petitions and upholding the constitutional validity of Section 12-A and other sections of the Kerala Abkari Act, and Rules 13 and 16 of the Kerala Rectified Spirit Rules, 1972, the manufacturers of medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol had filed the appeal before this Court questioning the legislative competence of State to enact a law relating to medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol under Entry 8 - List II. Repelling the said contention in light of the scheme of legislation and its history, it was observed that impugned Act was relatable to Entry 8 - List II. Reference was also made to the of this Court in FN Balsara and it was held that the main purpose of the impugned Act was to consolidate the law relating to manufacture, sale and possession of “intoxicating liquors” which squarely fell under Entry 8 - List II, while the main object of the Central Act was to provide for the levy and collection of duties of excise on medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol falling under Entry 84 - List I. According to this Court when the framework of the two enactments was examined, it was apparent that the Central and the State legislations operated in two different and distinct fields. It was held that in the matter of making rules or detailed provisions to achieve the object and purpose of a legislation, there may be some provisions seemingly overlapping or encroaching upon the forbidden field, but that does not warrant the striking down of the impugned Act as ultra vires the State Legislature. 10.3 In Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), the question for consideration was whether different legislations and rules in respect of “industrial alcohol” enacted by the States were valid. In my view, this Court was clear about the concept of “industrial alcohol” and “intoxicating liquors” and therefore, the State Legislatures’ competence to levy excise duty on “industrial alcohol” was considered as the seminal issue. In that context, [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2109 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons the scope and ambit of Entry 8 - List II was also considered. It is in the context of the taxing power of the States, i.e., to levy excise duty on “industrial alcohol” and/or impost(s) such as vend fees which was the point of controversy.