We believe that representation of persons with disabilities must regard the objective social context of their representation and not marginalise persons with disability…” 47. The jurisprudence evolved by this Court shows that discriminatory laws have no place in our democracy. Discriminatory laws based on stereotypes against a social group were stuck down in s like Anuj Garg, Navtej Johar, Joseph Shine, and Indian Young Lawyers Association. Through s like NALSA and Babita Puniya, this Court recognized the dignity and aspirations of social groups which have traditionally faced exclusion from equal rights. This Court recognized indirect discrimination and systemic discrimination in Lt. Col. Nitisha, emphasized the responsibility of the State to curb discrimination in Karma Dorjee, and provided safeguards against discriminatory stereotypes in Nipun Malhotra. 48. Based on the analysis of the s, certain anti-discrimination principles emerge under Article 15(1). First, discrimination can be either direct or indirect, or both. Second, facially neutral laws may have an adverse impact on certain social groups, that are marginalized. Third, stereotypes can further discrimination against a marginalized social group. Fourth, the State is under a positive obligation to prevent discrimination against a marginalized social group. Fifth, discriminatory laws based on stereotypes and causing harm or disadvantage against a social group, directly or indirectly, are not permissible under the constitutional scheme. Sixth, courts are required to examine the claims of indirect discrimination and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 537 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. systemic discrimination; and seventh, the test to examine indirect discrimination and systemic discrimination has been laid down in s of the Court such as Lt. Col. Nitisha. VII. The Ban on Untouchability in Article 17 49. Article 17 of the Constitution provides that: ““Untouchability” is abolished and its practice in any form is forbidden. The enforcement of any disability arising out of “Untouchability” shall be an offence punishable in accordance with law.” This provision has a special place in the Constitution. It puts an end to the socially discriminatory practice of “untouchability”. 50. Dr Ambedkar described the impact of “untouchability” as follows: “The word untouchable is an epitome of their ills and sufferings. Not only has untouchability arrested the growth of their personality but also it comes in the way of their material well-being. It has also deprived them of certain civil rights… The untouchable is not even a citizen.”63 Untouchability and caste discrimination led to “severe social and economic disabilities and cultural and educational backwardness” of the untouchables.64 Throughout history, “the oppressive nature of the caste structure has denied to those disadvantaged castes the fundamentals of human dignity, human self-respect and even some of the attributes of the human personality”.65 As a system, it enforced “disabilities, restrictions, conditions and prohibitions on Dalits for access to and the use of places of public resort, public means, roads, temples, water sources, tanks, bathing ghats, etc., entry into educational institutions or pursuits of avocation or profession which are open to all and by reason of birth they suffer from social stigma.”66 Article 17 is a constitutional sanction against discrimination.