Digital Supreme Court Reports competent authority for tracing out the proceedee and produce before the said Tribunal. (6) Where the proceedee appears or is brought before the Foreigners Tribunal and he produces the documents in support of his claim, the Foreigners Tribunal may release such person on bail and decide the matter accordingly. (7) In case where notice is duly served, the proceedee shall appear before the Foreigners Tribunal in person or by a counsel engaged by him or her, as the case may be, on every hearing before the Foreigners Tribunal. (8) The Foreigners Tribunal shall give the proceedee ten days time to give reply to the show-cause notice and further ten days time to produce evidence in support of his or her case. (9) The Foreigners Tribunal may refuse a prayer for examination of witnesses on Commission for production of documents if, in the opinion of the Foreigners Tribunal, such prayer is made to delay the proceedings. (10) The Foreigners Tribunal shall take such evidence as may be produced by the concerned Superintendent of Police. (11) The Foreigners Tribunal shall hear such persons as, in its opinion, are required to be heard. (12) The Foreigners Tribunal may grant adjournment of the case on any plea sparingly and for reasons to be recorded in writing. (13) Where the proceedee fails to produce any proof in support of his or her claim that he or she is not a foreigner and also not able to arrange for bail in respect of his or her claim, the proceedee shall be detained and kept in internment or detention centre; (14) The Foreigners Tribunal shall dispose of the case within a period of sixty days of the receipt of the reference from the competent authority. (15) After the case has been heard, the Foreigners Tribunal shall submit its opinion as soon thereafter as may be [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2347 Md. Rahim Ali @ Abdur Rahim v. The State of Assam & Ors. practicable, to the officer or the authority specified in this behalf in the of reference. (16) The final of the Foreigners Tribunal shall contain its opinion on the question referred to which shall be a concise statement of facts and the conclusion.” (emphasis supplied) 28. The case against the appellant was initiated in the year 2004 alleging that the appellant illegally migrated to India after 25.03.1971 from Village- Dorijahangirpur, Police Station - Torail, District- Mymansingh, Bangladesh and was living in Village Kasimpur, Police Station, District - Nalbari in the State of Assam in S.P. Reference No.948/2004. It appears that the State examined a Sub-Inspector of Police Sh. Bipin Dutta, who was the Investigating Officer in the case and in his evidence, has stated that on 12.05.2004, he was posted at Nalbari Police Station when the S.P. (B) Nalbari, directed him to enquire into the nationality of the appellant pursuant to which on 17.05.2004, he opened a Case Diary and went to the house of the appellant, informed him about the enquiry and filled up Form No.I.