Regulation 6 provides for election of the Mayor, including the process of nomination, withdrawal of candidatures and the conduct of the election by a secret ballot. Clauses (9) to (13) of Regulation 6 have a material bearing on the subject matter of the present dispute and serve as a yardstick to 704 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports test the actions of the Presiding Officer/seventh respondent. The relevant provisions are reproduced below: "(9) No member shall vote for more than one candidate. At the time of voting, each member shall place a cross (X) on the right hand side of the ballot paper opposite the name of the candidate for whom the (sic) wishes to vote, and will then fold the ballot paper and without showing the front of the paper to any person, insert the same in the ballot box in the presence of the presiding authority. (10) lf a member votes for more candidates than one or places any mark on the paper by which he may be identified, his ballot paper shall be considered invalid and will not be counted. A vote recorded on a ballot paper used at the meeting shall be rejected if the marks indicating the vote is placed on the ballot paper in such a manner as to make it doubtful to which candidate the vote has been given. (11) As soon as the period fixed for casting of votes is over, the presiding authority shall open the ballot box and initial each ballot paper. (12) The votes for all the candidates shall then be counted by the presiding authority with the assistance of the Municipal officials or employees as may be designated by the presiding authority and the candidates shall be arranged in the of the number of votes obtained by each of them. (13) If there are only two candidates, then the one who gets the larger number of votes shall be declared elected.” 19. In terms of Regulation 6(9), a councillor can vote for only one candidate. While voting, each member has to place a cross (X) on the right-hand side of the ballot paper opposite the name of the candidate for whom he wishes to vote, after which the ballot paper has to be folded and inserted in the ballot box in the presence of the Presiding Officer. Regulation 6(10) stipulates when the ballot paper would be treated as invalid and provides for three eventualities. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 705 Kuldeep Kumar v. U.T. Chandigarh and Others The first is where a member votes for more candidates than one. The second eventuality is where the member places any mark on the paper by which he may be identified. The third eventuality is if the mark indicating the vote is placed on the ballot paper in such a manner as to make it doubtful for which candidate the vote has been cast. Finally, Regulation 6(11) provides that as soon as the period fixed for casting of the votes is over, the presiding authority shall open the ballot box and initial each ballot paper.