18. Learned counsel for the appellants submitted that there has been gross miscarriage of justice since despite five charges having been proved documentarily, still, on hyper-technicality, the High Court interfered. Further, it was contended that the view taken by the authorities cannot be said to be perverse as it was also a plausible view. It was urged that in such matters, the settled law is that where two views are possible, the one taken by the authorities ought not to be interfered with, only because there can be another view. Learned counsel submitted that the act of the respondent stood admitted with regard to his conduct of financial irregularity(ies) and insubordination [2024] 8 S.C.R. 163 The State of Rajasthan & Ors. v. Bhupendra Singh by not obeying s relating to his transfer, other directions given for permission of construction granted to a Cooperative society as also acting beyond jurisdiction of assuming power, both in appointing persons as well as appointing himself as an Administrator of a Co- operative Society. It was submitted that the Division Bench totally erred in not appreciating the points, both legal and factual, raised by the appellants. It was further submitted that the Division Bench erroneously held that the enquiry proceedings were vitiated as they were based on no evidence and were perverse, which finding, learned counsel contended, was itself perverse, as there were documents to prove the charges, which the respondent had not challenged as being forged and/or fabricated. Hence, it was prayed that these appeals may be allowed. SUBMISSIONS BY THE RESPONDENT: 19. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent submitted that both the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench have concurrently held that the enquiry was vitiated, and it was a case of no evidence. Thus, this Court may also not interfere in the matter. It was submitted that both the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench found that the charge relating to temporary embezzlement is illegal as the same was not proved but still he has been found guilty. Moreover, it was pointed out that though Charge 1-GA is with regard to embezzlement of Rs.9,025/- of the sale of shops, the Appellate Authority had exonerated the respondent and the Enquiry Officer did not find the respondent guilty of the said charge of embezzlement, but found sale of those shops irregular which was not even the charge. 20. Similarly, it was pointed out that the learned Single Judge on the issue of competence of the respondent to sell the shop at a lower price held that despite the finding of the Enquiry Officer that no loss was proved, still the charge has been found proved, which is improper and there cannot be any dispute on this account. He submitted that the of the learned Single Judge, which has been upheld by the Division Bench, does not require interference. He, therefore, impressed upon us that the appeals deserved dismissal. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 21. Having considered the matter, the Court finds that the Impugned cannot be sustained.