The same led to a delay in raising the necessary finance. It has been pleaded by the respondent that the appellant bank failed to provide certain documents to him in time as a result of which he was not able to secure a term loan. 90 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 119. However, the aforesaid by no stretch can be said to be an exceptional circumstance warranting judicial interference. We say so because demonetization had occurred much before the e-auction was conducted by the appellant bank. As regards the requisition of documents, the sale was confirmed on 07.12.2016, and the respondent first requested for the documents only on 20.12.2016, and the said documents were provided to him by the appellant within a month’s time i.e., on 21.01.2017. It may also not be out of place to mention that the respondent was granted an extension of 90-days’ time period to make the balance payment, and was specifically reminded that no further extension would be granted, in-spite of this the respondent failed to make the balance payment. 120. The e-auction notice inviting bids along with the correspondence between the appellant bank and the respondent are unambiguous and clearly spelt out the consequences of not paying the balance amount within the specified period. 121. Thus, what could be said is that the respondent being aware of his financial capacity, willingly participated in the e-auction and offered his bid fully knowing the reserve price of the Secured Asset and the consequences of its failure in depositing the balance amount. F. CONCLUSION 122. For all the foregoing reasons, we have reached to the conclusion that the High Court committed an egregious error in passing the impugned and . We are left with no other option but to set aside the impugned and passed by the High Court. 123. In the result, the appeals filed by the bank succeed and are hereby allowed. The impugned and passed by the High Court dated 27.10.2021 is hereby set aside. As a result, the SA No. 143 of 2018 filed by the respondent before the DRT-II also stands dismissed. 124. The parties shall bear their own costs. 125. Pending application(s), if any, also stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeals disposed of.