Whether Section 18 of the Act, 1989 imposes an absolute bar on the grant of anticipatory bail in cases registered under the said Act? b. When can it be said that a prima facie case is made out in a given FIR/complaint? c. Whether the averments in the FIR/complaint in question disclose commission of any offence under Section 3(1)(r) of the Act, 1989? d. Whether any offence under Section 3(1)(u) of the Act, 1989 could be said to have been prima facie made out in the FIR/ complaint in question? e. Whether mere knowledge of the caste identity of the complainant is sufficient to attract the offence under Section 3(1)(r) of the Act, 1989? G. ANALYSIS i. Evolution of the concept of anticipatory bail 14. The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 did not contain any specific provision analogous to Section 438 of the CrPC. In Amir Chand v. The Crown, reported in 1949 SCC OnLine Punj 20, the question before the Full Bench was whether Section 498 of the Criminal Procedure [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1109 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr. Code, 1898 empowered the High Court or the Sessions Court to grant bail to a person who had not been placed under restraint by arrest or otherwise. The Full Bench answered the reference as under: “…The very notion of bail presupposes some form of previous restraint. Therefore, bail cannot be granted to a person who has not been arrested and for whose arrest no warrants have been issued. Section 498, Criminal Procedure Code, does not permit the High Court or the Court of Session to grant bail to anyone whose case is not covered by sections 496 and 497, Criminal Procedure Code. It follows, therefore, that bail can only be allowed to a person who has been arrested or detained without warrant or appears or is brought before a Court. Such person must be liable to arrest and must surrender himself before the question of bail can be considered. In the case of a person who is not under arrest, but for whose arrest warrants have been issued, bail can be allowed if he appears in Court and surrenders himself. No bail can be allowed to a person at liberty for whose arrest no warrants have been issued. The petitioners in the present case are, therefore, not entitled to bail. The question referred to the Full Bench is, therefore, answered in the negative.” (Emphasis supplied) 15. Under the 1898 Code, the concept of anticipatory or pre-arrest bail was absent and the need for introduction of a new provision in the CrPC empowering the High Court and Court of Session to grant anticipatory bail was pointed out by the 41st Law Commission of India in its report dated September 24, 1969. The report pointed out the necessity of introducing a provision in the CrPC enabling the High Court and the Court of Session to grant anticipatory bail. It observed in para 39.9 of its report (Volume I): Anticipatory bail “39.9 The suggestion for directing the release of a person on bail prior to his arrest (commonly known as “anticipatory bail”) was carefully considered by us.