(iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) To circulate the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) (b) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 25.1 High Court of Gauhati (Refer to Serial No: 4.1) 26. State of Odisha -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed, and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 26.1 High Court of Odisha -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of directions contained in para 100.2, it has come to our attention that there is contradiction in the same inasmuch as if there is compliance of Arnesh Kumar (Supra) vis-à-vis compliance of Sections 41 and 41-A of CrPC., then bail ought not to have been granted due to non-compliance of the same. The position on the same is mandated to be clarified and duly furnished. (ii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.5, there is partial non-compliance insofar as several districts are insisting for bail [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1103 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. application under Section 88 of CrPC. Therefore, the High Court is required to inform on its compliance alone. (iii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.7, it has come to our attention that the affidavit of the High Court is silent over the constitution of Special Courts in consultation with the respective State Government. The latest status of the same needs to be duly updated and furnished. (iv) In terms of directions contained in para 100.8 and 100.9, though the High Court has endeavoured to identify prisoners who are unable to comply with the bail conditions and is stated to have informed them about their rights under Section 440 of CrPC, however, subsequently no bail applications were received under Section 440 of CrPC in most districts. Therefore, the High Court is required to inform on its compliance alone. (v) In terms of directions contained in para 100.11, there is partial non-compliance in some districts as regular bail applications are not decided within two weeks. Therefore, needful be done in this regard and compliance of the same be ensured. The relevant information should also be furnished.