PW-5, in his cross-examination, stated that he, along with five persons, attempted to prevent accused no.1 from assaulting the deceased. The other five witnesses referred to by PW-5 have not been examined as witnesses. 8. Thus, the scenario which emerges is that precisely a day before the evidence of PW-1 to PW-5 was recorded before the Trial Court, they were called to the Police Station and were taught to depose in a particular manner. One can reasonably imagine the effect of “teaching” the witnesses inside a Police Station. This is a blatant act by the police to tutor the material prosecution witnesses. All of them were interested witnesses. Their evidence will have to be discarded as there is a distinct possibility that the said witnesses were tutored by the police on the earlier day. This kind of interference by the Police with the judicial process, to say the least, is shocking. This amounts 240 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to gross misuse of power by the Police machinery. The Police cannot be allowed to tutor the prosecution witness. This conduct becomes more serious as other eyewitnesses, though available, were withheld. We are surprised that both the Courts overlooked this critical aspect. It is pertinent to note that the defence of the accused, as can be seen from the line of cross-examination, was that they were not present at the place of the incident at the time of the incident. PW-2 admitted that accused no.1 was working in another village called Tirrupur. Although available, independent witnesses were not examined by the Prosecution. Therefore, adverse inference must be drawn against the prosecution. Hence, there is a serious doubt created about the genuineness of the prosecution case. The benefit of this substantial doubt must be given to the appellants. Before the appellants were enlarged on bail by this Court, they had undergone incarceration for more than 10 years. 9. Therefore, in our considered view, both the Sessions Court and the High Court have committed an error in convicting the appellants. Hence, the appeals are allowed. The impugned s and s are set aside, and the appellants are acquitted of the offences alleged against them. Their bail bonds stand cancelled. 10. The Director General of Police of the State of Tamil Nadu shall cause an enquiry to be made into the conduct of the police officials of tutoring PW-1 to PW-5 at the concerned Police Station. Needless to add, appropriate action shall be initiated against the erring officials in accordance with the law. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeals allowed.