Paragraph 89 reads as under: “89…The safeguards provided in the 2002 Act and the preconditions to be fulfilled by the authorised officer before effecting arrest, as contained in section 19 of the 2002 Act, are equally stringent and of higher standard. Those safeguards ensure that the authorised officers do not act arbitrarily, but make them accountable for their about the necessity to arrest any person as being involved in the commission of offence of money- laundering even before filing of the complaint before the Special Court under section 44(1)(b) of the 2002 Act in that regard. If the action of the authorised officer is found to be vexatious, he can be proceeded with and inflicted with punishment specified under section 62 of the 2002 Act. The safeguards to be adhered to by the jurisdictional police officer before effecting arrest as stipulated in the 1973 Code, are certainly not comparable. Suffice it to observe that this power has been given to the high-ranking officials with further conditions to ensure that there is objectivity and their own accountability in resorting to arrest of a person even before a formal complaint is filed under section 44(1)(b) of the 2002 Act. Investing of power in the high-ranking officials in this regard has stood 23 The aspect of necessity to arrest, has been independently examined later. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2381 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement the test of reasonableness in Premium Granites (supra), wherein the court restated the position that requirement of giving reasons for exercise of power by itself excludes chances of arbitrariness. Further, in Sukhwinder Pal Bipan Kumar (supra), the court restated the position that where the discretion to apply the provisions of a particular statute is left with the Government or one of the highest officers, it will be presumed that the discretion vested in such highest authority will not be abused. Additionally, the Central Government has framed Rules under section 73 in 2005, regarding the forms and the manner of forwarding a copy of of arrest of a person along with the material to the Adjudicating Authority and the period of its retention. In yet another decision in Ahmed Noormohmed Bhatti (supra), this court opined that the provision cannot be held to be unreasonable or arbitrary and, therefore, unconstitutional merely because the authority vested with the power may abuse his authority. (Also see Manzoor Ali Khan (supra).” We respectfully agree with the ratio of the decisions in Pankaj Bansal (supra) and Prabir Purkayastha (supra), which enrich and strengthen the view taken in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), on the interpretation of Section 19 of the PML Act. Power to arrest a person without a warrant from the court and without instituting a criminal case is a drastic and extreme power. Therefore, the legislature has prescribed safeguards in the form of exacting conditions as to how and when the power is exercisable. The conditions are salutary and serve as a check against the exercise of an otherwise harsh and pernicious power. 19.