Such was the situation in Raghubir Singh and Ors. and Hansoli Devi and Ors. (supra)” [Emphasis supplied] 93. The principles enunciated in Dawoodi Bohra (supra) re-enforce the provisions of the Supreme Court Rules referred to earlier, and also reiterate the well-established principles based upon doctrines of predictability, consistency, finality and the principle of stare decisis. The two-judge bench in Anjuman (supra), ought to have understood and applied the law,consistent with these principles. The two-judge bench in Anjuman (supra) being of lesser strength than the five-judge bench in Azeez Basha (supra), lacked the authority to explicitly question the correctness of Azeez Basha (supra) and refer the matter to a seven-judge bench. 94. In Anjuman (supra), the bench not only referred the matter but also specified the numerical strength of the bench to which it should be referred, with a further direction that the matter be placed before the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1811 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. Chief Justice for the limited purpose of notifying the composition of the seven-judge bench. With utmost respect at our command, we do not appreciate as to how a two-judge bench could dictate its viewpoint to the Chief Justice of India. This, to our mind, effectively impaired the Chief Justice’s authority as the master of the roster. Allowing such a practice would enable benches of lesser strength, such as a two-judge bench, to undermine the decisions of larger benches, potentially even an eleven-judge bench. This would also place the Chief Justice in an untenable position, who would be bound by a judicial while acting in an administrative role, leading to procedural complications and embarrassment. 95. We reiterate that such actions completely undermine the principle of stare decisis, a well-established doctrine that mandates the consistent application of legal principles once pronounced by authoritative courts. This principle is rooted in the idea that once a court has determined a rule applicable to a specific set of circumstances, it should be followed in all future cases involving substantially similar facts.61 Stare decisis et non quieta movere—which means to stand by things decided and not disturb settled matters. Accordingly, the importance of precedents and stare decisis as fundamental features of our legal system requires that law laid down by higher courts be followed by coordinate or co-equal benches, and most certainly by smaller benches and subordinate courts. 96. The very purpose of these principles is to ensure predictability and stability in judicial decisions, thereby upholding the Rule of Law. It is trite law that when legal precedents are consistently followed, the law remains stable and strengthened, rather than being disrupted at every opportunity.62 Consistency and finality in judicial s foster greater confidence and trust in the judicial system, which is the need of the hour. The mere fact that another interpretation may be possible does not warrant unsettling well-established law that has long governed the field.63 Deviation from these long-settled principles, leads to a situation marred by uncertainty and instability, vitiating any sense of finality. 61 Krishen Kumar v. Union of India (1990) 4 SCC 234.