However, he would submit that even in the case when the High Court would exercise the power under Section 41 of the Punjab Act, the finding of fact recorded by the First Appellate Court cannot be interfered on re-appreciation of evidence to substitute its own decision for that of the First Appellate Court. According to him, the finding recorded by the First Appellate Court was borne out from the record. Therefore, the High Court erred in interfering with the said finding, and this Court rightly set aside the and decree of the High Court while deciding the Civil Appeal. According to Shri Swarup, the respondents had proved the Will, which was a registered one, in accordance with law and that there were no suspicious circumstances accompanying the Will. 8. When this Court rendered the under review in Civil Appeal No. 6567 of 2014, the only ground which weighed with the Court was that the High Court exercised the power under Section 100 CPC erroneously and decided the second appeal by re-appreciating the evidence without even framing a substantial question of law. 9. The second appeal in Punjab and Haryana High Court is heard under Section 41 of the Punjab Act, which is reproduced hereunder for ready reference: - [2024] 6 S.C.R. 395 Lehna Singh (D) By Lrs. v. Gurnam Singh (D) By Lrs. & Ors. “41. Second Appeals – (1) An appeal shall lie to the High Court from every decree passed in appeal by any court subordinate to the High Court on any of the following grounds, namely: (a) the decision being contrary to law or to some custom or usage having the force of law: (b) the decision having failed to determine some material issue of law or custom or usage having the force of law: (c) a substantial error or defect in the procedure provided by the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 (V of 1908), or by any other law for the time being in force which may possibly have produced error or defect in the decision of the case upon the merits; [Explanation – A question relating to the existence or validity of a custom or usage shall be deemed to be a question of law within the meaning of this section:] (2) An appeal may lie under this section from an appellate decree passed ex parte.” 10. The provision contained in Section 41 of the Punjab Act, as reproduced above, does not mandate framing of a substantial question of law for entertaining the second appeal. Therefore, a second appeal under Section 41 of Punjab Act can be entertained by the Punjab and Haryana High Court even without framing a substantial question of law. 11. It would be appropriate to refer to the provision contained in Section 41 of the Punjab Act in juxtaposition to Section 100 CPC, before its amendment in 1976, to appreciate and understand the jurisdiction of Punjab and Haryana High Court in second appeal. The provisions are reproduced hereunder for ready reference: - 396 [2024] 6 S.C.R.