Digital Supreme Court Reports 208. In Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills (supra) the State Government therein had framed a policy for grant of sales tax exemption to new industrial units in the State. On the basis of the said policy, the appellant therein set-up an industrial unit and approached the State Government for claiming the exemption. The State Government informed him that he would be granted only partial concession in sales tax, to which the appellant was agreeable. However, subsequently, the State having second thoughts, rescinded the concession which was being granted to the appellant. Aggrieved by which the appellant preferred a writ petition claiming exemption from sale tax as per the policy. However, the State Government in response submitted that the appellant therein by accepting a partial concession on sales tax had waived its right to claim full exemption. This Court rejecting the said plea of waiver and estoppel held that, the appellant therein was unaware about the policy and the extent of the exemption in sales tax under the law. Thus, the appellant due to the ignorance of law had a bona-fide belief that the policy only provided for a partial concession rather than a complete exemption. This Court observed that it cannot be presumed that the appellant was fully informed about the policy and that he had waived or abandoned his right with full knowledge of the said policy. It further observed that often the maxim “ignorantia juris non excusat” i.e., “ignorance of the law is no excuse” is often misconstrued to mean that everyone is presumed to know the law. Accordingly, this Court rejecting the plea of promissory estoppel held that due to the ignorance of law on the part of the appellant, it cannot be said that he had full knowledge of its right to exemption so as to waive or abandon the same. The relevant observations read as under: - “6. [...] The claim of the appellant to exemption could be sustained only on the doctrine of promissory estoppel and this doctrine could not be said to be so well defined in its scope and ambit and so free from uncertainty in its application that we should be compelled to hold that the appellant must have had knowledge of its right to exemption on the basis of promissory estoppel at the time when it addressed the letter dated June 25, 1970. In fact, in the petition as originally filed, the right to claim total exemption from Sales Tax was not based on the plea of promissory estoppel which was introduced only by way of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 281 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. amendment. Moreover, it must be remembered that there is no presumption that every person knows the law. It is often said that everyone is presumed to know the law, but that is not a correct statement : there is no such maxim known to the law. Over a hundred and thirty years ago, Maule, J., pointed out in Martindale v. Falkner: “There is no presumption in this country that every person knows the law : it would be contrary to common sense and reason if it were so.” Scrutton, L.J., also once said: “It is impossible to know all the statutory law, and not very possible to know all the common law.” But it was Lord Atkin who, as in so many other spheres, put the point in its proper context when he said in Evans v. Bartlam “… the fact is that there is not and never has been a presumption that every one knows the law.