The CBI did not prefer any appeal against acquittal of accused Nos.3 and 4. However, accused Nos.1 and 2 were convicted for offences punishable under Section 420 IPC and Section 12(1)(b) and Section 12(2) of Passports Act respectively. Accused No.5 was convicted under Section 12(2) of Passports Act and Section 13(2) and 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Accused Nos.1, 2 and 5 preferred criminal appeals challenging their conviction and sentence and by impugned common the High Court allowed the appeals filed by accused Nos.1 and 5 and acquitted them and said has attained finality as it has not been challenged by the CBI. However, the appeal filed by accused No.2 came to be dismissed and as such she is before this Court. 4. We have heard the arguments canvassed on behalf of the appellant and the respondent. 5. The thrust of the argument advanced by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant is that conviction of appellant alone is not sustainable for more than one reason. Firstly, when accused Nos.3 and 4 who were charged for similar offences had been acquitted of all the charges and no appeal having been filed challenging their acquittal; secondly, when accused No.1 for whose benefit the alleged second passport had been issued, had been acquitted by disbelieving the story of the prosecution namely accused No.3 who was in charge of safe custody of passport had illegally given the second passport to the appellant through accused No.4. It is further contended that both the courts had erroneously convicted the appellant on the strength of the testimony of PW-3 though she had not deposed that appellant being aware of the details of the previous passport held by accused No.1 had knowingly processed the application of accused No.1. It is further contended that PW-3 had turned hostile and had not supported the story of prosecution and as such conviction could not have been sustained on the basis of the testimony of the said witness. He would also further contend that the High Court had erroneously evaluated the evidence of PW-16 (handwriting expert) who had not [2024] 9 S.C.R. 629 Yogarani v. State by The Inspector of Police expressed any definite opinion with regard to the hand writing found on the returned postal cover with that of admitted hand writing of the appellant and thereby the guilt of the accused was not proved or established beyond reasonable doubt. Learned Counsel would also elaborate his submissions by contending that the testimony of PW-15 did not establish as to when the application of the accused No.1 had been received by the appellant and there was no iota of evidence placed by the prosecution in this regard including the purported payment of registration fees and service charges from appellant by PW-15. Pointing to these gaping holes in the prosecution story it is contended that the of conviction and sentence imposed on the appellant would not be sustainable as such he has prayed for appeal being allowed and appellant being acquitted.