(e) While considering an application for remission, there cannot be any abuse of discretion. In this regard, it is necessary to bear in mind the following aspects as mentioned in Laxman Naskar, namely, - (i) Whether the offence is an individual act of crime without affecting the society at large? 900 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) Whether there is any chance of future recurrence of committing crime? (iii) Whether the convict has lost his potentiality in committing crime? (iv) Whether there is any fruitful purpose of confining this convict any more? (v) Socio-economic condition of the convict’s family. (f) There has also to be consultation in accordance with Section 435 of the CrPC wherever the same is necessitated. (g) The Jail Advisory Committee which has to consider the application for remission may not have the District Judge as a Member inasmuch as the District Judge, being a Judicial Officer may coincidently be the very judge who may have to render an opinion independently in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 432 of the CrPC. (h) Reasons for grant or refusal of remission should be clearly delineated in the by passing a speaking . (i) When an application for remission is granted under the provisions of the Constitution, the following among other tests may apply to consider its legality by way of judicial review of the same. (i) That the has been passed without application of mind; (ii) that the is mala fide; (iii) that the has been passed on extraneous or wholly irrelevant considerations; (iv) that relevant materials have been kept out of consideration; (v) that the suffers from arbitrariness. Summary of Conclusions: 56. On the basis of the aforesaid discussion, we arrive at the following summary of conclusions: a) We hold that the Writ Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022 filed under Article 32 of the Constitution before this Court is maintainable and that it was not mandatory for the petitioner therein to have filed a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the Gujarat High Court. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 901 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others b) Since Writ Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022 has been filed by one of the victims invoking Article 32 of the Constitution before this Court which has been entertained by us, the question, whether, the writ petitions filed as public interest litigation assailing the impugned s of remission dated 10.08.2022 are maintainable, is kept open to be raised in any other appropriate case. c) In view of Section 432 (7) read with Section 432 (1) and (2) of the CrPC, we hold that the Government of the State of Gujarat had no jurisdiction to entertain the prayers seeking remission of respondent Nos.3 to 13 herein as it was not the appropriate Government within the meaning of the aforesaid provisions. Hence, the s of remission dated 10.08.2022 made in favour of respondent Nos.3 to 13 herein are illegal, vitiated and therefore, quashed. d) While holding as above, we also hold that the dated 13.05.2022 passed by this Court is a nullity and is non est in law since the said was sought by suppression of material facts as well as by misrepresentation of facts (suppressio veri, suggestio falsi) and therefore, fraudulently obtained at the hands of this Court.