This is the question which has fallen for consideration in several cases before this Court as well as before several High Courts. As noted above, royalty is a consideration imposed by a lessor on a lessee of a mining lease for the grant of the mining lease, which in sum and substance is a requisite consideration for exercise of a 1774 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports mineral right. Royalty and dead rent as envisaged under the scheme of Sections 9 and 9A of the MMDR Act, 1957 have been imposed by the Parliament in the interest of mineral development in the country. The fact that under Sections 9 as well as 9A, payment of royalty and dead rent as respectively envisaged as per the conditions stated in the said Sections, would clearly indicate that having regard to development of any particular mineral, the rate of royalty has been fixed under the Second Schedule to the MMDR Act, 1957. Therefore, it is in the interest of mineral development that a lessor is bound to collect royalty and dead rent from a lessee in terms of what is envisaged in Sections 9 and 9A read with Second Schedule to the Act. The payment of royalty is to the lessor which is the State which executes the lease deed in terms of the Form K of Mineral Concession Rules, 1960. Thus, having regard to the statutory scheme envisaged under Sections 9 and 9A of the Act read with the Second Schedule to the MMDR Act, 1957, any exercise of mineral right by a lessee is subject to the payment of royalty to the State Government. The exaction of royalty is, therefore, statutory in nature. 10.10 In Govind Saran Ganga Saran vs. Commissioner of Sales Tax, (1985) Supp SCC 205 (“Govind Saran Ganga Saran”), the components which enter into the concept of tax were discussed by this Court in paragraph 6 which reads as under: “6. The components which enter into the concept of a tax are well known. The first is the character of the imposition known by its nature which prescribes the taxable event attracting the levy, the second is a clear indication of the person on whom the levy is imposed and who is obliged to pay the tax, the third is the rate at which the tax is imposed, and the fourth is the measure or value to which the rate will be applied for computing the tax liability. If those components are not clearly and definitely ascertainable, it is difficult to say that the levy exists in point of law. Any uncertainty or vagueness in the legislative scheme defining any of those components of the levy will be fatal to its validity.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1775 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. The four components could be understood as: (i) the character of the tax which is determined by its nature which prescribes the taxable event attracting the levy; (ii) a clear indication of the person on whom the levy is imposed and who is obliged to pay the tax; (iii) rate at which the tax is imposed; and (iv) the measure or value to which the tax will be applied for computing the taxing liability.