The official capacity only enables him to fabricate the record or misappropriate the public fund, etc. It does not mean that it is integrally connected or inseparably interlinked with the crime committed in the course of same transaction, as was believed by the learned Judge. Under these circumstances, we are of the opinion that the view expressed by the High Court as well as by the trial court on the question of sanction is clearly illegal and cannot be sustained.” 18. The ratio of the aforesaid cases, which is clearly discernible, is that even while discharging his official duties, if a public servant enters into a criminal conspiracy or indulges in criminal misconduct, such misdemeanour on his part is not to be treated as an act in discharge of [2024] 12 S.C.R. 819 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. his official duties and, therefore, provisions of Section 197 of the Code will not be attracted. In fact, the High Court has dismissed the petitions filed by the appellant precisely with these observations, namely, the allegations pertain to fabricating the false records which cannot be treated as part of the appellants’ normal official duties. The High Court has, thus, correctly spelt out the proposition of law. The only question is as to whether on the facts of the present case, the same has been correctly applied.” (emphasis supplied) 63. The purpose behind the enactment of Section 197 CrPC must not be to shield corrupt officials and this was the position taken in Inspector of Police and Another v. Battenapatla Venkata Ratnam and Another reported in (2015) 13 SCC 87. Here, the respondents while working as Sub-Registrars in various offices of the State of Andhra Pradesh had conspired with stamp vendors, document writers and other staff to manipulate the registers and had gotten the documents registered with the old value of the respective properties, resulting in wrongful gain to themselves and loss to the Government. Such acts were held to not be in the discharge of their official duty. The observations made are reproduced hereinbelow: “11. The alleged indulgence of the officers in cheating, fabrication of records or misappropriation cannot be said to be in discharge of their official duty. Their official duty is not to fabricate records or permit evasion of payment of duty and cause loss to the Revenue. Unfortunately, the High Court missed these crucial aspects. The learned Magistrate has correctly taken the view that if at all the said view of sanction is to be considered, it could be done at the stage of trial only.” (emphasis supplied) 64. This Court in Surinderjit Singh Mand and Another v. State of Punjab and Another reported in (2016) 8 SCC 722 was faced with a factual scenario wherein an accused was allegedly arrested in a theft case by the appellant police officers on 24.06.1999 but was formally and officially shown to have been arrested only on 28.06.1999. Prosecution was initiated against the appellant officers 820 [2024] 12 S.C.R.