Group C – Lands in which the State claimed full rights in minerals which included unreserved lands and forest lands reserved under the Madras Forest Act 1882. 257. The Dominion Legislature was aware of the above classification of land, which it loosely incorporated under the Mineral Concession Rules 1949 enacted under Section 5 of the MMRD Act. Chapter III and VI of the Mineral Concession Rules 1949 provided for the grant of prospecting licences and mining leases respectively in land in which the minerals belonged to Government. Chapter V dealt with the grant of mineral concessions by private persons. The Concession Rules of 1949 did not contain any provisions dealing with minerals, in respect of lands where the minerals were shared by both the Government and private persons by. The Mineral Concession Rules of 1949 left out lands occupied under ryotwari tenure from their purview. 258. The Mineral Concession Rules 1960 adopted the categorization of land as in the Madras Mining Manual, namely, lands in which minerals vested in government; lands in which minerals vested in a person other than government; and lands in which minerals vested partly in government and partly in private persons. The first category mostly pertained to situations where the land vested with the state by virtue of it being unoccupied or land legislation vesting title to minerals with the State Government. The second category pertained to situations where the State Government had not divested the landowner of their rights in the sub-soil minerals. The third category applied to intermediary tenures such as ryotwari lands where the minerals were shared by both the government and private persons. 259. In Raja Anand Brahma Shah v. State of U P,319 a Constitution Bench accepted that the English system of ownership of lands applied in India, observing that the owner of the surface of land is entitled ex jure to everything beneath the land. It was further observed that a transfer of the right to the surface conveys the right to the minerals 319 [1967] 1 SCR 373 : 1966 SCC OnLine SC 89 [13] 1710 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports underneath unless there is an express or implied reservation in the grant of land. In Thressiamma Jacob v. Geologist, Department of Mining and Geology,320 a three-Judge Bench of this Court had to determine whether the holder of jenmon rights owned the mineral wealth lying beneath the soil. The Court traced the history of land tenures in India to hold that the ownership of minerals normally follows the ownership of land, unless the owner is deprived of it by a valid legal process. 260. The legislative power of States to enact land legislation can be traced to Entry 18 of List II which empowers the State legislatures to legislate with respect to matters dealing with “land, that is to say, rights in or over land, land-tenures including the relation of landlord and tenant, and the collection of rents.” Similarly, Entry 42 of List III deals with “acquisition and requisitioning of property.” 261.