Explanation.- For the purpose of these definition the word “conviction” shall include an made under section 118 read with section 110 of the Criminal Procedure Code. ● 563. Cooking of food, cleanliness of vessels etc. – The cooks shall perform all preparations and processes necessary after issue of the daily supplied to them, and shall cook the food with due care and attention. The dough for chapaties shall be ‘slowly and thoroughly kneaded and then rolled to a uniform thickness on a table by a rolling pin, not patted by hands; a circular curter shall be used to make the cakes of one size; and the cooking must be done slowly on a gently heated plate; so as not to burn the outside whilst the inner part remains Uncooked. All cooking utensils must be kept scrupulously clean and bright, and the cook-house and feeding places as clean and tidy as it is possible to make them. Any breach of this rule shall subject the cooks to such punishment, within the limits fixed by these rules, as the Superintendent may after due and proper enquiry award. Andhra Pradesh Prison Rules, 1979 ● 217. Definition of habitual – The following persons shall be liable to be classified as “habitual criminals”, namely:— (i) Any person convicted of an offence punishable under chapters XII, XVII and XVIII of the Indian Penal Code whose previous conviction or convictions, taken in conjuction with the facts of the present case, show that he is by habit a robber, housebreaker, dacoit, thief or receiver of stolen property or that he habitually commits extortion, cheating, counterfeiting coin, currency notes or stamps or forgery; (ii) Any person convicted of an offence punishable under Chapter XVI of the Indian Penal Code, whose previous conviction or convictions taken in conjunction with the facts of the present case, show that he habitually commits offences against the person; (iii) Any person committed to or detained in prison under section 122 read with section 109 or section 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 592 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iv) Any person convicted of any of the offences specified in i) above when it appears from the facts of the case, even though no previous conviction has been proved, that he is by habit a member of a gang of dacoits, or of thieves or a dealer in stolen property; (v) Any habitual offender as defined in the Andhra Pradesh Habitual Offenders Act, 1962; (vi) Any person convicted by a court or tribunal acting outside India under the general or special authority of the Central Government or any State Government of by any court or tribunal which was before the commencement of the constitution acting under the general or special authority of an offence which would have rendered him liable to be classified as a habitual criminal if he had been convicted in a court established in India. EXPLANATION:- For the purpose of this definition the word “conviction” shall include an mate under section 117, read with section 110 of the Criminal Procedure Code.