This principle of law is known as lex prospicit non respicit: law looks forward not backward. As was observed in Phillips v. Eyre [(1870) LR 6 QB 1], a retrospective legislation is contrary to the general principle that legislation by which the conduct of mankind is to be regulated when introduced for the first time to deal with future acts ought not to change the character of past transactions carried on upon the faith of the then existing law. 29. The obvious basis of the principle against retrospectivity is the principle of “fairness”, which must be the basis of 664 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports every legal rule as was observed in L’Office Cherifien des Phosphates v. Yamashita-Shinnihon Steamship Co. Ltd. [(1994) 1 AC 486 : (1994) 2 WLR 39 : (1994) 1 All ER 20 (HL)] Thus, legislations which modified accrued rights or which impose obligations or impose new duties or attach a new disability have to be treated as prospective unless the legislative intent is clearly to give the enactment a retrospective effect; unless the legislation is for purpose of supplying an obvious omission in a former legislation or to explain a former legislation.” (emphasis supplied) 18. It is to be kept in mind that Courts can, and must, differ from the literal meaning of words if the reading of any provision provides absurd results. There are specific grounds under which a landlord can seek eviction of the tenant. There are provisions as well for immediate recovery of possession for certain classes of landlords. But Section 2(g) of the 1997 Act cannot be interpreted in the manner it has been done by the Calcutta High Court in Sushil Kumar (supra) and Satyanarayan More (supra). 19. We are of the view that the phrase “or from the date of coming into force of this Act, whichever is later”, used in section 2(g) of 1997 Act, was rightly held to be superfluous in Goutam Dey (supra). We do not doubt the wisdom of the legislature but we are constrained to hold that the case at hand reflects loose drafting, as it seems to have created more problems than it sought to resolve. Francis Bennion, who has been quoted by Krishna Iyer, J. in State of Karnataka v. Ranganatha Reddy (1977) 4 SCC 471 while dealing with Karnataka Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Act, 1976, had said the following words about the Renton Committee Report (Report on Preparation of Legislation): “The Renton Committee points out that the problem of obscure statute law is important to every citizen. There is hardly any part of our national life or of our personal lives that is not affected by one statute or another. The affairs of local authorities, nationalised industries, public corporations and private commerce are regulated by [2024] 9 S.C.R. 665 Rajesh Mitra @ Rajesh Kumar Mitra & Anr. v. Karnani Properties Ltd. legislation. The life of the ordinary citizen is affected by various provisions of the statute book from cradle to grave.