5 of 2024 inter-alia for seeking a declaration that it is the rightful owner of the property, as the Sale Certificate issued to the petitioner does not confer ownership right and title in respect of the property by contending that this Court in its decision in the Main Appeals did not declare either directly or indirectly that the sale transaction in its favour is void or not binding. It has further contended in its plaint that the interpretation of this Court as to the right of redemption of the Borrower in the Main Appeals cannot be applied post- exfacto to the sale executed in its favour so as to declare the transaction as invalid. (vi) That the Borrower in its response dated 16.01.2024 to the petitioner’s legal notice outrightly refused to handover the physical possession and the original title deeds to the Secured Asset by contending that it no longer had any role to play or authority over the property in view of its transfer to the Subsequent Transferee. However, when the Tehsildar, Thane 1648 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports in pursuance of the Bank’s application for obtaining physical possession of the Secured Asset issued a notice to the Subsequent Transferee, the Borrower filed an application for seeking a stay of the same. (vii) That the Subsequent Transferee on 17.01.2024 also sought for registration of FIR against the Bank and the petitioner herein inter-alia alleging that the Bank had been falsely claiming that this Court in its decision in the Main Appeals had directed the refund of the amount paid towards redemption of mortgage to the Borrower and to transfer the vacant possession of the Secured Asset to the petitioner, and that the Bank in collusion with the petitioner had issued the sale certificate to the Secured Asset despite having executed the Release Deed for the mortgage and the pending litigation before the DRT. 53. In light of the above, it was contended by the petitioner that both the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee have been acting in tandem with each other to frustrate the implementation of the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals by misleading various authorities and by mischievously instituting proceedings before different forums & thereby thwart any attempt of the petitioner and the borrower to obtain physical possession and original title deeds to the Secured Asset. 54. As regards the contention of the respondents on the issue of auction that was conducted by the Bank being illegal and contrary to the statutory provisions, it was submitted on behalf of the petitioners that the requirement under Rule 8(6) read with Rule 9(1) to maintain a 30-day gap between the notice to the borrower and the notice of sale is mandatory only for the first auction. Placing reliance on the Proviso to Rule 9(1) it was submitted that for any subsequent auctions after the first auction fails, only 15-days’ time period is required between the notice of sale and the date of auction. 55. It was submitted that in the present case, since the Bank had already conducted a total of 8 auctions prior to the auction in which the petitioner emerged as the successful bidder, the same only required a 15-days’ statutory notice period.