In any case, if it were found to be violative of Article 14, it would be struck down in its entirety. There would be, and is no question of so reading it that its provisions apply to all, legislators 14 [2001] Supp. 3 SCR 191 : (2001) 7 SCC 231 758 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and non-legislators, and that, therefore, in all cases the disqualification must await affirmation of the conviction and sentence by a final court. That would be ‘reading up’ the provision, not ‘reading down’, and that is not known to the law.” 32. The literal rule of interpreting a statute empowers courts to iron out the creases within legislation but without altering the very fabric of which it is made. The practice of reading up a provision can only be justified when it aligns with legislative intent, maintains the fundamental character of the law, and ensures that the resulting interpretation remains consistent with the original context to which the law applies. This holds especially true for subordinate legislation, which require greater scrutiny in this regard. Reading up a provision of subordinate legislation in a manner that it militates against the primary legislation is not permissible. 33. The authority to craft subordinate legislation is derived from the enabling/primary legislation and it is imperative that such legislation harmonizes with the provisions outlined in the enabling/primary legislation. The Electricity Act has conferred power on the Central Government to make Rules [see section 175], and on the Central Electricity Authority and the Central Commission to make Regulations [see sections 176 and 177, respectively]. All such rules/regulations are to be made consistent with the Electricity Act. Section 181 of the Electricity Act confers power on the State Commissions to make Regulations but such regulations too must be consistent with the provisions of the primary enactment and the rules framed thereunder generally. Rules and Regulations are enacted to supplement the main provision, not to supplant it. They serve the crucial role of bridging potential gaps within the primary legislation, yet, their function is not to create webs and voids merely to clog and hamper their implementation. Any gaps addressed by Rules and Regulations must be discernible within the framework of the primary legislation. 34. In the present case, the TSERC, in paragraph 19, asserted that regulation 12 applies implicitly to a deemed licensee as well. We do not agree with this reasoning, mainly for two reasons. First, the primary legislation, the Electricity Act, through the proviso inserted in section 14(b), confers deemed licensee status upon SEZ developers without imposing any specific conditions. Secondly, the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 759 M/s Sundew Properties Limited v. Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission & Anr. 2013 Regulations make a clear distinction between an applicant seeking a licence [as defined under regulation 2(d)] and a deemed distribution licensee seeking recognition as such [as defined under regulation 2(h)]. Regulation 2(d) defines an “applicant” as “a person who has submitted an application to the Commission for the grant of a distribution licence”.