Rule 31(2) and (3) which deal with the syllabus provides as under: 31. Syllabus for imparting instructions, in driving of motor vehicles.— [2024] 11 S.C.R. 601 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. (1) The syllabus for imparting instructions in driving of motor vehicles of the schools or establishments shall be as follows (see tables below): [(2) The lessons for training drivers of non-transport vehicles shall cover Parts A, B, C, F, G and K of the syllabus referred to in sub-rule (1) and the training period shall not be less than twenty-one days: Provided that in case of motorcycles, it shall be sufficient compliance of the provisions, if portion of Part C of syllabus as applicable to such vehicles are covered. (3) The lessons for training drivers of transport vehicles shall cover Parts E, F, G, H, I, J and K of the syllabus referred to in sub-rule (1) and the training period shall not be less than thirty days” [emphasis supplied] 63. Chapter V of the MV Act specifically deals with ‘Control of Transport Vehicles’. Section 66 deals with ‘Necessity for Permits’ and prohibits an owner of a motor vehicle to use or to permit the use of the motor vehicle as a transport vehicle in any public place save in accordance with the conditions of permit, granted by an appropriate authority: “66. Necessity for permits.—(1) No owner of a motor vehicle shall use or permit the use of the vehicle as a transport vehicle in any public place whether or not such vehicle is actually carrying any passengers or goods save in accordance with the conditions of a permit granted or countersigned by a Regional or State Transport Authority or any prescribed authority authorising him the use of the vehicle in that place in the manner in which the vehicle is being used:…” [emphasis supplied] 64. The necessity for a permit and the need for driving license are two different requirements and the distinctions thereof must be borne in mind. 65. The aforenoted provisions are pressed into service to contend that the legislature has placed LMVs and Transport Vehicles under separate classes. For each class of vehicle, varying degrees of scrutiny are 602 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports provided and the argument on behalf of Insurance Companies is that the holder of a LMV license is disentitled to drive a Transport Vehicle and a separate endorsement would be necessary for driving a vehicle of the other class. 66. Reading the various provisions as noticed above appears to pull the reader into two distinct spheres and this might make the legal implications unworkable. The principle of harmonious constructions of statutes should guide us to unravel this vexed question. (a) Harmonious Construction 67. In Sultana Begum v. Prem Chand Jain,32 this Court examined the relevant precedents of this Court and articulated the following principles on harmonious construction of statutes: "a. It is the duty of the courts to avoid a head-on clash between two sections of the Act and to construe the provisions which appear to be in conflict with each other in such a manner as to harmonise them; b.