This Court had again occasion to consider the evidentiary value of expert opinion in regard to handwriting in Fakhruddin v. State of M.P. [Fakhruddin v. State of M.P., AIR 1967 SC 1326 : 1967 Cri LJ 1197] and it uttered a note of caution pointing out that it would be risky to found a conviction solely on the evidence of a handwriting expert and before acting upon such evidence, the court must always try to see whether it is corroborated by other evidence, direct or circumstantial.’” 15. Of course, it is not safe to base the conviction solely on the evidence of the handwriting expert. As held by the Supreme Court in Magan Bihari Lal v. State of Punjab [Magan Bihari Lal v. State of Punjab (1977) 2 SCC 210 : 1977 SCC (Cri) 313] that: (SCC p. 213, para 7) “7. … expert opinion must always be received with great caution … it is unsafe to base a conviction solely on expert opinion without substantial corroboration. 634 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports This rule has been universally acted upon and it has almost become a rule of law.” 16. It is fairly well settled that before acting upon the opinion of the handwriting expert, prudence requires that the court must see that such evidence is corroborated by other evidence either direct or circumstantial evidence. In Murari Lal v. State of M.P. [Murari Lal v. State of M.P. (1980) 1 SCC 704 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 330], the Supreme Court held as under: (SCC pp. 708-09, paras 4 and 6) “4. … True, it has occasionally been said on very high authority that it would be hazardous to base a conviction solely on the opinion of a handwriting expert. But, the hazard in accepting the opinion of any expert, handwriting expert or any other kind of expert, is not because experts, in general, are unreliable witnesses — the quality of credibility or incredibility being one which an expert shares with all other witnesses — but because all human is fallible and an expert may go wrong because of some defect of observation, some error of premises or honest mistake of conclusion. The more developed and the more perfect a science, the less the chance of an incorrect opinion and the converse if the science is less developed and imperfect. The science of identification of fingerprints has attained near perfection and the risk of an incorrect opinion is practically non-existent. On the other hand, the science of identification of handwriting is not nearly so perfect and the risk is, therefore, higher. But that is a far cry from doubting the opinion of a handwriting expert as an invariable rule and insisting upon substantial corroboration in every case, howsoever the opinion may be backed by the soundest of reasons. It is hardly fair to an expert to view his opinion with an initial suspicion and to treat him as an inferior sort of witness. His opinion has to be tested by the acceptability of the reasons given by him.