● 440. Allowance for caste prejudice – The prison tasks including conservancy work shall be allotted at the discretion of the Superintendent with due regard to capacity of the prisoner, his education, intelligence and attitude and so far as may be practicable with due regard to his previous habits. ● 448. Restrictions on extramural employment of convicts– (1) Without the sanction of the Inspector General, no convict shall, at any time, be employed on any labour outside the walls of the prison, or be permitted to pass out of the prison for employment of the purpose of being so employed:— (a) Unless he has undergone not less than one-fourth of the substantive term of imprisonment to which he has been sentenced; (b) If the unexpired term of substantive sentence together with imprisonment (if any) awarded in lieu of fine, still to be undergone, exceeds two years; (c) If his appeal (if any) is undisposed of: [2024] 10 S.C.R. 593 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. d) If any other charge or charges are pending against him or he has to undergo a period of police surveillance on the expiry of his sentence; (e) If he is a resident of foreign territory; and (f) If he is a member of a wandering or criminal tribe, or is of a bad or dangerous character, or has, at any time, escaped of attempted to escape from lawful custody. (2) Not withstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1) of this rule, every prisoner, who has not more than twelve months of sentence remaining, may be employed on extramural labour irrespective of the portion of sentence already passed in prison. (3) In every case in which a convict is employed on any labour outside the walls of the prison or is permitted to pass out of the prison for the purpose of being so employed, it shall be subject to the condition that the Superintendent has sanctioned his employment outside the prison and recorded the fact of his having done so in the Prisoner’s History Ticket. NOTE:- When there are more prisoners eligible, for employment outside the prison than are actually required, casuals and men with the shortest unexpired terms should be selected in preference to others. ● 1036. Classes of convicted prisoners and their treatment – (1): As mentioned in rule 216 supra, convicted prisoners are divided into three divisions namely classes A, B and C. (2) Prisoners shall be treated as “A” Class if- (i) They are non-habitual prisoners of good character; (ii) They by social status, education and habit of life have been accustomed to a superior mode of living; and (iii) They have not been convicted of- (a) Offenses involving elements of cruelty, moral degradation or personal greed; (b) Serious or premeditated violence; (c) Serious offences against women and children; (d) Serious offences against property; 594 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (e) Offences relating to the possession of explosives, fire-arms and other dangerous weapons with the object of committing an offence or of enabling an offence to be committed; (f) Abetment or incitement of offences falling within these sub- rules.