They were in fact moving from place to place and from hotel to hotel and the respondent was akin to a “visiting spouse”; iii) It appears that in a short duration of time that parties were with each other, neither was there any cordiality, nor was there any mutual love and affection or respect for each other. The first year of the marriage lapsed owing to the respondent travelling to USA and returning [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1387 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda thereafter and the petitioner remaining either at Bhopal or at Pune without there being a continuous cohabitation. iv) That soon thereafter, there were petitions for divorce filed by the respondent and a petition for divorce by mutual consent filed by both parties, as well as complaints filed by the petitioner against the respondent and his father The aforesaid facts would give us an impression that there was hardly any cordiality or meaningful marital relationship which emerged from the marriage of the parties. 9.11 In light of the above, it is the respondent who has filed the present application under Article 142(1) seeking a decree of divorce. Thus, the intention of the respondent is clear inasmuch as he does not wish to continue his marital ties with the petitioner. This is further crystallised by the categorical submission of the respondent before us that he does not want to engage in any more discussions with the petitioner, after having gone through multiple rounds of court directed mediations in an attempt to reach a mutually agreeable settlement. 9.12 The petitioner seems to think that while on one hand, she can continue to make allegations against the respondent and in the same breath intend to continue her marital relationship with the respondent. If the petitioner had difficulties with respondent in the short time that she has lived with him, then it is strange that the petitioner also wants to continue her relationship with the respondent. 9.13 We therefore do not find any substance in contention of learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner that the petitioner intends to continue her marital relationship with the respondent. At the same time, having filed criminal complaints against him and his father and having gotten him arrested at the Mumbai Airport and he, being on bail, the petitioner intends to remain married with the respondent! The aforesaid events have definitely deterred the respondent from continuing with his marital relationship with the petitioner. It is noted that even within a year of his marriage with the petitioner, he had consulted an advocate and had sought divorce. 1388 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 9.14 The petitioner, on the other hand, has taken contradictory positions with respect to her intentions about her marriage. On one hand, she has stated that she has been a dutiful wife and has happily resided with the respondent-husband, but simultaneously she has filed a criminal complaint against the respondent-husband, alleging serious offences like cruelty, outraging of modesty, rape, cheating, etc., vide FIR No.588 of 2022 dated 15.12.2022 before the Police Station Yerwada, District Pune.