In this regard, it was submitted that by straightaway filing a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution a right of approaching this Court by way of an appeal by an aggrieved party has been lost. It was submitted that if victims file petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution before this Court challenging s of remission, floodgates would be opened and persons such as the petitioner would straightaway file writ petitions before this Court. That when an alternative remedy of filing a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution is available which is also a wider remedy than Article 32 of the Constitution, the petition filed by the writ petitioner in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022 must be dismissed reserving liberty to her to approach the High Court, if so advised. Similar arguments were made by learned senior counsel Sri Chidambaresh. 22.2. At the outset, we state that Article 32 of the Constitution is a part of Part-III of the Constitution of India which deals with Fundamental Rights. The right to file a petition under Article 32 820 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the Constitution is also a Fundamental Right. In the instant case, the petitioner - Bilkis Bano has filed her writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution in to enforce her Fundamental Rights under Article 21 of the Constitution which speaks of right to life and liberty and Article 14 which deals with right to equality and equal protection of the laws. The object and purpose of Article 32 of the Constitution which is also recognised to be the “soul of the Constitution” and which is a Fundamental Right in itself is for the enforcement of other Fundamental Rights in Part-III of the Constitution. We think that the aforesaid constitutional remedy is also to enforce the goals enshrined in the Preamble of the Constitution, which speak of justice, liberty, equality and fraternity. Bearing in mind the expanded notion of access to justice which also includes speedy remedy, we think that the petition filed by the petitioner in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022 cannot be dismissed on the ground of availability of an alternative remedy under Article 226 of the Constitution or on the ground of its maintainability under Article 32 of the Constitution before this Court. 22.3. There is another stronger reason as to why the said petitioner has approached this Court by filing a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution rather than invoking Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court. That is because earlier, one of the respondents, namely, respondent No.3 Radheshyam Bhagwandas Shah had preferred Writ Petition(Crl.) No.135 of 2022 invoking Article 32 of the Constitution before this Court by seeking a direction to the State of Gujarat to consider his case for remission under the Policy of 1992. This Court issued a categorical direction to that effect. In fact, the respondent-State has understood the said direction as if it was a command or a direction to grant remission within a period of two months.