The explanation to the provision states that for the purposes of the Section, the pendency of a suit or proceedings shall be deemed to commence from the date of the presentation of the plaint or institution of the proceeding in a Court, and shall continue until the suit or proceeding is disposed by a “final decree or ” and complete satisfaction of the is obtained, unless it has become unobtainable by reason of the expiry of any period of limitation. Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act reads as follows: “52. During the pendency in any Court having authority within the limits of India excluding the State of Jammu and Kashmir or established beyond such limits by the Central Government of any suit or proceeding which is not collusive and in which any right to immovable property is directly and specifically in question, the property cannot be transferred or otherwise dealt with 696 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by any party to the suit or proceeding so as to affect the rights of any other party thereto under any decree or which may be made therein, except under the authority of the Court and on such terms as it may impose. Explanation.– For the purposes of this section, the pendency of a suit or proceeding shall be deemed to commence from the date of the presentation of the plaint or the institution of the proceeding in a Court of competent jurisdiction, and to continue until the suit or proceeding has been disposed of by a final decree or and complete satisfaction or discharge of such decree or has been obtained, or has become unobtainable by reason of the expiration of any period of limitation prescribed for the execution thereof by any law for the time being in force.” (emphasis supplied) 46. The following conditions ought to be fulfilled for the doctrine of lis pendens to apply: a. There must be a pending suit or proceeding; b. The suit or proceeding must be pending in a competent court; c. The suit or proceeding must not be collusive9; d. The right to immovable property must be directly and specifically in question in the suit or proceeding; e. The property must be transferred by a party to the litigation; and f. The alienation must affect the rights of any other party to the dispute.10 47. In short, the doctrine of lis pendens that Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act encapsulates, bars the transfer of a suit property during the pendency of litigation. The only exception to the principle 9 A collusive suit is not a real suit but a sham where the claim that is put forward if fictitious. See Nagubai Ammal v. B Shama Rao, 1956 SCC 321 10 See Amit Kumar Shaw v. Farida Khatoon, (2005) 11 SCC 403 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 697 M/s Siddamsetty Infra Projects Pvt. Ltd. v. Katta Sujatha Reddy & Ors. is when it is transferred under the authority of the court and on terms imposed by it.