2(1)/A/93- SSI Bd. and Policy dated 05.05.1993 issued by the Ministry of Industry, Department of SSI, Agro and Rural Industries, Office of the Development Commissioner (Small Scale Industries), had an effect of treating MSSIDCL as a supplier for the purpose of claiming interest from the buyer, that is MSEB, with whom they have entered into a contract for the purpose of the 1993 Act – The liability to pay and the privity of contract in terms of the supply/purchase dated 30.03.1995 is between MSSIDCL and SSPL – The contractual relationship, rights and obligations inter se MSSIDCL and SSPL do not undergo any change. [Paras 6, 8-10, 13, 14] List of Acts Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale and Ancillary Industrial Undertakings Act, 1993; Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. List of Keywords “Buyer”; “Supplier”; Interest; Date of payment; Appointed date, Acceptance date; Deemed date of acceptance; Small scale Industries. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.3856 of 2024 From the and dated 26.03.2018 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in AN No. 203 of 2017 456 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Appearances for Parties Ranjit Kumar, Siddharth Bhatnagar, Sr. Advs., Ms. Tahira Karanjawala, Arjun Sharma, Shreyas Maheshwari, Ms. Sukanya Das, Aditya Sidhra, M/s. Karanjawala & Co., Advs. for the Appellant. Dr. S. Muralidhar, Sr. Adv., Zubin Morris, Nirav Shah, Udit Gupta, Ms. Prachi Gupta, Ms. Pragya Gupta, Ms. Pallak Bhagat, M/s. Udit Kishan And Associates, Advs. for the Respondent. / of the Supreme Court Leave granted. 2. We have heard learned Senior Advocate appearing for the appellant – Snehadeep Structures Pvt. Limited1 and the Respondent - Maharashtra Small Scale Industries Development Corporation Ltd.2 3. During the course of the hearing, our attention was drawn to Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale and Ancillary Industrial Undertakings Act, 19933. For the sake of convenience, the said Sections are reproduced below: - “3. Liability of buyer to make payment.- Where any supplier supplies any goods or renders any services to any buyer, the buyer shall make payment therefor on or before the date agreed upon between him and the supplier in writing or, where there is no agreement in this behalf, before the appointed day: Provided that in no case the period agreed upon between the supplier and the buyer in writing shall exceed one hundred and twenty days from the day of acceptance or the day of deemed acceptance. 4. Date from which and rate at which interest is payable.- Where any buyer fails to make payment of the amount to the supplier, as required under section 3, the buyer shall, 1 For short, “SSPL”. 2 For short, “MSSIDCL”. 3 For short, “1993 Act”. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 457 Snehadeep Structures Pvt. Limited v. Maharashtra Small Scale Industries Development Corporation Ltd. notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement between the buyer and the supplier or in any law for the time being in force, be liable to pay interest to the supplier on that amount from the appointed day or, as the case may be, from the date immediately following the date agreed upon, at one-and-half time of Prime Lending Rate charged by the State Bank of India.