The amended proviso to the provision stipulated that nothing in the Section shall be deemed to prevent the provision of religious instruction to those who consent to it. Section 9 which empowered the Court to mandate religious instruction for Muslim students was deleted by the amendment. Section 23(1), which provided that all members of the Court would be Muslims, was also deleted. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1681 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. and the administrative set-up of the university.6 Proceedings under Article 32 of the Constitution were instituted before this Court for challenging the constitutional validity of the 1951 Amendment Act and the 1965 Amendment Act. A Constitution Bench in the decision in S Azeez Basha v. Union of India7 upheld the constitutional validity of the Amendments. The petitioners made a three-fold argument: (a) AMU was established by Muslims, who are a religious minority for the purposes of Article 30(1); (b) Article 30(1) guarantees Muslims the right to administer the University established by them; and (c) the 1951 and 1965 Amendments are violative of Article 30(1) to the extent that it infringed the right of the Muslim community to administer the institution. Article 30 is extracted below: “30. Right of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions.—(1) All minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. (1A) In making any law providing for the compulsory acquisition of any property of an educational institution established and administered by a minority, referred to in clause (1), the State shall ensure that the amount fixed by or determined under such law for the acquisition of such property is such as would not restrict or abrogate the right guaranteed under that clause. (2) The State shall not, in granting aid to educational institutions, discriminate against any educational institution on the ground that it is under the management of a minority, whether based on religion or language.” The amendments were also impugned on the ground that they violated Articles 14, 19, 25, 26, 29 and 31 of the Constitution. 6 Section 23 of the AMU Act was amended to delete clauses (2) and (3). By this amendment, the powers of the Court were significantly reduced. The Court which was the supreme governing body of the University now only had the power to advise the Visitor or any other authority of the University on matters which may be referred to it for advice and exercise powers assigned to it by the Visitor. The powers of the Court were instead placed in the hands of the Executive Council. The composition of the Court (which was an all-Muslim body) was also amended. The process of constituting the Court and the Executive Council was also amended. 7 (1968) 1 SCR 833 : AIR 1968 SC 662 1682 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 3. The Union of India opposed the petitions, arguing that the Muslim minority did not have the right to administer AMU since they had not established the institution.