The doubtful existence of the extra judicial confession, unnatural conduct of PW-1, recovery of dead body in the presence of an unreliable witness PW-2, contradictions regarding arrest, unnatural prior and subsequent conduct of PW-1, incredible testimony of the witnesses in support of the last seen theory etc. are some of the inconsistencies which strike at the root of the prosecution case. To draw an inference of guilt on the basis of such evidence would result into nothing but failure of justice. The evidence on record completely fails the test laid down for the acceptability of circumstantial evidence. Therefore, in light of the consolidated discussion, all three issues are hereby answered in negative. 28. Before parting, we consider it our duty to refer to the catena of s relied upon by the respondent to contend that minor inconsistencies could not be construed as reasonable doubts for ing acquittal. Reference has been made to Sucha Singh v. State of Punjab12, Mallikarjun13 and Hari Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh14. 29. No doubt, it is trite law that a reasonable doubt is essentially a serious doubt in the case of the prosecution and minor inconsistencies are not to be elevated to the status of a reasonable doubt. A reasonable doubt is one which renders the possibility of guilt as highly doubtful. It is also noteworthy that the purpose of criminal trial is not only to ensure that an innocent person is not punished, but it is also to ensure that the guilty does not escape unpunished. A judge owes this duty to the society and effective performance of this duty plays a crucial role in securing the faith of the common public in rule of law. Every case, wherein a guilty person goes unpunished due to any lacuna on the part of the investigating agency, prosecution or otherwise, shakes the conscience of the society at large and diminishes the value of the rule of law. Having observed so, the observations in this regard 12 [2003] Suppl. 2 SCR 35 : (2003) 7 SCC 643 13 [2019] 11 SCR 609 : Supra 14 [2021] Suppl. 10 SCR 1022 : Supra 408 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports may not advance the case of the respondent in the present appeal. It is so because the inconsistencies in the case of the prosecution are not minor inconsistencies. As already discussed above, the prosecution has miserably failed to establish a coherent chain of circumstances. The present case does not fall in the category of a light-hearted acquittal15, which is shunned upon in law. 30. In light of the foregoing discussion, we hereby conclude that the High Court has erred in reversing the decision of acquittal. The evidence of the prosecution, at best, makes out a case for suspicion, and not for conviction. Accordingly, the impugned and are set aside. We find no infirmity in the of the Trial Court and the same stands restored. Consequently, the appellant is acquitted from all the charges levelled upon him.