Etc. Entry 49 - List II contemplated a levy on land as a unit and the levy must be directly imposed on land and must bear a definite relationship to it. The aforesaid decision was affirmed in Assistant Commissioner of Urban Land Tax vs. The Buckingham & Carnatic Co. Ltd., (1970) 1 SCR 268 (“The Buckingham & Carnatic Co.”). Similarly, in Second Gift Tax Officer, Mangalore vs. D.H. Nazareth, (1971) 1 SCR 195 (“D.H. Nazareth”), it was held that a tax on the gift of land is not a tax imposed directly on land but only for a particular act, namely, the transfer of land by way of gift. In Union of India vs. Harbhajan Singh Dhillon, (1971) 2 SCC 779 (“Harbhajan Singh Dhillon”), the aforesaid two decisions were approved. 31.2 Further, it was observed in India Cement that royalty which is indirectly connected with land cannot be said to be tax directly on land as a unit. The cess impugned could not be levied if there was no mining activity carried on as no royalty was payable as payment of cess was on royalty. Hence, it was manifest that cess on royalty was not relatable to land as a unit which is the only method of valuation of land under Entry 49 - List II but was relatable to minerals extracted, i.e. royalty was payable on a proportion of the minerals extracted based on the rate fixed under the Second Schedule to MMDR Act, 1957. Therefore, the impugned cess on royalty was held in pith and substance to be a tax on royalty and not a tax on land. Hence, royalty could not be included within the definition of “land revenue” for the purpose of imposition of a cess on land revenue, which means cess on royalty, when royalty is itself a tax paid by a holder of mining lease for exercise of his mineral rights, which is in the interest of mineral development. 31.3 It was further observed in India Cement that Entry 23 - List II deals with regulation of mines and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I, i.e. Entry 54 - List I. Even though the subject mineral rights are part of the State List, taxes on mineral rights are treated separately and hence, the principle that the specific excluded the general must be applied. Therefore, it was observed that the word “lands” in Entry 49 - List II cannot include mineral bearing lands. In this connection, it was further observed that the extent to which 1828 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports regulation of mines and mineral development under the control of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest (Entry 54 – List I), must be noted as, to that extent, denuding the State Legislation of its power under Entry 50 - List II. It was further observed that in view of the Parliamentary legislation under Entry 54 - List I, namely, the MMDR Act, 1957, and the declaration made under Section 2 and the provisions of Section 9 thereof, the State’s power would be overridden to that extent.