It was specifically stated therein that the 2nd respondent-corporate debtor was still to unlock the value of the land, that is, the value of the investment made by ACIL. It was disclosed that the 2nd respondent-corporate debtor was a 51% subsidiary of ACIL. The assets and liabilities of ACIL, disclosed in the information memorandum, did not include the assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries. Therefore, the assets and liabilities of the 2nd respondent-corporate debtor were not part of CIRP of ACIL. He also pointed out the definition clause in the resolution plan. The liquidation value of ACIL was shown as Rs.360 crores, and the financial value did not include its subsidiaries’ income. It is expressly provided in clauses 13.1 and 13.3 of the resolution plan that all the assets of ACIL shall stand extinguished, and the corporate guarantee of ACIL would also be extinguished. There is a specific clause that no right of subrogation shall be available to the existing guarantors. He submitted that only a sum of Rs.38.87 crores was given to the 1st respondent-financial creditor. Therefore, the liability of the 2nd respondent-corporate debtor concerning the balance amount continued to exist. 8. He invited our attention to the decision of this Court dated 21st May 2021 in the case of Lalit Kumar Jain v. Union of India & Ors.8 This lays down that it is open for the creditors to move against personal guarantors under the IBC. He submitted 6 [2012] 1 SCR 573 : (2012) 6 SCC 613 7 [2021] 12 SCR 603 : (2022) 1 SCC 401 8 [2021] 3 SCR 1075 : (2021) 9 SCC 321 2152 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that because the liability of the guarantor is co-extensive with the corporate debtor, this Court held that the approval of a resolution plan of the corporate debtor does not ipso facto discharge guarantors of the corporate debtor of their liabilities under the contract of guarantee. It was held that by involuntary process or due to liquidation or insolvency proceedings, corporate guarantors are not absolved of their liability, which arises out of an independent contract. In this case, the entire outstanding amount payable by the 2nd respondent- corporate debtor has not been recovered from ACIL. Therefore, there is no bar on the 1st respondent-financial creditor to proceed against the 2nd respondent-corporate debtor for the remaining amount. In this case, the 1st respondent-financial creditor first moved against the guarantor and, after exhausting the remedies against the guarantor, filed an application under Section 7 against the 2nd respondent- corporate debtor. Merely because the creditor has made a partial recovery from the guarantor, it does not absolve the corporate debtor of his financial obligations. Reliance was placed upon a decision of this Court in the case of Maitreya Doshi v. Anand Rathi Global Finance Ltd. & Anr.9 9. Regarding the plea of subrogation, the learned counsel pointed out that the plea was never raised before the adjudicating authority and the NCLAT. The ground of subrogation was made by way of an amendment to the memorandum of this appeal; therefore, the contention not raised earlier cannot be considered at this stage.