(…) xxx xxx xxx 66. (…) it follows, in the light of our findings recorded hereinbefore, that Respondents 4 to 8 are absolutely liable to compensate for the harm caused by them to the villagers in the affected area, to the soil and to the underground water and hence, they are bound to take all necessary measures to remove the sludge and other pollutants lying in the affected area (…) and also to defray the cost of the remedial measures required to restore the soil and the underground water sources. Sections 3 and 4 of Environment (Protection) Act confers upon the Central Government the power to give directions of the above nature and to the above effect. Levy of costs required for carrying out remedial measures is implicit in Sections 3 and 4 which are couched in very wide and expansive language. Appropriate directions can be given by this Court to the Central Government to invoke and exercise those powers with such modulations as are called for in the facts and circumstances of this case.” [emphasis supplied] 288 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 155. In the case of S. Jagannath v. Union of India and others16, this Court was considering the issue of pollution created by the industry which had caused harm to the villagers in the affected area, to the soil and to the underground water. This Court observed thus : “49. (…) Consequently the polluting industries are ‘absolutely liable to compensate for the harm caused by them to villagers in the affected area, to the soil and to the underground water and hence, they are bound to take all necessary measures to remove sludge and other pollutants lying in the affected areas’. The ‘Polluter Pays Principle’ as interpreted by this Court means that the absolute liability for harm to the environment extends not only to compensate the victims of pollution but also the cost of restoring the environmental degradation. Remediation of the damaged environment is part of the process of ‘Sustainable Development’ and as such the polluter is liable to pay the cost to the individual sufferers as well as the cost of reversing the damaged ecology (…).” [emphasis supplied] 156. It could thus be seen that, worldwide as well as in our jurisprudence, the law has developed and evolved emphasizing on the restoration of the damaged ecological system. A reversal of environmental damage in conformity with the principle under Article 8(f) of the CBD is what is required. At times, the compensatory afforestation permits forestation at some other site. However, the principle of restoration of damaged ecosystem would require the States to promote the recovery of threatened species. We are of the considered view that the States would be required to take steps for the identification and effective implementation of active restoration measures that are localized to the particular ecosystem that was damaged. The focus has to be on restoration of the ecosystem as close and similar as possible to the specific one that was damaged.