xxx 70. [...] Therefore, the Arbitration Act, 1996 consolidates the law on domestic arbitrations by incorporating the provisions to expressly deal with the domestic as well as international commercial arbitration by taking into account the 1985 Uncitral Model Laws. It is not confined to the New York Convention, which is concerned only with enforcement of certain foreign awards. It is also necessary to appreciate that the Arbitration Act, 1996 seeks to remove the anomalies that existed in the Arbitration Act, 1940 by introducing provisions based on the Uncitral Model Laws, which deals with international commercial arbitrations and also extends it to commercial domestic arbitrations. Uncitral Model Law has unequivocally accepted the territorial principle. Similarly, the Arbitration Act, 1996 1188 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports has also adopted the territorial principle, thereby limiting the applicability of Part I to arbitrations, which take place in India. xxx 77. We are of the opinion that the omission of the word “only” in Section 2(2) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 does not detract from the territorial scope of its application as embodied in Article 1(2) of the Model Law. The article merely states that the arbitration law as enacted in a given State shall apply if the arbitration is in the territory of that State. The absence of the word “only” which is found in Article 1(2) of the Model Law, from Section 2(2) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 does not change the content/import of Section 2(2) as limiting the application of Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 to arbitrations where the place/seat is in India. 78. For the reasons stated above, we are unable to support the conclusion reached in Bhatia International and Venture Global Engg., that Part I would also apply to arbitrations that do not take place in India. xxx 81. We quote the above in extenso only to demonstrate that Section 2(2) is not merely stating the obvious. It would not be a repetition of what is already stated in Section 1(2) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which provides that “it extends to the whole of India”. Since the consolidated Arbitration Act, 1996 deals with domestic, commercial and international commercial arbitrators, it was necessary to remove the uncertainty that the Arbitration Act, 1996 could also apply to arbitrations which do not take place in India. Therefore, Section 2(2) merely reinforces the limits of operation of the Arbitration Act, 1996 to India.” (Emphasis supplied) (ii) Secondly, this court rejected the contention that the Act, 1996 is ‘subject-matter centric’ and not exclusively ‘seat centric’. It [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1189 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze observed that the words “subject-matter of the arbitration” and “subject-matter of the suit” occurring in Section 2(1)(e) should not be conflated as the former confers jurisdiction on the basis of cause of action while the latter confers jurisdiction on the basis of “place of arbitration”, thus, the Act, 1996 is not merely ‘subject-matter centric’. It observed that although the legislature by use of the words “subject-matter of arbitration” in addition to “subject-matter of the suit” under Section 2(1)(e) has conferred jurisdiction to two-courts i.e., the court of jurisdiction over the cause of action and the court of the seat of the arbitration process, yet the expression “subject-matter of suit” occurring in Section 2(1)(e) is confined only to Part I of the Act, 1996, and thus, wherever it is found that the seat or place of arbitration is outside India, Part I would be inapplicable and the jurisdiction then will be “exclusively seat centric”.