51. Money also excludes parties which are new to the electoral fray, and in particular, parties representing the cause of marginalized communities. Political parties which do not have enough finance have had to form electoral coalitions with other established political parties who would in exchange shoulder a lion’s share of the campaign expenditure of the newly established political party extending to costs related to coalition propaganda, print and digital advertising, vehicle and equipment hire, political rallies, food transportation, and daily expenditure for party cadres®. The compromises which newly formed political parties have to make lead to a dilution of the ideology of the party in exchange of its political sustenance. In this manner, money creates an exclusionary impact by reducing the democratic space for participation for both candidates and newer and smaller political parties. 52. The s of this Court have recognized the influence of money on politics. They take a critical view of the role played by 67 Michael A. Collins, Navigating Fiscal Constraints in “Costs of Democracy: Political Finance in India” (edited by Devesh Kapur and Milan Vaishnav) OUP 2018 68 See Neelanjan Sircar, Money in Elections: the Role of Personal Wealth in Election Outcomes in Costs of Democracy: Political Finance in India (ed. By Devesh Kapur and Milan Vaishnav) OUP 2018 69 Michael A. Collins, Navigating Fiscal Constraints in “Costs of Democracy: Political Finance in India” (edited by Devesh Kapur and Milan Vaishnav) OUP 2018 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 483 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. big business and “big money” in the electoral process in India. The decision in Kanwar Lal Gupta v. Amar Nath Chawla,” notices that money serves as an asset for advertising and other forms of political solicitation that increases a candidate’s exposure to the public. The court observed that the availability of large funds allows a candidate or political party “significantly greater opportunity for the propagation of its programme?” in comparison to their political rivals. Such political disparity, it was observed, results in “serious discrimination between one political party or individual and another on the basis of money power and that in turn would mean that “some voters are denied an ‘equal’ voice and some candidates are denied an ‘equal chance”. 53. In Vatal Nagaraj ५. R Dayanand Sagar,” Justice V R Krishna lyer noted that candidates often evade the legal ceiling on expenditure by using big money channelled by political parties. The court acknowledged that large monetary inputs are “necessary evils of modern elections”, which they hoped would be eradicated sooner rather than later. In P Nalla Thampy Terah v. Union of India,” a Constitution Bench of this Court was called upon to decide the validity of Explanation 1 to Section 77 of the RPA which allowed unlimited channelling of funds by political parties for the election of their candidates. While upholding the constitutional validity of the explanation, the Court noted that the petitioners were justified in criticizing the statute for “diluting the principle of free and fair elections.” 54.