We would, however, like to point out that in the matter of admission to college or even in the matter of public employment, the 572 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports oral interview test as presently held should not be relied upon as an exclusive test, but it may be resorted to only as an additional or supplementary test and, moreover, great care must be taken to see that persons who are appointed to conduct the oral interview test are men of high integrity, calibre and qualification.” 59. It was ultimately concluded that providing for as high a percentage as 33.5% for the interview segment, was infecting the admission procedure with the vice of arbitrariness. For the facts of the present case, the writ petitioners’ contention on violation of the aforementioned dictum in Ajay Hasia (supra) is adequately answered in Lila Dhar (supra) where the three-judge bench considered the issue of selection of Munsifs for Rajasthan Judicial Service. The selection was to be made through written examination as well as interview where 25% marks were earmarked for the viva voce segment. Distinguishing the judgement in Ajay Hasia (supra) which was in the context of college admissions, the Court in Lila Dhar (supra) pertinently opined as under: “The observations of the Court were made, primarily in connection with the problem of admission to colleges, where naturally, academic performance must be given prime importance. The words “or even in the matter of public employment” occurring in the first extracted passage and the reference to the marks allocated for the interview test in the Indian Administrative Service examination were not intended to lay down any wide, general rule that the same principle that applied in the matter of admission to colleges also applied in the matter of recruitment to public services. The observation relating to public employment was per incuriam since the matter did not fall for the consideration of the Court in that case. Nor do we think that the Court intended any wide construction of their observation. As already observed by us the weight to be given to the interview test should depend on the requirement of the service to which recruitment is made, the source material available for recruitment, the composition of the interview Board and several like factors. Ordinarily recruitment to public services is regulated by rules made under the proviso to Art. 309 of the Constitution and we would be usurping a function which is not ours, if we try to redetermine the [2024] 6 S.C.R. 573 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. appropriate method of selection and the relative weight to be attached to the various tests.” 60. The above opinion in Lila Dhar (supra) makes it clear that the ratio in Ajay Hasia (supra), in the context of college admission, may not have much bearing on recruitment for judicial vacancies where oral interviews play an important role to test the personality and caliber of the aspirant to judicial posts.