3. Since the Appellant was a minor, his claim was kept pending. A further communication from the office of the Superintendent of Police, Rohtak, dated 30.12.2003, was received by the mother of the Appellant that on attainment of the age of majority, the Appellant should approach the Office of the Welfare Inspector to get the case prepared. It is on this basis that the Appellant approached the DGP by way of representation dated 30.10.2008 putting forth his claim for appointment under the ex-gratia scheme, specifying therein that he had attained the age of majority on 10.10.2008. His mother also submitted a representation to the DGP, making reference to the earlier communications as mentioned above for the grant of appointment on compassionate grounds as per the policy. 4. The claim of the Appellant was considered, and communication was received from the DGP dated 28.04.2009 addressed to the Superintendent of Police, Rohtak, with a copy thereof to the mother of the Appellant intimating rejection of the claim for appointment on compassionate grounds. The reason assigned was that from the date of death of the Appellant’s father till he having become major 11 years had passed rendering the claim time barred when taken from the date of death of the father of the Appellant. For this reliance was placed on the Government instructions dated 22.03.1999 where a minor dependent of a deceased government employee gets the benefit provided he/she attains age of majority within a period of three years from the date of death of the government employee. It was further intimated that, as per the “Haryana Compassionate Assistance to the Dependents of Deceased Government Employees” Rules, 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the “2006 Rules”), which were [2024] 11 S.C.R. 717 Tinku v. State of Haryana & Ors. then in force, whereunder the claim was considered, did not contain provision for providing a job under the ex-gratia scheme. 5. Faced with this situation, the Appellant had preferred a writ petition before the High Court in the year 2009, with the plea of promissory estoppel in the light of communications received referred to above. The writ was dismissed on 12.01.2021 holding therein that the principle of estoppel would not be applicable to the case in hand as it was only a communication which was sent to the petitioner with regard to the name having been entered in the minor’s register, while the subsequent communication from the Superintendent of Police was for approaching the authority on the attainment of the age of majority by the ward. An aspect with regard to the delay from the date of death of the father of the Appellant till the date of he having attained majority which is around 11 years also weighed on the mind of the Court in the light of the law as has been laid down by this Court in Umesh Kumar Nagpal v. State of Haryana.1 6. An intra court appeal preferred by the Appellant resulted in the dismissal of the same on 22.03.2022, leading to the filing of the present Appeal.