4 [2021] 8 SCR 797 : (2022) 14 SCC 766 646 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. Now, we come to the offences alleged against the appellant. Offences punishable under Sections 13, 18, 18A, and 20 of the UAPA have been alleged against the appellant. Section 13 reads thus: “13. Punishment for unlawful activities.— (1) Whoever— (a) takes part in or commits, or (b) advocates, abets, advises or incites the commission of, any unlawful activity, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine. (2) Whoever, in any way, assists any unlawful activity of any association, declared unlawful under section 3, after the notification by which it has been so declared has become effective under sub-section (3) of that section, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years, or with fine, or with both. (3) Nothing in this section shall apply to any treaty, agreement or convention entered into between the Government of India and the Government of any other country or to any negotiations therefor carried on by any person authorised in this behalf by the Government of India.” The term unlawful activity has been defined in Section 2(o), which reads thus: “2 Definitions.—…………………………… (o) “unlawful activity”, in relation to an individual or association, means any action taken by such individual or association (whether by committing an act or by words, either spoken or written, or by signs or by visible representation or otherwise),— (i) which is intended, or supports any claim, to bring about, on any ground whatsoever, the cession of a part of the territory of India or the secession of a part of the territory of India from the Union, or which incites any individual or group of individuals to bring about such cession or secession; or [2024] 8 S.C.R. 647 Jalaluddin Khan v. Union of India (ii) which disclaims, questions, disrupts or is intended to disrupt the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India; or (iii) which causes or is intended to cause disaffection against India; ………………………………………………………….” Sections 18 and 18A of UAPA read thus: “18. Punishment for conspiracy, etc.—Whoever conspires or attempts to commit, or advocates, abets, advises or incites, directly or knowingly facilitates the commission of, a terrorist act or any act preparatory to the commission of a terrorist act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. 18A. Punishment for organising of terrorist camps.— Whoever organises or causes to be organised any camp or camps for imparting training in terrorism shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.” There is nothing in the charge sheet which shows that the appellant has taken part in or has committed unlawful activities as defined in the UAPA.