It was alleged by the complainant that on the same day at around 12:30 PM, he along with his elder brothers Jagdish Sharan Srivastava and Rajkumar alias Raja Bhaiya, nephew Kuldeep Singh, and two persons from their village, Virendra Singh and Ramkaran Singh, was sitting in the complainant’s house and talking when the accused persons, armed with guns, entered through the front gate. One of the accused persons, Rudrapal Singh alias Lalle challenged them and alleged that the victims had been making police complaints against him for kidnapping and selling opium, and therefore they had come to teach the victims a lesson. The accused persons fired indiscriminately owing to which Rajkumar and Jagdish Sharan got injured and fell down, and later succumbed to their injuries. Virendra Singh was also injured. The complainant was also fired at by Chunna Singh and Santavan Singh but got saved because he was laid down on the ground. 6.2 During the investigation, names of accused Chhote Singh and Ganga Singh came up in light of those previously arrayed as unknown persons. Three others, Akhilesh Kumar, Surendrapal 2 IPC [2024] 7 S.C.R. 817 Shailendra Kumar Srivastava v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. Singh and Krishna Murari were found to be involved in the conspiracy for the incident by the investigating agency. Therefore, chargesheet was filed by the Investigating Officer against ten accused persons for offences under Sections 147, 148, 149, 307, 120B, 302, IPC and Sections 27, 30, Arms Act, 1959. 6.3 Accused Rudrapal Singh alias Lalle was absconding and was declared as proclaimed offender. Thus Sessions Trial No. 17/1995 was committed to the Court of Sessions against the other nine accused persons. Subsequently Sessions Trial No. 66/2004 against Rudrapal Singh alias Lalle was also committed to the Court of Sessions. 6.4 Accused Chhote Singh was elected as Member of Legislative Assembly from the ruling party in Uttar Pradesh in the year 2007. 6.5 The Governor of Uttar Pradesh, vide a Government , Serial No. – 901WC/Seven-Justice-5-2007-361 WC/ 2007, dated 16.04.2008, addressed to the District Magistrate, Jalaun, Orai, granted permission to the Public Prosecutor to submit an application before the Trial Court seeking withdrawal of prosecution of Chhote Singh. 6.6 The above Government was modified to further grant permission to the Public Prosecutor to file an application seeking withdrawal of the prosecution of other accused persons as well. 6.7 Both the applications filed under Section 321, CrPC, seeking withdrawal of prosecution were heard and disposed of together by the Trial Court vide dated 19.05.2012. The Trial Court allowed the withdrawal of prosecution against accused Chhote Singh observing that the image of accused Chhote Singh is good among the public and he is a respected citizen of the society. The public has shown its trust in him by electing him to the Legislative Assembly. Further it was noted that Chhote Singh had not been named in the FIR and the reasons for the same were not made clear by the complainant. Additionally, since no other serious cases were registered against him, the Trial Court considering all the factors found no reason to allow the prosecution to continue against Chhote Singh.