Both these Courts have examined the evidence threadbare and in the opinion of these two fora, go against the complainant/ petitioner. On the question as to whether the sum involved in the cheques was advanced in discharge of a legally enforceable debt or not, the petitioner has failed to show if any sum was advanced towards financial assistance. The High Court found that the debt/ liability, in discharge of which, according to the petitioner, the cheques were issued, did not reflect in the petitioner’s balance-sheet. The other partners of the firm did not depose as prosecution witnesses to establish that the cheque-amounts were advanced to the accused as financial assistance. The respondent no.1/accused has put up a plausible defence as regards the reason for which the petitioner’s funds had come to her account. Both the appellate fora, on going through the evidence did not find existence of any “enforceable debt or other liability”. This strikes at the root of the petitioner’s case. 12. As the impugned decision is primarily based on considering the evidences produced by the respective parties, we do not consider it necessary to individually deal with the ratio of the respective decisions relied on by the learned senior counsel representing the parties. The principles emerging from these authorities have been [2024] 4 S.C.R. 263 M/S Rajco Steel Enterprises v. Kavita Saraff and Another applied in the of the High Court. In this also, we have taken into consideration the positions of law reflected in these authorities. We are of the opinion that there is no perversity in the finding of the High Court, and prior to that, in the finding of the First Appellate Court, that went against the complainant/petitioner. It cannot be held that these findings were perverse, or based on no evidence. No point of law is involved in this set of cases, that would warrant our interference. We accordingly dismiss these petitions. 13. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. 14. There shall be no as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Petitions dismissed.