55.3 Additionally, when the findings are such that the conscience of the court is shocked, interference would be called for. 56. While the above are some contexts in which the Court may exercise its plenary power, the following overarching principles should always be considered prior to delving into such exercise: 56.1 The power has to be used sparingly and only when grave injustice is being caused to the parties of the dispute; 56.2 The burden of proof to show that concurrent findings are unjust, warranting interference by this Court is on the appellant. Sardar Jogendra Singh v. State of U.P. (2008) 17 SCC 133; Guljar Singh v. Dy. Director (Consolidation) (2009) 12 SCC 590; Ghisalal v. Dhapubai (2011) 2 SCC 298; Sukhbiri Devi & ors v. Union of India & Ors. 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1322 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1041 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. 56.3 Interference would not be warranted merely because in a given set of facts, a view different from the one which stands taken by the courts below, is possible. 56.4 It is not within the realm of practicality that all possibilities be mapped out, as to when invocation of this power would be felicitous. The court has to take such a call having employed its wisdom, reason and judicial thought. 57. The above discussion on when interference in concurrent findings of fact will be justified demonstrates that while keeping in view the factors discussed in Para 51, any of the situations mentioned in Para 50 or other such similar situations, have to be met. In the present facts, we are of the considered view that none of the above scenarios appear to be so met. In that view of the matter, the findings of fact in respect of scheduled properties under item No.2 remain undisturbed. 58. The question of law, i.e., the difference of opinion between the majority and minority in Mary Cheriyan (supra) is resolved holding that the minority posited the correct view. However, it is clarified that the pronouncement of law in this shall apply prospectively. For the purposes of ample clarity, we state that any transaction concluded or ongoing will not be disturbed by way of this and the position of law as stated herein shall apply only henceforth. 59. In conclusion, even though we have, on the point of law upheld the minority view of the Full Bench of the Kerala High Court, in the facts of the present case, the finding about which all five judges were ad idem applies. The views of the Trial Court and the High Court therefore requires no interference by this Court. 60. Appeal stands dismissed. The preliminary decree passed by the Trial Court and upheld by the High Court is affirmed. The Trial Court to proceed further as per law. 61. No costs. Result of the case: Appeal dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey