….The legal position is not in dispute that mere production and marking of a document as exhibit by the court cannot be held to be a due proof of its contents. Its execution has to be proved by admissible evidence, that is, by the “evidence of those persons who can vouchsafe for the truth of the facts in issue”……” 39. Furthermore, the expert witness(PW-10) admitted in his cross- examination that the doctor who had performed the postmortem examination physically can give better opinion about the age of the injuries. Thus, there is no doubt in the mind of the Court that the evidence of the expert witness(PW-10) does not lend any support to the case of prosecution. 40. From the evidence of the so called eyewitnesses Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1) and Dhanlakshmi Vaiyapuri(PW-2), it is apparent that the victim was made to climb the five flights of stairs for being presented before DCP Shri Surelia at the Karanj Bhavan, Ahmedabad. 41. Looking to the nature of injuries noted by the Medical Jurist(PW-9) in the postmortem report(Exhibit-50), it is impossible to believe that the victim, having received the multiple injuries, which included rupture of spleen, rupture of liver, fracture of ribs, would have been in a position to walk what to say of climb five flight of stairs. The Medical Jurist(PW-9) stated that the person having received the injuries noted in the postmortem report(Exhibit-50) would not be able to climb a stair case without support and that the expression of the person and his movement would be painful. Thus, there was hardly any possibility that after having received the injuries mentioned in the postmortem report(Exhibit-50), Jeeva(deceased) could have climbed up the stairs of Karanj Bhavan, Ahmedabad for being presented before DCP Shri Surelia. 7 [2003] Supp. 5 SCR 90 : (2003) 8 SCC 745 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 393 Vinod Jaswantray Vyas (Dead) Through Lrs v. The State of Gujarat 42. Viewed in light of the evidence of the Medical Jurist(PW-9) who conducted the autopsy upon Jeeva’s dead body, we are of the opinion that, if at all, the victim had already been subjected to the injuries noted in the postmortem report(Exhibit-50), he would be having a severe expression of pain and it would have been impossible for him to climb up the flights of stairs. Furthermore, on being presented before the learned Magistrate, the expression of pain on the face of the victim, would be prominently visible and could not have escaped being noticed by the learned Magistrate. 43. The opinion of the Medical Jurist(PW-9) regarding the age of injuries has not been controverted by the prosecution. The said witness was examined by the prosecution and he has categorically opined in his examination in chief that the injuries caused to the deceased were fresh and must have occurred within six to eight hours of the death. The expert witness(PW-10) also admitted that the doctor who had performed the postmortem examination would be in a better position to give opinion about the age of injuries.