b. Infrastructural development: i. Provision of separate resting rooms and duty rooms in each Department for (a) male doctors; (b) female doctors; (c) male nurses; (d) female nurses; and (e) a gender-neutral common resting space. The room must be well-ventilated, have sufficient bed spaces, and provide a facility for drinking water. Access to these rooms must be restricted through installation of security devices; ii. Adopting appropriate technological intervention to regulate access to critical and sensitive areas including through use of bio-metric and facial recognition; iii. Ensuring adequate lighting at all places in the hospital and, if it is a hospital attached to a medical college, all places within the campus; iv. Installation of CCTV cameras at all the entrance and exit points of the hospitals, and the corridors leading up to all patient rooms; and [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1057 In Re: Alleged Rape and Murder Incident of A Trainee Doctor In R.G. Kar Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata and Related Issues Versus v. If the hostels or rooms of the medical professionals are away from the hospital, provision of transport between 10 pm to 6 am to those who wish to travel to or from their place of stay to the Hospital. c. Employment of social workers trained in grief and crisis counselling at all medical establishments; d. Conducting workshops for all employees of medical establishments including doctors, nurses and helpers on handling grief and crisis; e. Constitution of “Employees Safety Committees” composed of doctors, interns, residents and nurses at every medical establishment to conduct quarterly audits on institutional safety measures; f. Including additional requirement(s) on institutional safety measures for medical professionals as a criteria for accreditation of healthcare establishments by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers; and g. The possibility of establishing police posts in medical facilities commensurate with the footfall, bed strength and facilities. II. Prevention of sexual violence against medical professionals: a. The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013 applies to hospitals and nursing homes11 (including private health providers12). In terms of the provisions of the Act, an Internal Complaints Committee must be constituted in all hospitals and nursing homes; b. The duties of an employer listed under Section 19 of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 11 See Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013; Section 2(o)(iii) 12 See Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013; Section 2(o)(ii) 1058 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013 which includes organizing sensitization programmes and providing a safe working space must be discharged; and c. Ensuring for every medical institution a helpline number for medical professionals which is open 24 x 7 and emergency distress facilities. 13. It is clarified that the phrase medical professionals used in this encompasses every medical professional including doctors, medical students who are undergoing their compulsory rotating medical internship (CRMI) as a part of the MBBS course, resident doctors and senior resident doctors and nurses (including those who are nursing interns).