[2024] 5 S.C.R. 174 : 2024 INSC 320 Babu Sahebagouda Rudragoudar and Others v. State of Karnataka Criminal Appeal No. 985 of 2010 19 April 2024 [B.R. Gavai and Sandeep Mehta,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the High Court was justified in deciding the appeal as a first Court on independent appreciation of evidence and recording its own findings to hold the accused appellants (A-1, A-2 and A-3) guilty of charge u/s. 302 r/w. s.34 IPC. Headnotes Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.378 – Appeal in case of acquittal – Scope of interference by an appellate Court for reversing the of acquittal recorded by the trial Court: Held: It is beyond the pale of doubt that the scope of interference by an appellate Court for reversing the of acquittal recorded by the trial Court in favour of the accused has to be exercised within the four corners of the following principles: (a) That the of acquittal suffers from patent perversity; (b) That the same is based on a misreading/omission to consider material evidence on record; (c) That no two reasonable views are possible and only the view consistent with the guilt of the accused is possible from the evidence available on record – The appellate Court, in to interfere with the of acquittal would have to record pertinent findings on the above factors if it is inclined to reverse the of acquittal rendered by the trial Court. [Paras 39 and 40] Penal Code, 1860 – s. 302 r/w. s. 34 – Prosecution case that accused A-1, A-2, A-3 and A-4 armed with weapons attacked victim-son of PW-1, PW-1, PW-2, PW-3, PW-4 and PW-5 – Accused belaboured son of PW-1 – As a result, he died – PW-1 ran away hid behind the bushes – After sunset, he returned to his village and told them about the incident – Next day, in morning a written complaint filed before police station – Charge-sheet filed – The Trial Court discarded prosecution * Author [2024] 5 S.C.R. 175 Babu Sahebagouda Rudragoudar and Others v. State of Karnataka story and acquitted accused-appellants (A-1, A-2 and A-3) along with other accused, however, the High Court reversed the acquittal of A-1, A-2 and A-3 and convicted these accused u/s. 302 r/w. s.34 IPC – Correctness: Held: It was alleged in the report that the complainant-PW-1 along with PW-2, PW-3, PW-4 and PW-5 (servants, who had accompanied the deceased to erect a bund in their land) witnessed the incident wherein, however, none other than the deceased received a single injury in the incident – The witnesses PW-2, PW-6 and PW-15 admitted that it was raining incessantly in the village for almost three days – In such circumstances, the reason assigned by the complainant(PW-1) for the deceased and the four servants(PW-2, PW-3, PW-4 and PW-5) to have gone to the agricultural land, i.e., for putting up a bund is totally unacceptable – Testimony of PW-1 suffers from patent infirmities, contradictions and inherent loopholes which brings him within the category of wholly unreliable witness – There is a grave contradiction on the aspect as to whether the report was submitted by the complainant(PW-1) in the form of a written complaint or whether the oral statement of complainant(PW-1) was recorded by the police officials at his home leading to the registration of FIR(Exhibit P-10) – Further, PW-6 (who claimed to be an eye witness of the incident) categorically stated that it was he who had informed the family members, the informant PW-1 – Thus, the case set up by prosecution that complainant, PW-1 was an eye-witness to the incident, is totally contradicted by evidence of PW-6 – The conduct of the family members of the deceased and the other villagers in not taking any steps to protect the dead body for the whole night and instead, casually going back to their houses without giving a second thought as to what may happen to the mortal remains of the deceased, lying exposed to the elements is another circumstance which creates a grave doubt in the mind of the Court that no one had actually seen the incident and it was a case of blind murder which came to light much later – There is no logical explanation for the presence of the deceased and the servants in their field on the date and time of the incident – Further, the High Court heavily relied upon the circumstance of recoveries of weapons made at the instance of the accused as incriminating evidence – However, as was rightly pointed out that the complainant (PW-1) admitted in his cross-examination that he was shown the weapons of the offence by the police on the date of incident itself – In light 176 [2024] 5 S.C.R.