This is so, since the over-arching objective of Section 6A and the Assam Accord was to achieve a comprehensive and lasting solution to the complex issue of migration in Assam; balancing legal, political, and humanitarian considerations. 242. At this juncture, it is crucial to distinguish between the prescribed process under the provision and its actual implementation. While the legislature had anticipated that the procedure outlined in Section 6A, along with other complementary statutes mentioned in paragraph 239 above, would suffice to address the issue of immigration into Assam, this intention has not been realized. Instead of adequately addressing the immigrants who entered the state before 1971 and timely identifying and deporting those who entered illegally post- 1971, the Respondents have not properly implemented this legal regime, leading to a scenario where the latter category of immigrants have been residing in Assam like ordinary citizens. However, this failure is not attributable to Section 6A but rather to its inadequate implementation. 243. Certainly, had the law granted Indian citizenship to undocumented immigrants from another country on an ongoing basis without any intelligible criteria or discernible principle, it could have been susceptible to challenge. However, this is not the case here. As previously analyzed, Section 6A conferred citizenship only upon certain immigrants who met certain specified conditions up to a [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1101 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 particular cut-off date. Functioning alongside other statutes, its aim was not only to legitimize the stay of a particular class of immigrants but also to facilitate the detection and deportation of others. Section 6A is clearly not manifestly arbitrary. (g) Section 6A and Part II of the Constitution 244. The Petitioners further argued that individuals declared as citizens in Part II of the Constitution, along with successive generations, constitute the basic structure of the Constitution, and any statute or statutory provision which interferes with this basic structure, without reasonable care and fairness, should be deemed ‘manifestly arbitrary’ thus rendering Section 6A as liable to be struck down. 245. Since we have already dealt with Part II of the Constitution in the preceding parts, this issue need not be iterated again. It would be sufficient to observe that Section 6A does not go against the notion of citizens under Part II of the Constitution, and the same does not sustain a challenge based on either the ‘basic structure’ theory or ‘manifest arbitrariness’. (h) ‘Ordinarily resident’ in Section 6A 246. The Petitioners submitted that the expression ‘ordinarily resident’, as contained in Section 6A, is vague as it does not prescribe any yardstick for the number of days required to qualify the same. In this light, the Petitioners cited this Court’s holding in Harakchand Ratanchand Banthia v. Union of India (supra), to contend that when key concepts in a provision are vague, the same ought to be struck down. 247. Vagueness as one of the grounds for striking down a provision under Article 14 can be understood through judicial pronouncements made by this Court.