Definitions. - In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- x x x x x (3) “industrial establishment” means- (a) ……. ; or (b) ……. ; or (c) ……..; or (d) ……..; or (e) an establishment as defined in clause (6) of section of the Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments Act, 1947 (Tamil Nadu Act XXXVI of 1947); or (f) ………; or 12 [2015] 5 SCR 474 : (2015) 6 SCC 494 13 (2015) 6 SCC 321 14 [2022] 10 SCR 986 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 521 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 605 Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Limited v. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Employees Welfare Union & Anr. (g) any other establishment which the Government may, by notification, declare to be an industrial establishment for the purpose of this Act. (4) “workman’, means any person employed in any industrial establishment to do any skilled or unskilled, manual supervisory, technical or clerical work for hire or reward, whether the terms of employment be express or implied [and includes a badli workman, but does not include any such person,- (a) who is employed in the police service or as an officer or, other employee of a prison; or (b) who is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity; or (c) who, being employed in a supervisory capacity, [draws wages exceeding three thousand and five hundred rupees per mensem] or exercises either by the nature of the duties attached to the office or by reason of the powers vested in him, functions mainly of a managerial nature. x x x x x 3. Conferment of permanent status to workmen. - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force every workman who is in continuous service for a period of four hundred and eighty days in a period of twenty-four calendar months in an industrial establishment shall be made permanent. (2) A workman shall be said to be in continuous service for a period if he is, for that period, in uninterrupted service, including service which may be interrupted on account of sickness or authorised leave or an accident or a strike, which is not illegal, or a lock-out [xxx], or a cessation of work which is not due to any fault on the part of the workman. [Explanation [I]. - [For the purposes of computing the continuous service referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2), 606 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a workman shall be deemed to be in continuous service during the days on which] - (i) he has been laid-off under an agreement or as permitted by standing s made under the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Act, 1946 (Central Act XX of 1946) or under any other law applicable to the industrial establishment; (ii) he has been on leave with full wages, earned in the course of this employment; and (iv) in the case of a female, she has been on maternity leave; so however, that the total period of such maternity leave does not exceed twelve weeks.