v. Patel Chandrakant Dhulabhai & Ors. reported in (2008) 14 SCC 561 that without a prohibitory , there can be no contempt of court. 74. He further submitted that this Court in its decision in the Main Appeals held that a notice of auction can be published in the newspaper only after serving a 30-days clear notice to the borrower. It was submitted that the mandatory nature of the period prescribed is not a mere formality but a safeguard to the borrower to ensure that its right of redemption is given meaningful expression. Since in the present case both the notice to the borrower as-well as the auction notice were made on 14.06.2023, the auction proceedings is said to have taken place contrary to the mandate of law, and the sale of the Secured Asset in favour of the petition pursuant to such auction is illegal and void. 1654 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 75. Placing reliance on the decisions of this Court in General Manager, Sri Siddeshwara Cooperative Bank Limited & Anr. v. Ikbal & Ors. reported in (2013) 10 SCC 83 and Vasu P. Shetty v. Hotel Vandana Palace & Ors. reported in (2014) 5 SCC 660 it was submitted that the 30-day notice to the borrower in terms of Rule 8 and 9 of the SARFAESI Rules respectively is mandatory in nature and non- compliance of the same would render the auction illegal. Similarly, as per the decision of this Court in Govind Kumar Sharma & Anr. v. Bank of Baroda & Ors. reported in 2024 INSC 326, an auction would be liable to be quashed if no 30-day notice is given by the bank. 76. It was submitted that if S.A. No. 46 of 2022 pending before the DRT is allowed then in light of the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals, the auction would be illegal and the right of redemption of the Borrower would survive and by extension all transactions executed by it in pursuance thereto including the transfer of the Secured Asset in favour of the Subsequent Transferee. 77. It was further submitted that the petitioner’s contention that the pending proceedings under S.A. No. 46 of 2022 before the DRT did not survive after the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals more particularly after the issuance of the Sale Certificate is completely misconceived and untenable. In this regard it was submitted that first, the proceedings before this Court in the Main Appeals emanated from an interlocutory stage and secondly, both the auction and the Sale Certificate issued in pursuance thereto does not vest in the petitioner an absolute ownership in the Secured Asset. 78. He submitted that S.A. No. 46 of 2022 was filed by the Borrower assailing the validity of the measures taken by the Bank under the SARFAESI Act and the same was still pending. When the 9th auction came to be conducted, the Borrowers filed an interlocutory application in the aforesaid securitization application for seeking redemption of mortgage, wherein s were reserved.