The argument advanced in that case before the High Court, which had found favour with it in holding Section 53 ultra vires, was that when a plot is reconstituted and out of that plot, a smaller area is given to the owner and the remaining area is utilized for a public purpose, the area so utilized vests in the local authority but as the Act did not provide for giving compensation, which is a just equivalent of the land expropriated on the date of extinction of interest, the guaranteed right under Article 31(2) of the Constitution stood infringed. Negating this contention, the Constitution Bench held that Section 53 did not provide that a reconstituted plot is transferred 1 [1969] 3 SCR 341 : (1969) 1 SCC 509 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 613 Mrugendra Indravadan Mehta and Others v. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation or is deemed to be transferred from the local authority to the owner of the original plot, as it provides for statutory readjustment of the rights of the owners of the original plots of land. The Bench pointed out that when the scheme comes into force, all rights in the original plots stand extinguished and, simultaneously therewith, ownership springs in the reconstituted plots. Noting that there is no vesting of original plots in the local authority nor transfer of the rights of the local authority in the reconstituted plots, the Bench observed that a part or even the whole plot belonging to an owner may go to form a reconstituted plot which may be allotted to another person or may be appropriated to public purposes under the scheme. The Bench further observed that the source of the power to appropriate the whole or a part of the original plot in forming a reconstituted plot is statutory and it does not predicate ownership of the plot in the local authority and no process - actual or notional - of transfer is contemplated in that appropriation. The Bench ultimately held that the concept that lands vest in the local authority when the intention to make a scheme is notified is against the plain intendment of the Act. Significantly, while considering the provision in the Bombay Town Planning Act, 1955, pertaining to the method of adjustment of contribution against compensation receivable by an owner of land, viz., Section 67, the Bench noted that the said provision states that the difference between the market value of the plot, with all the buildings and works thereon, on the date of declaration of the intention to make a scheme and the market value of the plot as reconstituted on the same day and without reference to the improvements contemplated in the scheme, is to be the compensation due to the owner and in the event the owner of the original land is not allotted a plot at all, he shall be paid the value of the original plot on the date of declaration of the intention to make a scheme. 25. In Prakash Amichand Shah vs. State of Gujarat and others2, another Constitution Bench again dealt with the provisions of the Bombay Town Planning Act, 1955.