835 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others which is not chargeable to income-tax in any previous year; or (e) carrying on the business shall, if the provisions of sub-section (4) of section 44AD are applicable in his case and his income exceeds the maximum amount which is not chargeable to income-tax in any previous year, get his accounts of such previous year audited by an accountant before the specified date and furnish by that date the report of such audit in the prescribed form duly signed and verified by such accountant and setting forth such particulars as may be prescribed: Provided that this section shall not apply to a person, who declares profits and gains for the previous year in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 44AD or sub-section (1) of Section 44ADA: Provided further that this section shall not apply to the person, who derives income of the nature referred to in section 44B or section 44BBA, on and from the 1st day of April, 1985, or, as the case may be, the date on which the relevant section came into force, whichever is later: Provided also that in a case where such person is required by or under any other law to get his accounts audited, it shall be sufficient compliance with the provisions of this section if such person gets the accounts of such business or profession audited under such law before the specified date and furnishes by that date the report of the audit as required under such other law and a further report by an accountant in the form prescribed under this section. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,— (i) “accountant” shall have the same meaning as in the Explanation below sub-section (2) of section 288; 836 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) “specified date”, in relation to the accounts of the assessee of the previous year relevant to an assessment year, means date one month prior to the due date for furnishing the return of income under sub-section (1) of section 139.” Discussion: 8. We have heard the matter at length and perused the compilations submitted by learned senior counsel and learned counsel and perused the material on record. 9. During the course of submissions, we observed that the catalyst for filing these writ petitions was the issuance of the communications/ notices to the petitioners herein pursuant to the Guideline dated 08.08.2008, violation of which is a misconduct. Although by an amendment made to the said Guidelines, a new type of misconduct was envisaged, since the respondent-Institute had initially not taken any steps vis-à-vis the said misconduct, there was no challenge as such to the Guideline as well as amendment thereto in question by any of the petitioners herein. Admittedly, the writ petitioners have undertaken audits under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961 over and above the number of tax audits specified as per the Guidelines dated 08.08.2008. Thereby, it is in the guise of challenging the disciplinary proceedings initiated by the respondent-Institute against the petitioners herein for conducting the audits over and above the specified number of tax audits that has led to the constitutional challenge to the Guidelines as well as to the disciplinary proceedings.