He invited our attention to the averments made in the complaint and, in particular, paragraph no.14.5, which deals with incriminating documents relating to money collected for providing jobs in the posts of Drivers, Conductors, Junior Tradesmen, Junior Engineers, Assistant Engineers, etc. He pointed out that the prosecution mainly relies upon a file named CS AC, allegedly found in the seized pen drive. The file allegedly gives details regarding the amounts received against each post. He submitted that the Tamil Nadu Forensic Science Laboratory (TNFSL)’s analysis of the seized pen drive shows that the said file CS AC was not found on the pen drive, and a file named csac.xlsx was found. As regards the allegation of the prosecution of the deposit of cash amount of Rs.1.34 crores in the appellant’s bank account, the learned senior counsel urged that said amount represents the income received by way of remuneration as MLA and agriculture income. Learned senior counsel submitted that in any event, all the documents and all relevant electronic evidence have been seized in the predicate offences and statements of the witnesses under Section 50 of the 398 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports PMLA have been recorded. He submitted that the appellant has undergone incarceration under the PMLA Act for more than 14 months. He pointed out that as far as three predicate offences are concerned, charges have not even been framed. There are more than 2000 accused and 600 prosecution witnesses in the predicate offences and therefore, there is no possibility of trial of scheduled offences getting over in the near future. He submitted that unless the trials pertaining to scheduled offences are concluded, the complaint under the PMLA cannot be finally decided. He would, therefore, submit that there is no possibility of the trial for the PMLA offence concluding within five to six years and hence, the appellant deserves to be enlarged on bail. The learned senior counsel extensively relied upon a recent decision of this Court in the case of Manish Sisodia1 and especially what is observed in paragraph 54. He submitted that on facts, this case is similar to the case of Manish Sisodia.1 He also relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Union of India v. K.A. Najeeb.2 6. The learned Solicitor General of India and learned counsel appearing for the E.D. have made separate detailed submissions. The first submission is that there is no discrepancy in the description of file name CS AC in the pen drive and the file name of the same file in the TNFSL report dated 31st March 2023, which shows collection of the sum of Rs. 67.74 crores by the appellant for providing employment in the various posts in the Transport Department. He submitted that if the TNFSL report is perused, the document at Sr.No.24 has the same name, CS AC. He submitted that the portion “.xlsx” is only a file extension, which signifies that it is a Microsoft Excel sheet. He submitted that a printout of the Microsoft Excel spreadsheet file with the name CS AC found in the seized pen drive was certified by the Special MPMLA Court, which is relied upon in the complaint.