Although there was an attempt at reconciliation, the respondent maintains that the complaints caused lasting damage to the marital relationship. He submits that the High Court correctly found that the complaints, even if later condoned, had a significant impact on his mental well-being and justified dissolution of the marriage. 23. The respondent challenges the appellant’s reliance on concurrent findings of fact, arguing that the High Court was justified in interfering because the lower Courts failed to consider critical aspects of the evidence. He asserts that the Trial Court and the First Appellate Court ignored the cumulative effect of the appellant’s conduct, which amounted to mental cruelty. The respondent highlights that the High 764 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Court, in its , noted these deficiencies and addressed the substantial question of law concerning the irretrievable breakdown of the marriage. 24. The respondent also argues that he has acted in good faith throughout the proceedings and has consistently sought a resolution to the marital discord. He claims that the appellant’s unwillingness to accept the breakdown of the marriage has prolonged the litigation unnecessarily. The respondent submits that granting a divorce would not only end the prolonged legal battle but also allow both parties to rebuild their lives independently. ANALYSIS 25. We have heard Mrs. V. Mohana, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant and Ms. Haripriya Padmanabhan, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent. 26. Upon careful consideration of the submissions made by the parties and the facts established in this case, this Court finds itself in agreement with the decision of the High Court, which granted a decree of divorce in favor of the respondent husband. The appellant’s arguments centered around procedural challenges under Section 100 of the CPC, and her insistence on reconciliation, fail to address the core and undeniable realities of the marriage between the parties. On the contrary, the evidence on record unequivocally demonstrates grounds of cruelty, prolonged separation, and an irretrievable breakdown of the marital relationship. These grounds, coupled with legal precedents cited by the High Court, leave no room for doubt that the marriage has lost its essence and that its continuation would serve no meaningful purpose. 27. One of the primary grounds for the dissolution of the marriage is the appellant’s conduct, which constitutes mental cruelty under Section 13(1)(ia) of HMA. The respondent has provided sufficient evidence to show that the appellant was engaged in a pattern of behavior that caused him immense mental and emotional distress. This included filing false and baseless criminal complaints against the respondent and his family, which not only strained their relationship but also caused significant damage to his reputation and peace of mind. 28. In N.G. Dastane (Supra), this Court laid down the principle that cruelty is not confined to physical violence but also encompasses [2024] 12 S.C.R. 765 Amutha v. A.R. Subramanian actions that inflict mental pain and suffering that creates a reasonable apprehension of harm or injury to the aggrieved spouse from the conduct of the other spouse so as to make it impossible for them to stay together.