Maxwell on the Interpretation of Statutes, 10th Edn., says at p. 7 thus: ‘… if the choice is between two interpretations, the narrower of which would fail to achieve the manifest purpose of the legislation, we should avoid a construction which would reduce the legislation to futility and should rather accept the bolder construction based on the view that Parliament would legislate [2024] 12 S.C.R. 329 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. only for the purpose of bringing about an effective result.’…” [Emphasis supplied] f) A seven-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Abhiram Singh v. C.D. Commachen (Dead) By Lrs. & Ors., reported in (2017) 2 SCC 629 has held that: “36. The conflict between giving a literal interpretation or a purposive interpretation to a statute or a provision in a statute is perennial. It can be settled only if the draftsman gives a long-winded explanation in drafting the law but this would result in an awkward draft that might well turn out to be unintelligible. The interpreter has, therefore, to consider not only the text of the law but the context in which the law was enacted and the social context in which the law should be interpreted. This was articulated rather felicitously by Lord Bingham of Cornhill in R. (Quintavalle) v. Secy. of State for Health [R. (Quintavalle) v. Secy. of State for Health, 2003 UKHL 13 : (2003) 2 AC 687 : (2003) 2 WLR 692 (HL)] when it was said : (AC p. 695 C-H, paras 8-9) “8. The basic task of the court is to ascertain and give effect to the true meaning of what Parliament has said in the enactment to be construed. But that is not to say that attention should be confined and a literal interpretation given to the particular provisions which give rise to difficulty. Such an approach not only encourages immense prolixity in drafting, since the draftsman will feel obliged to provide expressly for every contingency which may possibly arise. It may also (under the banner of loyalty to the will of Parliament) lead to the frustration of that will, because undue concentration on the minutiae of the enactment may lead the court to neglect the purpose which Parliament intended to achieve when it enacted the statute. Every statute other than 330 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a pure consolidating statute is, after all, enacted to make some change, or address some problem, or remove some blemish, or effect some improvement in the national life. The court’s task, within the permissible bounds of interpretation, is to give effect to Parliament’s purpose. So the controversial provisions should be read in the context of the statute as a whole, and the statute as a whole should be read in the historical context of the situation which led to its enactment.” [Emphasis supplied] g) Thus, we are of the opinion that the retrospective application of Section 5(4) cannot be the basis for the challenge to the validity of Section 97 of the Finance Act, 2022.