K. Kavitha had offered to pay Rs. 100 crore to AA Party for the excise policy. She had spoken and interacted with Arvind Kejriwal. She had asked Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy to arrange Rs. 50 crores. He had his son Raghav Magunta to further deal with K. Kavitha. Raghav Magunta had agreed to pay Rs.30 Crores. Raghav Magunta had paid Rs. 25 crores in cash to Butchi Babu and Abhishek Boinpally. • Raghav Magunta in his statement dated 26.07.2023 recorded under Section 50 of the PML Act, and statement dated 27.07.2023 recorded under Section 164 of the Code, has accepted that he had paid Rs.25 crores in cash to Abhishek Boinpally and Butchi Babu in view of the agreement between him, his father – Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy and K. Kavitha. Raghav Magunta’s father – Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy had met Arvind Kejriwal in mid-March 2021. Arvind Kejriwal had invited him to do business under the new excise policy, and in turn Arvind Kejriwal wanted funding for the upcoming elections in Punjab and Goa. • Proceeds of crime of about Rs.45 Crores, a part of the bribes received, were used in the election campaign at Goa in 2021- 22. AA Party is the real beneficiary of the proceeds of crime. • The hawala transfer of approximately Rs. 45 crores is substantiated by the CBI in its second supplementary chargesheet. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2405 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement • Dinesh Arora in his statement dated 01.10.2022 has stated that he had, on instructions of Vijay Nair coordinated the hawala transfer of Rs.31 Crores with Abhishek Boinpally, Rajesh Joshi and Sudhir. Dinesh Arora is a close associate of Manish Sisodia. Sudhir is a close associate of Vijay Nair. Rajesh Joshi is the proprietor of M/s Chariot Productions Media Pvt. Ltd.,47 who were engaged by AA Party for its election campaign in Goa. • The details of transfer of money from Mumbai to Goa by hawala transfers are stated with names and particulars including the amounts. Angadiyas based out of Mumbai made such transfers to the entities including Chariot, Islam Qazi etc. engaged by AA Party in Goa are elaborated with names and figures. Payments for the activities/work was partly in cash. • Chariot had itself received such hawala payments and had also engaged several vendors for campaign of AA Party to whom part cash payments were paid. These are proven through various statements by employees of vendors, CDR records and data seized by the Income Tax department. • Use of cash in Goa elections is also corroborated by one of the candidates of AA Party. • Arvind Kejriwal is guilty as an individual, being a part of the conspiracy in the formulation of the excise policy, and, also vicariously as the person in-charge and responsible for AA Party. Reference is made to Section 70 of the PML Act relating to offences by ‘companies’. Arvind Kejriwal, as National Convenor of AA Party and member of the Political Affairs Committee and National Executive, is ultimately responsible for the funds being used in the election expenses, including its generation.