On the question of permanent structure having been made by the respondent in Civil Appeal No. 1543 of 2016 without permission of the landlord and question of sub-letting, the Trial Court’s decision was sustained. 8. The Revisional Court on analysing the provisions of Sections 15 and 16 of the said Statute set aside the and decree and allowed the revision applications of the tenants. 9. The provisions of Sections 15 and 16 of the 1999 Act stipulate:- “15. No ejectment ordinarily to be made if tenant pays or is ready and willing to pay standard rent and permitted increases. (1) A landlord shall not be entitled to the recovery of possession of any premises so long as the tenant pays, or is ready and willing to pay, the amount of the, standard rent and permitted increases, if any, and observes and performs the other, conditions of the tenancy, in so far as they are consistent with the provisions of this Act. (2) No suit for recovery of possession shall be instituted by a landlord against the tenant on the ground of non- payment of the standard rent or permitted increases due, until the expiration of ninety days next after notice in writing of the demand of the standard rent or permitted increases has been served upon the tenant in the manner provided in section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1113 Baitulla Ismail Shaikh and Anr. v. Khatija Ismail Panhalkar and Ors. (3) No decree for eviction shall be passed by the court in any suit for recovery of possession on the ground of arrears of standard rent and permitted increases if, within a period of ninety days from the date of service of the summons of the suit, the tenant pays or tenders in court the standard rent and permitted increases then due together with simple interest on the amount of arrears at fifteen per cent per annum; and thereafter continues to pay or tenders in court regularly such standard rent and permitted increases till the suit is finally decided and also pays cost of the suit as directed by the court. (4) Pending the disposal of any suit, the court may, out of any amount paid or tendered by the tenant, pay to the landlord such amount towards the payment of rent or permitted increases due to him as the court thinks fit. 16. When landlord may recover possession. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act but subject to the provisions of section 25, a landlord shall be entitled to recover possession of any premises if the court is satisfied- (a) that the tenant has committed any act contrary to the provisions of clause (o) of section 108 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882; Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause, replacing of tiles or closing of balcony of the premises shall not be regarded as an act of a causing damage to the building or destructive or permanently injurious thereto; or (b) that the tenant has, without the landlord’s consent given in writing, erected on the premises any permanent structure; Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause, the expression “permanent structure” does not include the carrying out of any work with the permission, wherever necessary, of the municipal authority, for providing a wooden partition, standing cooking platform in kitchen, door, lattice work or opening of a window necessary for ventilation, a false ceiling, installation of air-conditioner, an exhaust outlet or a smoke chimney; or 1114 [2024] 1 S.C.R.