The SNJPC has made a similar recommendation for the payment of a like allowance where a judicial officer was placed in charge of another court continuously beyond a period of ten working days. The SNJPC was of the view that the Concurrent Charge Allowance with a ceiling @ 10% of the minimum of the scale of the additional post held beyond a period of ten working days is reasonable and does not require any upward revision. Moreover, it opined that with the [2024] 1 S.C.R. 345 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors revision of pay, the quantum of allowance at the rate of 10% is an adequate sum. The SNJPC observed that the actual amount payable within the ceiling of 10% depends upon the number of days worked, the quantum of judicial work turned out and the administrative work handled. Moreover, as was being done earlier, the High Courts would decide the amount payable having regard to the relevant factors. The SNJPC, however, recommended that the parameter of “appreciable judicial work” of the FNJPCis vague and involves a cumbersome process. That criterion has accordingly been dispensed with. The summary of the recommendations of SNJPC in that regard is set out below: “1. The concurrent charge allowance to be available maximum at the rate of 10% of the minimum of the scale of the additional post held beyond a period of ten working days. 2. No upward revision in the percentage of the Concurrent Charge allowance. 3. High Court to decide the Concurrent Charge allowance to be available to the Officer within the ceiling of 10% on the basis of the number of days worked, the quantum of judicial work turned out and the administrative work handled. 4. The criterion laid down by FNJPC be dispensed with and there shall not be any insistence on the performance of ‘appreciable judicial work’ of the Court concerned. “ 32. The recommendations made by the SNJPC is accordingly accepted. 5. Conveyance/Transport Allowance (TP) 33. As regards Conveyance/Transport Allowance, the SNJPC made the following recommendations: (a) The pool car service for various judicial officers, as recommended by FNJPC, must be dispensed with. However, if the officers wish, they can forgo the transport allowance and continue with the pool car service for a period of one year or so; (b) The transport allowance at the rate of Rs 10,000 per month be given to those judicial officers who own the car so as to 346 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cover the cost of maintenance and driver’s salary and this will be increased to Rs 13,500 from 01.01.2021. The transport allowance would be payable at a reduced rate of Rs 4,000 per month in those States where there is an existing practice of allocating a driving-knowing office attendant/peon to the officer; (c) In addition to the transport allowance, there should be a reimbursement of the cost of 100 litres of petrol/diesel in cities and 75 litres of petrol/diesel in other areas; (d) After the recommendations of FNJPC, the following judicial functionaries were eligible for official vehicles, namely, Principal District Judge, Chief Judicial Magistrate/Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Principal Judge of City Civil Court and Principal Judge of Small Causes Court.