He further states that after the said dismissal, since the said Sukhpal Singh wanted to file the Special Leave Petition before the Supreme Court, he was asked to get the ‘Vakalatnama’ with the signature of either Rinki or Bhagwan Singh. Thereafter the said Sukhpal Singh gave him the papers alongwith the ‘Vakalatnama’ signed in the name of Bhagwan Singh. Mr. Karan Singh further states that thereafter he had handed over all the papers along with signed ‘Vakalatnama’ to the Advocate Mr. R.P.S. Yadav practicing in the Supreme Court, who is today present in the Court. 2. At this stage, the petitioner – Bhagwan Singh, who is present in the Court, states that his daughter Rinki had eloped and married with Sukhpal Singh in 2013 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 783 Bhagwan Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors. and since then he has not met Sukhpal Singh or his daughter Rinki, and therefore, he could not have signed the ‘Vakalatnama’ or the papers of the SLP. 3. On being asked by the Court, Mr. R.P.S. Yadav states that he had prepared the Memo of SLP and got it attested through the Notary Mr. A.N. Singh. He further states that at the time of getting the SLP notarized, the petitioner – Bhagwan Singh was not present, however as per the practice prevailing in the Supreme Court, he identified the signature of Bhagwan Singh before the Notary and the Notary also notarized the said Memo. He thereafter handed over papers to the AOR Mr. Anubhav for presenting in the Supreme Court. 4. Mr. Anubhav Yashwant Yadav, learned Advocate-on-Record states that since he knew the learned Advocate Mr. R.P.S. Yadav, and Mr. Yadav having prepared the SLP Memo and got the papers ready, he had put his signature as the AOR on the Memo of SLP and also on the ‘Vakalatnama’ stating that he himself had attested and identified the signature of petitioner – Bhagwan Singh. 5. From the above, it appears that Mr. A.N. Singh, Notary Government of India whose registration Number is 16959 and who sits in front of the UCO Bank, Supreme Court Compound, is also involved in notarizing and attesting the papers and signatures of the petitioner, though he was not personally present before him. Hence, it is directed that he shall remain present before the Court on the next date of hearing. 6. It is pertinent to note that the petitioner has filed an affidavit before this Court on 06-08-2024, which was also got notarized before the said Notary - Mr. A.N. Singh. 7. The daughter of the petitioner – Bhagwan Singh i.e., Ms. Rinki and her husband – Mr. Sukhpal Singh are also directed to remain present on the next date of 784 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports hearing. Accordingly, the office shall issue notices to Mr. A.N. Singh, Ms. Rinki and Mr. Sukhpal Singh on the next date of hearing. On the said date, the petitioner and all concerned advocates also shall remain present before the Court.