The purport of this Court’s decision in Suchita Srivastava (supra) was to protect the right to abortion on a firm footing as an intrinsic element of the fundamental rights to privacy, dignity and bodily integrity as well as to reaffirm that matters of sexual and reproductive choices belong to the individual alone. In rejecting the State’s jurisdiction as the parens patriae of the pregnant person, this Court held that no entity, even if it is the State, can speak on behalf of a pregnant person and usurp her consent. The choice to continue pregnancy to term, regardless of the court having allowed termination of the pregnancy, belongs to the individual alone. 35. In the present case the view of ‘X’ and her parents to take the pregnancy to term are in tandem. The right to choose and reproductive freedom is a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution. Therefore, where the opinion of a minor pregnant person differs from the guardian, the court must regard the view of the pregnant person as an important factor while deciding the termination of the pregnancy. Conclusion 36. In the facts and circumstances of this case, we issue the following directions: (i) The Sion hospital shall bear all the expenses in regard to the hospitalization of the minor over the past week and in respect of her re-admission to the hospital for delivery as and when she is required to do so; and (ii) In the event that the minor and her parents desire to give the child in adoption after the delivery, the State Government shall take 14 [2009] 13 SCR 989 : (2009) 9 SCC 1 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 491 A (Mother of X) v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. all necessary steps in accordance with the applicable provisions of law to facilitate this exercise. This shall not be construed as a direction of this Court binding either the parents or the minor and the State shall abide by the wishes as expressed at the appropriate stage. 37. In light of the issues which arose before this Court we record our conclusions as follows: (i) The MTP Act protects the RMP and the medical boards when they form an opinion in good faith as to the termination of pregnancy; (ii) The medical board, in forming its opinion on the termination of pregnancies must not restrict itself to the criteria under Section 3(2-B) of the MTP Act but must also evaluate the physical and emotional well being of the pregnant person in terms of the ; (iii) When issuing a clarificatory opinion the medical board must provide sound and cogent reasons for any change in opinion and circumstances; and (iv) The consent of a pregnant person in decisions of reproductive autonomy and termination of pregnancy is paramount. In case there is a divergence in the opinion of a pregnant person and her guardian, the opinion of the minor or mentally ill pregnant person must be taken into consideration as an important aspect in enabling the court to arrive at a just conclusion.