42. In our considered opinion, the court while confirming the modification of the award committed the very same mistake which the Court under Section 34 of the A&C Act, made. The Court under Section 37 had only three options:- (a) Confirming the award of the Arbitrator; (b) Setting aside the award as modified under Section 34; and (c) Rejecting the application(s) under Section 34 and 37. 43. The learned single Judge has examined the reasoning adopted by the learned Arbitrator in respect of certain claims (claims 3 and 7, particularly) and held that allowing a claim for escalation of cost, was without satisfactory material having been placed on record and is “perverse and contrary to the public policy”. However, it appears 15 Larsen Air Conditioning and Refrigration Company v. Union of India and Others 2023 SCC OnLine 982 (2-Judge Bench) [2024] 1 S.C.R. 303 S.V. Samudram v. State of Karnataka & Anr that such a holding on part of the Judge is without giving reasons therefor. It has not been discussed as to what the evidence was before the learned single Judge to arrive at such conclusion. This is of course, entirely without reference to the scope delineated by various judgements of this Court as also, the statutory scheme of the A & C Act. 44. Having referred to J.G Engineers (P)Ltd. v. UOI16and more particularly para 27 thereof, it has been held that the award passed by the learned Arbitrator is “patently illegal, unreasonable, contrary to public policy.” There is no reason forthcoming as to how the holding of the learned Arbitrator flies in the face of public policy. ON INTEREST 45. On the issue of interest, we notice that the Arbitrator has awarded interest @ 18% p.a., w.e.f. 09 March 1994 which stood reduced to 9%. The transaction being commercial in nature, we see no reason as to why the claimant could not be entitled to interest in terms of the rate quantified by the Arbitrator which includes the period of pre-arbitration, pendantelite and future. We notice this Court to have stated in Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. v. State of Orissa17, through S.A. Bobde, J. (as His Lordship then was) speaking for the majority as under: “4. Clause (a) of sub-section (7) provides that where an award is made for the payment of money, the Arbitral Tribunal may include interest in the sum for which the award is made. In plain terms, this provision confers a power upon the Arbitral Tribunal while making an award for payment of money, to include interest in the sum for which the award is made on either the whole or any part of the money and for the whole or any part of the period for the entire pre-award period between the date on which the cause of action arose and the date on which the award is made... The significant words occurring in clause (a) of sub-section (7) of Section 31 of the Act are “the sum for which the award is made”.