Shahjahan25 in which the impleadment of the Competition Commission of India as a respondent in writ petitions filed challenging its s was reprimanded. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1421 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. primary tenets of natural justice, that an adjudicating authority must not be biased. It is in deviation of the principle that an authority exercising adjudicatory functions is required to be a ‘neutral arbitrator’ which does not have a ‘personal interest’ in the matter. In Jindal Therma Power Company Ltd. v. Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd.,26 an appeal under Section 41 of the Karnataka Electricity Reforms Act 1999 was preferred before the High Court against the s passed by the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission by which the Power Purchase agreement between the appellant and the respondent was modified27. One of the issues before the High Court was whether the Electricity Regulatory Commission was either a necessary or a proper party to the appeal. The High Court held that the Electricity Regulatory Commission was neither a proper nor a necessary party in the appeal. The Court observed that an Authority must not take sides when an appeal is filed against its quasi-judicial because if it exhibits an abnormal interest in the appeal “normally unknown to statutory authorities performing quasi-judicial function” it would give the impression that it is more of an “affected party”.28 21. Hari Vishnu Kamath v. Syed Ahmad Ishaque29 was one of the first s in which this Court held that a Tribunal was not required to be impleaded as a respondent in an appeal against its . In that , a seven-Judge Bench of this Court heard an appeal against the decision of the High Court on a writ of certiorari for quashing the decision of the Election Tribunal. One of the issues before this Court was whether the High Court could not have issued a writ of certiorari because the Election Tribunal was an ad hoc body which became functus officio, having served its purpose,upon the pronouncement of the decision. It was contended that there would be no authority 26 2004 SCC OnLine Kar 204 27 “Electricity Regulatory Commission” 28 2004 SCC OnLine Kar 204 [31, 33] “33. We also find considerable force in the contention of Dr. Singhvi that if ultimately this Court decides to remand the proceedings to the Commission for fresh consideration in exercise of its appellate jurisdiction, the Commission having contested the matter before this Court with abnormal interest and psyche of a private contesting litigant, cannot be fair enough to decide the issue with impartiality and disinterestedness required of it and that the confidence reposed by the appellant on the impartiality of the Commission will be lost. It is true if this Court in exercise of its appellate jurisdiction remands the proceedings to the Commission for reconsideration of evidence, there will be likelihood of the appellant entertaining apprehension that the Commission is not impartial in the decision making…” 29 [1955] 1 SCR 1104 : (1954) 2 SCC 881 1422 [2024] 10 S.C.R.