The Officers having not less than two [2024] 1 S.C.R. 355 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors years of service will also be eligible for this allowance. The option to purchase the furniture being used by the officer at the depreciated rate shall be available at the time of fresh grant or retirement. 4.1 Apart from the furniture grant, one air-conditioner shall be provided at the residence of every Judicial Officer once in every five years.” (d) Residential quarters - maintenance In to obviate the problems faced by judicial officers in securing services of electricians, plumber, carpenters, sanitary workers and masons and bearing in mind that the Public Works Department, which is in-charge of maintenance, does not have sufficient funds to carry out the work, the SNJPC recommended that an amount of Rs Ten lakhs be made available to each Principal District Judge on the basis of a proposal sent by the Registry of the High Court for the proper maintenance of the residential quarters and that the Government must sanction the amount proposed within two months from the date of the receipt of their proposal. (e) Guest House/Transit Accommodation The SNJPC has been in agreement with the suggestions made by the Associations that guest house facility should be provided exclusively for judicial officers bearing in mind the problem faced in securing accommodation in State guest houses. While the SNJPC was aware that it is not possible to construct guest houses in all districts, it emphasized the need to have a guest house-cum-transit accommodation at least in cities and major towns. In that regard, the following recommendations were made: “17.2 The Commission does not expect that the Guest houses for the Judiciary should be constructed in all Dist. Headquarters irrespective of the size of the District. The travails of the Judicial Officers in securing suitable accommodation for stay is undeniable at least in the cities and major important towns. There is every need to construct Guest houses-cum-transit homes. One wing can be earmarked as a transit home where the transferred Officer can stay initially for a 356 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports few weeks till s(he) finds residential accommodation – Official or private. The Guest house-cum-transit home facility is a long felt need of the Judicial Officers. The Commission recommends that the Guest houses/transit homes shall be constructed in a phased manner by the Governments concerned. The officials concerned shall act in coordination with the Registry of the High Court to identify the places. The details such as number and size of rooms and the amenities shall be finalized after mutual discussion. As regards the first phase of such construction, the State Governments/UTs may be directed to initiate action within a time frame of six months and necessary financial allocation has to be made for this purpose during the financial year 2020-21. Needless to say that after construction, the High Courts will issue necessary instructions regarding maintenance, minimal catering arrangement, rent to be charged etc.” Of the above five components of house rent related allowances, those at (c) (Furniture and Air Conditioner Allowance) and (d) (Maintenance) have been introduced for the first time.