The accused, upon being questioned under Section 313 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973(hereinafter being referred to as ‘CrPC’) claimed that they were innocent and had been falsely implicated in the case. However, no evidence was led in defence. For the sake of convenience, the details of the prosecution witnesses are enlisted below: - PW-1 Chanagouda (complainant)(eye witness) PW-2 Revappa (eye witness) PW-3 Siddappa (eye witness) (hostile) PW-4 Hiragappa (eye witness) PW-5 Suresh (eye witness) (hostile) PW-6 Basagonda (eye witness) PW-7 Appasaheb (last seen witness) PW-8 Sabu (panch witness) PW-9 Basu (panch witness) [2024] 5 S.C.R. 181 Babu Sahebagouda Rudragoudar and Others v. State of Karnataka PW-10 Ramu (panch witness) PW-11 Bhimanna (panch witness) PW-12 Sangond (panch witness) PW-13 Shantinath (panch witness) PW-14 Sakrubai (mother of the deceased) (hearsay witness) PW-15 Shankargouda (eye witness) PW-16 Siddappa (hearsay witness) PW-17 Dr. Anilkumar (Medical Jurist) PW-18 Shetteppa (Retd. ASI) (registered the FIR) (Poujadar) PW-19 Veerbhadrayya (Carrier Constable) PW-20 Dayanand (Photographer) PW-21 Raju (Scribe of Sketch Map) PW-22 Shrishail (Carrier Constable) PW-23 Ratansing (Assistant Sub-Inspector) PW-24 Chandrashekhar (Investigating Officer) PW-25 Jaganath (PSI) PW-26 Mohammadsharif (Assistant Sub-Inspector) PW-27 Basanagouda (Police Inspector, State Intelligence, Bangalore) (2nd Investigating Officer) 8. Upon hearing the arguments advanced by the prosecution and the defence counsel and after thoroughly appreciating the evidence available on record, the trial Court proceeded to hold that the prosecution could not prove the charges levelled against the accused beyond all manner of doubt and acquitted all the six accused vide dated 23rd July, 2005 with the following pertinent findings: - (i) That in the charge sheet, the prosecution had involved A-5 and A-6. However, none of the witnesses examined by the prosecution spoke a single word incriminating A-5 and A-6 either individually or vicariously and this circumstance casted serious doubts in the mind of the Court with regard to the conduct of the witnesses to implicate A-1 to A-4 while exonerating A-5 and A-6. (ii) That PW-1, PW-2, PW-3, PW-4, PW-5 and PW-6 gave contradictory versions regarding exact identities/names of the assailants. 182 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iii) PW-4 who was a coolie and had worked along with the deceased Malagounda did not implicate A-4 in the crime. (iv) Basagonda(PW-6), projected to be an eye witness gave evidence contradicting the evidence of PW-2 and PW-4. (v) Rudrappa, son of PW-6 was one of the accused in the murder of Sangound, son of A-4 and thus, the said witness had a motive to speak against A-1 to A-4. (vi) Likewise, another projected eyewitness, namely, Shankargouda(PW-15), did not state about the presence of A-4 at the time of incident. (vii) The trial Court further found that it was admitted by the eye witnesses(PW-6 and PW-15) that it had rained in the village continuously for three days prior to the incident and thus, the theory put forth by the complainant that the deceased and the four labourers(PW-2 to PW-5) had gone to the field for raising a bund was improbable as during the spell of incessant rainfall, it would not have been possible to carry out such an operation and for that matter, any other farming activity.