Make recommendations on how to improve the process of conducting the examination; e. Set aside the portion of the NTA Information Bulletin that discriminates between wrong questions and questions having two wrong answers; f. Issue guidelines to prevent papers from leaking in the future; g. Direct NTA to correct and republish the results, ranks, and percentiles based on the revised marks; h. Declare the award of grace marks to candidates unequally as arbitrary and illegal; and i. Stay the declaration of results. B. Previous s of the Court 8. Some candidates who had appeared for the NEET objected to the award of compensatory marks to 1563 candidates on various grounds. By its dated 13 June 2024, this Court noted that NTA constituted another committee to reconsider the issue. The second committee met on 10, 11 and 12 June 2024 to discuss the grievances raised. It recommended that the grace marks be revoked, and the affected candidates be given the option to take a fresh test. 9. The 1563 affected candidates were given two options – they could either choose to attempt the re-test, in which case they would be ranked based solely on their scores in the re-test, or they could [2024] 8 S.C.R. 57 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India & Ors. retain their scores from the first test without the compensatory marks. This Court found this course of action to be fair, reasonable and justified. It also recorded the submission of NTA that the re- test would be conducted on 23 June 2024 and the results would be declared before 30 June 2024. The re-test was conducted and the results were declared. 10. By its dated 8 July 2024, this Court noted the central submissions urged on behalf of the petitioners. It observed that the question of whether the paper leak was confined only to Patna or extended across cities was a matter which must be reserved for more detailed consideration. It also noted that the litmus test for whether a re-test ought to be directed was based on the following aspects: a. Whether the alleged breach took place at a systemic level; b. Whether the breach was of a nature which affected the integrity of the entire examination process; and c. Whether it was possible to segregate the beneficiaries of the fraud from the untainted students. 11. The Court also made certain observations on the competing considerations in a case such as the present one: “12. In a situation where the breach in the sanctity of an examination affects the entirety of the process and it is not possible to segregate those who are the beneficiaries of wrongdoing from others, a re-test is likely to be the most appropriate course of action. On the contrary, where the breach is confined to specific areas or centres and it is possible to identify those who are the beneficiaries of wrongdoing, it may not be appropriate to a re-test particularly in an examination which has been conducted on such a massive scale and which involves over 23 lakh students.