An application was filed by the complainant-respondent no.2 stating that aggrieved by the s dated 14.09.2020 and 15.09.2020 she had preferred CRR No.1357/2020 and CRAN No.1/2020 which is likely to be taken up on 23.09.2020, as such the matter be adjourned for two more weeks. Respondent no.2 further filed an application for offences under Section 354 and 354B of the IPC which required to be added along with existing sections. Once again PWs 1 and 3 were present but the counsel for the complainant again insisted that they are ready to face the cross-examination, however, the application under section 319 CrPC may be disposed of first. 9. The Trial Court recorded their stand that they would not face cross-examination until the application under Section 319 CrPC is decided. The counsel for the accused-appellant was ready to cross- examine but could not proceed as the prosecution witnesses did not agree and continued to insist that the application under section 319 CrPC be decided first. 916 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. The Trial Court recorded all the facts, the contentions and also the conduct of the parties during the trial and ultimately proceeded to close the evidence of the prosecution. The Trial Court further went on to decide the application under section 319 CrPC and held that the evidence recorded so far was not admissible as the witnesses had failed to present themselves for cross-examination as such there was no justification for summoning the parents of the accused-appellant on the basis of inadmissible evidence. Accordingly, the same was rejected. The Trial Court further proceeded to hold that it was a case of no evidence under Section 232 CrPC and thereby acquitted the accused-appellant. 11. Aggrieved by the same, respondent no.2 preferred an appeal before the High Court which has since been allowed by the impugned and , giving rise to the present appeal. 12. We have heard learned counsel for the appellant and for the respondent no.1 -State of West Bengal. Despite service of notice, no one has put in appearance on behalf of respondent no.2-Complainant. 13. The High Court in paragraph 15 of the impugned relied upon a paragraph of the Constitution Bench in the case of Hardeep Singh vs. State of Punjab & Ors.4 wherein it was held that “….power under section 319 CrPC can be exercised at the stage of completion of examination-in-chief and the court does not need to wait till the said evidence is tested in cross-examination, for it is the satisfaction of the court, which can be gathered from the reasons recorded by the court, in respect of complicity of some other person(s) not facing the trial in the offence.” The said view of the Constitution Bench has been taken as a mandate by the High Court that application under section 319 CrPC must be necessarily decided even if the cross-examination has not been conducted, only on the basis of Examination-in-Chief. Relying upon the same, the High Court has set aside the of the acquittal passed by the Trial Court and has remanded the matter to the Trial Court with the direction to first decide the application under section 319 CrPC and thereafter proceed with the sessions trial expeditiously.