Judicial review is permissible to prevent arbitrariness of public authorities and to ensure that they do not exceed or abuse their powers in contractual transactions and requires overseeing the administrative power of public authorities to award or cancel contracts or any of its stipulations. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 583 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. 59. Therefore, what can be culled out from the above is that although disputes arising purely out of contracts are not amenable to writ jurisdiction yet keeping in mind the obligation of the State to act fairly and not arbitrarily or capriciously, it is now well settled that when contractual power is being used for public purpose, it is certainly amenable to judicial review. 60. Now coming to the facts of the case at hand, the appellant has challenged the cancellation of the tender at the instance of the respondent on the ground of being manifestly arbitrary and influenced by extraneous considerations. It is evident from the notice of cancellation dated 07.02.2023, that the tender was not terminated pursuant to any terms of the contract subsisting between the parties, rather, the respondent ‘cancelled’ the tender saying that there was technical fault in the tender that was floated. 61. Thus, the respondent could be said to have exercised powers in its executive capacity as the action to cancel the tender falls outside the purview of the terms of the contract. Hence, it cannot be said that the present matter is purely a contractual dispute. It is also not a breach of contract, as no such breach has been imputed to the appellant in terms of the contract, but rather a plain and simple exercise of the executive powers. 62. Thus, the present dispute even if related to a tender, cannot be termed as a pure contractual dispute, as the dispute involves a public law element. Although there is no discharge of a public function by the respondent towards the appellant yet there is a right to public law action vested in him against the respondent in terms of Article 14 of the Constitution. This is because the exercise of the executive power by it in the contractual domain i.e., the cancelling of the tender carries a corresponding public duty to act in a reasonable and rationale manner. Thus, we find that the writ petition filed by the respondent was maintainable and the relief prayed for could have been considered by the High Court in exercise of its writ jurisdiction. c. Meaning and True Import of Arbitrariness of State Actions in Contractual Disputes. 63. In Ramana Dauaram Shetty v. The International Airport Authority of India & Ors. reported in AIR 1979 SC 1628 this Court held that the actions of the State in contractual matters must conform 584 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to some standard or norms which is rational, non-discriminatory and not guided by extraneous considerations, otherwise the same would be in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution.