197. The right to childhood belongs to all sexes. Education- primary, sexual and life enhancing – is integral to the right to childhood. Realisation of this right is crucial in dealing with the evils of child marriage. Abuses of patriarchy are learnt behaviours. What is learnt can be unlearned or better yet, disabused early on. Education in all aspects allows for the debunking of harmful life choices and conducts which children may adopt in the absence of better guidance. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1611 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. D. Reiterating the States’ obligations towards combatting child marriage 198. Under IHRL, the State has a concrete, enforceable obligation to prevent and eliminate child marriage by ensuring that laws, policies, and social services align with international standards such as those in the CRC and the CEDAW. The state must establish and enforce a legal framework that explicitly prohibits child marriage, accompanied by robust mechanisms for implementation and redress. 199. States also have an obligation to monitor and enforce compliance with these laws and to work closely with civil society organizations to implement effective interventions. The State’s role is not limited to merely punishing offenders but extends to creating an enabling environment where children can exercise their rights freely. This includes the responsibility to not only to legislate against child marriage but also to address the underlying socio-economic factors—poverty, lack of education, and gender discrimination—that perpetuate this practice. 200. The Directive Principles of State Policyin Part IV of the Constitution lay down the fundamental principles in the governance of the country and press upon the State to apply them while making laws. Article 38(2) of the Constitution273 requires the state to promote the welfare of people and eliminate inequalities in opportunities: It states that: “38. State to secure a social for the promotion of welfare of the people – … (2) The State shall, in particular, strive to minimize the inequalities in income, and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities, not only amongst individuals but also amongst groups of people residing in different areas or engaged in different vocations.” 201. This Article mandates the State to actively reduce inequalities and promote welfare, which is essential in addressing child marriage—a practice that disproportionately affects children from economically and socially disadvantaged backgrounds. By targeting inequalities 273 Article 38(2), the Constitution of India 1950. 1612 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in income, status, and opportunities, Article 38(2) supports creating conditions where vulnerable children have better access to education, healthcare, and social support. This, in turn, reduces the pressures that often lead to early marriage, such as economic dependency and limited future prospects, and enables children to pursue a life free from the constraints imposed by early marital commitments. 202. This Court has, in several landmark s, reinforced the State’s positive obligation to protect children’s rights. In Sheela Barse II (supra) this court dealt with abandoned or destitute children lodged in various jails across the country for ‘safe custody.’The Court noted that the National Policy for the Welfare of Children contained the following preamble: “The nation’s children are a supremely important asset.