which may be granted in appropriate cases if considered necessary for reasons recorded. Such reasons must be scrutinized by the Magistrate for permitting further detention; (iv) To avoid false implication of an innocent, a preliminary enquiry may be conducted by the DSP concerned to find out whether the allegations make out a case under the Atrocities Act and that the allegations are not frivolous or motivated; (v) Any violation of direction (iii) and (iv) will be actionable by way of disciplinary action as well as contempt.” 133. The directions in Subhash Mahajan were later recalled in the review petition in Union of India v. State of Maharashtra.221 In doing so, the Court noted that the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes “are still making the struggle for equality and for exercising civil rights in various areas of the country”. It remarked that there is “no presumption that the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes may misuse the provisions of law as a class”. Instead, “members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes due to backwardness hardly muster the courage to lodge even a first information report, much less, a false one”. The Court further declared that treating the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes as “prone to lodge false reports under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act for taking revenge” or monetary gain, especially when they themselves are victims of such offenses, contradicts fundamental principles of human equality. 221 [2019] 12 SCR 1125 : 2019 INSC 1102 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 579 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. 134. The review also observed that guidelines issued in Subhash Mahajan “may delay the investigation of cases”. The termed the directions as “discriminatory”, as “it puts the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in a disadvantageous position”, compared to complaints lodged by members of upper castes, where no such preliminary investigation is required. The Court also found the directions to be “without statutory basis”, as they are in conflict with PoA Act, and amounts to “encroaching on a field which is reserved for the legislature”. The Court however clarified that “if prima facie case has not been made out attracting the provisions” of PoA Act, “the bar created under section 18 on the grant of anticipatory bail is not attracted”. 135. Before the review was delivered, Parliament amended the PoA Act, undoing the effect of the guidelines issued in Subhash Mahajan. The amendment was unsuccessfully challenged in Prathvi Raj Chauhan v. Union of India.222 136. The hurdles faced by the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes were highlighted by this Court in Hariram Bhambhi v. Satyanarayan.223 The Court cancelled the bail of an accused on the ground that the statutory requirement of Section 15A224 of PoA Act was not fulfilled in the case. Authoring the , one of us (Justice DY Chandrachud) noted: “Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes specifically suffer on account of procedural lapses in the criminal justice system. They face insurmountable hurdles in accessing justice from the stage of filing the complaint to the conclusion of the trial.