27. The seventh point raises the issue as to whether the proceedings are vitiated by institutional bias insofar as the same are being conducted by an officer of the first appellant. The answer to this issue is squarely covered by the decision of this Court in Accountant and Secretarial Services (P) Ltd. v. Union of India,10 wherein the question which fell for consideration was whether the appointment of an officer of a nationalised bank, in proceedings pertaining to eviction from the premises of the very same bank, would violate Article 14 of the Constitution. This Court, while upholding such appointment, held that: “32. Dr Chitale, while initially formulating his contentions, outlined an argument that the provision in the 1971 Act 9 Limitation Act, hereafter 10 (1988) 4 SCC 324 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 861 Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai & Ors. v. Vivek V. Gawde Etc. Etc. appointing one of the officers of the respondent Bank as the Inquiry Officer is violative of Article 14. We do not see any substance in this contention. In the very nature of things, only an officer or appointee of the government, statutory authority or corporation can be thought of for implementing the provisions of the Act. That apart, personal bias cannot necessarily be attributed to such officer either in favour of the bank or against any occupant who is being proceeded against, merely because he happens to be such officer. Moreover, as pointed out earlier, the Act provides for an appeal to an independent judicial officer against s passed by the Inquiry Officer. These provisions do not, therefore, suffer from any infirmity. …” (emphasis supplied) 28. This decision was affirmed by this Court in Delhi Financial Corpn. v. Rajiv Anand,11 wherein this Court further explained that: “14. Thus, the authorities disclose that mere appointment of an officer of the corporation does not by itself bring into play the doctrine that ‘no man can be a judge in his own cause’. For that doctrine to come into play it must be shown that the officer concerned has a personal bias or a personal interest or has personally acted in the matter concerned and/or has already taken a decision one way or the other which he may be interested in supporting.” 29. Reference to the decision of this Court in Hyderabad Vanaspathi Ltd. v. A.P. SEB12 would also be of profit, wherein the 3-Judge Bench was tasked with examining whether adjudication of malpractice and electricity pilferage cases by officers of the very electricity board against whom the wrong has been committed would constitute bias. While negativing such challenge, this Court held that: “43. The principle ‘nemo judex in causa sua’ will not apply in this case as the officers have no personal lis with the consumers. As pointed out by learned Senior Counsel 11 (2004) 11 SCC 625 12 (1998) 4 SCC 470 862 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports for the Board, they are similar to income tax or sales tax officials. There is nothing wrong in their adjudicating the matter especially when the consumers may be represented by an advocate and the formula for making provisional assessment is fixed in the clause itself.