While forwarding the report of the Medical Board, the Dean of Sion Hospital has noted the opinion of the Board in the following terms: “The opinion of the committee is forwarded herewith for your perusal. The committee has opined that the medical termination of the pregnancy can be done with due risk and with appropriate counseling of the patient and the relatives. The Psychiatrist also contributed in evaluation of patient and assessing the psychological state of the patient. According to the committee report continuation of pregnancy could cause psychological trauma to the patient.” 8. On 22 April 2024, this Court granted leave and pronounced its operative to set aside the of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay. In view of the urgency involved, while reserving , this Court allowed ‘X’ to terminate her pregnancy forthwith. This Court noted as follows: “10 The following circumstances have been borne in mind, at this stage: (i) The medical termination of pregnancy is sought in respect of a minor who is 14 years old; (ii) The pregnancy is alleged to be an emanation from a sexual assault which has resulted in the registration of a First Information Report. The FIR was recorded on 20 March 2024 beyond the period of 24 weeks envisaged in the MTP Act; (iii) The minor was unaware of the fact that she was pregnant until a very late stage; (iv) The Medical Board at Sion Hospital has clearly opined that the continuation of the pregnancy against the will of the minor “may impact negatively on physical [2024] 5 S.C.R. 479 A (Mother of X) v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. and mental well being of the minor who is barely 14 years old”; and (v) While a certain degree of risk is involved in every procedure for medical termination, the Medical Board has opined that the threat to life of the patient if termination of pregnancy is carried out at this stage is not higher than the risk of delivery at full term of pregnancy. 11. We will further elaborate on the guiding parameters in a reasoned which will be delivered separately. However, bearing in mind the exigencies of the situation, the welfare of the minor, which is of paramount importance and her safety, we pass the following : (i) The and of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay dated 4 April 2024 shall stand set aside for reasons to follow; (ii) The Dean at Sion Hospital is requested to immediately constitute a team for undertaking the medical termination of pregnancy of the minor in respect of whom the Medical Board has submitted its report dated 20 April 2024; (iii) Arrangements shall be made by the State for transportation of the minor to the Hospital and for her return home after the completion of the procedure; (iv) The State has agreed to bear all the expenses in connection with the procedure and all medical expenses required in the interest of the safety and welfare of the minor; and (v) Post-termination if any further medical care is required, this may be ensured in the interest of the minor.” 9.