(3) the minimum qualifying marks in the Viva-voce conducted for direct recruitment to the cadre of District Judge and Civil Judge, shall be forty percent (40%) of marks. (4) merit list shall be prepared on the basis of total marks obtained in the written examination and Viva-Voce Test (interview). (5) the object of the Viva-Voce Test (interview) is to assess the suitability of the candidate for the cadre by judging the mental alertness, knowledge of law, clear and logical exposition, balance of , skills, attitude, ethics, power of assimilation, power of communication, character and intellectual depth and the like, of the candidate. (6) all necessary procedure not provided for in these rules of recruitment shall be decided by the High Court.” 6.1. With the Rules amended as above, an advertisement was issued on 26.8.2019, for recruitment of Civil Judges in Gujarat. The scheme of examination and syllabus was notified for the preliminary examination, main written examination, and the viva-voce test in the advertisement. Under Clause 5 (II) (B), it was specified that the viva-voce test shall be of 50 marks. Under sub-Clause (ii) of Clause 5 (II) (B) the object of the Viva-voce test was indicated as under: “(II) (B) (i) **** **** (ii) The object of the Viva-voce Test is to assess the suitability of the Candidate for the cadre by judging the mental alertness, knowledge of law, clear and logical exposition, balance of , skills, attitude, ethics, power of assimilation, power [2024] 6 S.C.R. 547 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. of communication, character and intellectual depth and the like, of the Candidate.” 6.2. It was also specified in the advertisement under sub-Clause (iii) of Clause 5 (II) (B) that for being eligible to be included in the select list, the candidate must obtain a minimum of 40% marks in the viva-voce test. 6.3. On 8.9.2019, Kritika Bodha (WP(C) 663/2021), one of the candidates, submitted her application for selection to the post of Civil Judge. The results of the preliminary exam were declared on 18.12.2019. The main written examination was conducted on 19.1.2020 and the results thereof were published on 24.7.2020, declaring 132 candidates as successful for the interview round. The interview was conducted on 7.3.2021. The last candidate in the general category had 124 marks and the writ petitioner (because of the below 40% viva voce marks), despite getting 135.33 marks, was not selected. The prayer in all five writ petitions is to quash Rule 8(4) of Gujarat Rules,2005 (as amended in 2011) specifying 40% qualifying marks for viva voce. The related prayers are to quash the selection list and conduct fresh interviews. II. SUBMISSIONS 7. We have heard learned Senior Counsel, Mr. Ajit Kumar Sinha, Mr. Yatinder Singh, Mr. Rameshwar Singh Malik, and learned counsel, Ms. Shraddha Deshmukh, Mr. Pawanshree Agrawal and Mr. Rishabh Sancheti for the writ petitioners. Learned counsel, Mr. Gautam Narayan, and Mr. Purvish Jitendra Malkan, represented High Courts of Patna and Gujarat respectively. 8. The fundamental challenge in these cases is the prescription of the minimum cut-off in the viva voce segment i.e.