… In fact Section 91 applies to a person who is present in court and is free because it speaks of his being bound over, to appear on another day before the court. That shows that the person must be a free agent whether to appear or not. If the person is already under arrest and in custody, as were the petitioners, their appearance depended not on their own volition but on the volition of the person who had their custody.’ Thus, in a situation like this where the accused were not arrested under Section 19 of PMLA during investigations and were not produced in custody for taking cognizance, Section 88 CrPC shall apply upon appearance of the [2024] 6 S.C.R. 885 Tarsem Lal v. Directorate of Enforcement Jalandhar Zonal Office accused person on his own volition before the trial court to furnish bonds for further appearances.” 28. The present is not a case where accused was a free agent whether to appear or not. He was already issued non-bailable warrant of arrest as well as proceeding of Sections 82 and 83 CrPC had been initiated. In this view of the matter, he was not entitled to the benefit of Section 88. 29. In the Punjab & Haryana case, the High Court has relied on of this Court in Madhu Limaye v. Ved Murti [Madhu Limaye v. Ved Murti, (1970) 3 SCC 739] and held that Section 88 shall be applicable since accused were not arrested under Section 19 of PMLA during investigation and were not taken into custody for taking cognizance. What the Punjab & Haryana High Court missed, is that this Court in the same paragraph had observed “that shows that the person must be a free agent whether to appear or not”. When the accused was issued warrant of arrest to appear in the court and proceeding under Sections 82 and 83 CrPC has been initiated, he cannot be held to be a free agent to appear or not to appear in the court. We thus are of the view that the Punjab & Haryana High Court has not correctly applied Section 88 in the aforesaid case.” (emphasis added) Therefore, if a warrant of arrest has been issued and proceedings under Section 82 and/or 83 of the CrPC have been issued against an accused, he cannot be let off by taking a bond under Section 88. Section 88 is indeed discretionary. But this proposition will not apply to a case where an accused in a case under the PMLA is not arrested by the ED till the filing of the complaint. The reason is that, in such cases, as a rule, a summons must be issued while taking cognizance of a complaint. In such a case, the Special Court may direct the accused to furnish bonds in accordance with Section 88 of the CrPC. 15. Now, we come to the issue of whether an of the Court accepting bonds under Section 88 amounts to grant of bail.