We do not share the apprehension. Appeals under Article 136 of the Constitution are entertained by special leave granted by this Court, whether it is the State or a private party that invokes the jurisdiction of this Court, and special leave is not granted as a matter of course but only for good and sufficient reasons, on well-established practice of this Court. (Underline supplied) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 657 Ramji Lal Bairwa & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 20. The view expressed in paragraph 13 was virtually the view expressed by this Court in Arunachalam v. P.S.R. Sadhanantham14, as held in Ramakant Rai’s case itself. In Arunachalam’s case (supra), the acquittal of P.S.R. Sadhanantham and four others by the High Court upon reversing the of their conviction was challenged by the brother of the deceased viz., Arunachalam by filing a Special Leave Petition. Virtually, leave was granted only against the first accused P.S.R. Sadhanantham. Though the locus standi of the private party in the sense, one who was not a party to the original criminal proceedings to maintain a Special Leave Petition under Article 136 was raised, this Court, relying on the decision in Mohan Lal v. Ajit Singh,15 held that this Court could entertain appeal against a of acquittal at the instance of private parties also. Furthermore, it was held that Article 136 of the Constitution of India neither confers on anyone the right to invoke the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court nor inhibits anyone from invoking the Court’s jurisdiction and where a of acquittal by the High Court led to a miscarriage of justice, the Supreme Court would not refrain from doing its duty and abstain from interfering on the ground that a private party and not the State has invoked the Court’s jurisdiction. We may hasten to add here that the said decisions were rendered prior to the amendment brought to Section 372, Cr. P.C., conferring the victim a right to prefer an appeal against an passed by a Court acquitting the accused and expanding the scope of the expression “victim” under Section 2 (wa), Cr. P.C. by including his or her guardian or legal heir, vide Act No.5 of 2009 with effect from 31.12.2009 to prefer an appeal against acquittal in the Cr. P.C. That apart, this Court in those decisions specifically held that a private party could prefer an appeal against acquittal invoking the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution if the of acquittal led to serious miscarriage of justice. According to us, such right to a third party to prefer a petition under Article 136 of the Constitution is certainly to be recognised and respected in a case where seemingly miscarriage of justice had occurred and still, neither State nor the victim or any relative falling under the term ‘victim’ approached this Court. 14 [1979] 3 SCR 482 : (1979) 2 SCC 297 15 [1978] 3 SCR 823 : (1978) 3 SCC 279 658 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21.