There can be no manner of doubt that in such a situation, it is the s passed by the constitutional courts, which would be prevailing over the overs passed by the statutory tribunals.” 111. It can be seen from the perusal of the s of the NGT itself that though the NGT was informed about the High Court being in seisin of the proceedings, it went on to hold that the given by it was binding and therefore, the draft development plan, which in its view, was not in conformity with its , was liable to be set aside. 112. In any case, the second of NGT is passed basically on the basis of the first of NGT. Since we have held the first of NGT itself to be not tenable in law, the second of NGT which is solely based on the first of NGT, is liable to be set aside, on the short ground. This, apart from the fact that as discussed hereinabove, on the ground of judicial propriety, the NGT ought not to have continued with the proceedings after the High Court was in seisin of the matter and specifically when it was informed about the same. G. Balancing the need for Development and Protection of the Environment. 113. A need for maintaining a balance between the development and protection/preservation of environmental ecology has been emphasized by this Court time and again. 114. A three-Judges Bench of this Court in the case of Indian Council for Enviro-Legal Action v. Union of India and Others32, has observed thus: 32 [1996] 1 Suppl. SCR 507 : (1996) 5 SCC 281 : 1996 INSC 237 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1033 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another “31. ….. While economic development should not be allowed to take place at the cost of ecology or by causing widespread environment destruction and violation; at the same time, the necessity to preserve ecology and environment should not hamper economic and other developments. Both development and environment must go hand in hand, in other words, there should not be development at the cost of environment and vice versa, but there should be development while taking due care and ensuring the protection of environment. This is sought to be achieved by issuing notifications like the present, relating to developmental activities being carried out in such a way so that unnecessary environmental degradation does not take place. In other words, in to prevent ecological imbalance and degradation that developmental activity is sought to be regulated.” 115. This Court, again in the case of Essar Oil Limited v. Halar Utkarsh Samiti and Others33, emphasizing on the need for removal of deadlock between the development on the one hand and the environment on the other hand, observed thus: “27. This, therefore, is the aim, namely, to balance economic and social needs on the one hand with environmental considerations on the other. But in a sense all development is an environmental threat. Indeed, the very existence of humanity and the rapid increase in the population together with consequential demands to sustain the population has resulted in the concreting of open lands, cutting down of forests, the filling up of lakes and pollution of water resources and the very air which we breathe.