Yet the construction of mandatory words as directory and directory words as mandatory should not be lightly adopted. The opposite meaning should be unequivocally evidenced before it is accepted as the true meaning; otherwise, there is considerable danger that the legislative intent will be wholly or partially defeated.” (Emphasis supplied) 33. In matters of strict construction, when a timeline is provided, along with the use of the word ‘shall’ and particularly when the same is in the context of a law such as the UAPA, it cannot be considered a mere technicality or formality. It demonstrates clear intention on the part of the Legislature. A compulsion has been imposed, and for compliance with that compulsion, a timeline has been provided. While the legislation is aimed at curbing unlawful activities and practices detrimental to national security and accordingly, provides the authorities of the Government ample power to undertake and complete all procedures and processes permissible under law to that end, at the same time the interest of accused persons must also be safeguarded and protected. It is expected of the Executive, in furtherance of the ideal of protection of national security, that it would work with speed and dispatch. The concern expressed by the Bombay High Court is that a strict interpretation of the timeline may defeat the objective of the legislation. While on first blush, such a statement is attractive, we cannot lose sight of the fact that the time 362 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports granted is only for consideration of the material collected by way of an independent review and then making a recommendation whereafter the sanctioning authority may then consider the materials as well as recommendation to finally, grant or deny the sanction. It is not for the purpose of the investigation itself, which understandably can be a time-consuming process, given the multiple variables involved. There have to be certain limitations within which administrative authorities of the Government can exercise their powers. Without such limitations, power will enter the realm of the unbridled, which needless to state is, antithetical to a democratic society. Timelines in such cases, serve as essential aspects of checks and balances and of course, are unquestionably important. If the view of the Bombay and Jharkhand High Courts is allowed to stand it would be tantamount to the Judicial Wing supplanting its view in place of the legislature which is impermissible in view of the doctrine of separation of powers. We find support for our view in the Constitution Bench decision in A.R. Antulay v. Ramdas Sriniwas Nayak,48 wherein D.A. Desai, J., held as under: “18. It is a well-established cannon of construction that the court should read the section as it is and cannot rewrite it to suit its convenience; nor does any cannon of construction permit the court to read the section in such manner as to render it to some extent otiose.” [See also: Union of India v. Deoki Nandan Aggarwal;49 Institute of Chartered Accountants of India v. Price Waterhouse;50* and Shiv Shakti Coop.