After his designation as a senior advocate, he continued to assist this Court. Shri Talha Abdul Rahman, Advocate-on-Record, was appointed amicus curiae to assist the learned senior counsel. SUBMISSIONS 5. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has taken us through the evidence of the prosecution witnesses. Inviting our attention to evidence of PW-1, Heera Lal, the father of the victim, he pointed out that the version of the witness in his examination-in-chief is based on what was reported to him by PW-2, the minor witness. But, if we compare the depositions of PW-2 with the examination-in-chief of PW-1, there is a significant variance between the version of PW-2 as stated by PW-1 and what PW-2 stated in his examination-in-chief. He pointed out that in the cross-examination, PW-1 has tried to improve upon his version by trying to depose consistently with the version of PW-2. Inviting our attention to the proceedings before the Trial Court, he submitted that when the examination-in-chief of the PW-1 was recorded, the appellant-accused was not represented by any advocate. Therefore, the cross-examination was adjourned to enable the appellant to engage an advocate. An advocate was appointed to espouse his cause after the examination-in-chief of PW-1 was recorded. The appellant was not represented by any advocate at the time of the framing of the charge. 6. Coming to the depositions of PW-2, the learned senior counsel for the appellant urged that considering the difference between the version of PW-1 in his examination-in-chief and cross-examination, the possibility of PW-2 being tutored cannot be ruled out. He submitted that evidence of PW-2 was recorded two and half years after the incident, and on the date of the recording of evidence, his age was ten years. Possibly, he was tutored. He pointed out that the evidence of PW-2 was not of sterling quality and, therefore, cannot be the sole basis for the conviction, especially when evidence regarding recovery is doubtful. 342 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant as amicus curiae pointed out that the alleged recovery of the victim’s slippers and underwear, at the instance of the appellant, is highly doubtful as the place and time of recovery have not been mentioned in the recovery memo. The prosecution did not examine the two witnesses to the recovery memo. He pointed out that the prosecution made no attempt to prove that blood stains on the undergarments of the appellant were that of the blood of the victim. No analysis was made. 8. More importantly, he submitted that the incriminating circumstances brought on record in the evidence against the appellant were not put to him in his examination under Section 313 of the CrPC. Therefore, the appellant’s right of defence was seriously prejudiced. He relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar v. State (NCT of Delhi).1 9. Shri K. Parameshwar, the learned senior counsel appearing for the State, supported the impugned s. However, he has assisted us on the issue of legal aid to the accused.