It is settled law that the High Court, in exercise of appellate powers, may reappreciate the entire evidence. However, reversal of an of acquittal is not to be based on mere existence of a different view or a mere difference of opinion. To permit so would be in violation of the two views theory, as reiterated by this Court from time to time in cases of this nature. In to reverse an of acquittal in appeal, it is essential to arrive at a finding that the of the Trial Court was perverse or illegal; or that the Trial Court did not fully appreciate the evidence on record; or that the view of the Trial Court was not a possible view. 26. At the cost of repetition, it is reiterated that the anomaly of having two reasonably possible views in a matter is to be resolved in favour of the accused. For, after acquittal, the presumption of innocence in 406 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports favour of the accused gets reinforced. In Sanjeev v. State of H.P.7, this Court summarized the position in this regard and observed as follows: “7. It is well settled that: 7.1. While dealing with an appeal against acquittal, the reasons which had weighed with the trial court in acquitting the accused must be dealt with, in case the appellate court is of the view that the acquittal rendered by the trial court deserves to be upturned (see Vijay Mohan Singh v. State of Karnataka8, Anwar Ali v. State of H.P.9) 7.2. With an of acquittal by the trial court, the normal presumption of innocence in a criminal matter gets reinforced (see Atley v. State of U.P.10) 7.3. If two views are possible from the evidence on record, the appellate court must be extremely slow in interfering with the appeal against acquittal (see Sambasivan v. State of Kerala11)” 27. It may be noted that the entire case of the prosecution is based on circumstantial evidence. The principles concerning circumstantial evidence are fairly settled and are generally referred as the “Panchsheel” principles. Essentially, circumstantial evidence comes into picture when there is absence of direct evidence. For proving a case on the basis of circumstantial evidence, it must be established that the chain of circumstances is complete. It must also be established that the chain of circumstances is consistent with the only conclusion of guilt. The margin of error in a case based on circumstantial evidence is minimal. For, the chain of circumstantial evidence is essentially meant to enable the court in drawing an inference. The task of fixing criminal liability upon a person on the strength of an inference must be approached with abundant caution. 7 (2022) 6 SCC 294 8 (2019) 5 SCC 436 9 (2020) 10 SCC 166) 10 AIR 1955 SC 807 11 [1998] 3 SCR 280 : (1998) 5 SCC 412 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 407 Kalinga @ Kushal v. State of Karnataka By Police Inspector Hubli As discussed above, the circumstances sought to be proved by the prosecution are inconsistent and the inconsistencies in the chain of circumstances have not been explained by the prosecution.