I found that both the bolts of the house was locked inside. Immediately I called my neighbour Rajesh. He came there. Since Northern side of window was kept opened my self and Rajesh peeped inside the room…………we saw in the western side of the room and found Accused Ravi, who is standing before the Court now and he used to twist the cloth rope and put round the neck and caught one end of rope. Another end of the rope was in the hands of another person. They were tightening the rope, which was round the neck of my mother. I made a big noise. I addressed Accused Ravi “what he is doing” (In Tulu 56 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ‘Dane Malpuva’). What is he doing, I asked. Immediately he (Accused Ravi) told Accused Vishwananth that “the work is spoiled”, you run (In Tulu ‘KelasaKettand’). Said accused ran through the back door of the house, after unlocking bolts. My neighbour Rajesh followed them in the back of them……..when seeing my mother I found her right leg and right hand was in twisting condition and found no clothes on the body of my mother and found little temperature in the body. Immediately called Dr.K.B Shetty by phone…..After 10 minutes from my phone call, doctor came there. After coming to our house, said doctor examined my mother and told us that she was dead….” PW-2 also claimed to have seen the incident from the window along with PW-1 and he then narrates his unsuccessful attempt to catch the accused persons. The relevant portion of PW-2’s examination- in-chief is as follows: “When seeing through the window we found mother of Rohini (PW-1), Smt. Devaki (deceased) was on the cot. On the right side of Devaki, Ravikumar was standing and in another side another accused was standing. We found cloth was rolled round neck of Devaki. The one end of cloth rope was found in the hands of 1st Accused and cloth ropes another end was found in the hands of 2nd Accused. Both accused were, found dragging the cloth rope on both sides…………Accused ran away through back door of the house.” 13. The above evidence of PW-1 and PW-2, all the same, does not corroborate with the post mortem report, which shows that the ligature marks, though round the neck, but are missing on the back of the neck. If the testimony of PW-1 and PW-2 is to be believed then the ligature marks should have been all round the neck, including the back. The ante mortem injuries in the post mortem report are as follows: “On examination, I found the following external injuries: (i) Ligature mark round the neck above the thyroid cartilage, extending from 1 angle of mandible to the other- size 8”× ¾” (ii) Finger nail marks over the tip of the nose. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 57 Vishwanatha v. The State of Karnataka by the Secretary, Home Department (iii) Fracture of both legs below the knee and fracture of right forearm below the elbow” The report does suggest that the deceased was indeed strangulated to death.