Pursuant to the MSTA, the Security Trustees executed the aforementioned four DoH on behalf of the appellants and other lenders whereunder, the RCom entities, including [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2049 China Development Bank v. Doha Bank Q.P.S.C. & Ors. the Corporate Debtor, agreed to provide their common pooled assets as security for the loans availed by them. The DoH further provided that in the event of any default by the RCom entities, each of the RCom entities is liable to make a good shortfall in recovery of the amounts in default. The learned senior counsel submitted that this obligation to pay the shortfall is a promise to pay, which is in the nature of a guarantee. 10. He pointed out that the CIRP was initiated by the NCLT for RITL- Corporate Debtor, RTL and RCom. He pointed out that on 2nd March 2020, in their capacity as Secured Financial Creditors, the appellants, along with other Financial Creditors, unanimously approved the Resolution Plan submitted by Reliance Digital Platform and Project Services Ltd. He pointed out that the appellants by their letter dated 2nd March 2020 addressed to the RP, pointed out that there were voting in favour of the RP in their capacity as ‘Secured Financial Creditors’. 11. The learned senior counsel pointed out that under the DoH, the Corporate Debtor has undertaken a three-fold obligation under the DoH. Firstly, under clause 2 of the DoH, the Corporate Debtor, in its capacity as Chargor and Obligor, has covenanted to pay the appellants the amount due under the relevant facilities availed by RCom and RTL. Secondly, under clause 3 of the DoH, the Corporate Debtor created a charge over its entire asset pool on a first-ranking pari passu basis for the benefit of the secured creditors, including the appellants and others. The learned senior counsel pointed out that the entire asset pool is the subject matter of the approved Resolution Plan. Thirdly, under sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) of clause 5 of the DoH, the Corporate Debtor unambiguously, unequivocally and expressly agreed to make good the shortfall in realisation of the outstanding debt to the appellants, in the event charged assets were not sufficient to satisfy the outstanding debts owed to the appellants. He submitted that the Corporate Debtor in its capacity as a Chargor, in addition to hypothecating its properties, has undertaken to pay the appellants the amounts due and payable under the relevant facilities granted to RCom and RTL, which amounts to a guarantee in terms of Section 5(8). 12. The learned senior counsel pointed out the findings recorded in paragraph 8 of the made by the NCLT. Relying upon Section 2050 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 126 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (for short, ‘the Contract Act’), he submitted that a contract of guarantee is a contract to perform the promise or discharge the liability of a third person in case of a default. He submitted that since the Corporate Debtor undertook to pay the amounts due and payable by other RCom entities, it was a contract to perform or discharge the liability of a third party in the event of default by the original borrower.