25. This Court in plethora of s, such as Shilpa Sailesh (Supra) and Kiran Jyot Maini (Supra), Ashok Hurra v. Rupa Bipin Zaveri6 and Hitesh Bhatnagar v. Deepa Bhatnagar,7 has laid down the clear position that a marriage can be dissolved by this Court on the ground of irretrievable breakdown when the relationship is so strained that the marriage has succumbed to the long standing differences between the parties and it has become impossible to save such a relationship. When the Court is convinced that there is no scope for the marriage to survive and no useful purpose, emotional or practical, would be served by continuing the soured relationship, and it finds that the marriage is completely dead, then it can exercise its inherent power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India to dissolve the marriage. 26. In the present case, even though the parties cohabited for about five to six years after marriage, but they have been living separately for more than two decades now. From the material on record, it also appears that even during the period of cohabitation the relationship between the parties was strained. The parties have made multiple serious allegations against each other. The appellant has contended that the respondent was short-tempered, hostile and behaved inappropriately with him and his parents, which led him into depression. The respondent has alleged that the appellant’s family was indifferent towards her from the beginning, they had created an uncomfortable environment for her, and the appellant showed no concern or care towards her. She further alleged that in the five years of cohabitation, the appellant was hostile towards her, she was treated like a domestic help, was never taken care of, and she was never treated as a wife by him. She finally left her matrimonial house fearing threat to her life, after hearing conversations between the appellant and his mother. 6 [1997] 2 SCR 875 : (1997) 4 SCC 226 7 [2011] 6 SCR 118 : (2011) 5 SCC 234 554 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 27. It is evident that the relationship between the parties appears to be strained from the beginning and only further soured over the years. Reconciliation proceedings during the pendency of the divorce petition also failed. The parties have been litigating maintenance proceedings for a prolonged period, and there appears to be no cogent reason to only deal with the issue of interim maintenance after twenty years of strained relationship and separation. These facts are admitted by the parties before us, and they have also mutually agreed for the dissolution of their marriage. Therefore, we believe that the marriage between the parties should be dissolved by this Court while exercising the discretionary power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. 28. Thus, considering the facts of this case, all the material on record, submissions of the parties and analyzing the same in light of the factors stated above, the marriage between the appellant and the respondent is ed to be dissolved.