However, the pensionary payments payable to the Judges of the High Court in pursuance of a law enacted by Parliament under Article 221(2) are charged to the Consolidated Fund of India by virtue of Article 112(d) (3). Elaborate provisions have thus been made by the Constitution to secure the independence of the Indian Judiciary by providing Judges a measure of financial independence both during their term of office and after retirement. 14. At this stage, it would be material to note that Section 221 of the Government of India Act 1935 contained the following provisions in regard to the payment of salaries and allowances for Judges of the High Court : “221. The judges of the several High Courts shall of be entitled to such salaries and allowances, including allowances for expenses in respect of equipment and travelling upon appointment, and to such rights in respect of leave and pensions, as may from time to time be fixed by His Majesty in Council: Provided that neither the salary of a judge, nor his rights in respect of leave of absence or pension, shall be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment.” 15. The draft framed by the Constitutional Adviser, Sir B N Rau, contained a stipulation in draft Article 165 by virtue of which the salaries and allowances of Judges of the High Courts and matters pertaining to leave and pension would be determined by or under an Act of the provincial legislature. Article 165 was in the following terms : “165. The judges of the several High Courts shall be entitled to such salaries and allowances, including allowances for expenses in respect of equipment and (ii) the pensions payable to or in respect of Judges of the Federal Court, (iii) the pensions payable to or in respect of Judges of any High Court which exercises jurisdiction in relation to any area included in the territory of India or which at any time before the commencement of this Constitution exercised jurisdiction in relation to any area included in a Governor’s Province of the Dominion of India [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1051 Justice Shailendra Singh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. travelling upon appointment, and to such rights in respect of leave and pension, as may be from time to time be determined by or under Act of the Provincial Legislature, and until they are so determine, shall be entitled to such salaries, allowances, and rights in respect of leave and pension as are specified in the Second Schedule to this Constitution : Provided that neither the salary of a judge, nor his rights in respect of leave of absence or pension, shall be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment.” 16. In the draft Constitution, draft Article 197 also contemplated that the salaries and allowances and matters of leave and pension would be governed by a law enacted by the Legislature of the State.7 17. During the course of the deliberations in the Drafting Committee, the words “the legislature of the State in which the Court has its principal seat” were substituted by “Parliament”.