o The employee who was once allotted a housing site/flat would not be permitted to sell the same for a period of 15 years. o The society would not allot open spaces indicated in the layout or change the layout without the approval of the Competent Authority. o The allotment of housing site/flat would be recorded in the service book of the employee. o The employee would be entitled for concessional allotment of land only once during the period of service. o Members of the Cooperative Society would have to file an affidavit stating that they had not received the benefit of concessional allotment earlier, nor were they a member of a society to which concessional allotment of land had been made earlier. o All members would have to furnish an undertaking stating that they would not avail of such facilities in the future. o Indian Administrative Service,7 Indian Police Service,8 and Indian Foreign Service9 officers belonging to Andhra Pradesh cadre would be entitled to a plot size of 500 square yards. o Non-cadre Head of Departments, Fourth Level Gazetted Officers and above were entitled to a plot size of 400 square yards. o Second and Third Level Gazetted Officers were entitled to a plot size of 300 square yards. o First Level Gazetted Officers were entitled to a plot size of 250 square yards. 7 For short, “IAS”. 8 For short, “IPS”. 9 For short, “IFS”. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1381 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others o Superintendents, Assistant Section Officers, Senior Assistants, Telephone Operators, LD Stenos, TCAs, Junior Assistants, etc. and persons holding equivalent posts were entitled to a plot size of 175 square yards. o Attenders, Record Assistants, drivers, etc., and persons holding equivalent posts were entitled to plot size of 100 square yards. o In case sufficient land was not available, Category 1 officers, namely, those belonging to IAS, IPS and IFS were to retain the mentioned plot size of 500 square yards, but there would be a reduction of plot size in terms of ratio of 4 : 3 : 2.5 : 1.75 : 1 for Categories 2 to 5. 9. Thereafter, on 04.05.2006, the Government of Andhra Pradesh issued GoM No. 522. The GoM stated that based upon representations from various individuals or groups i.e., Judges of the High Court, MLAs, MPs, officers of the AIS, people of eminence and journalists, the Collector of Ranga Reddy District had proposed allotment of government land for housing purpose on payment of basic value through the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration, Hyderabad. The Government, after careful examination of the proposal, had directed allotment of government land to the extent of 245 acres in villages of Ranga Reddy District in favour of Judges of the High Court, MLAs, MPs, serving left over officers of pre-1989 AIS batches, AIS officers serving since 1989, serving AIS officers of other cadre with Andhra Pradesh nativity, people of eminence and working journalists, as a one-time benefit as per their eligibility.