Justice Fazl Ali in his concurring opinion observed that an will be quasi-judicial or judicial if issued by a person or an authority who is “legally bound to or authorised to act as if he was a court or a Judge.”73 The learned Judge further expanded that to act as a Judge or a Court included the following: (a) right to representation; and (b) inquiry, hearing and weighing of evidence. Justice SR Das in his concurring opinion, made a crucial observation. The learned Judge held that an action will be quasi- judicial even if there was no lis between two parties, provided the statutory authority has the power to do an act which will prejudicially affect the subject:74 “81. In other words, while the presence of two parties besides the deciding authority will prima facie, and in the 70 “Ordinance” 71 [1950] SCR 621 [11] 72 [1950] SCR 621 [14] 73 [1950] SCR 621 [21] 74 [1950] SCR 621 [80.2] [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1433 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. absence of any other factor impose upon the authority the duty to act judicially, the absence of two such parties is not decisive in taking the act of the authority out of the category of quasi-judicial act if the authority is nevertheless required by the statute to act judicially.” 41. In Ridge v. Baldwin,75 Lord Reid observed that the judicial character of the duty must be inferred from the nature of the duty itself. Since the decision in Ridge (supra), Courts have inferred the duty to act judicially, that is, in compliance with the principles of natural justice based on whether the decision adversely affects legal rights. Over time, Courts have abandoned the classification between quasi- judicial and administrative functions because the duty to act fairly, in compliance with the principles of natural justice has been read into administrative actions as well.76 MP Jain and SN Jain in their treatise on Administrative law elucidate the reasons for the blurring of this distinction77: “Differentiation between quasi-judicial and administrative seems to be merely an artificial formality, as many a time such a distinction is elusive and mostly a manner of judicial policy. Also, since the functions of the Administration have been expanding adversely affecting the rights and interests of individuals, the courts are convinced that it is essential to concede the right of hearing on a broader scale, but, at the same time, it may be artificial to call a function as quasi-judicial as it may have no judicial element involved. Or, in a situation, the court may feel that the function of the Administration is such that it is susceptible to the application of only a few but not all the elements of natural justice. […] Further, when a proceeding is characterised as administrative, the person whose interests are adversely affected thereby may be left with no effective means of redress of his grievances as he could claim no procedural safeguards. To overcome these difficulties, the new trend has emerged.