34 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports unfettered by consideration of facts like what is the subject matter of the appeal, who has filed the appeal and whether the appeal is being dismissed, allowed or disposed of by modifying the appealed against. While dismissing an appeal and though confirming the impugned decree, the appellate court may still direct passing of such decree or making of such which ought to have been passed or made by the court below in accordance with the findings of fact and law arrived at by the court below and which it would have done had it been conscious of the error committed by it and noticed by the appellate court. While allowing the appeal or otherwise interfering with the decree or appealed against, the appellate court may pass or make such further or other, decree or , as the case would require being done, consistent with the findings arrived at by the appellate court. The object sought to be achieved by conferment of such power on the appellate court is to avoid inconsistency, inequity, inequality in reliefs granted to similarly placed parties and unworkable decree or coming into existence. The overriding consideration is achieving the ends of justice. Wider the power, higher the need for caution and care while exercising the power. Usually, the power under Rule 33 is exercised when the portion of the decree appealed against or the portion of the decree held liable to be set aside or interfered by the appellate court is so inseparably connected with the portion not appealed against or left untouched that for the reason of the latter portion being left untouched either injustice would result or inconsistent decrees would follow. The power is subject to at least three limitations: first, the power cannot be exercised to the prejudice or disadvantage of a person not a party before the court; secondly, a claim given up or lost cannot be revived; and thirdly, such part of the decree which essentially ought to have been appealed against or objected to by a party and which that party has permitted to achieve a finality cannot be reversed to the advantage of such party. A case where there are two relief prayed for and one is refused while the other one is granted and the former is not inseparably connected [2024] 9 S.C.R. 35 Vaibhav Jain v. Hindustan Motors Pvt. Ltd. with or necessarily depending on the other, in an appeal against the latter, the former relief cannot be granted in favor of the respondent by the appellate court exercising power under Rule 33 of 41.” (Emphasis supplied) 31. From the decision above, which has been consistently followed, it is clear that for exercise of the power under Rule 33 of 41 CPC the overriding consideration is achieving the ends of justice; and one of the limitations on exercise of the power is that that part of the decree which essentially ought to have been appealed against, or objected to, by a party and which that party has permitted to achieve a finality cannot be reversed to the advantage of such party.