There are no definite or easy answers to these questions. Although in absolute terms poverty may have decreased,79 as some reports indicate. Possibly, the lowest strata of our society in economic terms may be better off than what it was say 50 years earlier. But this would not mean that the inequality in our society too has decreased, or the gap between the rich and the poor has narrowed down. There are conflicting reports on inequality and poverty. All the same, UNDP80 Human Development Report shows India to be lagging behind in human development.81 The Human Development Index ranks India at the 134th position, out of 193 countries, which were examined.82 The Global Hunger Index (GHI) Report, which is based on WHO83 parameters, similarly ranks India at the 105th spot, out of 127 countries evaluated.84 The least the above figures indicate is that there are still large grounds which remain to be covered. The economic conditions as they exist today require the efforts of the State with its welfare measures, inter alia under Article 39(b) & (c) of the Constitution, as interpreted in Ranganatha Reddy and Sanjeev Coke. 46. Undoubtedly this Court has given an expansive meaning to the phrase “material resources of the community”. We have seen the background and the historical necessity both for the incorporation of such provisions and its interpretation by this Court. Ultimately, we the people of India have resolved “to secure to all its citizens”- justice, liberty, equality and fraternity. The Constitution of India secures these values for all its citizens and speaks in an 79 natiOnal MultidiMensiOnal POverty indeX: a PrOGress review 2023, niti aayOG, GOvernMent Of india. 80 United Nations Development Programme. 81 As per the UNDP Development Report, India’s Gini coefficient is 0.444. The Gini coefficient measures the dispersion of income or distribution of wealth among the members of a population, where 1 represents perfect inequality while 0 represents perfect equality. Available at https://hdr.undp.org/data-center/ human-development-index#/indicies/HDI. 82 Available at https://hdr.undp.org/data-center/human-development-index#/indicies/HDI. 83 World Health Organisation. 84 Global Hunger Index 2024. Available at https://www.globalhungerindex.org/pdf/en/2024.pdf 320 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports expansive language, particularly for the provisions contained in Part III and Part IV. This is how the Constitution has been interpreted by this Court all along. It is due to the expansive meaning given by the Supreme Court to Articles 14 and 21 that we have today an entire body of case laws, which protects the life and liberty of its people. 47. Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution have been given an expansive meaning by this Court, which was never perceived by the framers of the Constitution. But this is precisely the task of the Constitutional Courts. There is a long list of decisions where this Court has protected the fundamental rights by expanding the scope and ambit of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. To mention some of these: 1. In Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India (1978) 1 SCC 248, this Court expanded Article 21 many folds by establishing its co- relationship with Articles 14 and 19.