The Trial Court dismissed the suit of the plaintiff on the finding that the agreement to sell dated 29.03.1999 was not admissible in evidence as the defendants had raised objections regarding the same. Once the same was held not admissible, the suit for enforcement of the same was held liable to be dismissed. 14. Aggrieved by the same, the plaintiff filed an appeal under section 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure, registered as Appeal from Original Decree No.282 of 2006. Further, defendant nos.2 and 3 filed cross- objections against the findings of the Trial Court recorded against them, which was registered as COT No.2304 of 2005. The Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court allowed the First Appeal and dismissed the cross-objections. The Division Bench affirmed the findings recorded by the Trial Court on all issues already decided in favour of the plaintiff and accordingly dismissed the cross-objections. However, with regard to issue of admissibility of the agreement to sell dated 29.03.1999, the Division Bench was of the view that as the plaintiff had accepted that he would pay the deficient stamp duty and penalty as may be assessed by the competent authority/collector, the Trial Court had erred in dismissing the suit on the ground that Ex.-1-the agreement to sell, could not be enforced being executed on insufficiently stamped paper. 15. Aggrieved, the present appeals have been preferred by defendant nos.2 and 3 against the of the High Court in allowing the first appeal of the plaintiff and further on dismissing their cross- objections. 16. Learned counsel for the appellants has not only challenged the findings of the High Court on the admissibility of the agreement to sell dated 29.03.1999 but also the concurrent findings of both the 1 The Stamp Act 992 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports courts on other issues regarding the validity of agreement to sell, circumstances under which it was executed and defendants 2 and 3 not being bona fide purchasers for value. 17. Upon considering the submissions, we are of the view that the findings of the High Court regarding the admissibility of the agreement to sell dated 29.03.1999 were neither based on a detailed consideration of the relevant statutory provisions nor supported by established legal principles. It appears that the High Court, without thoroughly examining the applicable legal provisions, cursorily concluded that the document would be admissible simply because the plaintiff had expressed willingness to pay the deficient stamp duty and any penalty imposed by the competent authority or the Collector. However, it is evident that the plaintiff made no concrete effort to initiate or pursue the necessary proceedings before the competent authority or the Collector to determine the deficient stamp duty and penalty. The High Court, therefore, failed to recognize that an insufficiently stamped document can only be admitted into evidence after the deficiency in stamp duty and any applicable penalty has been duly paid and cleared. This lapse of procedure was not properly addressed in the High Court’s .