Recognised political parties shall continue to be allotted the same symbol for all General elections until the time these political parties fulfil the conditions for recognition under the Symbols . '“ The effect of the provisions of the Symbols is that the symbols of certain political parties, particularly those which have enjoyed the status of a recognised political party for long are entrenched in the minds of the voters that they associate the symbol with the political party. 98 Symbols 1968, Rule 6B 99 Symbols 1968, Rule 6A 100 Symbols 1968, Rule 5 101 Symbols 1968, Rule 8(1) 102 Ibid. 103 Symbols 1968, Rule 10B. The party is required to set up candidates in at least five percent of the assembly constituencies. 104 A recognised National or a State Party shall continue to be treated as a recognised party even if the political party does not fulfil the conditions at the next election to the General Assembly stipulated for recognition as a recognised political party. However, it shall continue to be treated as a recognised political party at the subsequent general election only if the party fulfils the conditions laid down. 498 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 85. For unrecognised but registered political parties, though a common symbol is allotted for all candidates being set up by the political parties, the symbol is not “reserved” for the Party. The ECI could allot different symbols to that political party in each General election. The candidates of a registered but unrecognised political party may be represented by a common symbol but the people would not attach a specific symbol to the political party because the symbol by which it is represented may change with every election. 86. The purpose of allotting symbols to political parties is to aid voters in identifying and remembering the political party. The law recognises the inextricable link between a political party and the candidate though the vote is cast for a candidate. The literacy rate in India was 18.33 percent when the first General Election was held in 1951. Most of the voters identified a political party only with its symbol and this still continues to the day. In a few cases, the voters would not possess any knowledge of the candidate being set up by the political party. They would vote solely based on the symbol which is allotted to the political party; Knowledge of which they have obtained through campaigning activities or its sustained presence in the electoral fray. Gayatri Devi, the third Maharani consort of Jaipur who was later set up as a candidate by the Swatantra Party, recalls in her Autobiography that her team spent hours trying to persuade the voters that they had to vote for the Symbol Star (which was the symbol of the Swatantra Party) and not a symbol showing a horse and a rider because she also rode a horse:' “Since most of India is illiterate, at the polls people vote according to a visual symbol of their party.