[emphasis supplied] 151. In the Chorzow Factory Case13, the Permanent Court of International Justice (PCIJ) laid down the standard in international law for reparations for the commission of internationally wrongful acts. The Court held : “The essential principle contained in the actual notion of an illegal act – a principle which seems to be established by international practice and in particular by the decisions of arbitral tribunals – is that reparation must, as far as possible, wipe out all the consequences of the illegal act and re-establish the situation which would, in all probability, have existed if that act had not been committed. Restitution in kind, or, if this is not possible, payment of a sum corresponding to the value which a restitution in kind would bear; the award, if need be, of damages for loss sustained which would not be covered by restitution in kind or payment in place of it -such are the principles which should serve to determine the amount of compensation due for an act contrary to international law (…)” [emphasis supplied] 152. The International Court of Justice (ICJ), while applying the principle of restoration of degraded ecosystem in the case of Costa Rica v. Nicaragua14, has observed thus : 13 The Factory at Chorzow (Germany v. Poland), 13 September 1928, PCIJ, Merits, p. 47) 14 Certain Activities Carried Out by Nicaragua in the B Area, Compensation , (2018) I.C.J. Reports 15 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 285 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal “42. The Court is therefore of the view that damage to the environment, and the consequent impairment or loss of the ability of the environment to provide goods and services, is compensable under international law. Such compensation may include indemnification for the impairment or loss of environmental goods and services in the period prior to recovery and payment for the restoration of the damaged environment. 43. Payment for restoration accounts for the fact that natural recovery may not always suffice to return an environment to the state in which it was before the damage occurred. In such instances, active restoration measures may be required in to return the environment to its prior condition, in so far as that is possible. (…) 53. In determining the compensation due for environmental damage, the Court will assess, as outlined in paragraph 42, the value to be assigned to the restoration of the damaged environment as well as to the impairment or loss of environmental goods and services prior to recovery.” (emphasis supplied) 153. While considering the aspect of valuation of environmental restoration costs to be awarded to Costa Rica, the ICJ observed thus : “85. (…) with respect to biodiversity services (in terms of nursery and habitat), the “corrected analysis” does not sufficiently account for the particular importance of such services in an internationally protected wetland where the biodiversity was described to be of high value by the Secretariat of the Ramsar Convention. Whatever regrowth may occur naturally is unlikely to match in the near future the pre-existing richness of biodiversity in the area.