GUIDELINES ISSUED BY VARIOUS AUTHORITIES 47. In light of the aforesaid statutory provisions, it will also be necessary to refer to certain guidelines issued by various authorities. 48. The NTCA published guidelines for preparation of TCP in 2007. The said guidelines provide for what should be the approach for preparation of TCP. It will be relevant to refer to clause 3.1 thereof, which reads thus : “3.1 Consolidating and strengthening of ‘source’ populations of tiger in tiger reserves and protected areas The management interventions would involve : 1. Protection, anti-poaching activities and networking 2. Strengthening of infrastructure within Tiger Reserves 3. Habitat improvement including water development 4. Rehabilitation package for traditional hunting tribes living around tiger reserves 5. Staff development and capacity building 6. Delineating inviolate spaces for wildlife and relocation of villagers from crucial habitats in Tiger Reserves within a timeframe (five years) and settlement of rights 7. Safeguarding tiger habitats from ecologically unsustainable development” 49. It will also be relevant to refer to clause 3.2 thereof, which reads thus : “3.2 Managing ‘source-sink’ dynamics by restoring habitat connectivity to facilitate dispersing tigers to repopulate the core areas The management interventions would involve : 1. Co-existence agenda in buffer/fringe areas (landscape approach/sectoral integration) with ecologically sustainable development programme for providing livelihood options to local people, with a view to reduce their resource dependency on the core. The strategy would involve reciprocal commitments with the local community on a 230 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports quid-pro-quo basis to protect forests and wildlife, based on village level, participatory planning and implementation through ecodevelopment committees (EDC). 2. Addressing man-animal conflict issues (ensuring uniform, timely compensation for human injuries and deaths due to wild animals, livestock depredation by carnivores, crop depredation by wild ungulates). 3. Mainstreaming wildlife concerns in the buffer landscape by targeting the various production sectors in the area, which directly or incidentally affect wildlife conservation, through ‘Tiger Conservation Foundation’, as provided in the Wildlife (Protection) Amendment Act, 2006. 4. Addressing tiger bearing forests and fostering corridor conservation through restorative strategy in respective working plans of forest divisions, involving local communities, to arrest fragmentation of habitats. 5. Ensuring safeguards/retrofitting measures in the area in the interest of wildlife conservation.” 50. The guidelines also deal with various production sectors in the buffer zone which require mainstreaming of wildlife concerns in these sectors like : "(a) Forestry (D) (b) Agriculture (D) (c) Integrated Development (ecodevelopment, development through District Administration) (D) (d) Tourism (D) (e) Fisheries (D) (f) Tea/Coffee Estates (I) (g) Road / Rail transport (D) (h) Industry (D) (i) Mining (I) (j) Thermal power plants (I) (k) Irrigation projects (D) [2024] 3 S.C.R. 231 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal (l) Temple tourism (I) (m) Communication projects (D)” 51. Clause 6 of the said guidelines deals with importance of a buffer zone vis-à-vis the tiger land tenure dynamics, which reads thus : “6. Importance of a buffer zone vis-à-vis the tiger land tenure dynamics 6.1 Tiger is a territorial animal, which advertises its presence in an area and maintains a territory.