Owing to the grave consequences of such accusations in some countries, it has been suggested that emergency procedures be put in place to rescue and resettle women who are at risk of suffering witchcraft-related violence in their communities. In some countries, women have also been detained on grounds of witchcraft or charlatanism, often on the pretext of protecting them from mob justice. There are also instances of women, in some countries, who have been sent to “witch camps” through a system 17 The report can be accessed at https://documents.un.org/doc/undoc/gen/g23/007/84/pdf/g2300784.pdf 1140 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports that lacks minimal due legal process and from which the possibility of returning to society is uncertain. 19. Several of the root causes of accusations of witchcraft targeting women were outlined during the expert consultation, including patriarchy, cultural beliefs and structural challenges of conflicts and poverty. Participants also discussed other factors related to accusations of witchcraft and ritual attacks. For example, inheritance practices mean that widows and wives in polygamous marriages without children, or without sons, are vulnerable because in many cases the land, house and other properties will pass on to the husband’s sons from other wives or the nearest male relative. Competition over financial resources, for attention, looks or children may trigger accusations of witchcraft and lead to acts of violence as a result of jealousy. Illness and death in the family or local community, as well as other misfortunes, are key factors in triggering accusations of witchcraft against and ritual attacks on women. The arrival of strangers/newcomers in a local community may be another factor. Women’s agency and assertion of rights may also trigger accusations of witchcraft against independent and empowered women. 20. Older women accused of witchcraft have been reported to be subject to imprisonment, forced starvation, damaging “exorcism” ceremonies, such as forcing them to ingest hazardous substances, such as cement, and having nails driven into their heads with the objective of extracting confessions of witchcraft and forcing the evil spirit out. In some countries, such women are abandoned by their own children, family and community members and often the State does not provide alternative care facilities. Due to extreme fear of witchhunting or reprisal attacks, those labelled as “witches” are exiled to the margins of their communities and forced to remain confined in “safe” spaces, living in deplorable conditions. 21. The Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women has stressed that States should combat all forms of discrimination and violence against older [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1141 Rajeev Kumar Upadhyay v. Srikant Upadhyay & Ors. women accused of witchcraft, including intimidation, isolation, abuse and killings, as well as expulsions from their homes and families, and ensure that the perpetrators are prosecuted and adequately punished. … 23. The Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women has emphasized the need to take immediate and effective measures to investigate incidents of violence against and murder of women and girls based on accusations of witchcraft, and prevent their reoccurrence in the future; arrest, prosecute and adequately punish the perpetrators of such acts; strengthen the enforcement of relevant legislation; and criminalize accusations of witchcraft, while repealing provisions criminalizing witchcraft per se.