1151 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors this Court in Sivanandan C T v High Court of Kerala6 apply independent of prejudice. Where a breach of the principles of natural justice is alleged for a failure to provide a hearing, an additional layer has been provided in decisions of this Court to the effect that such a breach will not necessarily invalidate the action in the absence of prejudice to the candidates. While a violation of the principles of natural justice may not be fatal in the absence of prejudice, in the present case, the candidates who have failed to be selected rely on an independent principle of administrative law which requires fairness in governance; (iv) In any event, this Court may scrutinize the marksheets, for the purpose of analyzing the marks which were awarded in the course of the viva voce to determine as to whether there is an element of prejudice in the award of marks; and (v) Based on the longstanding practice in the present case, all candidates were under a legitimate expectation of the continuance of the norms which were prescribed in the Resolution of the Full Court dated 29 January 2013 and any alteration of the position without due notice to the candidates has resulted in substantial injustice. 25. Mr Gopal Sankaranarayanan, senior counsel urged that: (i) The absence of notice to candidates about the alteration in the criteria of eligibility results in a failure to satisfy the norms of consistency and predictability; (ii) The requirement of obtaining minimum qualifying marks in the viva voce was introduced for the first time by the Resolution dated 30 November 2021 of which candidates had no notice; (iii) In paragraph 10.97 of its recommendations, the Shetty Commission had stated that in matters of direct recruitment, it was not inclined to impose a minimum cut-off in the viva voce in to obviate arbitrariness in the process. Though the recommendation deals with direct recruitment, there is no rational reason to exclude it in respect of the process which is followed in promoting in-service candidates in the 65% promotion quota; and 6 [2023] 11 SCR 674 : 2023 SCC Online SC 994 1152 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iv) On 28 February 2023, this Court was informed of there being 38 vacancies in the Superior Judicial Service in Haryana. The High Court has made recommendations for appointing 13 candidates. This indicates the existence of a substantial number of vacancies. Consequently, public interest would not necessarily be subserved by affirming the view which has been taken by the High Court, both on its administrative side and on the judicial side. 26. Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General submitted that: (i) Bearing in mind the principles which are incorporated in Articles 233, 234 and 235 of the Constitution, the criteria for selection of District Judges should be fixed in consultation with the State Government; (ii) A collaborative exercise must be followed by the two organs of the State - the Judiciary and the Executive; (iii) There is an element of subjectivity and arbitrariness implicit in laying down minimum marks for the interview process since a candidate who has otherwise obtained high marks in the suitability test may be excluded for failure to meet the cut-off in the viva voce; (iv) Article 233 would encompass the criteria for selection, whether by a rule or by a resolution.