Our learned Brother Krishna Iyer, J. has prepared a separate specially dealing with this point. We must not be understood to agree with all that he has said in his in this regard.” 90. Justice Krishna Iyer began his separate opinion, on behalf of himself and two other judges, with the following question: “We go wholly with our learned brother Untwalia, J. Then why a separate afterword?”94The opinion then goes on to frame the questions that arose from the judgement of the High Court in the following terms: “50. Back to the challenging problems thrown up by the High Court’s decision. The facts are there in the leading and the formulation of the controverted propositions also needs no reiteration. Broadly speaking, we strike no note of dissensus but seek to bring out some social nuances even in consensus. Let us project the pegs on which our discussion may hang. Incidentally, conceptual differences about the dimensions of the change visualised by Article 31-C read with Article 39(b) and (c) are bound to exist among Judges who, after all, professionally objectify the social philosophy of the Constitution through the subjective prism of their own mentalism. 1. What is a “public purpose”, set as a constitutional limitation in Article 31(2), compliance with which conditions the immunity from attack based on Article 19(1)(f) or inadequacy of recompense when any person is deprived of his property? 1(a). What is the degree of nexus between the public purpose and the acquisition desiderated by Article 31(2)? 1(b). Can Cooper be judicially resurrected, draped differently but with the same “compensation” soul, even after the amendment of Article 31(2)? 94 Ranganatha Reddy [40]. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 109 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 2. What are the pervasive ambience and progressive amplitude of the “directive principle” in Article 39(b) and (c) in the context of nationalisation of public utilities? 2(a). Can State monopoly by taking over private property be a modus operandi of distribution of ownership and control of the material resources of the community to subserve tile common good, within the framework of Article 39 (b)? 2(b). Are distribution and nationalisation antithetical or overlapping? 2(c). What is the connotation of the expression “material resources”? Can private buses be regarded as material resources of the community?” 91. The above formulation by Justice Krishna Iyer of the issues raised by the High Court is distinguishable from the formulation of the issues by the majority in paragraph 4 of the judgement, extracted above. Issues 2, 2(a), 2(b) and 2(c) identified by Justice Krishna Iyer on the interpretation of Article 39(b), and particularly the purport of the terms ‘distribution’ and ‘material resources’ were not even framed as issues by the majority, let alone answered. We will discuss in detail, the answers given by Justice Krishna Iyer to these questions at a later stage. For now, it is sufficient to note that Justice Krishna Iyer inter alia observed that all resources that satisfy material needs, including privately owned resources, fall within the ambit of the phrase ‘material resources of the community’ used in Article 39(b).95 92.