[(2006) 12 SCC 321: (2007) 1 SCC (Cri) 744]) 57. It is also necessary to bear in mind that superficially a case may have an ugly look and thereby, prima facie, shaking the conscience of any court but it is well settled that suspicion, however high it may be, can under no circumstances, be held to be a substitute for legal evidence. 58. Sections 35 and 54 of the Act, no doubt, raise presumptions with regard to the culpable mental state on the part of the accused as also place the burden of proof 2358 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in this behalf on the accused; but a bare perusal of the said provision would clearly show that presumption would operate in the trial of the accused only in the event the circumstances contained therein are fully satisfied. An initial burden exists upon the prosecution and only when it stands satisfied, would the legal burden shift. Even then, the standard of proof required for the accused to prove his innocence is not as high as that of the prosecution. Whereas the standard of proof required to prove the guilt of the accused on the prosecution is “beyond all reasonable doubt” but it is “preponderance of probability” on the accused. If the prosecution fails to prove the foundational facts so as to attract the rigours of Section 35 of the Act, the actus reus which is possession of contraband by the accused cannot be said to have been established. xxx 63. Placing persuasive burden on the accused persons must justify the loss of protection which will be suffered by the accused. Fairness and reasonableness of trial as also maintenance of the individual dignity of the accused must be uppermost in the court’s mind.’ (emphasis supplied) 49. In Sarbananda Sonowal v Union of India (2007) 1 SCC 174 [hereinafter referred to as Sarbananda Sonowal II], it was held: ‘55. There cannot, however, be any doubt whatsoever that adequate care should be taken to see that no genuine citizen of India is thrown out of the country. A person who claims himself to be a citizen of India in terms of the Constitution of India or the Citizenship Act is entitled to all safeguards both substantive and procedural provided for therein to show that he is a citizen. 56. Status of a person, however, is determined according to statute. The Evidence Act of our country has made provisions as regards “burden of proof”. Different statutes also lay down as to how and in what manner burden is to be discharged. Even some penal statutes contain provisions that burden of proof shall be on the accused. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2359 Md. Rahim Ali @ Abdur Rahim v. The State of Assam & Ors. Only because burden of proof under certain situations is placed on the accused, the same would not mean that he is deprived of the procedural safeguard. 57. In Hiten P. Dalal v. Bratindranath Banerjee [(2001) 6 SCC 16: 2001 SCC (Cri) 960] this Court categorically opined: (SCC pp.