In this connection our attention was drawn to In re: The Kerala Education Bill,1957 [(159) SCR 995] where, it is argued, this Court had held that the minority can administer an educational institution even though it might not have established it. In that case an argument was raised that under Article 30(1)protection was given only to educational institutions established after the Constitution came into force. That argument was turned down by this Court for the obvious reason that if that interpretation was given to Article 30(1) it would be robbed of much of its content. But that case in our opinion did not lay down that the words ‘establish and administer’ in Article 30(1) should be read disjunctively, so that though a minority might not have established an educational institution it had the right to administer it. It is true that at p. 1062 the Court spoke of Article 30(1) giving two rights to a minority i.e. (i) to establish and (ii) to administer. But that was said only in the context of meeting the argument that educational institutions established by minorities before the Constitution came into force did not have the protection of Article 30(1). We are of opinion that nothing in that case justifies the contention raised of behalf of the petitioners that the minorities would have the right to administer an educational institution even though the institution may not have been established by them. The two words in Article 30(1) must be read together and so read the Article gives this right to the minority to administer institutions established by it. If the educational institution has not been established by a minority it cannot claim the right to administer it under Article 30(1).” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1903 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 109. The above passage has been quoted by the bench of 3 (three) Judges in Aligarh Muslim University (supra). Having read the said passage in between the lines, I have utterly failed to find any infirmity in the process of reasoning by the Constitution bench while dealing with the arguments that were raised before it. 110. In any event, leaving aside Azeez Basha (supra), it is amply clear that this Court has consistently read Article 30(1) to provide conjunctive, rather than separate and disjunctive, rights. The interpretation of Article 30 in the manner sought to be projected in the majority opinion, would mean that even an institution, though established by the minority, but has never been administered by it would reap the protection granted by Article 30(1). Such a result is exactly what was warned against by this Court in A.P. Christian Medical Educational Society (supra). The right to ‘administer’ accruing to the minority community only upon the factum of ‘establish’ having first been proven leaves but one with the unescapable conclusion, that the right to establish and the right to administer are twin rights, and cannot be read in isolation from one another. Any other interpretation would lead to consequences that were far from what the Constituent Assembly did intend.