To satisfy the requirement of “instigation”, though it is not necessary that actual words must be used to that effect or what constitutes “instigation” must necessarily and specifically be suggestive of the consequence. Yet a reasonable certainty to incite the 14 [2009] 13 SCR 230 : (2009) 16 SCC 605 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1237 Vikas Chandra v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. consequence must be capable of being spelt out. Where the accused had, by his acts or omission or by a continued course of conduct, created such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other option except to commit suicide, in which case, an “instigation” may have to be inferred. A word uttered in a fit of anger or emotion without intending the consequences to actually follow, cannot be said to be instigation.” “17.Thus, to constitute “instigation”, a person who instigates another has to provoke, incite, urge or encourage the doing of an act by the other by “goading” or “urging forward”. The dictionary meaning of the word “goad” is “a thing that stimulates someone into action; provoke to action or reaction” (see Concise Oxford English Dictionary); “to keep irritating or annoying somebody until he reacts…” (emphasis in original) 23. In the decision in Ramesh Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh15, this Court held that where the accused by his acts or continued course of conduct creates such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other option except to commit suicide, an instigation may be inferred. 24. Now, reverting to the so-called suicide note, we do not find any reason to interfere with its evaluation by the High Court, for reasons more than one. We have already noted the conspicuous absence of any reference about the alleged incident on 12.10.2004 involving the deceased and the respondent No.2, either explicitly or implicitly, therein. Before looking into and applying the principles enunciated for appreciation of a suicide note in the decisions of this Court in Netai Dutta v. State of West Bengal16 and Madan Mohan Singh’s case (supra), we will have a glance at the tenor of the suicide note. As observed and held by the High Court, the so-called suicide note would not reveal and reflect that the victim was disturbed on account of non-receipt of salary and for that reason, he was bent upon to 15 [2001] Supp. 4 SCR 247 : [(2001) 9 SCC 618] 16 (2005) 2 SCC 659 1238 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports commit suicide. Though it is stated that the respondent No.2 is responsible for his suicide however, there is absolute absence of any material or even a case in the complaint and in the so-called suicide note that the respondent No.2 has abetted late Brijesh Chandra in a manner that will attract the provisions under Section 107, IPC. There is absolute absence of any allegation of continued course of conduct on the part of the respondent No.2 with a view to create circumstances leaving the deceased with no other option except to commit suicide.