E. THE SPLIT VERDICT 19. Heavy reliance was placed by the review petitioners before the said Division Bench on paragraphs 365 and 366 of Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra) and paragraph 217 of Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra). They also relied on Board of Control for Cricket in India v. Netaji Cricket Club14 in support of the contention that a party for sufficient reason could urge the court to exercise its review jurisdiction. On behalf of the respondent landowners, various decisions were cited to contend that the Explanation to Rule 1 of XLVII, CPC would not permit a review of the s/s under review. 20. The presiding Judge allowed the review/recall petitions. Noting the specific overruling of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and all the decisions which were rendered following it by Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra), and referring to paragraph 217 of the decision in Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra), the Hon’ble Judge felt that “some meaning” had to be given to such observations. The contention of the respondents that the case falls under Rule 1 of XLVII, CPC and the subsequent overruling of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) cannot be a ground to review the earlier s and s was rejected by reasoning that “here is a peculiar case where the earlier decision in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra), upon which reliance has been placed earlier, was itself doubted in the subsequent decision in the case of … and that the matter was referred to the Constitution Bench and thereafter the Constitution Bench has declared the law as above, more particularly paragraphs 365 and 366 of the in the case of …”. 14 [2005] 1 SCR 173 : 2005 4 SCC 741 970 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. Lastly, it was noted that in most of the cases that were sought to be reviewed, the lands had already been utilised by the beneficiaries of acquisition and in view of the s passed declaring the deemed lapse of acquisition, “(T)he resultant effect would be to return the possession of the land/s which might have been used by the beneficiary authorities”. It was, therefore held that the RPs should be allowed in the larger public interest and the authorities should be given an opportunity to put forward their case afresh, “which shall be in the larger public interest”. 22. In contrast, the Hon’ble companion Judge while dissenting with the Hon’ble presiding Judge proceeded to examine the RPs on the basis of their very maintainability, in the light of the Explanation to Rule 1 of XLVII, CPC. Multiple decisions of this Court, on the parameters on which a review petition could be entertained by this Court, were examined and it was held that in view of the specific bar that the Explanation creates on taking into consideration the subsequent overruling of a determinative , the RPs could not be held to be maintainable. Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) being good law as on date when the impugned s were rendered, it was held that the said impugned s could not be reviewed on the ground of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) being overruled, the course of action being expressly prohibited by the Explanation to Rule 1 of XLVII.