Bribery is not rendered immune under Article 105(2) and the corresponding provision of Article 194 because a member engaging in bribery commits a crime which is not essential to the casting of the vote or the ability to decide on how the vote should be cast. The same principle applies to bribery in connection with a speech in the House or a Committee; 188.8. Corruption and bribery by members of the legislatures erode probity in public life; 188.9. The jurisdiction which is exercised by a competent court to prosecute a criminal offence and the authority of the House 584 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to take action for a breach of discipline in relation to the acceptance of a bribe by a member of the legislature exist in distinct spheres. The scope, purpose and consequences of the court exercising jurisdiction in relation to a criminal offence and the authority of the House to discipline its members are different; 188.10. The potential of misuse against individual members of the legislature is neither enhanced nor diminished by recognizing the jurisdiction of the court to prosecute a member of the legislature who is alleged to have indulged in an act of bribery; 188.11. The offence of bribery is agnostic to the performance of the agreed action and crystallizes on the exchange of illegal gratification. It does not matter whether the vote is cast in the agreed direction or if the vote is cast at all. The offence of bribery is complete at the point in time when the legislator accepts the bribe; and 188.12. ⁠The interpretation which has been placed on the issue in question in the of the majority in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) results in a paradoxical outcome where a legislator is conferred with immunity when they accept a bribe and follow through by voting in the agreed direction. On the other hand, a legislator who agrees to accept a bribe, but eventually decides to vote independently will be prosecuted. Such an interpretation is contrary to the text and purpose of Articles 105 and 194. 189. The reference is answered in the above terms. Having answered the question of law raised by the Impugned Judgement of the High Court in this reference, the Criminal Appeal stands disposed of in the above terms. 190. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Reference answered and Criminal Appeal disposed of.