1815 Allahabad University Etc. v. Geetanjali Tiwari (Pandey) & Ors. Etc. Etc. the language of the provision is plain and unambiguous. The court cannot rewrite, recast or reframe the legislation for the very good reason that it has no power to legislate. The power to legislate has not been conferred on the courts. The court cannot add words to a statute or read words into it which are not there. Assuming there is a defect or an omission in the words used by the legislature the court could not go to its aid to correct or make up the deficiency. Courts shall decide what the law is and not what it should be. The court of course adopts a construction which will carry out the obvious intention of the legislature but could not legislate itself. But to invoke judicial activism to set at naught legislative is subversive of the constitutional harmony and comity of instrumentalities……….” (emphasis supplied) 18. The legal position is, thus, clear. A situation could arise where plain and literal reading of a statute could lead to a manifest contradiction of the apparent purpose for which the enactment was introduced and, the situation, necessarily compels the court to adopt that construction which would carry out the obvious intention of the legislature. The court would be justified in doing so, but it must be cautious that while it irons out the creases in the material it does not alter the material of which the legislation is woven. On the prIncIple Of readIng dOWn 19. Examining the reasons assigned by the High Court for reading down Reg.10(f)(iii) of the 2018 Regulations would necessitate an understanding of what the principle of ‘reading down’ is all about. Precedents on ‘reading down’ of a provision are legion and only a few of them are referred to here. 20. In CST v. Radhakrishan,22 this Court held: “15. … In considering the validity of a statute the presumption is in favour of its constitutionality and the 22 (1979) 2 SCC 249 1816 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports burden is upon him who attacks it to show that there has been a clear transgression of constitutional principles. For sustaining the presumption of constitutionality the court may take into consideration matters of common knowledge, matters of common report, the history of the times and may assume every state of facts which can be conceived. It must always be presumed that the Legislature understands and correctly appreciates the need of its own people and that discrimination, if any, is based on adequate grounds. It is well settled that courts will be justified in giving a liberal interpretation to the section in to avoid constitutional invalidity. These principles have given rise to rule of reading down the sections if it becomes necessary to uphold the validity of the sections. … ” (emphasis supplied) 21. Hon’ble P.B. Sawant, J. (as His Lordship then was) in his concurring in Delhi Transport Corpn. v. D.T.C. Mazdoor Congress23 captured the rule of ‘reading down’ as follows: “255.