Nevertheless, the consequences are as potent. 412. Inequality ill-favours fraternity, and unity remains a dream without fraternity. The goal enumerated in the Preamble of the Constitution, of fraternity assuring the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the nation must, therefore, remain unattainable so long as the equality of opportunity is not ensured to all. 413. Likewise, the social and political justice pledged by the Preamble of the Constitution to be secured to all citizens, will remain a myth unless first economic justice is guaranteed to all. The liberty of thought and expression also will remain on paper in the face of economic deprivations. A remunerative occupation is a means not only of economic upliftment but also of instilling in the individual self-assurance, self-esteem and self- worthiness. It also accords him a status and a dignity as an independent and useful member of the society. It enables him to participate in the affairs of the society without dependence on, or domination by, others, and on an equal plane depending upon the nature, security and remuneration of the occupation. Employment is an [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2217 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. important and by far the dominant remunerative occupation, and when it is with the Government, semi-Government or Government-controlled organisation, it has an added edge. It is coupled with power and prestige of varying degrees and nature, depending upon the establishment and the post. The employment under the State, by itself, may, many times help achieve the triple goal of social, economic and political justice. (emphasis supplied) 45. Dr Martin Luther King Jr has famously remarked that “injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” When we allow injustice to occur, we normalize the idea that fundamental rights and freedoms are violable. The inviolability of our collective commitment is weakened. Discrimination cracks open a wedge in the fabric of the society - it violates the Constitution and erodes the humanity of the person discriminated against. The discrimination can manifest directly or indirectly. Its manifestation eats into our commitment to each other and of the State to the people. In Prathvi Raj Chauhan v. Union of India,24 a three-Judge Bench of this Court while dealing with the validity of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989 has opined that the Constitution is also a pact between the people of India. It is a promise of oneness and equality. The Court opined as follows: “15. The Constitution of India is … a pact between people, about the relationships that they guarantee to each other (apart from the guarantee of liberties vis-à-vis the State) in what was a society riven along caste and sectarian divisions. That is why the preambular assurance that the republic would be one which guarantees to its people liberties, dignity, equality of status and opportunity and fraternity. 16. It is this idea of India, — a promise of oneness of and for, all people, regardless of caste, gender, place of birth, 24 [2020] 2 SCR 727 : (2020) 4 SCC 727 2218 [2024] 10 S.C.R.