[2024] 12 S.C.R. 601 State of Maharashtra & Ors. v. Pradeep Yashwant Kokade & Anr. From the above table, it appears that nothing was done by the Home Department of the State Government for five months (152 days) after receiving confirmation that the convicts had not preferred a review petition. Further, a perusal of the note prepared for the benefit of the Hon’ble Governor shows that it consists of three and a half pages. The recommendation is in three lines in the last paragraph. It is interesting to note that while forwarding the mercy petitions along with the letter dated 16th July 2015, the following documents were sent to the Home Department: i. Nominal roll of the convicts; ii. Medical report of mental and physical health; iii. A summary of crime; iv. Warrant of conviction issued by the Sessions Court; and v. A copy of the of the High Court confirming the death sentence and the / of this Court. The note appears to be based only on these documents, which were available to the Home Department in July 2015. A lot of time was wasted on correspondence made by various officers. All this was avoidable. Immediately upon receipt of the mercy petitions, all the required information/documents ought to have been called for by the Home Ministry. That was not done. Perhaps the officers in the Home Ministry showed a lack of sensitivity. Ultimately, on 29th March 2016, mercy petitions were rejected by the Hon’ble Governor. Thus, the delay of 5 months between 16th July 2015 and 25th January 2016 is unexplained and unjustified. 31. Now, we come to the second part of the delay which was as follows: Date Particulars Time taken 11th April 2016 Convict no.1 intimated that he was - desirous of filing a mercy petition before the Hon’ble President of India. 13th April 2016 Letter sent by the ADG (Prisons) to the 2 days Superintendent of Prison, requesting to forward updated nominal roll, report on the mental and physical health of the convicts and information about criminal antecedents. 602 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 28th April 2016 Home Department of the State Government - informed the Under Secretary (GOI) that the Hon’ble Governor had rejected mercy petitions. Mercy petitions addressed to the Hon’ble President were forwarded with this letter. Apart from the copies of the mercy petitions, the s of the Sessions Court, Pune, the High Court and this Court, along with the communication of rejection of mercy petitions by the Hon’ble Governor, were forwarded to the Under Secretary (GOI). 31st May 2016 Under Secretary (GOI) addressed a 33 days letter to the Home Department of the State Government requesting to provide criminal history, economic condition and information regarding the filing of review petition by the convicts within two weeks. 11th June 2016 Fresh set of mercy petitions were filed by - the relatives of both convicts 15th June 2016 Under Secretary (GOI) reminded the Home - Department of the State Government to forward the documents mentioned in the letter dated 31st May 2016.