14.4 A situation may suddenly arise making it necessary or expedient to issue a notified under Section 18G of the IDRA. One cannot envisage the emerging circumstances in an economy such as the Indian economy where the need for issuance of such a notified would arise. It could be for instance to curb hoarding and black marketeering of a particular article of a scheduled industry in to stifle price rise. It could be for ensuring a minimum or maximum price for any article related to a scheduled industry which is a raw material or ancillary input for a product/article of another scheduled or non-scheduled industry. Sudden rise in prices of commodities/ articles relatable to any scheduled industry due to natural disasters, floods, famines, financial emergency or other such reasons could necessitate issuance of a notified under Section 18G of the IDRA. Of recent occurrence is the Covid-19 pandemic which would have necessitated issuance of notified s on certain articles related to scheduled industries. The field of legislation must therefore be left open for the Central Government to act by issuance of a notified as and when thought necessary or expedient to secure and achieve the objects stated in the said provision. 14.5 But, can it be held that in the absence of any such notified issued by the Central Government, the States could pass laws under Entry 33(a) - List III? Would it lead to a legal confusion and an overlapping and contradiction? This is because if it is held that in the absence of there being a notified actually issued by the Central Government under Section 18G of the IDRA, the States are empowered to pass laws under Entry 33(a) - List III and such laws are in 2142 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports fact made under the aforesaid Entries by the States and the Central Government subsequently decides to issue a notified under Section 18G of the IDRA, the question would be, what would be the fate of the laws made by the States if they overlap with the notified issued under Section 18G of the IDRA? Obviously, the control of any industry being taken over by the Union under the provisions of the IDRA would imply that the Central Government is empowered to issue a notified in terms of Section 18G of the said Act as and when it is necessary or expedient to secure the equitable distribution and availability at a fair price of any article related to any scheduled industry. In such a case, the notified being issued under Section 18G of the IDRA, would have an overriding effect on the States’ laws if any made under Entry 33(a) – List III in regard to trade and commerce, supply and distribution of such articles or products of the scheduled industry which are covered under the notified and the same would no longer be applicable wherever there is a conflict in the laws. 14.6 A law made by the State Legislature under any Entry of List III or Concurrent List is no doubt subject to Article 254 of the Constitution.