50. In the notice invoking arbitration dated 29-4-2020, it has been averred that: “Various communications have been exchanged between the petitioner and the respondents ever since and a dispute has arisen between the petitioner [2024] 3 S.C.R. 115 M/S Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/S Aptech Ltd. and the respondents, regarding non-payment of the amounts due under the tender document.” 51. The period of limitation for issuing notice of arbitration would not get extended by mere exchange of letters, [S.S. Rathore v. State of M.P., (1989) 4 SCC 582 : 1990 SCC (L&S) 50; Union of India v. Har Dayal, (2010) 1 SCC 394; CLP (India) (P) Ltd. v. Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd., (2020) 5 SCC 185] or mere settlement discussions, where a final bill is rejected by making deductions or otherwise. Sections 5 to 20 of the Limitation Act do not exclude the time taken on account of settlement discussions. Section 9 of the Limitation Act makes it clear that:“where once the time has begun to run, no subsequent disability or inability to institute a suit or make an application stops it.” There must be a clear notice invoking arbitration setting out the “particular dispute” [ Section 21 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.] (including claims/amounts) which must be received by the other party within a period of 3 years from the rejection of a final bill, failing which, the time bar would prevail. 52. In the present case, the notice invoking arbitration was issued 5½ years after rejection of the claims on 4-8-2014. Consequently, the notice invoking arbitration is ex facie time-barred, and the disputes between the parties cannot be referred to arbitration in the facts of this case.” (emphasis supplied) 73. This Court, in M/s B and T AG (supra), to which two of us, the Chief Justice, Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud and Justice J.B. Pardiwala, were members of the Bench, had the occasion to ascertain in the facts of the said case whether an application for appointment of arbitrator under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 was barred by limitation. The facts of the said case were that disputes had arisen between the parties in relation to the alleged wrongful encashment of warranty bond by the respondent therein vide its letter dated 16.02.2016. Even after the amount got credited in the bank account of the respondent, the parties continued to engage in bilateral discussions. It was the case of the petitioner therein that the ‘breaking point’ was reached sometime in September, 2019 and not in 2016 as negotiations had 116 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports continued to take place between the parties. This Court rejected the contention of the petitioner and held that the encashment of bank guarantee was a positive action on part of the respondent which had crystallised the right of the petitioner to seek reference of the dispute to arbitration and mere writing of letters would not extend the cause of action. It was held that the notice for invoking arbitration having been issued almost six years after the cause of action for raising the claims had arisen, the claims were ex-facie dead and time-barred and hence dismissed the application.