C. Submissions 16. Mr Neeraj Kishan Kaul, senior counsel submitted that the of this Court suffers from the following apparent errors that warrants the exercise of the review jurisdiction: a. Clause 21 of the agreements to sell refers to the sale agreement executed by the original owners in favour of the vendors in 1994. Though petitioner was not a party to that agreement, this court has proceeded on the incorrect premise that the 1994 agreement was between the parties; b. The Trial Court, after analysing the evidence on record, concluded that the vendors did not produce certificates and permissions as required by Clause 3 of the sale agreements. This finding was not challenged before the High Court. This Court wrongly records that the vendors produced the certificates without referring to the direct evidence on record to the contrary; and 6 Jaswinder Kaur v. Gurmeet Singh, (2017) 12 SCC 810 682 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c. Clause 3 does not state that the agreement will be cancelled if the petitioner does not pay the balance amount within three months. 17. Mr Rakesh Dwivedi and Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, senior counsel for the respondents argued that this is not a fit case for the exercise of review jurisdiction. It was submitted that the of this Court was sound,independent of the (mis)reference to the 1994 agreement. The learned counsel further submitted that the suit property was alienated after the of this Court and before the review petition was registered. It was argued that the doctrine of lis pendens does not apply when the petition was in the registry in a defective state. D. Grounds for exercising review jurisdiction 18. Before proceeding with the analysis, we will refer to the grounds for exercising review jurisdiction. XLVII of the Supreme Court Rules 2013 states that an application for review must be filed on the grounds mentioned in XLVII Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 (“CPC”). XLVII Rule 1 of CPC lays down the following grounds for review: a. Discovery of new and important matter or evidence, which after the exercise of due diligence was not within their knowledge or could not be produced by them at the time the decree was passed; b. Mistake or error apparent on the face of the record; and c. Any other sufficient reason. 19. This Court has laid down the following principles on the exercise of review jurisdiction7: a. Review proceedings are not by way of appeal and have to be strictly confined to the scope and ambit of 47 Rule 1 CPC; b. Error on the face of record must be an error which must strike one on a mere perusal and must not on a long drawn process; c. The power of review must not be exercised on the ground that the decision was erroneous on merits; 7 See Murali Sundaram v. Jothibai Kannan, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 185; Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana, 2021 SCC OnLine SC 961; Kamlesh Verma v. Mayawati, (2013) 8 SCC 320; Sanjay Kumar Agarwal v. State Tax Officer, (2024) 2 SCC 362 [2024] 11 S.C.R.