19. Admittedly, the school in question being run by the appellant-DSGMC was receiving 95% grant from NDMC, and the same was closed down without due approval of the Director (Education), NDMC. As a consequence, the appellant-DSGMC cannot be allowed to take the shield of Rule 47 of the Delhi Education Rules so as to claim that the burden of re-employment and payment of salaries of the surplus teachers and the non-teaching staff upon closure of the school would be that of the NDMC. The question of absorption only arises when the closure of the school is done in accordance with law, which requires a full justification and prior approval of the Director as per Rule 46 supra. Since the closure of the school in question was undertaken de hors Rule 46, the argument advanced on behalf of the appellant-DSGMC that the onus to absorb the surplus teaching and non-teaching staff would be that of the NDMC, has no legal sanction and cannot be sustained. 20. As a result, we do not find any merit in Civil Appeal Nos. 7442- 7444 of 2012 preferred by the appellant-DSGMC, which are hereby dismissed. No costs. Civil Appeal Nos. 7440-7441 of 2012 21. The NDMC, being the appellant in these appeals, is primarily aggrieved of the direction given by the Division Bench in the impugned dated 9th December, 2009, that it should bear the burden of the pay and other service benefits accruing to the surplus school staff including the pension pursuant to the illegal closure of the school by the DSGMC. However, we may note that a clear direction was given by the High Court in the impugned that the appellant- 660 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports NDMC would be entitled to seek reimbursement of the entire amount from the DSGMC, because it illegally closed the school without prior approval of the appropriate authority. 22. This Court, while entertaining the special leave petitions, vide dated 7th July, 2010 had directed the appellant-NDMC to make payment of the entire arrears of the salary/pension and other retiral benefits to the respondents, i.e., staff of the school within three weeks. During the course of submissions, learned counsel representing the appellant-NDMC apprised the Court that the NDMC has already paid the principal amount to the staff of the school and now the only issue which survives is regarding the interest component which was kept open for further consideration. 23. During the course of his submissions, learned counsel for the appellant- NDMC urged that since the reimbursement was made in the year 2010, DSGMC might take a defence of the recovery being barred by limitation. However, we are of the firm view that since this Court, while passing the dated 7th July, 2010 has left the question of reimbursement of the amount being paid by the appellant-NDMC open, the apprehension expressed by the learned counsel representing the appellant-NDMC that its endeavour to seek reimbursement of the amount may be opposed with a plea of being barred by limitation, is unfounded by this Court.