v. Punjab State Power Coroporation Limited & Anr. (b) from so much of the additional duty leviable thereon under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the said Customs Tariff Act, as is in excess of the rate specified in the corresponding entry in column (5) of the said Table, Subject to any of the conditions, specified in the Annexure to this notification, the condition No. of which is mentioned in the corresponding entry in column (6) of the said Table : S. Chapter or Description of Standard Additional Condition No. Heading goods rate dduty rate no. No. or sub- heading No. 400 98.01 Goods required Nil Nil 86 for setting up of any Mega Power Project specified in List 42, if such Mega Power Project is – (a) an inter- State thermal power plant of a capacity of 1000 MW or more; or (b) an inter-State hydel power plant of a capacity of 500 MW or more, as certified by an officer not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Power 86. (a) If an officer not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Power certifies that- (i) the power purchasing State has constituted the Regulatory Commission with full powers to fix tariffs; 452 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) the power purchasing State undertakes, in principle, to privatise distribution in all cities, in that State, each of which has a population of more than one million, within a period to be fixed by the Ministry of Power; and (iii) the power purchasing State has agreed to provide recourse to that State’s share of Central Plan allocations and other devolutions towards discharge of any outstanding payment in respect of purchase of power; (b) In the case of imports by a Central Public Sector Undertaking, the quantity, total value, description and specifications of the imported goods are certified by the Chairman and Managing Director of the said Central Public Sector Undertaking; and (c) In the case of imports by a Private Sector Project, the quantity, total value, description and specifications of the imported goods are certified by the Chief Executive Officer of such project.” B) Mega Power Policy of 2006 3. On 10.06.2009, when competitive bidding was initiated by the respondent, what was in vogue was the Mega Power Policy, 2006. If a thermal plant was covered as a Mega Power Project under the Mega Power Policy of 2006, it was entitled to the benefit of certain exemptions under the customs notification dated 01.03.2002 extracted hereinabove. 4. The Mega Power Policy, 2006 prescribed the following conditions to be fulfilled by the developer for grant of mega power status:- “MEGA POWER PROJECTS: REVISED POLICY GUIDELINES The following conditions are required to be fulfilled by the developer for grant of mega project status:- (a) an inter-state thermal power plant of a capacity of 700 MW or more, located in the States of Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura; or [2024] 11 S.C.R.