(i) On a special leave petition challenging the of the High Court, while granting leave, vide dated 20 March 2013, the matter was referred for an authoritative pronouncement by a larger Bench of this Court. RELEVANT EXTRACTS FROM THE REFERENCE 3. To have a clear understanding of the scope of the reference, the relevant paragraphs of the reference are extracted below: “5. Admittedly, the requirement of securing the minimum qualifying marks of 75% is not a stipulation of the Service Rules (referred to earlier) of the first respondent High Court as on the date of initiation of the recruitment process in question (i.e. 17-9-2009). It appears that such a prescription had existed earlier under the Rules, but by an amendment, the said prescription was dropped with effect from 14-7-2004. 6. Therefore, the appellants challenged the selection process on the ground that the decision of the Chief Justice to select only those candidates who secured a minimum of 75% marks would amount to “changing the rules of the game after the game is played”—a cliché whose true purport is required to be examined notwithstanding the declaration of this Court in Manjusree case [K. Manjusree v. State of A.P. (2008) 3 SCC 512 at p. 524, para 27 : (2008) 1 SCC (L&S) 841] that it is “clearly impermissible”. 7. The question whether the “rules of the game” could be changed was considered by this Court on a number of occasions in different circumstances. Such question arose in the context of employment under the State which under the scheme of our Constitution is required to be regulated by “law” made under Article 309 or employment under the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 37 Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. instrumentalities of the State which could be regulated either by statute or subordinate legislation. In either case the “law” dealing with the recruitment is subject to the discipline of Article 14. 8. The legal relationship between employer and employee is essentially contractual. Though in the context of employment under the State the contract of employment is generally regulated by statutory provisions or subordinate legislation which restricts the freedom of the employer i.e. the “State” in certain respects. 9. In the context of the employment covered by the regime of Article 309, the “law”—the recruitment rules in theory could be either prospective or retrospective subject of course to the rule of non-arbitrariness. However, in the context of employment under the instrumentalities of the State which is normally regulated by subordinate legislation, such rules cannot be made retrospectively unless specifically authorised by some constitutionally valid statute. 10. Under the scheme of our Constitution an absolute and non-negotiable prohibition against retrospective law-making is made only with reference to the creation of crimes. Any other legal right or obligation could be created, altered, extinguished retrospectively by the sovereign law-making bodies. However, such drastic power is required to be exercised in a manner that it does not conflict with any other constitutionally guaranteed rights, such as, Articles 14 and 16, etc.