Section 3 refers to ‘Transport Vehicles’, like many other provisions in the MV Act and the MV Rules. Section 3 cannot however be construed as a special provision that would override the strict and emphatic definition of LMV, given in Section 2(21) and the separate class of ‘Light Motor Vehicle’ provided in Section 10. Section 2(21) uses the term ‘means’ as earlier emphasized and there is an affirmation of certainty in the wordings of the definition and it is to be recognized sensu stricto in a technical sense and must not be understood loosely. To say that Section 3 would disentitle the LMV license holders to drive transport vehicles of the permissible weight category, would be incompatible and would render the strict definition clause, sterile and a ‘dead letter’. A harmonious construction of 33 1894 A.C. 347 at 360 606 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports both sections can however reach us to a conclusion that for LMV licence holders, a separate endorsement under ‘Transport Vehicle’ class would be unnecessary for driving LMV class of vehicles. In our interpretation and understanding, it would be logical to hold that the additional licensing requirements will have no application for the LMV class of vehicles but will be needed only for such ‘Transport Vehicles’, which by virtue of their gross weight fall in the Medium and Heavy category. Such a construction would also fulfill the legislative purpose which is to ensure road safety by requiring only those individuals who intend to operate medium and heavy vehicles, to satisfy the additional licensing criteria. In our view, the age restrictions outlined in Section 4, the requirement of a medical certificate, and the criteria under Section 7 should reasonably apply only for the medium and heavy transport vehicles whose gross weight will be above 7500 Kg. Such an interpretation would fulfill the objective of the MV Act to provide compensation to victims of road accidents while maintaining a commensurate licensing regime for drivers. 75. At this stage, it needs to be borne in mind that the genesis of the present reference arises from compensation claims. A reference to the in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Swaran Singh34 may therefore be apposite. A 3-judge bench of this Court noted that the liability of the insurance company in relation to the owner depends on several factors. The issue of lack of valid driving license was discussed as under: “7. If a person has been given a licence for a particular type of vehicle as specified therein, he cannot be said to have no licence for driving another type of vehicle which is of the same category but of different type. As for example, when a person is granted a licence for driving a light motor vehicle, he can drive either a car or a jeep and it is not necessary that he must have driving licence both for car and jeep separately. 89. Section 3 of the Act casts an obligation on a driver to hold an effective driving licence for the type of vehicle 34 [2004] 1 SCR 180 : (2004) 3 SCC 297 [2024] 11 S.C.R.