In to buttress this submission, our attention was drawn to Section 8-A which begins with a non-obstante clause and which states that the Custodian may, with the approval of the Central Government, dispose of enemy property by sale or otherwise, as the case may be, the enemy property vested in him immediately before the date of commencement of the Amendment Act, 2017, in accordance with the provisions of the Act as amended by the Amendment Act, 2017. Further, the Custodian, on disposal of enemy property, has to deposit the sale proceeds into the Consolidated Fund of India immediately and intimate details thereof to the Central Government. Also, the Custodian has to submit a report of the enemy properties disposed of enclosing details of sale etc. The Central Government may also issue directions and guidelines to the Custodian in matters related to disposal of enemy property which are binding on the Custodian and the buyer. Moreover, the Central Government may deal with or utilise the enemy property in a manner as it may deem fit. On sale of any enemy property vested in the Custodian to any person he may, on receipt of the sale proceeds of such property, issue a certificate of sale notwithstanding the fact that the original title deeds of the property have not been handed over to that transferee. That once such certificate of sale is issued, the same shall be valid as conclusive proof of ownership of property by such person. Further, the certificate issued by the Custodian shall be a valid instrument for registration of the property in favour of the transferee as the registration in respect of enemy property for which such certificate has been issued by the Custodian, shall not be refused on the ground of lack of original title deeds in respect of such property or for any other matter. 912 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17.1 In our view, although the Custodian for the Enemy Property is empowered to alienate enemy property under the provisions of the Act, he does so as a trustee of the said property and not as the owner thereof or as the Central Government being the owner. As already stated, the ownership continues to remain with the enemy but the management and the custody of the property only remain with the Custodian and in the absence of the enemy, the Custodian is empowered to sell or alienate such property and can issue a sale certificate as is expedient to do so. This is in the interest of or benefit of the enemy property. Thus, the transfer of such enemy property by sale or otherwise is for and on behalf of the enemy who is not available in the country and in to ensure that such property is not dissipated owing to the owner of the property being absent in the country. Thus in to protect the enemy property, the Custodian is empowered to even sell the enemy property and deposit the sale proceeds with the Central Government.