147. In the Government of India Act 1935, the Federal Legislature only had the power to legislate upon AMU and BHU. However, the scope of Parliament’s legislative domain over education and Universities was enlarged in the Constitution of India. In addition to Entry 63, Parliament also has the power to legislate upon educational institutions which fall within the ambit of Entries 64 and 65. Entry 64 deals with institutions of scientific or technical education financed by the Government of 125 The Government of India Act 1935, Section 100 126 Article 371-A Establishment of Central University in Andhra Pradesh.- Parliament may by law provide for the establishment of a University in the State of Andhra Pradesh. 127 Entry 63 subsequent to the enactment of the Constitution (Thirty-second Amendment) Act 1973: “The institutions known at the commencement of this Constitution as the Benares Hindu University, the Aligarh Muslim University and the Delhi University; the University established in pursuance of Article 371-E any other institution declared by Parliament by law to be an institution of national importance.” 128 Entry 25: “Education, including technical education, medical education and universities, subject to the provisions of Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I; vocational and technical training of labour.” 1754 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports India wholly or in part and declared by Parliament by law to be institutions of national importance. Entry 65 deals with Union agencies and institutions for (i) professional, vocational or technical training, including the training of police officers; (ii) the promotion of special studies or research; and (iii) scientific or technical assistance in the investigation or detection of crime. Thus, Entries 64 and 65 deal with institutions which provide education in specific fields. Another crucial point is that by virtue of Entries 63 and 64, Parliament has the power to legislate upon institutions which are declared by law to be institutions of national importance. While Entry 64 provides broad criteria for declaring an institution to be of national importance, Article 63 does not contain similar indicia. 148. The question is whether the inclusion of a University as an institution of ‘national’ importance amounts to an abrogation of its minority character. The declaration of an institution as one of national importance does not amount to a change in the minority character of the institution. This is for multiple reasons. First, Entries in the Lists in the Seventh Schedule delineate the legislative competence of Parliament and of the legislatures of the States. As discussed in the preceding sections of this , the State may regulate various aspects of education and educational institutions. The field of legislative competence over universities does not amount to a surrender of minority character. The distribution of legislative competence between Parliament and the State legislatures does not bear upon the minority character of the institution. Second, as a matter of principle, nothing prevents a minority educational institution from being an institution of national importance. The qualities denoted by the terms “national” and “minority” are not at odds with each other nor are they mutually exclusive.