Whether a fresh application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 filed by the respondent could be said to be maintainable more particularly when no liberty to file a fresh application was granted by the High Court at the time of withdrawal of the first application under Section 11(6) of the act, 1996? ii. Whether the fresh application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 filed by the respondent on 09.12.2022 could be said to be time-barred? If yes, whether the respondent is entitled to the benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act? in other words, whether the period spent by the respondent in pursuing proceedings under the ibc is liable to be excluded while computing the limitation period for filing the application under section 11(6)? iii. Whether the delay caused by the respondent in filing the fresh arbitration application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 can be condoned under section 5 of the limitation act? [2024] 12 S.C.R. 157 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad E. ANALYSIS 32. Clause 14 of the General Terms and Conditions of the tender document contained the arbitration clause and is reproduced hereinbelow: "14. ARBITRATION 14.1 All disputes and differences of whatsoever nature, whether existing or which shall at any time arise between the parties hereto touching or concerning the agreement, meaning, operation or effect thereof or to the rights and liabilities of the parties or arising out of or in relation thereto whether during or after completion of the contract or whether before after determination, foreclosure, termination or breach of the agreement (other than those in respect of which the decision of any person is, by the contract, expressed to be final and binding) shall, after written notice by either party to the agreement to the other of them and to the Appointing Authority hereinafter mentioned, be referred for adjudication to the Sole Arbitrator to be appointed as hereinafter provided. 14.2 The appointing authority shall either himself act as the Sole Arbitrator or nominate some officer/retired officer of HBL/Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (referred to as owner or HBL) or any other Government Company, or any retired officer of the Central Government not below the rank of a Director, to act as the Sole Arbitrator to adjudicate the disputes and differences between the parties. The contractor/vendor shall not be entitled to raise any objection to the appointment of such person as the Sole Arbitrator on the ground that the said person is/was an officer and/ or shareholder of the owner, another Govt. Company or the Central Government or that he/she has to deal or had dealt with the matter to which the contract relates or that in the course of his/her duties, he/she has/had expressed views on all or any of the matters in dispute or difference. 14.3 In the event of the Arbitrator to whom the matter is referred to, does not accept the appointment, or is unable or unwilling to act or resigns or vacates his office for any 158 [2024] 12 S.C.R.