Therefore, the safest course was to pay by cash, so that none of the parties know what | paid to which party, and both parties are happy that | have paid something. So, that, the payment by cash ensured confidentiality. Both parties would say that one party would be given 100 crores, one party would be given 40 crores, depending upon my assessment of their winnability. But both would not know who is paid what. My Lord, sometimes what used to happen is in my business, | get only clean money or substantial part of the clean money, but practicalities require that | contribute to the political parties, and practicality again requires that | contribute with a degree of confidentiality so that | am not victimized in the future. And therefore clean money used to be converted into unclean money. White money is being converted into black money so that it can be paid, according to them anonymously, and according to me with confidentiality. And this is disastrous for the economy when white money is converted into black money.” While introducing the Finance Act of 2017, the then Finance Minister had elucidated that the main purpose of the Scheme was to curb the flow of black money in electoral finance.°%? This, it is stated, could be achieved only if information about political donations and the donor were kept confidential.’ It was believed that this would incentivise donations to political parties through banking channels. 38. | am of the opinion that retribution, victimisation or retaliation cannot by any stretch be treated as a legitimate aim. This will not satisfy the legitimate purpose prong of the proportionality test. Neither is the Scheme nor the amendments to the Finance Act, 2017, rationally connected to the fulfilment of that purpose, namely, to counter retribution, victimisation or retaliation in political donations. In our opinion, it will also not satisfy the necessity stage of the proportionality even if we have to ignore the balancing stage. 99 See Speech of Arun Jaitley, Minister of Finance, at paragraph 165, Budget 2017-18. 100 Ibid. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 591 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 39. Retribution, victimisation or retaliation against any donor exercising their choice to donate to a political party is an abuse of law and power. This has to be checked and corrected. As it is a wrong, the wrong itself cannot be a justification or a purpose. The argument, therefore, suffers on the grounds of inconsistency and coherence as it seeks to perpetuate and accept the wrong rather than deal with the malady and correct it. The inconsistency is also apparent as the change in law, by giving a cloak of secrecy, leads to severe restriction and curtailment of the collective’s right to information and the right to know, which is a check and counters cases of retribution, victimisation and retaliation. Transparency and not secrecy is the cure and antidote. AO. Similarly, the second argument that the donor may like to keep his identity anonymous is a mere 1098 dixit assumption.