Digital Supreme Court Reports 1416 means your niece Faris, next photo is Anas from Erattupetta, both of them will carry currency for you to Chennai; that the third page indicates the images of Rs 500 notes, those are damaged notes, that the next one marked us 16-6 means the transaction of Rs 9,12,167/- dated 16.06.2023; that the next page indicates the transaction done by you on 17.6.2023 and the value of INR equivalent to the foreign currency trading, that the thing written as Faris indicates the amount of Rs 24,25,750/- that Faris exchanged from Chennai and its value in INR, that SR mean the amount of Rs. 15 lakhs, you paid as per the instructions of Suresh Babu of Suresh Forex at Kottayam to SANGVI STEEL at Chennai, that this amounts you received from the staff Preetha at Suresh Forex as per the instructions of Suresh Babu; that Hyder 34 indicates the amount of Rs 34 lakhs worth of foreign currency he exchanged from Chennai; that this foreign currency was given by you; that Siraj 24 means the value of the foreign currency exchanged by Siraj from Chennai. vii. Another statement of you i.e. Shaji A.K. was recorded on 17.07.2023, wherein you, inter-alia, stated as under: Answer 1: I heard the voice calls in above said Hash value marked as CD-36. The voice in this call which belongs to Suresh Babu and myself. The first number in call details which was the mobile number of Suresh Babu and this number belongs to me. Answer 2 : I heard the voice calls in above said Hash value marked as CD-37. The voice in this call which belongs to Suresh Babu and myself. The first number in call details which was the mobile number of Suresh Babu and this number belongs to me. Answer 3: I heard the voice calls in above said Hash value marked as CD-38. The voice in this call which belongs to Suresh Babu and myself. The first number [2024] 9 S.C.R. 335 Jaseela Shaji v. The Union of India & Ors. in call details which was the mobile number of Suresh Babu and this number belongs to me. Answer 4 : I heard the voice calls in above said Hash value marked as CD-32. The voice in this call which belongs to Suresh Babu and myself. The first number in call details which was the mobile number of Suresh Babu and this number belongs to me. Question 5 : To whom you are selling the illegal foreign currency received from Kerala other than Khader from Chennai you mentioned in your previous statement? Answer 5 : I sell the collected illegal foreign currency from Kerala to a person named Manikannan from Thrishnapalli in Tamil Nadu other the Khader in Chennai. Question 6 : Do you have any authorized license or permit or acknowledgement to carry foreign currency exchange business? Answer 6 : I don’t have any authorized license, permit, acknowledgement to carry foreign currency exchange business. viii. Further Shri Shaji A.K.