[...] The Swatantra Party had a star. Baby, all my other helpers and | spent endless frustrating hours trying to instruct the women about voting for the star. On the ballot sheet, we said, over and over again, this is where the Maharani’s name will appear and next to it will be a star. But it was not as simple as that. They noticed a symbol showing a horse and a rider, agree with each other that the Maharani rides so that must be her symbol. Repeatedly we said, 105 Gayatri Devi and Santha Rama Rau, A Princess remembers: The Memoirs of the Maharani of Jaipur, (Rupa Publications 1995) [301]. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 499 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. “No, no, that’s not the right one.” Then they caught sight of the emblem of a flower. Ah, the flower of Jaipur — who else could it mean but the Maharani? “No, no, no, not the flower.” All right, the star. Yes, that seems appropriate for the Maharani, but look, here is the sun. If the Maharani is a star, then the sun must certainly mean the Maharaja. We'll vote for both. Immediately the vote would have been invalidated. Even up to the final day, Baby and | were far from sure that we had managed to get our point across.” 87. Symbols also gain significance when the names of political parties sound similar. For example, political parties by the names of “Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’, “All Indian Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’, “Dravida Kazhagam”, “Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam’, “Makkal Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam’, “Kongu Desa Makkal Katchi’, “Kongunadu Makkal Desia Katchi’, and “Kongunadu Makkal Katchi” contest elections in Tamil Nadu. The names of all the political parties bear similarities due to the usage of the same words with certain additions or deletions. The allocation of Symbols to political parties would help voters identify and distinguish between political parties which have similar sounding names. It is precisely because of the close association of the symbol with the political party by voters that both factions of the party vie for the symbol that is allotted to the Party when there is a split in a recognised political party. 88. India follows the open-list first past the post form of election in which votes are cast for a candidate and the candidate who secures the highest number of votes is chosen to represent the people of that constituency. It could be argued that this system of elections gives prominence to candidates and not political parties unlike the system of closed list of elections where the voters do not have any knowledge of the candidates that are set up by the Political Party. '°° 89. However, it cannot be concluded that the decision of voting is solely based on the individual candidate’s capabilities and not the political party merely because the voter has knowledge of the candidate who has been set up by the political party. Such a conclusion cannot be 106 See Dominik Hangartner, Nelson A Ruiz, Janne Tukiainen, Open or Closed?