The Division Bench of the High Court, by a dated 20.06.2022, affirmed the of the learned Single Judge and dismissed the Appeal. Contentions: 19. We have heard Mr. Ghanshyam Joshi, learned counsel for the Appellant and Mr. Sujeet Kumar, learned counsel for the Respondent- University. We have also considered the written submissions filed by the Appellant. 20. Mr. Ghanshyam Joshi, learned counsel for the Appellant reiterated the submissions made before the courts below and contended that the decision of the Executive Council dated 13.12.2018 resolving not to confirm the Appellant and to readvertise the post was illegal and that it deserves to be quashed. Learned counsel also contended that the courts below have erred in appreciating the true nature and character of the advertisement issued. According to the learned counsel, the employment notice issued insofar as the unreserved category was concerned, advertised for two posts of Assistant Professor in Law. According to learned counsel, one was a full regular vacancy and the other was designated as a lien vacancy. 21. Learned counsel submits that it was an error to assume that all eligible candidates desiring to apply would not have applied since the vacancy was a lien vacancy as there was no separate method of 862 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports applying prescribed. Whoever applied was entitled to be considered for the regular vacancy also and as such until the final selection there was no way of knowing against which vacancy they would be selected. According to learned counsel, this erroneous assumption formed the basis of the of the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench. 22. Learned counsel further made reference to Clause 19 in the employment notice as well as to the Minutes of the 26th meeting of the Executive Council dated 20.11.2016 and to the letter of offer of appointment, to contend that the absence of anything adverse being noticed in the performance of the Appellant, she ought to have been confirmed since she had undergone the normal process of selection. Learned counsel relied upon the in Somesh Thapliyal & Anr. vs Vice Chancellor, H.N.B. Garhwal University & Anr. (2021) 10 SC 116 and the in Meher Fatima Hussain vs. Jamia Milia Islamia & Ors., 2024 INSC 303 in support of his submissions. Mr. Sujeet Kumar supported the findings in the of the courts below and contended that there was no scope for interference with the same. Question for Consideration: 23. The question that arises for consideration is whether the Respondent- University was justified in resolving on 13.12.2018 at the 32nd Meeting in Agenda No.18/32/2018, that the Appellant was not to be confirmed and that the post was to be readvertised? If not, the further question would be as to what relief should the Appellant be entitled to? Reasoning and Conclusion: 24. As explained earlier, the reasoning that many interested eligible candidates would not have been persuaded to apply is not correct because what was advertised was one regular vacancy and two lien vacancies, with one of the lien vacancies being unreserved.