Therefore, seniority should be considered only when merit and ability are equal. 15. This Court prima facie opined that the final Select List dated 10.03.2023 could be said to be in contravention of the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ as envisaged in the rules and the decision in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra). However, in view of the importance of the matter and the observations made in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra), the matter was referred to the Bench of Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India. The relevant observations read as under: - [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1093 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. “8.1 It is also required to be noted that even as per the Recruitment Notice – District Judge (65%), the promotion to the cadre of District Judge (65%) from amongst the Senior Civil Judges shall be on the basis of principle of merit-cum-seniority and passing a suitability test. The suitability of a judicial officer for promotion is also provided in the Recruitment Notice, which consists of four components reproduced hereinabove. Thus, as per the statutory Rules and even as per the Recruitment Notice, the promotion to the cadre of District Judge (65%) shall be on the basis of principle of merit-cum-seniority and passing a suitability test. At this stage, it is required to be noted that the Rules, 2005 further amended in the year 2011, have been framed by the High Court pursuant to the directions issued by this Court in the case of All India Judges’ Association and Ors. (supra). It is required to be noted that prior to the decision of this Court in the case of All India Judges’ Association and Ors. (supra), the promotion in the cadre of Higher Judicial Service, i.e., District Judges and Additional District Judges were given on the basis of principle of seniority-cum- merit. Emphasising the need for merit-based criteria for promotion in the cadre of Higher Judicial Service, i.e., District Judges and Additional District Judges [...] xxx xxx xxx 8.8 The law on the principle of “merit-cum-seniority is by now, settled by this Court in a catena of decisions. As observed, while applying the principle of “merit-cum- seniority”, greater emphasis is given on merit and ability and seniority plays a less significant role. As observed, while applying the principle of “merit-cum-seniority”, the seniority is to be given weight only when merit and ability are approximately equal. xxx xxx xxx 9. Thus, we are more than satisfied that the impugned Select List dated 10.03.2023 issued by the High Court and the subsequent Notification dated 18.04.2023 issued by the State Government granting promotion 1094 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the cadre of District Judge are illegal and contrary to the relevant Rules and Regulations and even to the decision of this Court in the case of All India Judges’ Association and Ors. (supra). Therefore, we are more than prima facie satisfied that the same as such are not sustainable. Though, we were inclined to dispose of the writ petition finally, however, as Shri Dushyant Dave, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of some of the respondents - promotees has prayed not to dispose of the writ petition finally and, therefore, may consider the question of interim relief, we are not disposing of the writ petition finally.