The Court cannot also be unmindful of the social consequences involving such a large body of students who have studied for the examination, undertaken costs and expenses and would have to undergo the rigours of a fresh examination if one were to be ed by the Court. Balancing these considerations requires a careful 58 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports assessment of the extent and impact of the breach on the integrity of the examination process, ensuring fairness to all stakeholders.” 12. Noting that a final decision in the matter would depend on a more detailed set of facts which must be placed on record, it issued five directions requiring the Union of India, NTA, and the Central Bureau of Investigation to each make certain disclosures. First, NTA was required to clarify the following aspects on the basis of all the material which was in its possession as of that date: “14. … (i) When and how NTA first became aware of the paper leak, including any internal notifications or external reports; (ii) The cities or towns and the centres at which a leak has been noticed or in which candidates have complained of a leak; (iii) The manner in which the question papers leaked were disseminated to candidates or other persons who would, in turn, distribute them to candidates. In other words, information about the medium through which the leak took place and whether it was electronic (including social media or mobile applications) or physical shall be placed on record; (iv) The duration of time between the occurrence of the leak or the suspected occurrence of the leak and the actual conduct of the examination which took place between 2 pm and 5:20 pm on 5 May 2024; (v) The chain of custody of the question paper from the time of its preparation to the time of its dissemination to candidates on the day of the examination; and (vi) Whether the entirety of the question paper was leaked or whether certain sections or questions were leaked.” 13. Second, the Court directed the Investigating Officer of the CBI to file a status report indicating the status of the investigation and the material which had been gathered until date. The Investigating Officer was directed to specify the modalities by which the leaked question paper was made available to students. Additionally, both [2024] 8 S.C.R. 59 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India & Ors. NTA and the CBI were directed make a disclosure in regard to the steps which had been taken to identify the beneficiaries of the leak. They were required to detail the following: “16. … (i) The steps which were taken by NTA to identify the centres/cities at which the leak took place; (ii) The modalities followed for identifying the beneficiaries of the leak; and (iii) The number of students who have so far been identified to be the beneficiaries of the leaked question papers and the centres at which they appeared for the examination.” 14. Third, the Union of India and NTA were directed to inform the Court as to whether it was feasible to use data analytics to identify suspicious cases.