True that at the time of filing the claim petition he was not residing in Haldwani. The Tribunal, based on the said factual position of evidence, came to the conclusion that the claimant is not residing within its territorial jurisdiction. It also took note of the fact that the opposite party Nos. 1 and 2 are also not residing within its jurisdiction and proceeded to consider its territorial jurisdiction. In that regard, the Tribunal has also held that the mere fact that the insurance company got an office within the jurisdictional limits of the Tribunal could not confer jurisdiction on it. Based on such conclusions and findings, answered issue No.5 to the effect that it lacks territorial jurisdiction. Thereupon, as relates the other issues it was held thus:- “21. ISSUES NO.1, 2, 3, 4, 6 & 7: At the main issue (issue no.5) for territorial jurisdiction of this tribunal has been decided against the claimants, hence 1210 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports there is no occasion to examine the other issues on merits. In view of above issue No.1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7 are also decided against the claimants and in favour of the opposite parties.” (Underline supplied) 8. After answering the issues as above, the claim petition was dismissed. As noted above, the High Court confirmed the / award solely considering the question of territorial jurisdiction of the Tribunal. 9. The core contention of the appellant revolves around the decision of this Court in Malati Sardar v. National Insurance Company Ltd.1 Though the same was relied on by the Appellant before the High Court, it distinguished the decision on facts and held it inapplicable. A bare perusal of the said decision would reveal the very question formulated and answered by this Court in Malati Sardar’s case (supra). The same assumes relevance in the context of the rival contentions and it reads as follows:- “The question raised in this appeal is whether the High Court was justified in setting aside the award of the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Kolkata only on the ground that the Tribunal did not have the territorial jurisdiction”. 10. Paragraph 10 of the decision in Malati Sardar’s case is also relevant for the purpose of knowing the factual position under which such a question was formulated and answered. It reads thus- “The question for consideration thus is whether the Tribunal at Kolkata had the jurisdiction to decide the claim application under Section 166 of the Act when the accident took place outside Kolkata jurisdiction and the claimant also resided outside Kolkata jurisdiction, but the respondent being a juristic person carried on business at Kolkata. Further the question is whether in absence of failure of justice, the High Court could set aside the award of the Tribunal on the ground of lack of territorial jurisdiction.” (underline supplied) 1 [2016] 1 SCR 601 : (2016) 3 SCC 43 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1211 Balveer Batra v. The New India Assurance Company & Anr. 11. Noticeably, in that case the Tribunal entertained the claim petition and awarded compensation and the High Court, at the instance of the insurance company, considered and reversed the decision on the question of territorial jurisdiction.