v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. which has been found to be archaic and non-conducive to the general interest of the community...”61 There was now to be a ceiling on land and the surplus was to be distributed among the marginal and landless farmers, though further legislations would be required. It is true that in years to come, in reality, the rich and powerful landlords defeated much of the provisions of land reforms, yet the land reforms had its positive effects. Professor Aditya Mukherjee in his book “Political Economy of Colonial and Post-Colonial India” states as under: “Also, though the opportunity to acquire large areas of surplus lands for redistribution was missed because of defective and delayed ceiling laws, in the long run the high population growth and the rapid subdivision of large holdings over several generations (in the absence of the practice of primogeniture for over the ceiling limits. In fact, the number of holding and the areas operated under the category of large holdings and the area operated under the category of large holdings, 25 acres or above (even 15 acres and above), kept falling in the decades since independence right upto the 1990s. Except in certain small pockets in the country, very large landholdings of the semi feudal type now became things of the past. Inequality among landowners was no longer a key issue, as it was not very skewed any more. By one estimate, by 1976-7 nearly 97 per cent of the operated holdings were below 25 acres and 87 per cent of the holdings were below 10 acres.” 62 The eminent scholar of Indian agriculture C.H. Hanumantha Rao who has also been quoted by Aditya Mukherjee has this to say about the land reforms: “The law discouraged concentration of landownership beyond the ceiling level and thus prevented the possible dispossession of numerous small and marginal holders which would probably have occurred through a competitive process in the land market in the absence of a ceiling on landholdings”.63 61 (1952) 1 SCC 528, para 142. 62 aditya MukherJee, POlitical ecOnOMy Of cOlOnial and POst-cOlOnial india (PriMus BOOks, 2022), Pg. 511. 63 C.H Hanumantha Rao, Rural Society and Agricultural Development in Course of Industrilisation: Case of India, 26 ecOnOMic and POlitical weekly (1991), Pg. 691. 306 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports What is more important is the fact that essentially land reform laws were upheld on these principles by the Supreme Court (See: Kameshwar Singh and Shankari Prasad). In other words, taking away of material resources from private hands for public purposes was held to be constitutional by the Supreme Court. For our purposes, therefore, logically taking away of material resources from private hands for the good of the community was upheld even before Ranganath Reddy. We see no reason as to why there can be any different view now simply because the material resources may not only be land but some other “material resources”. 35. In 1964, the Government of India appointed a Commission under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952 to inquire into concentration of wealth.