Having once acquiesced so, a landowner cannot be permitted to do a volte-face and re-agitate the objections.18 If we were to hold otherwise, it would open a Pandora’s Box where the landowners will, on one hand, seek re-enquiry of their claims under Section 5A and, on the other, will also draw the compensation. There would, thus, be no finality to the proceedings, and the acquisition process would be tainted by uncertainty and unpredictability. This would further have a chilling effect on the development projects, since the looming threat of potential litigation and exemptions from acquisitions would discourage the State from investing huge amounts and incurring development costs. 31. The respondents in Civil Appeals Nos. 8048 and 8050 of 2019 are, therefore, liable to be non-suited on the ground that they have accepted compensation without any protest. 32. We may in all fairness also deal with the contention of the respondents in Civil Appeal No. 8048 of 2019, who admittedly received the compensation but claim that it was part of a settlement wherein NOIDA purportedly agreed to exempt the land from acquisition. It was argued that since this settlement was not honoured by NOIDA, the acceptance of compensation cannot be fatal to their case. However, no such settlement has been produced on record by the respondents. Their claim is not substantiated by any document on record, hence their explanation is devoid of any merit. 33. Similarly, the respondents in Civil Appeal 8050 of 2019 have also not disputed the receipt of compensation, but they are said to have not been paid the full amount. In contrast, NOIDA has furnished detailed information, including the calculation chart and payment record. Be that as it may, there lies an independent remedy in law to recover the balance amount of compensation, if any. Once these respondents have received a substantial part of the compensation amount, their cause to pursue objection has eclipsed. 18 Kailash N. Dwivedi v. State of U.P. (2011) 15 SCC 98, para 14. 1022 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 34. The respondents have relied upon Gajraj v. State of U.P.,19 in which a Full Bench of the High Court held that accepting the compensation would not amount to acquiescence. Since the cited decision was affirmed by this Court in Savitri Devi v. State of U.P.,20 the respondents have argued that acceptance of compensation by some of them, does not attract principles like estoppel or acquiescence. A closer examination of the Savitri Devi (supra), however, unfolds that this Court has affirmed our foregoing analysis: “42. We have to keep in mind that in all these cases, after the land was acquired, which was of very large quantity and in big chunks, further steps were taken by passing the award, taking possession and paying compensation. In many cases, actual possession was taken and in rest of the cases, paper possession was taken where because of the land under abadi, actual possession could not be taken on spot immediately. Fact remains that in many such cases where possession was taken, these landowners/ appellants even received compensation.