The dispute, per se, is commercial in nature having no element of criminality. 20. The appellant also wanted dismissal of the complaint and the s passed in ensuing proceeding on another ground. The respondent no. 2’s allegations were against EIL, for whom he did the job-work. The appellant’s argument on this point is that the complaint should not have been entertained without arraigning the principal company as an accused. The relied upon on this point is a decision of a Coordinate Bench in the case of Sharad Kumar Sanghi -vs- Sangita Rane [(2015) 12 SCC 781]. This was a case where complaint was made by a consumer for being sold a damaged vehicle under Section 420 of the 1860 Code. But arraigned as accused was the managing director of the dealer, the latter being a corporate entity. Cognizance was taken in that case and summons were issued. The accused failed to get relief after invoking the High Court’s jurisdiction, but two-judge Bench of this Court quashed the proceeding primarily on the ground that the company was not made an accused. The Coordinate Bench found that the allegations were made against the company, which was not made a party. Allegations against the accused (managing director of that company) were vague. So far the present case is concerned, the ratio of the decision in the case of Sharad Kumar Sanghi (supra) would not be applicable for ousting the complaint at the threshold on this ground alone. The perceived wrongdoing in this case has been attributed to the appellant, though the complaint petition acknowledges that the job-work was being done for EIL. Moreover, the allegation of criminal intimidation is against the appellant directly – whatever be the value or quality of such allegations. Thus, for that reason the complaint case cannot be rejected at the nascent stage on the sole ground of not implicating the company. But as otherwise we have given our reasons for quashing the complaint and the summons, we do not find any reason to dilate further on this point. 1150 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. We accordingly set aside the impugned and quash the Criminal Complaint Case No.7990 of 2020 as also the summoning issued on 18.08.2021. The appeal stands allowed in the above terms. All consequential steps in connection with the said proceeding shall stand quashed. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeal allowed.