62. It was argued by the petitioners, that here is no statutory prescription for the inclusion of royalty, DMF and NMET contributions while computing ASP. In other words, but for these Explanations, there would be no compounding or cascading effect in the computation of royalty. 63. This Court in State of Punjab v. Principal Secretary to the Governor of Punjab & Anr. reported in 2023 INSC 1017 it was held that a proviso may be in the form of an exception or in the form of an explanation or in addition to the substantive provision of a statute. The relevant observations read as under: - "22. A proviso, as is well settled, may fulfil the purpose of being an exception. Sometimes, however, a proviso 98 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports may be in the form of an explanation or in addition to the substantive provision of a statute. [...]” 64. Similarly in State of U.P. v. Achal Singh, reported in (2018) 17 SCC 578 this Court reiterated that an Explanation becomes part of the main section and can be read as proviso and be understood as explaining the scope of the main provision. The relevant observations read as under: - “19. Reliance was also placed on the decision rendered by this Court in State of Bombay v. United Motors (India) Ltd. [State of Bombay v. United Motors (India) Ltd. (1953) 1 SCC 514 : AIR 1953 SC 252] and Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar [Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar, AIR 1955 SC 661] , in which it has been observed that Explanation can be read as proviso and it explains the scope of the main provision and the Explanation becomes part of the main section. There is no dispute with the aforesaid proposition. The Explanation in the Rules in question has to be applied to both the situations as contemplated in Rule 56(c) and is applicable to both the exigencies not only when the Government decides to retire an employee, but also applicable where voluntary retirement is sought by an employee. It cannot be said that no further restriction by Explanation has been added in a case where an employee has decided to obtain voluntary retirement. The public interest is the prime consideration on which authority has to decide such a prayer as per the rules applicable in the State of Uttar Pradesh.” (Emphasis supplied) 65. What can be discerned from the above is that an Explanation must be read so as to harmonise with and clear up any ambiguity in the main section. It should not be so construed as to widen the ambit of the section. An explanation does not enlarge the scope of the original section that it is supposed to explain. It is axiomatic that an explanation only explains and does not expand or add to the scope of the original section. The purpose of an explanation is, however, not to limit the scope of the main provision.