The criminalization of possession as an inchoate crime is predicated on the idea that possession is not an innocuous act but a preparatory step towards more significant criminal conduct. This is because, first, it allows intervention at an early stage, before the contraband can be used to cause harm. Secondly, it acts as a deterrent by penalizing individuals who engage in activities that are likely to lead to more serious offenses. Thirdly, it reflects the societal interest in preventing the accumulation and availability of dangerous items that have no legitimate purpose except for the further perpetuation of a more severe offence and harm to society at large. 86. The POCSO as outlined in its Statement of Object and Reasons was specifically designed to provide commensurate penalties to serve as a deterrent against the sexual abuse and exploitation of children. Additionally, the Statement of Objects and Reasons accompanying the 2019 Amendment Act which inter-alia amended Section 15 of the Act to provide for three distinct offences punishable under it, explicitly emphasizes that the said amendments had been introduced in to implement stringent measures aimed at addressing and deterring the alarming increase in child sexual abuse. The plain reading of sub-section(s) (1), (2) and (3) respectively of Section 15 of the POCSO along with the marginal note appended to it which reads “Punishment for storage of pornographic material involving child” indicates, that the said provision punishes only the storage of 220 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports pornographic material involving a child when done with a specific intent prescribed thereunder and that there is no requirement for any actual transmission. It is trite to say that, in the absence of any inherent conflict or contradiction between the marginal note and the substantive parts of a particular provision, the marginal note may be used to aid in the interpretation of the provision. Thus, the aforesaid leaves no manner of doubt in the mind of this Court, that the provision of Section 15 of the POCSO is in the nature and form of an inchoate offence which penalizes the mere storage or possession of any pornographic material involving a child when stored with a specific intent prescribed thereunder, without requiring any actual transmission, dissemination etc. 87. Under Section 15 sub-section (1), where a person either stores or possesses any child pornography and does not delete or report the same, in to share or transmit the same, he will be liable under the said provision. The use of the words “with an intention to share or transmit child pornography ” in the said provision makes it clear that no actual sharing or transmission is required to occur, rather what is required is only the intention to share or transmit because of which the said material was neither deleted, destroyed, or reported. In other words, the actus reus that is penalized under Section 15 sub-section (1) is the failure to delete, destroy or report any child pornography that was stored or in possession of any person with an intention to share or transmit the same.