735 Bano Saiyed Parwaz v. Chief Controlling Revenue Authority and Inspector General of Registration and Controller of Stamps & Ors. the collector for cancellation, then the collector may, give in lieu thereof may repay to such person, the same, value in money of such stamp or stamps or printed forms on stamped papers, after deducting rupees ten for each stamp or printed form on stamped paper or amount equal to (ten per cent) of the value of such stamp or such printed form, whichever is more”. 6. The learned counsel for the appellant further submitted that the law of refund embodied in Sections 47 and 48 of the Act and Rules 21 and 22A of the Rules, envisages two separate and distinct stages for refund of stamp duty i.e., i) making of application for refund within six months and ii) holding of enquiry and leading of evidence as per Rules made by the State Government, to satisfy the Collector that case of refund is covered by one or more of the circumstances (a) (b) and (c) [1] to [8] set out in Section 47 of the Act. 7. The learned counsel for the appellant would further submit that the respondent no. 2 and the High Court as well misconstrued the provisions of Sections 47 & 48 of the Act and has also overlooked Rules 21 and 22A of the Rules. In as much as, the appellant’s application was within time and the same could not have been rejected as barred by limitation. 8. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondents vehemently opposed the present appeal and submitted that in the present proceeding though the appellant filed application for refund of stamp duty on 22.10.2014, but the cancellation deed executed between the appellant and the seller of the said property was dated 13.11.2014 i.e., beyond the limitation period of six months from the date of purchase of stamp duty, after cancellation of those documents, as prescribed under Section 48 of the Act. As per Section 48 of the Act, the last date for applying for the refund was 12.11.2014, therefore, the application filed by the appellant was beyond the period of limitation. 9. We have heard both the counsel for the parties and perused the pleadings. 10. Admittedly, the appellant being a bonafide purchaser is a victim of fraud played upon her by the vendor. She has paid a sum of Rs.25,34,400/- towards stamp duty for registration of conveyance 736 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports deed. However, the conveyance deed was not lodged for registration as she become aware of the fraud played by the Vendor and thereafter, she immediately applied online on 22.10.2014 for refund of the stamp duty. Her effort to contact the vendor to execute a cancellation deed did not fructify immediately because of unavailability of the Vendor which Led to a police complaint and it is only at this point of time, due to intervention of the Police, the vendor could be traced, and a cancellation deed was executed on 13.11.2014.