159 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. Rajesh Singh Chauhan, son Som Prakash Singh have also been selected. Facts which have been admitted by the Chief Executive Officer in his reply, they are reliable. Chief Executive Officer has admitted in his reply Exh.-A that selection of Badri Prasad, son of Bhagwat Prasad has been made. He has been allocated 9 marks for experience, but the Experience Certificate is not found enclosed with his application. It is also proved from the reply submitted by District Panchayat that selection of Shri Krishan Dutt Awasthi, son of Sita Ram Awasthi has been made at No. 64. He is also the maternal nephew of the Chairman and at Appointment No. 90 selection of Geeta Rawat, - Ganga Prasad Rawat has been made. She is the real sister of Chairperson. Committee of District Panchayat has made the selection of his relatives in contravention of various Sections of MP Panchayat Raj Act. It has been restricted in Section 40(C) of Panchayat Raj Act that any of the office bearers shall not cause financial gain to his relatives. As per Section 40(C), act of any of the office bearers of Panchayat to get job for his any relative in Panchayat through his direct or indirect influence or to act to cause financial benefit to any of his relatives like carrying out of any work of the Panchayat through any kind of contract shall amount to gross negligence towards duties under the above Section and in such circumstances, if it is done, then office bearers of the Panchayat could be terminated. In Section 100 of the Act, acquisition of any interest by any member office bearer or employee directly or indirectly in any contract or any employment made is strictly prohibited. In the present case, members of the Committee of the District Panchayat have made the selection of their relatives in to cause benefit to them in the entire selection procedure, which is contrary to the principles settled by the law. Any person cannot be the judge for himself. There is a principle of natural justice that judge should see all persons with same eye. Selection of the relatives of the members by the members has definitely caused the discrimination with other members. In such circumstances, selection of the relatives of the District Panchayat is not lawful, which is liable to be cancelled… 160 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports As per the facts given in the case like respondents have admitted in the above paras that selection of the relatives of the members has been made in illegal manner, selection of these relatives is cancelled and the appointment so made is terminated.” (emphasis supplied) From the above observation it can be safely perceived that the members of the selection committee appointed the appellants who were their relatives and had given benefit to them which is arbitrary and discriminatory therefore vitiated. 5. The appellants assailed the said of Collector by filing revision under Section 5 of the Madhya Pradesh Panchayat (Appeal and Revision) Rules, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as “A&R Rules”).