For instance, a person may have ownership and control over a material resource, or he may have ownership but not control over it; while at the other times, a person has control over a material resource but not ownership over it. Hence, the intent of the Constitution makers is to give as wide a connotation as possible in the context of both ownership and control of material resources. Material resources: 11.7 As far as “material resources” are concerned, the expression would not only include tangible but also intangible resources; natural or physical resources as well as man-made resources and movable as well as immovable property. Also, the discussion on what would not constitute “material resources” in the context of personal effects of individual as discussed in paragraph 7.6 above is relevant to this discussion. Further, in my view, the phrase“material resources” cannot be restricted by the expression “of the community” insofar as understanding the meaning of the expression is concerned inasmuch as it would include all private material resources and under the ownership and/or control of the private persons. For example, a material resource may be under the ownership of a private person but controlled by the State. Correspondingly, a resource may belong to the State but could be controlled by a private person for instance when a privilege is conferred by the State to such a private person to control the said resource. Typically, an example is in the context of mining of minerals, when a private person may be the owner of a mine but the 222 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports State or its entity may take the same under its control by way of a lease under provisions of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 enacted in terms of Entry 52 - List I of the Constitution. Similarly, a mine or mineral bearing land may belong to the State which could be made over to a private person by way of a lease wherein the control of the mines is temporarily handed over to the lessee for exploitation of the mineral resources, subject to terms and conditions of the lease.Therefore, in all such cases, the expression “material resources” would include both public as well as private resources, i.e., those which are under the ownership and control of the State or any public body as well as ownership and control of a private person. Of the community: 11.8 Thus, material resources would include both public as well as private resources which belong to private persons. But what could be distributed is only “material resources of the community”, and not material resources which are privately owned. This would mean that material resources of the private persons cannot per se be distributed by the State under Article 39(b) unless it becomes “material resources of the community”. 11.9 In other words, even if, apart from public resources, private material resources are also to be distributed under clause (b) of Article 39 of the Constitution,they must first become “resources of the community”.