This has led to debate as to whether any material from Parliamentary proceedings can be placed before the Courts and whether the jurisdiction of Parliament ousts the jurisdiction of the Courts. As we shall elucidate below, the position as it stands allows for material from Parliamentary proceedings in the UK to be placed before the Court provided that it is not used to imply or argue mala fides behind the action. The courts in the UK have also interpreted a narrow scope for the nexus required for non-legislative activities to be immune. This has led to the holding that the jurisdiction of Parliament to discipline a member for taking bribe would not automatically oust the jurisdiction of the courts. 62 Erskine May’s Treatise on the Law, Privileges, Proceedings and Usage of Parliament, LexisNexis, 25th ed. (2019) 242. 546 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 132. The parliamentary immunity attracted to speech made in Parliament came to be applied in the case of Ex Parte Wason,63 where a member of Parliament was accused of conspiring to make a statement which they knew to be false. A person had furnished a petition to Earl Russel to present before the House of Lords which charged the Lord Chief Baron of deliberately telling a falsehood before a Parliamentary committee. This would have led to the removal of the Lord Chief Baron upon an address by both Houses of Parliament for such a removal. Earl Russel, Lord Chelmsford, and Lord Chief Baron conspired to make speeches in the House of Lords to the effect that the allegations of falsehood were unfounded despite knowing that the allegations were true. The magistrate refused to take the applicant’s recognizance on the grounds that a speech made in Parliament could not disclose any indictable offence. The Queen’s Bench affirmed the . 133. Cockburn, CJ opined that speeches made in either House could not give rise to civil or criminal proceedings regardless of the injury caused to the interests of a third person. Concurring with the opinion Lush, J held that: “[…] I am clearly of opinion that we ought not to allow it to be doubted for a moment that the motives or intentions of members of either House cannot be inquired into by criminal proceedings with respect to anything they may do or say in the House.” The Queen’s Bench therefore held that a speech made inside the House cannot be questioned in any proceeding before a court in a civil or criminal action and neither can the motives behind the performance of such acts be questioned. 134. The issue of bribery was only governed by common law till 1889. Different common law offences were attracted based on corruption by different offices and their functions. The Public Bodies Corrupt Practices Act 1889, which applied only to local government bodies, created the first statutory offence of corruption. Subsequently, the Prevention of Corruption Act 1906 extended the offence of corruption to the private sector. Neither of these statutes covered the acceptance 63 (1969) 4 QB 573 [2024] 3 S.C.R.