If right, title or interest in certain property is sought conveyed by a person by an instrument who herself does not possess any such form of entitlement on the subject being conveyed, even with a subsisting deed of conveyance on such property, the grantee on her successors-in-interest will not have legal right to enforce the right the latter may have derived from such an instrument. We, however, have not disturbed the transaction arising from Exhibit A-20 as the [2024] 4 S.C.R. 393 Kizhakke Vattakandiyil Madhavan (Dead) Thr. Lrs. v. Thiyyurkunnath Meethal Janaki and Ors two legal heirs of Madhavan were also the lessors therein and to that extent, the document marked as Exhibit A-20 would not have collapsed for want of conveyable title, right or interest. What she got back by way of the document marked as Exhibit A-1 was limited right as that of a lessee and not as a successor of her first husband Madhavan (since deceased). Moreover, this lease (Exhibit A-1) was also for a period of twelve years and the re-lease deed made in the year 1925 which is Exhibit A-2 could not operate as by that time, the entitlement of Kuttiperavan over the subject property also stood lapsed as the document marked as Exhibit A-1 also had a duration of twelve years. No evidence has been shown before us as to how Kuttiperavan, in the capacity of a lessee could exercise his right after the term of lease granted to him was over. 19. The plaintiff (now represented by his successors as respondents) sought to claim his share of suit property through Chiruthey. But as we have already explained, Chiruthey had lost her right over the subject property on her contracting second marriage. Secondly, her status over the said property, post-1910 if at all was that of lessee. There is no indication in any of the deeds that the said lease (Exhibit A-1) could travel beyond the stipulated term of twelve years. The ownership of the suit property could not be said to have devolved in any manner whatsoever to the original plaintiff, who was born within the wedlock of Chiruthey and Neelakandan. Hence, we set aside the decision of the High Court and the decision of the First Appellate Court shall stand confirmed. 20. The appeal stands allowed in the above terms and interim , if any, shall stand dissolved. Pending applications (if any) shall stand disposed of in the above terms. 21. There shall be no as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeal allowed.