An entry has been made in the Schedule against Item 1(a) in column (5) for inserting a clause dealing with the evacuation or removal and transportation of already mined out material. Appendix IX, which contains the list of projects exempted from obtaining EC, was substituted by the impugned notification. 21. We have quoted above the recitals of the impugned notification. The first three recitals refer to the necessity of giving effect to Sections 8A and 8B of the MMDR Act. Thereafter, the last recital refers to the Ministry receiving representations for waiver of the requirement of prior EC for borrowing of ordinary earth for roads. After that, without giving any details, it is mentioned that in the public interest, the requirement of publication of notice under sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 was dispensed with. At this stage, we may refer to the relevant ground specifically taken in the Original Application filed by the appellant before the NGT. Ground J was specifically taken on this aspect, which reads thus: “J. Because the Respondent has deliberately and ostensibly circumvented the requisite procedures before issuing the Impugned Notification, including evading previous publication, inviting public objections under Rule 5(3) of the EP Rules, 1986, and by wrongly exercising its powers under Rule 5(4) of the EP Rules under the garb of “public interest” during the Covid-19 national lockdown without offering even a shred of reasoning for its actions. It is most respectfully submitted that the amendments brought forth by the Impugned Notification serve and further the interest of private miners and contractors, and the actions of ratifying such illegal and mala fide acts of disregard and disobedience to environmental norms is in fact against public interest at large.” 22. We have carefully perused the counter affidavit filed by the MoEF&CC before the NGT. The said affidavit does not deal with Ground J at all. It does not specify or set out reasons for concluding that in the public interest, the requirement of publication of prior notice was needed to be dispensed with. It is pertinent to note that before the issue of the second EC notification by which Appendix-IX was incorporated, the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1269 Noble M. Paikada v. Union of India procedure of inviting objections to the draft notification was followed, and the objections were considered. There is no reason to dispense with this important requirement before publishing the impugned notification. Article 21 guarantees a right to live in a pollution-free environment. The citizens have a fundamental duty to protect and improve the environment. Therefore, the participation of the citizens is very important, and it is taken care of by allowing them to raise objections to the proposed notification. After all, citizens are major stakeholders in environmental matters. Their participation cannot be prevented by casually exercising the power under sub-rule (4) of Rule 5. 23. In the present appeals, the questions of law (e) and (f) have been incorporated regarding the illegal invocation of the power under sub- rule (4) of Rule 5 of the EP Rules.