8. Since the reasoning of the High Court is majorly based on the in the case of State of West Bengal (supra), we find it imperative to deal with the said first. In the said Constitution Bench , wherein the statutory scheme of CBA, 1957 was discussed in detail, the relevant question of law under consideration was whether the Parliament has legislative competence to enact a law for compulsory acquisition by the Union of land and other properties vested in or owned by the State. The said question was answered in the affirmative by the majority. It was held that the power to legislate for regulation and development of mines and minerals being under the control of the Union, would by necessary implication include the power to acquire mines and minerals, thereby upholding the constitutional validity of CBA, 1957, and in particular Sections 4 and 7. It must be noted that the said only delved into the 4 “MMDR Act, 1957”, hereinafter 5 [1964] 1 SCR 371 : AIR 1963 SC 1241 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1923 State of U.P. & Anr. v. Northern Coal Fields legislative competence of the Union and State in matters relating to acquisition of land, especially in context of mines and minerals, and did not deliberate upon the right of the State Government to claim lease rent by a Government Company under CBA, 1957 or other related acts. In the instant case, the legislative competence of neither the Union nor the State Government is under challenge. The matter at hand only pertains to the claim of lease rent by the State Government and therefore, the rationale in of State of West Bengal (supra) is of no avail to the Respondent. 9. Another case that has been dealt with in the impugned is a decision by the Division Bench of the Patna High Court in Managing Director, National Coal Development Corporation and etc. v. State of Bihar & Ors.6 wherein a question arose as to whether the Petitioner-Company is liable to pay to the State of Bihar dead rent by reason of the provisions of Section 18A of CBA, 1957 or not. In the said case, the following was held – “7. In the State counter affidavit in C.W.J.C. 2462 of 1979, it has been stated that a relationship of lessor and lessee exists between the State Government and the petitioner- company. This stand does not appear to be correct. As has been pointed out, the present cases do not attract Section 10(2) of the Acquisition Act inasmuch as there were no mining leases. Admittedly, these cases relate to virgin mineral which continues to be unworked till now. The case is governed by Section 10(1) and its language in no uncertain terms states that the entire interest of the State vests absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances. The State is completely divested of all its rights and a relationship of lessor and lessee does not continue between the State and the Central Government (or for that matter the petitioner-company).