The phrases Medical Establishments/Hospitals/ Medical Institutions are interchangeably used. 14. The NTF shall be at liberty to make recommendations on all aspects of the action-plan highlighted above and any other aspects which the members seek to cover. They are at liberty to make additional suggestions, where appropriate. The NTF shall also suggest appropriate timelines by which the recommendations could be implemented based on the existing facilities in Hospitals. The NTF is requested to consult all stake-holders. Bearing in mind the gravity and urgency of the situation we have included the heads of the National Medical Commission and the National Board of Examinations as Ex-officio members of the NTF. Bearing in mind the national concerns which have been raised over the issue and the high priority which must be given to the creation of safe working conditions in healthcare institutions, we request the Cabinet Secretary to the Union Government to associate with the work of the NTF. The Home Secretary of the Union Government has also been made a member of the NTF in to facilitate proper co-ordination with the State Governments. The Secretary to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the Government of India will be the Member-Secretary of the NTF. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will provide all logistical support including making arrangements for travel, stay and secretarial assistance and bear the expenses of the members of the NTF. 15. The NTF is requested to submit an interim report within three weeks and the final report within two months from the date of this . [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1059 In Re: Alleged Rape and Murder Incident of A Trainee Doctor In R.G. Kar Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata and Related Issues Versus 16. All State Governments and UT Governments, through their Secretaries, in the Ministries of Health and Family Welfare and the Central Government, through the Secretary, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare must collate information from all hospitals run by the State and the Central Government, respectively on the following aspects: a. How many security personnel are employed at each Hospital and each department; b. Whether there is a baggage and person screening mechanism in place at the entrance of the medical establishment; c. The total number of resting/duty rooms in the Hospital and specific details of the number in each Department; d. The facilities provided in the resting/duty rooms; e. Information on whether all areas of the hospital are accessible to the general public and if so, with or without any security restrictions; f. Whether there are CCTV cameras in the hospital. If there are, how many and in which locations; g. Whether the institution provides medical professionals training to appropriately handle the grief of patients. If so, the details of the training must be provided; h. Whether social workers who specialize in handling grief of families of the patients are employed at the hospital. If so, the total number of social workers must be provided; i. Whether there are police posts within the premises of the Hospital or the Medical College Hospital campus; j.