However, due to the two exceptions carved out in sub-section (2) namely that transmission, propagation, display or distribution of child pornographic material when done for either reporting the same or for use as evidence, the statutory presumption in such scenario will still continue to serve a useful purpose by aiding the prosecution in reinforcing that any of the abovementioned acts had not been done with the intention of either reporting the same or for using it as evidence, unless the contrary is proven. 179. Lastly, for the purpose of Section 15 sub-section (3) of the POCSO, the actus reus required therein is the storage or possession of any child pornographic material and any other material to indicate that such storage or possession was done in lieu or in expectation of some form of gain or benefit. Thus, where the prosecution established the storage or possession of such material and further shows anything else that might indicate that the same had been done for some form of gain or benefit or the expectation of some gain or benefit, the foundational facts would be said to have been proved, and the statutory presumption envisaged under Section 30 of the POCSO can be validly raised. Then the onus would lie on the accused to prove that the storage or possession of such material had not been done with intention of any commercial purpose. c. Whether the Presumption under Section 30 of the POCSO can be resorted to in a Quashing Proceeding? 180. The last aspect which remains to be examined is whether the said statutory presumption of culpable mental state provided in Section [2024] 10 S.C.R. 265 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. 30 of the POCSO can be resorted to in a quashing proceeding by the High Courts in exercise of their inherent powers under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. (corresponding Section 530 of the Bhartiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, for short, the “BNSS”). In other words, at what stage can the aforesaid said statutory presumption be invoked at. Before proceeding with the analysis of the said aspect, it would be appropriate to refer to a few decisions of this Court on this issue. 181. In State of M.P. v. Harsh Gupta reported in (1998) 8 SCC 630, this Court held that the statutory presumption contained in Section 69 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 could not have been ignored by the High Court in deciding the quashing petition under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. The relevant observations read as under: - “3. It is rather surprising that at a stage when the only question to be considered was whether the complaint and its accompaniments disclosed any or all of the offences alleged against the respondent, the learned Judge not only went into a detailed discussion about his defence but recorded a conclusive finding that he was not guilty of the offences alleged against him. More surprising is that the learned Judge ignored the provisions of Section 69 of the Act which expressly raises a statutory presumption against a person arraigned that the forest produce recovered from him was a property of the Government, until the contrary is proved; and needless to say, the question of proof of the contrary can be answered after evidence is led.