40. Turning to the facts of the present case, Kazmi had challenged the maintainability of the Suit in the written statement filed by him before the Trial Court contending inter alia that the suit property was bhoomidhari land owing to which the Suit was barred by section 331 544 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of UPZA & LR Act as well as it was barred under section 41(h) of the Specific Relief Act and, thus, not maintainable before the civil court. What was required of the Trial Court in such situation was to record a satisfaction, at least prima facie, that the Suit was maintainable and then proceed to pass such s as it considered proper in the circumstances. A glance at the dated 5th August, 1991, is sufficient to inform us that the Trial Court, in no words whatsoever, made any decision on whether it was entitled in law to decide the plea before it, prior to decreeing the Suit against Samiullah under Rule 10 of VIII, CPC. The question of competence to try the Suit, we have found, was the first of several issues arising for decision in the Suit and despite such looming presence of an important issue before the Trial Court which, if examined and answered in favour of Kazmi, would have ousted jurisdiction, it preferred not to wait and proceeded to decree the same against Samiullah without a whisper on its competency to do the same. 41. The legal and factual position of the present case having been noted above, we hold that a decision rendered by a court on the merits of a controversy in favour of the plaintiff without first adjudicating on its competence to decide such controversy would amount to a decision being rendered on an illegal and erroneous assumption of jurisdiction and, thus, be assailable as lacking in inherent jurisdiction and be treated as a nullity in the eye of law; as a logical corollary, the dated 5th August, 1991 is held to be ab initio void and the decree drawn up based thereon is inexecutable. 42. There is one other reason which we wish to assign as a ground for upholding the of the Executing Court and the High Court. 43. Reference may once again be made to Balram Taneja (supra) where the law has been reiterated succinctly, as follows: “41. There is yet another infirmity in the case which relates to the ‘’ passed by the Single Judge and upheld by the Division Bench. 42. ‘’ as defined in Section 2(9) of the Code of Civil Procedure means the statement given by the Judge of the grounds for a decree or . What a should contain is indicated in 20 Rule 4(2) which says that a ‘shall contain a concise statement [2024] 1 S.C.R. 545 Asma Lateef & Anr. v. Shabbir Ahmad & Ors. of the case, the points for determination, the decision thereon, and the reasons for such decision’. It should be a self-contained document from which it should appear as to what were the facts of the case and what was the controversy which was tried to be settled by the court and in what manner.