Clarity about the issue arising for consideration is necessary to focus on the right questions that we must ask. 10. Therefore, to understand the question relating to the legality of the contractual clause, we must get to the first principles that govern arbitration agreements, which in turn takes us to the first principles of law of contract. 11. Freedom of Contract and its limitations under Contract Act. The foundation of the law of contract is in the freedom to contract and its enforceability in law. Sections 2(a), (b), and (d), of the Contract Act define ‘proposal’, ‘promise’ and ‘consideration’, and reflect the autonomy of the parties declaring the terms and conditions and reciprocal promises. Section 2(e) provides that “Every promise and every set of promises, forming the consideration for each other, is an agreement”. Agreements are contracts if they are made by the free consent of parties,35 and free consent36 exists when it is not caused by coercion,37 undue influence,38 fraud39 and misrepresentation.40 Furthermore, agreements attain the status of contracts only if they are made for lawful consideration and with a lawful object.41 The consideration or object of an agreement is lawful only when it is not opposed to public policy. It is here that the duty and obligation of the Court arises as it is the exclusive province of the Court to decide if an agreement is in consonance with public policy or not. 35 Section 10 of the Contract Act 36 Section 14 of the Contract Act. 37 Section 15 of the Contract Act 38 Section 16 of the Contract Act 39 Section 17 of the Contract Act 40 Section 18 of the Contract Act 41 Section 23 of the Contract Act. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2301 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company This position is clear from the text of Sections 10 and 23 of the Contract Act, which are extracted hereinbelow for ready reference; “10. What agreements are contracts.—All agreements are contracts if they are made by the free consent of parties competent to contract, for a lawful consideration and with a lawful object, and are not hereby expressly declared to be void. Nothing herein contained shall affect any law in force in India and not hereby expressly repealed by which any contract is required to be made in writing or in the presence of witnesses, or any law relating to the registration of documents.” “23. What considerations and objects are lawful, and what not.—The consideration or object of an agreement is lawful, unless— it is forbidden by law; or is of such a nature that if permitted, it would defeat the provisions of any law; or is fraudulent; or involves or implies injury to the person or property of another; or the Court regards it as immoral, or opposed to public policy. In each of these cases, the consideration or object of an agreement is said to be unlawful. Every agreement of which the object or consideration is unlawful is void.” 12.