The bail s have become final and have not been challenged by the prosecution. It is also undisputed that in two of them FIR no. 0030 of 2021 registered at P.S. Sadar, Gurugram and FIR No. 53 of 2020 registered at P.S. Pinarayi surety already stands furnished. The situation today is, in spite of obtaining bail in 13 cases, the petitioner has not been able to furnish sureties. There are two cases where bail has not been granted and we have already observed that the present proceedings do not concern them. 18. Section 441 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which deals with bonds and sureties, reads as under: “441. Bond of accused and sureties. – (1)Before any person is released on bail or released on his own bond, a bond for such sum of money as the police officer or Court, as the case may be, thinks sufficient shall be executed by such person, and, when he is released on bail, by one or more sufficient sureties conditioned that such person shall attend at the time and place mentioned in the bond, and shall continue so to attend until otherwise directed by the police officer or Court, as the case may be. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 569 Girish Gandhi v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. (2) Where any condition is imposed for the release of any person on bail, the bond shall also contain that condition. (3) If the case so requires, the bond shall also bind the person released on bail to appear when called upon at the High Court, Court of Session or other Court to answer the charge. (4) For the purpose of determining whether the sureties are fit or sufficient, the Court may accept affidavits in proof of the facts contained therein relating to the sufficiency or fitness of the sureties, or, if it considers necessary, may either hold an inquiry itself or cause an inquiry to be made by a Magistrate subordinate to the Court, as to such sufficiency or fitness.” 19. Section 446 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which deals with procedure when bond has been forfeited, reads as under: “446. Procedure when bond has been forfeited. – (1) Where a bond under this Code is for appearance, or for production of property, before a Court and it is proved to the satisfaction of that Court or of any Court to which the case has subsequently been transferred, that the bond has been forfeited, or where in respect of any other bond under this Code, it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court by which the bond was taken, or of any Court to which the case has subsequently been transferred, or of the Court of any Magistrate of the first class, that the bond has been forfeited, the Court shall record the grounds of such proof, and may call upon any person bound by such bond to pay the penalty thereof or to show cause why it should not be paid.” 20.