of Sanyal Committee on the question of limitation, thought that the contempt procedures by their very nature should be initiated and dealt with as early as possible and considered it necessary and desirable that period of limitation should be specified in respect of actions for contempt and, therefore, laid down in the new clause (Clause 20) a period of one year at the expiration of which no proceedings for contempt should be initiated. The reasons given by the Joint Select Committee for introducing Clause 20 in the Bill, as reported by it are these: ‘The Committee are of the opinion that contempt procedures by their very nature should be initiated and dealt with as early as possible. It was brought to the notice of the Committee that in some cases contempt proceedings have been initiated long after the alleged contempt had taken place. The Committee therefore consider it necessary and desirable that a period of limitation should be specified in respect of actions for contempt and have accordingly laid down in the new clause a period of one year at the expiration of which no proceedings for contempt should be initiated.’ 81. This is the legislative history of Section 20.” 45. We can safely affirm, drawing from our joint experience on the Bench, that in the vast majority of cases seeking invocation of the provisions of the Act for an alleged civil contempt, institution of proceedings is through a petition or an application containing information made available by a party alleging that the facts disclosed by him do constitute contempt of court and, thus, provide the court the premise for initiating proceedings to commit for contempt. The role of such a party, who brings a petition for contempt and activates the court’s machinery, is merely that of an informer. Despite such a party figuring in the memo of parties as a petitioner, the matter relating to entertainment of his petition and the punishment to be imposed, in case of a proved contempt, relate to the exclusive jurisdiction and authority of the high courts to punish for contempt and is substantially a matter between the court and the alleged contemnor. Whether or not to take the assistance of the petitioning informer is a question which invariably must be left entirely to the discretion of the court seized of the proceedings. 1106 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 46. In exercising its jurisdiction to punish for contempt, the courts in India do keep in mind the benefit that could accrue to the petitioning informer (if he is a party to the parent proceedings out of which the contempt arises) upon implementation of the alleged to have been wilfully disobeyed; but more than anything else, the endeavour is to uphold the majesty, dignity and prestige of the courts. Indubitably, the jurisdiction to punish for contempt is exercised when the alleged contemnor, by his action(s), shows extreme lack of solicitude in complying with an of court, which has attained finality and is binding on him.