My view: The majority in Ranganatha Reddy, no doubt, did not concur with the views of Krishna Iyer, J. expressed in his separate opinion. However, in Sanjeev Coke the Constitution Bench of five-Judges independently upheld what was challenged in the said case, namely, the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 and while doing so in paragraphs 19 and 20 referred to the observations of Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy and made certain observations on the majority in Minerva Mills. However, A.N. Sen, J. did not express any opinion on the of this Court in Minerva Mills. What is significant is that the s in Ranganatha Reddy as well as in Sanjeev Coke upheld the respective Nationalisation Acts. Therefore, on merits it cannot be held that Sanjeev Coke violated judicial discipline.One cannot lose sight of the fact that in Sanjeev Coke this Court did not decide the case only on the basis of the opinion of Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy but on merits on the validity of the Nationalisation Act. Therefore, Sanjeev Coke is good law insofar as on the merits of the matter is concerned. c. The single-sentence observation in Mafatlal to the effect that “material resources of the community” include privately owned resources is not part of the ratio decidendi of the . Thus, it is not binding on this Court. My view: It may be obiter but has great persuasive value.The discussion made above may be noted. 260 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports d. The direct question referred to this Bench is whether the phrase “material resources of the community” used in Article 39(b) includes privately owned resources. Theoretically, the answer is yes, the phrase may include privately owned resources. However, this Court is unable to subscribe to the expansive view adopted in the minority authored by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy and subsequently relied on by this Court in Sanjeev Coke. Not every resource owned by an individual can be considered a “material resource of the community” merely because it meets the qualifier of “material needs”. My view: Yes, privately owned resources except “personal effects” as explained above can come within the scope and ambit of the phrase “material resources of the community” provided such resources get transformed as “resources of the community” as discussed by me above. To reiterate, it would not include personal effects as discussed by me in paragraph 7.6 above. In view of my aforesaid discussion, I find that the controversy whether every resource owned by an individual can be considered as “material resource of the community” stands clarified. e. The inquiry about whether the resource in question falls within the ambit of Article 39(b) must be context-specific and subject to a non-exhaustive list of factors such as the nature of the resource and its characteristics; the impact of the resource on the well-being of the community; the scarcity of the resource; and the consequences of such a resource being concentrated in the hands of private players.