17. State of Kerala -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) The State is directed to give details of steps taken to ensure compliance of direction contained in Para 100.5 in the districts of Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Kalpetta and Kasargod, as it appears from the Additional compliance affidavit dated 14.04.2023 filed by the State that the aforementioned districts have not complied with the said direction. (iii) In terms of the directions contained in para 100.7, the State is directed to give details of the number of Special Courts constituted and whether any steps are underway for the creation of Additional Special Courts and at what stage and whether the vacancies that existed then have been filled now. (iv) State is directed to give details of steps taken to ensure release of undertrial prisoners who are unable to comply with bail conditions. (v) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) The State is directed to provide training to Prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1095 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. 17.1 High Court of Kerala -Directions to be complied with: (i) Directions issued in para 100.5 are shown to be only partly complied with. The High Court is directed to ensure complete compliance and furnish information on the same. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, the High Court is directed to give details of the number of Special Courts constituted and whether any steps are underway for creation of Additional Special Courts and at what stage. (iii) The High Court is directed to ensure compliance with the terms of para 100.8 and furnish information regarding the steps taken to alleviate the conditions of the prisoners. (iv) To ensure compliance with the directions issued in para 100.9 and furnish information on the same. (v) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of judicial academy. (vi) To inform on whether the in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC. 18. Union Territory of Ladakh -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, the Union Territory is directed to provide the particulars of the First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary action that have been taken against erring police officers.