Digital Supreme Court Reports NALSA-Standard Operating Procedures on Access to Legal Aid Services to Prisoners and Functioning of the Prison Legal Aid Clinics - 2022 11. As the note submitted by the learned counsel indicate, furtherance of this function NALSA has formulated the SOP on access to legal aid services to prisoners and functioning of the Prison Legal Aid Clinics (PLACs) (hereinafter referred to as NALSA SOP-2022). The NALSA SOP-2022 deals with (i) The setting up and functioning of the PLACs (ii) The purpose behind establishing the PLACs (iii) The Roles and responsibilities of different legal aid functionaries attached with the PLACs (iv) The monitoring of PLACs by DLSAs. (v) The process of application for legal aid and role of PLACs in facilitating appointment of legal aid lawyer (vi) The PLACs role in providing legal aid services and legal assistance to the vulnerable groups in prisons; (vii) The PLACs role in providing legal information to prisoners and their families; (viii) The PLACs role in imparting legal knowledge to prisoners about their rights and their grievance redressal mechanism; and (ix) The PLACs role in giving legal assistance for filing Jail Appeals before the High Courts and the Supreme Court by the convicts in prison. 12. As set out in the note, the NALSA SOP-2022 enumerates the following functions of the PLACs:- "a. to ensure at all times that no prisoner is without legal representation at any stage of the criminal proceedings and to generate awareness about the same; b. to bridge the information gap between the prisoner and the Court; c. to facilitate communication between the prisoner and the lawyer, whether legal aid or private; d. to ensure that no person is illegally or unnecessarily detained; e. to ensure special needs of vulnerable groups (women, young offenders, mentally-ill, foreign nationals, persons from other states, etc. ); in prisons are addressed; [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1781 Suhas Chakma v. Union of India & Ors. f. to collaborate with local authorities, universities, academic institutions and civil society organizations to further strengthen legal aid services for prisoners; g. to act as a One Stop Centre (OSC) to raise the grievances of the prisoners and direct the grievances to appropriate authorities through DLSA; and h. to undertake the implementation of the NALSA and SLSA campaigns for prisoners or any other work assigned to fulfil its mandate of providing legal aid services and assistance to the prisoners.” 13. NALSA SOP-2022 also deals with the duties of the JVLs and the Paralegal Volunteers (PLVs). The duties of the JVLs, as set out in the note, are as follows :- "a) To identify cases eligible for release under the mandate of the Undertrial Review Committee (UTRC); b) To interact with inmates identified by the paralegal volunteers and provide legal advice; c) To draft applications and petitions for parole/juvenility/ bail etc. for the undertrials and convicts present in the clinic; d) To ensure filling of legal aid application form for those who need legal aid lawyers and submit the same to the legal services authority, without any delay; e) To conduct legal awareness camps inside prisons including apprising new entrants to prison about the free legal services provided by Tehsil Legal Services Committee (TSLC) or Sub-Divisional Legal Services Committee (SDLSC), District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), High Court Legal Services Committee (HCLSC) and Supreme Court Legal Services Committee (SCLSC); f) To regularly inform the inmates about the status of their cases; g) To communicate to the defense lawyer any pertinent information that an inmate has requested to be shared with his/her lawyer; 1782 [2024] 10 S.C.R.