It must not be forgotten that the efficiency of administration is of such paramount importance that it would be unwise and impermissible to make any reservation at the cost of efficiency of administration. That undoubtedly is the effect of Article 335. Reservation of appointments or posts may theoretically and conceivably mean some impairment of efficiency; but the risk involved in sacrificing efficiency of administration must always be borne in mind when any State sets about making a provision for reservation of appointments or posts.” (emphasis supplied) 71 [1962] 2 SCR 586 72 [1962] 2 SCR 586 [27]; See Article 335 which provides that that the claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be taken into consideration, consistently with the maintenance of efficiency of administration, in the making of appointments to services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of a State. The majority in Rangachari (supra), interpreted the phrase “matters relating to employment” as it occurs in Article 16(1) to also include promotion. The next issue which fell for the consideration of the Court was whether Article 16(4) covers promotion because the provision only uses the phrases “appointments or posts”. This Court held that the phrase “posts” would - as held by the High Court - not mean ex-cadre posts but posts in the services under the State because any other interpretation would be contradictory to the purpose of Article 16(4) which is to ensure adequate representation. 1368 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 55. Both the majority and the minority (consisting of Justice Wanchoo and Justice Ayyangar) agreed that reservations impair the efficiency of administration. The learned Judges belonging to the minority only disagreed on the balance which must be drawn between reservation and efficiency of service. Justice Gajendragadkar observed that though reservations in promotion will impair efficiency of administration, the social benefit of reservation will trump the cost of the impairment. Justice Wanchoo and Justice Ayyangar disagreed. According to the minority, an interpretation of Article 16(4) to include reservation in promotion would be contrary to the principles set out in Article 335.73 Similarly, in CA Rajendran v. Union of India,74 this Court observed that restricting reservations only to Class III and Class IV posts was justified because Class I and Class II posts require candidates with higher efficiency which would not be achieved if promotional posts are reserved.75 56. The in Rangachari (supra) was overruled in Indra Sawhney (supra). In Indra Sawhney (supra), this Court adopted the approach of the minority in Rangachari (supra), holding that reservations in promotions would dilute efficiency in administration.76 By the Constitution (Seventy-seventh Amendment) Act 1995, Parliament amended the Constitution to include Clause (4-A) into Article 16 permitting reservation for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in promotion. 57. The issue whether members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes should be considered senior to candidates of the general category (who were senior to the candidates of the reserved category in the feeder category)77 when they are being considered for subsequent promotion arose before this Court.