(56 of 1972) shall not be liable to pay any royalty in respect of any coal consumed by a workman engaged in a colliery provided that such consumption by the workman does not exceed one-third of a tonne per month. (3) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the Second Schedule so as to enhance or reduce the rate at which royalty shall be payable in respect of any mineral with effect from such date as may be specified in the notification: Provided that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.” 4. Section(s) 13 and 18 of the MMDR Act respectively further empowers the Central Government to frame Rules for regulating the grant of mineral concession and for the conservation and systematic development of minerals respectively. Pursuant to the above provisions, the Central Government enacted the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 (for short, the “MCR, 1960”) which later came to be replaced by the MCR, 2016 for the computation and payment of royalty in terms of Section 9 read with Schedule II of the MMDR, Act. 5. The erstwhile MCR, 1960, more particularly Rule 64D that was inserted vide Notification bearing no. GSR 883(E) dated 10.12.2009, stipulated that the royalty to be paid for all non-atomic and non-fuel minerals would be computed on the basis of the State-wise sale price of different minerals as published by the Indian Bureau of Mines / the respondent no. 2. The said provision reads as under: - “64 D. Manner of payment of royalty on minerals on ad valorem basis: (1) Every mine owner, his agent, manager, employee, contractor or sub-lessee shall compute the amount of royalty on minerals where such royalty is charged on ad valorem basis as follows: (i) for all non-atomic and non fuel minerals sold in the domestic market or consumed in captive plants or exported by the mine owners (other than 76 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports bauxite and laterite despatched for use in alumina and metallurgical industries, copper, lead, zinc, tin, nickel, gold, silver and minerals specified under Atomic Energy Act), the State-wise sale prices for different minerals as published by Indian Bureau of Mines shall be the sale price for computation of royalty in respect of any mineral produced any time during a month in any mine in that State, and the royalty shall be computed as per the formula given below: Royalty = Sale price of mineral (grade wise and State-wise) published by IBM X Rate of royalty (in percentage) X Total quantity of mineral grade produced/ dispatched: Provided that if for a particular mineral, the information for a State for a particular month is not published by the Indian Bureau of Mines, the latest information available for that mineral in the State shall be referred, failing which the latest information for All India for the mineral shall be referred. (ii) for the grades of minerals produced for captive consumption (other than bauxite and laterite despatched for use in alumina and metallurgical industries, copper, lead, zinc, tin, nickel, gold and silver) and those not despatched for sale in domestic market or export, the sale price published by the Indian Bureau of Mines shall be used as the benchmark price for computation of royalty.