When doubts exist, the Central Board of Direct Taxes may examine this question and may issue appropriate instructions/circular after ascertaining the views of assessees and other stakeholders. The decision should be clear, and we trust and hope that an obligation, if imposed, will be prospective. (See paragraph 34 of the .) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1011 Bharti Cellular Limited (Now Bharti Airtel Limited) v. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Circle 57, Kolkata and Another receivable should be to a person acting on behalf of another person. The words “another person” refers to “the person responsible for paying”. The words “direct” or “indirect” in Explanation (i) to Section 194-H of the Act are with reference to the act of payment. Without doubt, the legislative intent to include “indirect” payment ensures that the net cast by the section is plugged and not avoided or escaped, albeit it does not dilute the requirement that the payment must be on behalf “the person responsible for paying”. This means that the payment/credit in the account should arise from the obligation of “the person responsible for paying”. The payee should be the person who has the right to receive the payment from “the person responsible for paying”. When this condition is satisfied, it does not matter if the payment is made “indirectly”.4 5. The services rendered by the agent to the principal, according to the latter portion of Explanation (i) to Section 194-H of the Act, should not be in the nature of professional services. Further, Explanation (i) to Section 194-H of the Act restricts application of Section 194- H of the Act to the services rendered by the agent to the principal in the course of buying and selling of goods, or in relation to any transaction relating to any asset, valuable article, or thing, not being securities. The latter portion of the Explanation (i) to Section 194- H of the Act is a requirement and a pre-condition. It should not be read as diminishing or derogating the requirement of the principal and agent relationship between the payer and the recipient/payee. 6. It is settled by a series of s of this Court that the expression ‘acting on behalf of another person’ postulates the existence of a legal relationship of principal and agent, between the payer and the recipient/payee.5 The law of agency is technical. Whether in law the relationship between the parties is that of principal-agent is answered 4 We are unable to visualize ‘indirect’ credit in the books of the payer to the account of the payee. Credit entry is required even in cases of set-off. Nevertheless, this should not be read as laying down that ‘indirect’ credit in the books shall not require deduction of tax under Section 194-H of the Act. 5 Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Another v. Commissioner of Income Tax, [2022] 9 S.C.R. 1 : (2023) 1 SCC 497, ¶¶ 23-29. 1012 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by applying Section 182 of the Contract Act, 18726. Therefore, the obligation to deduct tax at source in terms of Section 194-H of the Act arises when the legal relationship of principal-agent is established.