10. The High Court held that the respondent, being a Cardiologist, earned a monthly income of Rs.1,25,000/- (Rupees One Lakh and Twenty Five Thousand only) is established and that he and his mother received a rent of Rs.2,73,301/- (Rupees Two Lakh Seventy Three Thousand and Three Hundred One only) per month, of which he received only half amount. Based on these two considerations, the High Court concluded that the appellant wife established the respondent’s income to at least Rs.2,50,000/- (Rupees Two Lakh and Fifty Thousand only) per month. The High Court took note of the fact that the appellant sacrificed her employment after the marriage and determined that the reasonable amount of interim maintenance to be one third of the respondent’s income which was Rs.80,000/- (Rupees Eighty Thousand only) per month. 11. We find that the High Court has erred in reducing the quantum of maintenance to Rs.80,000/- (Rupees Eighty Thousand only) per month. The High Court has considered only two sources of income for the respondent. Firstly, the sum of Rs.1,25,000/- (Rupees One Lakh and Twenty-Five Thousand only) that he earns from working as a Cardiologist at the Hospital. Secondly, the rent amount he and his mother receive from a property, of which the High Court has stated [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1317 Dr. Rajiv Verghese v. Rose Chakkrammankkil Francis that he receives half the amount only. However, the High Court has not dealt with the findings of the Family Court wherein the respondent is said to own a number of worthful properties and the fact that he is the only legal heir of his father. The Family Court found that the respondent is accruing all the incomes from the properties owned by his mother. The High Court has not dealt with the aspect of the number of properties owned by the respondent and looked at the rental income from one property. The Family Court also noted that the respondent was found to be in possession of a school and could not substantiate his claim that the school was running in losses. Therefore, the High Court has overlooked certain aspects relating to the income of the respondent which were looked at by the Family Court. Further, it is also on record that the appellant is not working as she sacrificed her employment after the marriage. The appellant was accustomed to a certain standard of living in her matrimonial home and therefore, during the pendency of the divorce petition, is also entitled to enjoy the same amenities of life as she would have been entitled to in her matrimonial home. 12. Consequently, we allow the appeal of the appellant wife and set aside the of the Madras High Court dated 01.12.2022 and restore the of the Family Court. The respondent husband is directed to pay a sum of Rs.1,75,000/- (Rupees One Lakh and Seventy Five Thousand only) per month as interim maintenance as per the of the Family Court dated 14.06.2022. 13. The appeal of respondent husband is accordingly dismissed in view of the above reasoning.