Where statute is silent and judicial intervention is required, Courts strive to redress grievances according to what is perceived to be principles of justice, equity and good conscience.” 15 (1953) 1 SCC 362 678 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 9. Having considered the pronouncements of this Court as aforesaid, and keeping in view the fact that Mardan passed away in the year 1951, that is, prior to the enactment of HSA, 1956, we find no error in the of the High Court applying the provisions of the Central Provinces Laws Act, 1875 and more particularly Section 6 thereof which postulates the application of the principle of justice, equity and good conscience, to account for possibilities not covered by Section 5 of the Act. 10. We find that a coordinate Bench of this Court in Kamla Neti v. LAO,16 held in para 11 thereof that equity cannot supplant the law, and when the law is clear, the same has to be applied. That case pertains to the division of compensation awarded for land acquired, however, the present dispute pertains directly to succession of property, and therefore in our considered view, this case stands on a different footing. 11. Kamla Neti (supra) is, therefore, distinguishable on facts and not applicable to the present case. However, the recommendation/ suggestion made therein to the Central Government to look into pathways to secure the right of survivorship to female tribals is hereby reiterated. For emphasis, the observations in this regard are also extracted herein below: “17. Before parting, we may observe that there may not be any justification to deny the right of survivorship so far as the female member of the tribal community is concerned. When the daughter belonging to the non-tribal community is entitled to the equal share in the property of the father, there is no reason to deny such right to the daughter of the Tribal community. Female tribal is entitled to parity with male tribal in intestate succession. To deny the equal right to the daughter belonging to the tribal even after a period of 70 years of the Constitution of India under which right to equality is guaranteed, it is high time for the Central Government to look into the matter and if required, to amend the provisions of the Hindu Succession Act by which the Hindu Succession Act is not made applicable to the members of the Scheduled Tribe. 16 (2023) 3 SCC 528 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 679 Tirith Kumar & Ors. v. Daduram & Ors. 18. Therefore, though we dismiss the present appeal, it is directed to examine the question by the Central Government to consider it just and necessary to withdraw the exemptions provided under the Hindu Succession Act insofar as the applicability of the provisions of the Hindu Succession Act to the Scheduled Tribes is concerned and whether to bring a suitable amendment or not. We hope and trust that the Central Government will look into the matter and take an appropriate decision taking into consideration the right to equality guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India.” 12.