They are likely to have their first childbirth before the age of eighteen and are likely to conceive more than once within twenty-four months. The health penalty imposed on women in child marriages is writ large in the complications arising from adolescent pregnancies. Teenage pregnancy leads to health complications such as fistula, pregnancy complications and death during childbirth. Early childbirth also leads to the deterioration of maternal mortality and morbidity. 185. The maternal morbidity is associated with adolescent fertility – typical to child marriage. It is marked by common negative health outcomes such as anaemia, high blood pressure, toxaemia, delayed or obstructed labour, complications in pregnancy and weight loss during lactation.267 265 [2007] 12 SCR 991 : (2008) 3 SCC 1 266 Pt. Parmanand Katara v. Union of India (1989) 4 SCC 286; Paschim Banga Khet Majoor Samiti v. State of West Bengal (1996) 4 SCC 37 267 Jaya Sagade. Child Marriage in India: Socio-legal and human Rights Dimensions. Oxford University Press, 2nd ed. (2012) 17. 1606 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The adverse health effects of early marriage and pregnancy have dented the nutritional status of adolescent girls in India. These ill health outcomes haunt the woman throughout her life cause severe impediments in navigating the daily trifles and occasions of life. 186. Studies have shown that women married as children are more likely to be sterilized earlier in life. The sterilization is associated with families getting the desired number of children earlier in the marital life of the couple. Sterilization of women in child marriage is indicative of loss of control of a woman over her own reproductive choices. This also leads to more unprotected sex which may expose women to risks of contracting sexually transmitted diseases like HIV. 187. In Independent Thought v. Union of India,268 this Court struck down the marital exception to rape in Section 375 IPC as it relates to underage wives. The Court had the opportunity to delve into the effects of child marriage and its interposition with the right to health. Justice Deepak Gupta in his opinion has traced the right to health in the context of child marriage as follows: “179. There can be no dispute that every citizen of this country has the right to get good healthcare. Every citizen can expect that the State shall make best endeavours for ensuring that the health of the citizen is not adversely affected. By now it is well settled by a catena of s of this Court that the “right to life” envisaged in Article 21 of the Constitution of India is not merely a right to live an animal existence. This Court has repeatedly held that right to life means a right to live with human dignity. Life should be meaningful and worth living. Life has many shades. Good health is the raison d’être of a good life. Without good health there cannot be a good life. In the case of a minor girl child good health would mean her right to develop as a healthy woman.