If the proposition that there ought to be no exercise of the inherent powers where a procedure is laid down were to be blanketly accepted then it may have a very chilling effect whereby the very purpose of vesting this Court with inherent powers under Article 142 and Tribunals with Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules would be rendered otiose and meaningless. 164. On account of the inordinate delay in due implementation of the Resolution Plan, several dues including the CIRP costs of the Corporate Debtor have continuously multiplied. The Appellants are incurring huge expenditure and costs each month towards maintenance of the Corporate Debtor. The fundamental concern of this Court must not only be of doing substantial and complete justice but also to ensure expeditious resolution of the issues in the interests of the underlying objective of the IBC, 2016 and all the stakeholders involved. We must obviate the possibility of the Corporate Debtor being stuck, embroiled and its resolution being further delayed, especially in light of the delay that has already ensued. 165. Having due regard to the materials on record, a determination that the terms of the Resolution Plan have been contravened and that there has been a failure to implement on part of the SRA, has already been made on a consideration of the issues before us. As such, since the 2160 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Resolution Plan is no longer capable of being implemented, we must ensure that at least liquidation remains as a “viable” last resort for the Corporate Debtor and its creditors. Being mindful of the underlying objective that “Time and Speed are of the essence under the Code” and to prevent the frustration of this objective, we have thought fit and necessary to exercise our plenary powers under Article 142 and direct the Corporate Debtor into liquidation in the manner as laid down in the IBC, 2016. Granting this relief to the Appellants would not run counter to the timelines and predictability that is central to IBC. On the contrary, it would be in furtherance of it. Ensuring that liquidation commences as soon as possible would also be in the best interests of the Corporate Debtor and the creditors including the workmen/employees who are yet to receive their rightful dues. To be precise, it would not be necessary for the parties to again approach the Adjudicating Authority for a determination under Section 33(3) of the IBC, 2016 on the ground that the provisions of the approved Resolution Plan have been contravened. F. SHORTCOMINGS AND SUGGESTIONS TO THE IBC, 2016. 166. This litigation is an eye opener for one and all and therefore, before we close this matter, we deem it absolutely necessary to bring to light certain deficiencies in the IBC, 2016 which require immediate attention. We would also like to definitely say something as regards the functioning of the NCLTs and NCLAT. 167. Given the importance of the IBC, 2016 for the betterment of the economy at large, it is imperative that the insolvency ecosystem be continuously strengthened through a regular identification of its shortcomings and a quick redressal of its practical deficiencies.