This puts burden on the courts in the form of listing, paper work, compliance with formalities, verification etc. Parallelly, parties have to bear the cost, appear before several forums/courts and the final s get delayed causing anxiety and apprehension. In this sense, when this Court exercises the power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, it assists and aids the cause of justice.” Shilpa Sailesh: 7. The issue regarding invocation of the extraordinary powers of this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India in cases of marital disputes is no more res-integra and has been settled by a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Shilpa Sailesh. The power to grant a decree of divorce under Article 142(1) of the Constitution is exercisable by the Courts when, in the opinion of this Court there is complete and irretrievable breakdown of marriage, in spite of the other spouse opposing such prayer. Three substantial questions of law were formulated for consideration in Shilpa Sailesh. The third question was: “Whether this Court can grant divorce in exercise of power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India when there is complete and irretrievable breakdown of marriage in spite of the other spouses opposing the prayer?” Learned senior counsel for both the parties have placed reliance on the said of this Court, although citing different parts and paragraphs. 7.1 Learned senior counsel for the respondent has drawn our attention to the following paragraph of the in Shilpa Sailesh: “33. Having said so, we wish to clearly state that grant of divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage by this Court is not a matter 1372 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports of right, but a discretion which is to be exercised with great care and caution, keeping in mind several factors ensuring that ‘complete justice’ is done to both parties. It is obvious that this Court should be fully convinced and satisfied that the marriage is totally unworkable, emotionally dead and beyond salvation and, therefore, dissolution of marriage is the right solution and the only way forward. That the marriage has irretrievably broken down is to be factually determined and firmly established. For this, several factors are to be considered such as the period of time the parties had cohabited after marriage; when the parties had last cohabited; the nature of allegations made by the parties against each other and their family members; the s passed in the legal proceedings from time to time, cumulative impact on the personal relationship; whether, and how many attempts were made to settle the disputes by intervention of the court or through mediation, and when the last attempt was made, etc. The period of separation should be sufficiently long, and anything above six years or more will be a relevant factor. But these facts have to be evaluated keeping in view the economic and social status of the parties, including their educational qualifications, whether the parties have any children, their age, educational qualification, and whether the other spouse and children are dependent, in which event how and in what manner the party seeking divorce intends to take care and provide for the spouse or the children.