The law is very clear – fraud vitiates everything, but merely alleging fraud does not amount to proving it. For, it has to be proven in accordance with law by adducing evidence etcetera, the onus of which would also lie on the person alleging fraud. Long ago, 5 learned Judges in Bishnudeo Narain v Seogeni Rai, 1951 SCR 458, had laid down: ‘… Now if there is one rule which is better established than any other, it is that in cases of fraud, undue influence and coercion, the parties pleading it must set forth full particulars and the case can only be decided on the particulars as laid. There can be no departure from them in evidence. General allegations are insufficient even to amount to an averment of fraud of which any court ought to take notice however strong the language in which they are couched 6 Para 19 of Sobina Iakai (Smt) (supra). 1006 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports may be, and the same applies to undue influence and coercion. See 6 Rule 4, Civil Procedure Code.’ (emphasis supplied) 14. Of much more recent vintage, is the decision in Bhaurao Dagdu Paralkar v State of Maharashtra, (2005) 7 SCC 605, wherein it was explained as under: ‘9. By “fraud” is meant an intention to deceive; whether it is from any expectation of advantage to the party himself or from ill will towards the other is immaterial. The expression “fraud” involves two elements, deceit and injury to the person deceived. Injury is something other than economic loss, that is, deprivation of property, whether movable or immovable or of money and it will include any harm whatever caused to any person in body, mind, reputation or such others. In short, it is a non-economic or non-pecuniary loss. A benefit or advantage to the deceiver, will almost always cause loss or detriment to the deceived. Even in those rare cases where there is a benefit or advantage to the deceiver, but no corresponding loss to the deceived, the second condition is satisfied. [See Vimla (Dr.) v. Delhi Admn. [1963 Supp (2) SCR 585: AIR 1963 SC 1572] and Indian Bank v. Satyam Fibres (India) (P) Ltd. [(1996) 5 SCC 550] ] 10. A “fraud” is an act of deliberate deception with the design of securing something by taking unfair advantage of another. It is a deception in to gain by another’s loss. It is a cheating intended to get an advantage. (See S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath [(1994) 1 SCC 1].) 11. “Fraud” as is well known vitiates every solemn act. Fraud and justice never dwell together. Fraud is a conduct either by letters or words, which induces the other person or authority to take a definite determinative stand as a response to the conduct of the former either by words or letters. It is also well settled that misrepresentation itself amounts to fraud. Indeed, innocent misrepresentation may also give reason to claim relief against fraud. A fraudulent misrepresentation is called deceit and consists in leading [2024] 9 S.C.R.