[Para 15] List of Acts Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973; Constitution of India. List of Keywords Quashing; Counter-allegations; Money extracted for securing job; Police to exercise heightened caution; Resources of the law enforcement agency; Abuse of process of law. Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No.1007 of 2024 From the and dated 11.07.2023 of the High Court of Chhattisgarh at Bilaspur in WPCR No. 703 of 2022 Appearances for Parties Sameer Shrivastava, Dr. Sangeeta Verma, Shivendra Dixit, Advs. for the Appellants. Gautam Narayan, Ms. Asmita Singh, Harshit Goel, Sujay Jain, Sachin Patil, Kailas Bajirao Autade, Sunil Kumar Sethi, Advs. for the Respondents. 366 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court Vikram Nath, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. As a law enforcement agency, the police force shoulders the vital responsibility of preserving public , guarding social harmony, and upholding the foundations of justice. However, the current case, full of counter-accusations of financial impropriety and broken promises, highlights the complex matters that occasionally make their way into the hands of the police force. Beyond the immediate contours of the case, a broader question emerges regarding the balancing of interests that ought to be done between addressing unscrupulous private grievances and safeguarding public interests. From the counter-allegations levelled against each other between the parties in the present case, it becomes evident that the police finds itself entangled in the irrelevant and trivial details of such unethical private issues, diverting the resources away from the pursuit of more consequential matters. The valuable time of the police is consumed in investigating disputes that seem more suited for civil resolution. This underscores the need for a judicious allocation of law enforcement resources, emphasizing the importance of channelling their efforts towards matters of greater societal consequence. 3. By means of this appeal, challenge is to the correctness of the and dated 11.07.2023 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Chhattisgarh in WPCR No.703 of 2022 dismissing the writ petition of the appellant for quashing the criminal proceedings arising out of FIR bearing Crime No.248 of 2022. 4. Relevant facts for deciding the present appeal are as follows: a) The appellant made a complaint dated 06.04.2021 to the Collector, District Janjgir-Champa (Chhattisgarh) alleging that the respondent no.6 (Rajkumari Maravi) had allured the appellant that she would secure a job for his brother -Raj Kumar Shivas as she had good contacts with higher officers and demanded substantial amount for doing this favour. The appellant got allured and paid Rs.80,000/- cash at the first instance. Later on an additional demand was made and, according to the [2024] 2 S.C.R. 367 Deepak Kumar Shrivas & Anr. v. State of Chhattisgarh & Ors. complaint made by the appellant, he has thereafter deposited about Rs.20,000/- and odd in different bank accounts, details of which were provided by respondent no.6. When nothing happened and no job was provided to his brother, he approached the respondent no.6 for returning the money paid by him upon which she threatened him of false implication and later on she stopped responding to his calls and started avoiding him.