2 initially refused to take the Appellant – wife with him, but after considerable persuasion, she managed to accompany Respondent No. 2 to London. However, soon after, Respondent No. 2 allegedly abandoned her and forcefully confined her to the residence of her sister-in-law. At the same time, Respondent No. 2 returned to India. 3.2. Appellant No. 2, who is the father of the Appellant – wife, had to intervene in the aforesaid circumstances and facilitate the latter’s return to India. Subsequently, on 02.06.2008, the Appellant 628 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports – wife gave birth to a male child. The Appellants allege that Respondent No. 2 and his family members did not provide any financial assistance to the Appellant – wife and the minor child. In January, 2009, the Appellant – wife sought to obtain a passport for the minor child based allegedly upon Respondent No. 2’s instructions. Respondent No. 2 also assured them that he had arranged their stay in the United Kingdom. Shortly thereafter, the minor child’s passport was issued, and Respondent No. 2 obtained a sponsorship letter from his brother-in-law, Dr. M.K. Shariff, which was duly forwarded to the United Kingdom High Commission. The sponsorship letter stated that Dr. M.K. Shariff would accommodate the Appellant – wife and the minor child during their visit to the United Kingdom and specifically mentioned the minor child’s passport number. 3.3. However, as per the allegations of the Appellants, the duration of marriage with Respondent No. 2 was fraught with physical and mental torture solely on account of Respondent No. 2’s relentless financial demands. More pertinently, Respondent No. 2, during his visit to India towards the end of 2009, subjected the Appellant – wife to coercion and torture. These acts of intimidation prompted the Appellant – wife to file a complaint against Respondent No. 2 and his family members on 07.04.2010 before the Basavangudi Women Police Station, Bengaluru. The complaint was registered as Crime No. 68 / 2010, under Sections 346, 498A and 506, read with Section 34 IPC. Additionally, the complaint alleges that Respondent No. 2, on the pretext of arranging for their travel to the United Kingdom, took away the minor child’s passport and jewellery items belonging to the Appellant – wife. 3.4. Having learnt of the complaint filed by his wife, Respondent No. 2 also lodged a complaint of his own on 13.05.2010 before the Adugodi Police Station, alleging that the Appellants had forged his signatures on the minor child’s passport application and submitted the same to the Regional Passport Office, Bengaluru, at the time when Respondent No. 2 was in the United Kingdom. This complaint was registered as FIR No. 141/2010 under Sections 420, 468 and 471 read with Section 34 IPC (hereinafter, ‘Concerned FIR’). [2024] 1 S.C.R. 629 Mariam Fasihuddin & Anr. v. State by Adugodi Police Station & Anr. 3.5. Following the investigation conducted in the Concerned FIR, the investigating agency proceeded to file a chargesheet, implicating the Appellants and one Mr. Aksar Ahmed Sheriff, who is a travel agent, for procuring the minor child’s passport using forged documents.