The relevant clause for disputes to be decided by three arbitrators was thus: “(c) For the disputes to be decided by three Arbitrators, the Purchaser will make out a list of five engineers from the aforesaid panel. The supplier and Purchaser shall choose one Arbitrator each, and the two so chosen shall choose the third Arbitrator from the said list, who shall act as the presiding Arbitrator.” 4. The issue before a two-Judge Bench of this Court was whether the panel of arbitrators prepared by DMRC violated Section 12 of the Arbitration Act. This Court emphasized that an arbitrator appointed in terms of the agreement between the parties must be independent of the parties. Further, this Court held that Section 12(5) read with the Seventh Schedule does not put an embargo on retired government employees from serving as arbitrators. It held that “[b]ias or even real likelihood of bias cannot be attributed to such highly qualified and experienced persons, simply on the ground that they served the Central Government or PSUs.”7 5. The Court held that the arbitration clause had the following adverse consequences: (i) the choice given by DMRC to the other party was limited; and (ii) the discretion given to DMRC to curate a panel of five persons gave rise to the suspicion that it “may have picked up its own favourites.” To remedy the situation, it was held that a 7 Voestalpine (supra) [25]. [It reads: “26. It cannot be said that simply because the person is a retired officer who retired from the government or other statutory corporation or public sector undertaking and had no connection with DMRC (the party in dispute), he would be treated as ineligible to act as an arbitrator. Had this been the intention of the legislature, the Seventh Schedule would have covered such persons as well. Bias or even real likelihood of bias cannot be attributed to such highly qualified and experienced persons, simply on the ground that they served the Central Government or PSUs, even when they had no connection with DMRC. The very reason for empanelling these persons is to ensure that technical aspects of the dispute are suitably resolved by utilising their expertise when they act as arbitrators. It may also be mentioned herein that the Law Commission had proposed the incorporation of the Schedule which was drawn from the red and orange list of IBA guidelines on conflict of interest in international arbitration with the observation that the same would be treated as the guide “to determine whether circumstances exist which give rise to such justifiable doubts”. Such persons do not get covered by red or orange list of IBA guidelines either.”] 2196 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports choice must be given to both parties to nominate any person from the entire panel of arbitrators. Further, this Court observed that in case of a government contract where the authority to appoint an arbitrator rests with a government entity, there is an imperative to have a “broad based panel”8 to instil confidence in the mind of the other party and secure the principle of independence and impartiality at the stage of the constitution of the arbitral tribunal.9 6.