This is to be contrasted with Section 34(5), also a procedural provision, the infraction of which leads to no consequence. To construe such a provision as being mandatory would defeat the advancement of justice as it would provide the consequence of dismissing an application filed without adhering to the 52 [2018] 7 SCR 1147 : (2018) 9 SCC 472 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1309 V.S. Palanivel v. P. Sriram, CS, Liquidator, Etc. requirements of Section 34(5), thereby scuttling the process of justice by burying the element of fairness.” (emphasis added) 35.8 It can be discerned from the aforesaid discussion that when the law prescribes that a certain act has to be done in a particular manner for a party to acquire a right, then it ought to be treated as mandatory in character more so, when the Statute prescribes a consequence for failure to comply with the requirements laid down. 35.9 The words “may” and “shall” used in different provisions of Schedule I of the IBBI Regulations, 2016 go to show that the legislature intended to ascribe different meanings to the said words depending on the steps required to be taken by the Liquidator for the sale of the assets of a Corporate Debtor. A perusal of the Rules under Schedule I demonstrate that a play in the joints has been given to the Liquidator only in particular circumstances relating to the sale of an asset through auction. Wherever the underlying intention is to maximize realization from the sale of assets, discretion has been vested in the Liquidator to sell the asset through auction in the best interest of the creditors, but not otherwise. For the rest of the steps towards sale of an asset, the mandate of the Statute is in the affirmative. In other words, a particular step if prescribed, is necessarily required to be taken by the Liquidator in the manner prescribed in the Rules under Schedule I. He is not left with any discretion to condone the delay. 35.10 When broken down, Rule 12 states that (a) the highest bidder in an auction shall be called upon to provide the balance sale consideration within 90 days from the date of such a demand; (b) any payments made after 30 days from such a demand shall attract interest at the rate of 12 per cent; (c) if the payment is not received within the period of 90 days, the sale shall be cancelled. The word ‘shall’ has been used thrice in Rule 12. Coming next to Rule 13, the same states that (a) the sale shall stand completed on the payment of the full amount; (b) the Liquidator shall execute a sale certificate/ sale deed to transfer such an asset(s); (c) the asset(s) shall be delivered in the manner prescribed in terms of the sale. 1310 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The word “shall” has again been used thrice in Rule 13. It is noticed that except for Rules 4A, 4B, 8 and Rule 11A where the word “may” has been used and it vests a discretion in the Liquidator to reduce the reserve price more than once and conduct multiple rounds of auctions with the purpose of maximizing realization from the sale of assets in the best interest of the creditors, in the remaining Rules, the word “shall” features prominently and without an exception.