13.1. The prosecution heavily relied on the evidence of P.W.1 and P.W.2, who are said to be eye-witnesses to the occurrence. PW1 Kale Hasan – complainant / son of the deceased, deposed that on 30.10.1997 at about 9.45 p.m., his parents viz., Abdul Hameed and Mangti Devi, were sitting in their Baithak Chappar (courtyard) and talking with each other; the four accused persons came there; the appellant had a katta in his hand, Veer Singh had a ballam, and Dharamveer and Mintu had sticks in their hands; they came to the door of Baithak; Dharamveer, Mintu and Veer Singh asked the appellant to shoot his father and teach him a lesson for not giving jaggery; the appellant fired bullet on his father which hit on his chest and left arm; on hearing the sound of bullet shot, P.W.2, Gufran Ali and Nasim immediately reached the spot; they saw the accused persons fleeing away, after firing; they chased them, but did not catch them; and all the four accused ran away. He further stated in his deposition that he, Gufran Ali and Nasim took the deceased to Laksar Hospital where the doctor declared him dead and asked to take him to Police Station; then, they came to Police Station and narrated the incident to Daroga, who advised them to lodge a report against the accused persons; and he (P.W.1) had written report (Ext.A1) and given it to Police Station. 13.2. P.W.2 Gufran Ali / grandson of the deceased corroborated the evidence of P.W.1. He categorically stated that all the accused were armed with weapons; the appellant shot the deceased by a katta which hit on his chest; and he had a torch in his hand; and he tried to hold the accused, but they fled away. 13.3. P.W.3 Furkan stated about the material objects, such as, lantern, battery having 3 cells, one sole quilt, Dutai and Khes, etc., recovered in the scene of occurrence. 778 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13.4. P.W.4 Akbar deposed that he was one of the members of the police party and in his presence, on pointing out by the appellant, one country made pistol, concealed in the sugarcane field of Dharamdas under a transformer, was recovered. 13.5. P.W.5 Niyamul, a witness of inquest report (Ext.A4) inter alia stated in his evidence that body of the deceased was kept in a white cloth, sealed and sent for post-mortem. 13.6. P.W.6 Jagat Kumar Singh – Investigating Officer explained about the conduct of investigation. According to him, on receipt of the report, a case was registered against the accused for the offence under section 302 IPC; inquest report (Ext.A4) was prepared; after inspection, site plan (Ext.A9) was marked; statements of the witnesses were recorded; recovery of the material objects was made; samples of bloodstained soil and plain soil were collected; body of the deceased was sent for post-mortem; after investigation, charge sheet (Ext.A8) was filed against four accused under section 302 IPC; and upon getting necessary sanction, charge sheet (Ext.A15) was filed against the appellant for the offence under section 25/27 of the Arms Act.