However, during the pendency of the present proceedings, the Supreme Court in In Re: Interplay Between Arbitration Agreements under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,1996 and the Indian Stamp Act,18993 delivered on 13.12.2023 has overruled the decision in NN Global (supra). The 7-judge bench had noted, inter alia, that the purpose of the Stamp Act,1899 is to protect the interests of revenue and not arm litigants with a weapon of technicality by which they delay the adjudication of the lis. This may be the reason why the Counsel chose not to orally argue on this point. 13. The two grounds noted above, need not detain us as the fundamental issue that requires determination is whether enforcement can be refused on the ground of bias. In these proceedings, challenging the High Court’s , the appellants reiterate their contention that the enforcement of the award is impermissible on the ground of arbitral bias and is contrary to the “public policy of India” as per Section 48(2)(b) of the Indian Arbitration Act. Discussion 14. Against this background, the consideration to be made in these matters is whether the High Court was correct in its decision to reject the objection under Section 48(2)(b) of Indian Arbitration Act against enforcement of the foreign Award on the grounds of arbitral bias and violation of public policy. This raises a further question as to whether the ground of bias could be raised at the enforcement 2 [2023] 9 SCR 285 : (2023) 7 SCC 1 3 [2023] 15 SCR 1081 : (2023) INSC 1066 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 981 Avitel Post Studioz Limited & Ors. v. HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius) Limited (Previously Named Hpeif Holdings 1 Limited) stage under Section 48(2)(b) for being violative of the “public policy of India” and the “most basic notions of morality or justice”? 15. India was one of the earliest signatories to the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, 1958 (for short “New York Convention”)4. The New York Convention superseded the Geneva Convention of 1927 to facilitate the enforcement of foreign Arbitral Awards5. Article V(2) of the New York Convention reads as under: “2. Recognition and enforcement of an arbitral award may also be refused if the competent authority in the country where recognition and enforcement is sought finds that: (a) The subject matter of the difference is not capable of settlement by arbitration under the law of that country; or (b) The recognition or enforcement of the award would be contrary to the public policy of that country.” 16. The precursors to the New York Convention on the contrary provided for an expansive scope for invoking the public policy ground based on the violation of the “fundamental principles of the law”. Although the notion that ‘public policy’ is ‘a very unruly horse’ has gained traction over the years6, one would also do well to remember the words of Lord Denning who said that, “With a good man in the saddle, the unruly horse can be kept in control.”7 This would suggest that a proper understanding of this branch of law by the horse rider would be necessary.