10. Surprisingly, the complainant M/s Shiv Bhandar has not come forward to challenge the of the Rajasthan High Court. It is the State of Arunachal Pradesh which has challenged the of the Rajasthan High Court. 11. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material on record in both the cases. 12. We are of the view that the matter was purely civil in nature. It was a case of money advancing for which no written document was executed to indicate its purpose or import as such whether it was a loan advance or an advance payment for transfer of property being land/building situate in Jaipur, is not borne out from any records. Such claim of the complainant that it was for transfer of property for land/building prescribed above, would be a matter of evidence to be led and established in the Court of law rather than the police investigating the same and finding out. It is not the case of complainant [2024] 4 S.C.R. 631 The State of Arunachal Pradesh v. Kamal Agarwal & Ors. Etc. as stated in FIR that the plot/land as alleged by them which was to be transferred to them did not exist or had been sold or transferred to somebody else and therefore, there was an element of cheating by the accused persons. If the accused persons were not transferring the land and if the complainant could establish an agreement/contract with respect to the same in a Court of law, it ought to have filed a civil suit for appropriate relief. Appellant Chandra Mohan Badaya had already explained as to how he had already repaid Rs.37 lacs through bank transaction and also transferred two properties worth more than Rupees One Crore. All these aspects could be thrashed out before a competent Civil Court. It could not be said to be a case of cheating. 13. A simple reading of the FIR itself does not disclose any cognizable offence for which the FIR should be registered and maintained. Although Chandra Mohan Badaya appellant has sought to explain that he had already returned Rs.37 lakhs by bank transfer to the complainant and had further executed two transfer deeds in favour of the wife and sister-in-law of Anil Agrawal, the power of attorney holder which valued at total amount of more than Rs.1.45 Crores. Even if we do not accept this contention as the same would be subject matter of evidence, what we find is that the complaint lodged by the respondent No.2 was not worth being registered as a complaint and that too in the State of Arunachal Pradesh. 14. The High Court of Rajasthan had rightly found as a matter of fact considering all aspects of the matter that the offence, if any, although according to us, no offence is made out, would be within the territorial jurisdiction of Rajasthan and not Arunachal Pradesh. 15. The State of Arunachal Pradesh ought to have been happy getting rid of an unnecessary Criminal Case being registered and tried in Arunachal Pradesh Why the State of Arunachal Pradesh has approached this Court is also a question to be answered by the said State when the complainant in a matter relating to civil/commercial dispute is not coming forward to defend its FIR which has been quashed by the Rajasthan High Court.