We are only saying that if a State chooses to do it, it is not impermissible in law.” 141. The Court in unequivocal terms held that even among backward classes, there can be a sub-classification on a reasonable basis. The Court held that there can be backward and more backward classes and the State may think it advisable to provide a special benefit to the more backward among the backward classes. It has been observed that where to draw the line and how to effect the sub-classification is, however, a matter for the Commission and the State, and so long as it is reasonably done, the Court may not intervene. 142. The Court observed that Article 16(4) recognizes only one class i.e., “backward class of citizens”. It is observed that it does not speak separately of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, as does Article 15(4). It has therefore been observed that it is beyond controversy that Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are also included in the expression “backward class of citizens” and that separate reservations can be provided in their favour. 143. It has also been observed that if Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and Other Backward Classes are lumped together, the OBCs will take 1532 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports away all the vacancies leaving Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes high and dry. It has been observed that the same logic also warrants categorization as between more backward and backward. The Court, however, cautioned that it may not be construed as implying that the State should do it, but it was only saying that if the State chooses to do so, it is not impermissible in law. 144. Similar view has also been expressed by P.B. Sawant, J. in paragraphs 523, 524 and 525, which read thus: “523. As regards the second part of the question, in Balaji [1963 Supp 1 SCR 439 : AIR 1963 SC 649] it was observed that the backward classes cannot be further classified in backward and more backward classes. These observations, although made in the context of Article 15(4) which fell for consideration there, will no doubt be equally applicable to Article 16(4). The observations were made while dealing with the recommendations of the Nagan Gowda Committee appointed by the State of Karnataka which had recommended the classification of the backward communities into two divisions, the Backward and the More Backward. While making those recommendations the Committee had applied one test, viz., “Was the standard of education in the community in question less than 50% of the State average? If it was, the community was regarded as more backward; if it was not, the community was regarded as backward.” The Court opined that the sub-classification made by the Report and the based thereupon was not justified under Article 15(4) which authorises special provision being made for ‘really backward classes’. The Court further observed that in introducing two categories of backward classes, what the impugned in substance purported to do was to devise measures “for the benefit of all the classes of citizens who are less advanced compared to the most advanced classes in the State”.