8. The appellant was diagnosed with neuro tuberculosis, which diagnosis was without examination by a neurologist whose opinion, according to us, would seem to be elementary. The AFT’s opinion that the need of the medical specialist was fulfilled by placing an oncologist on Board is something with which we cannot agree. The appellant while serving in the army was being prematurely discharged; thus extreme caution and care in ensuring correct diagnoses was required. The respondents have deliberately tried to cover up the wrong diagnosis in spite of the 2003 Guidelines and the test reports of the appellant. The respondents had the opportunity from 2007 onwards to rectify and correct themselves after the of the single Judge of the High Court dated 20th April, 2006. The Medical Board, which was constituted upon the appellant availing the statutory remedy, arbitrarily, wrongly and in our opinion deliberately vide dated 20th October, 2009 rejected the appellant’s prayer on flimsy and wrong grounds by applying the 1992 Guidelines. Even disability pension 874 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was denied by categorising the appellant as suffering from AIDS, a self-inflicted condition. 9. Significantly, the appellant had submitted between the period of 2007 and 2012, as many as four diagnostic reports, showing that his CD4 cell count was above 300 cells/mm3, as opposed to the respondents’ 2003 Guidelines defining an AIDS illness to be one where the CD4 cell count is below 200 cells/mm3. 10. The apathetic attitude of the respondents to the appellant’s plight is evident in the repeated submission that has been made before all fora, i.e., the appellant’s case had been re-examined several times and thus did not merit another look. It is borne out from the record that other than the Medical Report, which the appellant alleges was made by a doctor who did not treat him, and the review of such report by the IMB, his case was never again considered on its merits. The dismissal of the appellant’s application by the DGAFMS vide dated 20th October, 2009 can only be called perfunctory at best, since it did not take into account any of the material subsequently produced by the appellant. 11. The respondents’ submissions, as elaborate as they may be, in defence of the AIDS diagnosis which was used to discharge the appellant from service, are rendered unworthy of acceptance on the face of his existence today, as an asymptomatic HIV+ve individual without the intervention of any anti-retroviral therapy. 12. The severance of the employer – employee relationship can never be said to be an easy choice, for it not only results in the employee losing his livelihood, but also affects those who depend on him for their survival. And if the employer happens to be the Indian Army, the loss is even greater, since it has the effect of suddenly displacing a soldier from the regimented lifestyle of the military. The appellant, who was trained to live a disciplined life since the tender age of 19, was unnecessarily and without cogent reason thrust into civilian life with little warning or preparation.