4 [(3) Any authority prescribed in this behalf may with respect to any particular foreigner make s under clause (e) 5 [or clause (f)] of sub-section (2).] 75 “Foreigners ” 76 Foreigners 1948; Paragraph 3 (1)(a) 77 Foreigners 1948; Paragraph 3 (1)(b) 78 Foreigners 1948; Paragraph 3(2)(a) 79 Act 11 of 1957, Section 2 1272 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports from the soil of India did not apply to migrants from West and East Pakistan. However, even before the immigrants from West and East Pakistan were considered ‘foreigners’ for the purpose of the Foreigners Act, Parliament enacted the Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act 1950. The Statement of Objects and Reasons states that the Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act 1950 was enacted to deal with the large scale immigration of migrants from East Bengal to Assam: "During the last few months a serious situation had arisen from the immigration of a large number of East Bengal residents into Assam. Such large migration is disturbing the economy of the Province, besides giving rise to a serious law and problem. The Bill seeks to confer necessary powers on the Central Government to deal with the situation.” 53. The enactment granted the Central Government the power to remove any person or class of persons who came into Assam and whose stay is detrimental to the interests of Assam.80 The enactment carved out an exception with respect to any person who was displaced from any area in Pakistan (which includes the present day Pakistan and Bangladesh) on account of civil disturbances or the fear of it.81 It is crucial to note that this Act only applied to immigrants in Assam and not the rest of India. Shri Gopalaswami, while introducing the Bill, explained the objective for singling out Assam as follows: "The Bill itself is a simple one. In the State of Assam, particularly after the Partition, the influx of persons from outside Assam into that State has been assuming proportions which have caused apprehensions to the Government and the people of Assam as to the disturbance that such an influx would cause to their economy. The Assam Government brought this fact to the notice of the Central government in 1949, and since then, the matter has been under examination; a number of conferences and discussions have been held, some with Pakistan, others between central Government and the State 80 The Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act 1950; Section 2 81 The Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act 1950; proviso to Section 2 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1273 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 Government. Various suggestions were considered. […] it was finally settled in consultation with them that instead of introducing a permit system which would control the entry of outsiders into Assam, we might take power to expel from Assam such foreign nationals who entered that State and whose continuance was likely to cause disturbance to its economy.” 54. The earlier draft of the Bill did not include an exception for ‘refugees’ from East and West Pakistan.