On this ground alone, we find the Impugned to be wholly erroneous as it employs Section 52 of the Act to nullify the RSD and on that basis, concludes that the impleadment application is untenable. Contrary to this approach of the High Court, the law on impleadment of subsequent transferees, as established by this Court has evolved in a manner that liberally enables subsequent 674 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports transferees to protect their interests in recognition of the possibility that the transferor pendente lite may not defend the title or may collude with the plaintiff therein [See the decision of this Court in Amit Kumar Shaw vs. Farida Khatoon, (2005) 11 SCC 403 & A. Nawab John vs. V.N. Subramaniyam, (2012) 7 SCC 738]. 18. Similarly, we also find fault with the of the ADJ and its misplaced reliance on Bibi Zubaida (supra). The only principle emerging from the of this Court in Bibi Zubaida (supra) is that transferees pendente lite cannot seek impleadment as a matter of right and to that extent, we agree with the ADJ. However, Bibi Zubaida (supra) does not place a bar on impleadment of transferees who purchase property without seeking leave of the Court. The decision of the Court in Bibi Zubaida (supra) turns on its own facts; the Court rejected the application for joinder therein noting that the underlying suit was pending since 1983 and upheld the finding of the Trial Court that the subsequent purchaser was not bona fide and attempted to complicate and delay the underlying suit. Therefore, the in Bibi Zubaida (supra), being distinguishable on facts, does not assist the Respondents herein. 19. The Respondents herein assail the impleadment of the Appellant on the ground that he is not a bona fide purchaser as he had full knowledge of the pending litigation. While that is the admitted position, there exists no bar to the impleadment of transferees pendente lite with notice. Permitting the impleadment of a transferee pendente lite is, in each case, a discretionary exercise undertaken to enable a purchaser with a legally enforceable right to protect their interests especially when the transferor fails to defend the suit or where there is a possibility of collusion. 20. In the particular facts and circumstances of this case, Mr. Sundaram has been able to satisfy this Court on the possibility of collusion between the Respondents. It is a fact that the Plaintiffs and Defendants are relatives. More importantly, Plaintiffs approached the court in the Underlying Suit after a substantial delay of 11 years whereas admittedly, the revenue records were mutated to reflect the name of Respondent No. 21 since 2007. It is also curious that the claim of non-payment of consideration by the Appellant was made for the first time before this Court. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 675 Yogesh Goyanka v. Govind & Ors. 21. On the other hand, the Appellant has a registered sale deed in his favor and has therefore seemingly acquired an interest in the Subject Land.