On recording of the said submissions, the Coordinate Division Bench of the same High Court observed thus: “17. On a consideration of the rival submission on this aspect, we notice that there has been reliance made in the detention regarding the documents mentioned above which might have forced the detaining authority to reach the conclusion about the previous smuggling activities and which necessitated the present of detention. In spite of a specific request, as seen from Ext. P12 in the above cases, we find copies were not given. In as much as the contents of the above being relied upon and they have not been given despite asking for them, we feel there has been infraction of the right of the detenus to make an effective representation seeking release. 18. The learned counsel for the petitioner is right in stating that the detaining authority ought to have furnished the said materials as their right to make an effective representation has been impaired. It is relevant to note in the decision of the Supreme Court in Atma Ram Vaidya v. State of Bombay [AIR 1951 SC 157]. The Hon’ble Supreme Court held that: [2024] 8 S.C.R. 467 Shabna Abdulla v. The Union of India & Ors. Para 10. “To put, it in other words, the detaining authority has made its decision and passed its . The detained person is then given an opportunity to urge his objections which in cases of preventive detention comes always at a later stage. The grounds may have been considered sufficient by the Government to pass its . But to enable the detained person to make his representation against the , further details may be furnished to him. In our opinion, this appears to be the true measure of the procedural rights of the detained person under Article 22 (5).” Para 12. “The conferment of the right to make a representation necessarily carries with it the obligation on the part of the detaining authority to furnish the grounds, i.e., materials on which the detention was made. In our opinion, it is therefore clear that while there is a connection between the obligation on the part of the detaining authority to furnish grounds and the right given to the detained person to have an earliest opportunity to make the representation, the test to be applied in respect of the contents of the grounds for the two purposes is quite different. As already pointed out, for the first, the test is whether it is sufficient to satisfy the authority. For the second, the test is, whether it is sufficient to enable the detained person to make the representation at the earliest opportunity”. Para 13 “But when grounds which have a rational connection with the ends mentioned in section a of the Act are supplied, the first condition is satisfied. If the grounds are not sufficient to enable the detenue to make a representation, the detenue can rely on his second right and if he likes may ask for particulars which will enable him to make the representation.