.... We have considered it necessary to advert to this question as it is one of general importance and are of the considered opinion that the answer must be in the negative. While the Contract Act embodies the general law of contract, the SARFAESI Act is a special enactment, inter alia, for enforcement of security interest without intervention of court. Rule 9(5) providing for forfeiture is part of the Rules, which have validly been framed in exercise of statutory power conferred by section 38 of the SARFAESI Act. Law is well settled that rules, when validly framed, become part of the statute. …” 62 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 68. What can be discerned from the above is that the SARFAESI Act is a special legislation with an overriding effect on the general law, and only those legislations which are either specifically mentioned in Section 37 or deal with securitization will apply in addition to the SARFAESI Act. Being so, the underlying principle envisaged under Section(s) 73 & 74 of the 1872 Act which is a general law will have no application, when it comes to the SARFAESI Act more particularly the forfeiture of earnest-money deposit which has been statutorily provided under Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules as a consequence of the auction purchaser’s failure to deposit the balance amount. b. Concept of Earnest-Money & Law on Forfeiture of Earnest- Money Deposit: 69. This aforesaid aspect may be looked at from another angle. Section(s) 73 and 74 of the 1872 Act deal with the consequences and compensation for a breach of contract. It enables a suffering party to recover such quantum of loss or liquidated damages from a party in breach so as to make good the loss incurred by it and be put in the same position prior to its losses. 70. At this juncture, it would be apposite to refer to the meaning of ‘forfeiture’. The word forfeiture is derived from the French word ‘forfaiture’ which means the loss of property by violation of his own duty. The Black’s Law Dictionary defines ‘forfeiture’ as follows [See: Henry Campbell Black on “Black’s Law Dictionary”, 1968, 4th Edition]: - “the loss of a right, privilege, or property because of a crime, breach of obligation, or neglect of duty.” “something (especially money or property) lost or confiscated by this process; a penalty” “a destruction or deprivation of some estate or right because of the failure to perform some obligation or condition contained in a contract” 71. This Court in R.S. Joshi, Sales Tax Officer, Gujarat & Ors. v. Ajit Mills Limited & Anr. reported in (1977) 4 SCC 98, while explaining the true purport and meaning of the term ‘forfeiture’ observed that whether a forfeiture clause is penal in nature must be decided in the specific setting of a statute. The relevant observations read as under: - [2024] 2 S.C.R. 63 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu “18. Coming to ‘forfeiture’, what is the true character of a ‘forfeiture’ ?