The Act, 1971 is intended to correct a person deviating from the norm and trying to breach the law/assuming law on to himself. It intends to secure confidence of the people in the administration of justice by disciplining those erring in disobeying the s of the Court/undertaking given to court. xxx xxx xxx 56. Hence, the expression or word “wilful” means act or omission which is done voluntarily or intentionally and with the specific intent to do something which the law forbids or with the specific intent to fail to do something the law requires to be done, that is to say with bad purpose either to disobey or to disregard the law. It signifies a deliberate action done with evil intent or with a bad motive or purpose.” (emphasis added) 38. To determine as to whether a person is guilty of civil contempt, it is necessary to first hold that the person has willfully disobeyed any judgement, decree, , writ or any other process of the Court. Of equal significance is a wilful breach of an undertaking given to a Court. Mere disobedience of an may not suffice to qualify as a “civil contempt” within the meaning of Section 2(b) of the Act. The element of willingness is a prerequisite to bring home the charge within the scope of the Act [Refer : Anil Ratan Sarkar (supra)]. This must not be confused with a wilful breach of an undertaking given 22 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1139 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 437 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others to the opposite party in a litigation. While an undertaking given to a party in a litigation whether by way of a settlement / agreement (oral or in writing) or an assurance, does not attract the provisions of the Act, an undertaking given to a Court of law is treated on an entirely different footing and a breach of the said undertaking would no doubt, attract the provisions of the Act. It has to be seen in the facts and circumstances of a case as to whether the undertaking is one offered to the Court or to the other side. 39. In Babu Ram Gupta v. Sudhir Bhasin and Another23 this Court drew a distinction between a party failing to honour an undertaking resulting in a fraud on the Court as against failure to adhere to a consent by a party and observed that: “8. …..while it is the duty of the court to punish a person who tries to obstruct the course of justice or bring into disrepute the institution of judiciary, this power has to be exercised not casually or lightly but with great care and circumspection and only in such cases where it is necessary to punish the contemner in to uphold the majesty of law and dignity of the courts. 9 …..Contempt proceeding against a person who has failed to comply with the Court a serves a dual purpose: (1) vindication of the public interest by punishment of contemptuous conduct and (2) coercion to compel the contemner to do what the law requires of him…… 10.