Hon. The Chief Justice for being heard by a bench of at least 7 judges so that S. Azeez Basha’s case may also be considered and the points that arise in this case directly as to the essential conditions or ingredients of the minority institution may also be decided once for all. A large number of jurists including Mr. Seervai, learned counsel for the petitioners Mr. Garg and learned counsel for respondents and interveners Mr. Dikshit and Kaskar have stated that this case requires reconsideration. In view of the urgency it is necessary that the matter should be decided as early as possible we give liberty to the counsel for parties to mention the matter before Chief Justice.” (emphasis supplied) The above extract indicates that the following three questions were of concern to this Court: (i) the essential conditions or ingredients of a minority educational institution; (ii) whether the expression ‘establish’ in Article 30 means that the institution should be established only by a minority without any association by other communities; and (iii) whether the registration under the Societies Registration Act 1860 after the establishment of the institution alters its character. 6. About a month after the referring the matter to a Bench of seven Judges, the AMU Act was amended. On 31 December 1981, the Aligarh Muslim University (Amendment) Act 19819 received the assent of the President. Various provisions of the AMU Act were amended, including the long title and preamble from which the words “establish and” were omitted.10 Section 2(l) which defined the term ‘University’ was also amended.11 After the amendment, ‘University’ was defined to mean “the educational institution of their choice established by the Muslims of India, which originated as the Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental College, Aligarh, and which was subsequently incorporated as the Aligarh Muslim University.” The amendment included Section 5(2)(c) by which the University was required to promote “the educational and cultural advancement of the Muslims of India”.12 9 AMU (Amendment) Act 1981 10 AMU (Amendment) Act 1981, Section 2 11 AMU (Amendment) Act 1981, Section 3 12 AMU (Amendment) Act 1981, Section 4 1686 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 7. In 2002, an eleven-Judge Bench of this Court in TMA Pai Foundation v. State of Karnataka13 heard a batch of tagged matters which included Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya (supra). This Court formulated a question which reflected the reference made in Anjuman-e- Rahmaniya (supra). The question was as follows: what is the indicia for an educational institution to be a minority education institution to which the rights in Article 30 would apply: “3(a) What are the indicia for treating an educational institution as a minority educational institution? Would an institution be regarded as a minority educational institution because it was established by a person(s) belonging to a religious or linguistic minority or its being administered by a person(s) belonging to a religious or linguistic minority?” 8. Despite framing the question arising from the reference, this Court did not answer it in TMA Pai (supra). The decision stated that a regular Bench would adjudicate the question.