In this sense, substantive equality factors in multiple aspects of inequality offering a multidimensional approach that allows the Court to address the interplay of various aspects of equality, and equally accommodate differences instead of masking them with formal equality.64 69. A literal reading of the Constitution’s equality provisions – Articles 14, 15, 16, and 17 which collectively form the core of equality – supports an interpretation of substantive equality. While these Articles are broadly interconnected, they also confer independent rights. Article 18, which prohibits the granting of titles to Indian citizens, aligns with this objective, serving as a response to the colonial practice of elevating certain Indians over others. 70. Article 15(1) explicitly bars discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, caste, sex, and place of birth. These can be loosely called proscribed grounds for classification.65 Classifications based on these criteria will be unconstitutional, unless permitted by clauses (3), (4), (5), and (6) of Article 15 of the Constitution of India, when they are justified on the ground of anti-subordination. Latter clauses specifically permit the State to create special provisions for women and children, and for the advancement of socially and educationally backward classes, including Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. These are anti-subordination grounds.66 The clauses permit 64 Supra note 50. 65 However, as held, classification on the basis of proscribed grounds is not forbidden vide Article 14, albeit it should satisfy principles of anti-subordination and non-arbitrariness. Classification based on proscribed grounds must at the same time, to be valid, independently meet the mandate of Articles 15 to 18 of the Constitution. Articles 15 to 18 confer independent rights to equality, which are not diluted or foregone in compliance to Article 14. However, it would be rare that such a situation would arise, once the test of substantive equality is satisfied. 66 Anti-subordination grounds refer to the objectives of the legislation. They are not classifications. As in case of proscribed grounds for classification, in case of anti-subordination grounds, the court’s scrutiny is not totally prohibited, albeit substantive equality test will be satisfied when anti-subordination principle 1416 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports provisions for their admission to educational institutions, whether aided or unaided by the State, with the exception of minority educational institutions. Under Article 15(6), the State is authorized to enact laws for the economically weaker sections, allowing for up to ten percent reservation in employment. Article 16, which deals with equality of opportunity in matters of public employment, prohibits discrimination of any citizen on the ground or religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or residence. However, it permits the State to make provisions for reserving appointments for backward classes that are inadequately represented, as well as for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in State services. 71. Article 14, which provides for equality before the law, and mandates that the State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or equal protection of laws, does not specifically refer to a particular classification unlike Articles 15 and 16 of the Constitution, allowing greater legislative flexibility.