13. Introduction of Directive Principles in our Constitution was a unique and innovative attempt by the framers of the Constitution, as it had till then hardly any precedent in the written Constitutions of the world, except the Irish Constitution, from where these principles have largely been borrowed. It was still an innovative step for it expands and elaborates Directive Principles, unlike as given in the Irish Constitution. While moving the Constitution (First Amendment) Bill, 1951 in Parliament, the Prime Minister said this: “The Constitution lays down certain Directive Principles of State Policy and after long discussions we agreed to them and they point out the way we have got to travel. The Constitution also lays down certain Fundamental Rights. Both are important. The Directive Principles of State Policy represent a dynamic move towards a certain 26 Inserted by s.9 of the Constitution (Forty-Second Amendment) Act, 1976. 278 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports objective. The Fundamental Rights represent something static, to preserve certain rights which exist. Both again are right”.27 Again, while moving the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Bill, 195428 the Prime Minister stressed on the importance of Directive Principles and held them to be more important than Fundamental Rights, it was said as under: “I would like to draw the attention of the house to something that is not adequately stressed either in the Parliament or in the Country. We stress greatly and argue in Courts of Law about the Fundamental Rights. Rightly so, but there is such a thing also as the Directive Principles of Constitution… Those are, as the Constitution says, the fundamentals in the governance of the Country … if, … there is an inherent contradiction in the Constitution between the Fundamental Rights and the Directive Principles of State Policy,…. It is up to this Parliament to remove the contradiction and make the Fundamental Rights subserve the Directive Principles of the State Policy”.29 At the same time, another Member of Parliament M.S. Gurupadaswamy, while speaking on the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Bill, 1954 underlined the importance of Directive Principles of State Policy and its purpose: “I may point out that the rights that have been given in the chapter on Directive Principles are more fundamental than some of the so called Fundamental Rights. I feel that the principles enunciated in Part III and Part IV of the Constitution are inconsistent in a way… it is unfortunate that the Directive Principles are treated as less important than the so called Fundamental Rights. Some of the Directive Principles seem to be more fundamental than the Fundamental Rights. The Fundamental Rights chapter 27 See Justice O. chinnaPPa reddy, the cOurt and the cOnstitutiOn Of india: suMMits and shallOws (Oxford University Press, 2008), Pgs. 74-75. 28 This bill led to the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955. 29 See Justice O. chinnaPPa reddy, the cOurt and the cOnstitutiOn Of india: suMMits and shallOws (Oxford University Press, 2008), Pgs. 74-75. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 279 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors.