They further stated that they could not file a company petition when the name of the company was struck off from the rolls of the Registrar of Companies. They asserted that the name of the company was restored in August, 2017, but the company filed Annual Returns for the years 2014-15 to 2016- 248 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17 only on 12.06.2018. It was after this event that the appellants claim to have found that their names were not in the shareholders’ list and questioned the Directors about such non-inclusion. They further claim that the Directors assured them that after the police case was closed, the names of the appellants would be added but the appellants found out that even after the closure of the case on 30.06.2018, their names were not shown as shareholders. It was in these circumstances that the company petition was filed before the NCLT. The appellants asserted that it was due to these reasons that they could not call for an Annual General Meeting, as they were not shown as shareholders of the company. 22. In response to the third query as to why they did not take steps when the annual accounts were not audited and submitted to them or with the Registrar of Companies, the appellants stated that, as they were informed that there was a police case against the Auditor of the company, they could not take any steps to get the accounts audited and submitted to them. They further stated that due to the fiduciary relationship between respondents 2 to 4 and the appellants, they never suspected that the respondents were not holding Annual General Meetings and were mis-managing the affairs of the company. Further, the Directors are stated to have promised that the issue would be settled and that the Annual Returns would be updated with the Registrar of Companies and that the investors’ names would be updated. However, despite such assurances by the Directors, the appellants deemed it prudent to inspect the records of the company by accessing its master data on the MCA portal in 2017 and were shocked to find that the affairs of the company were being run contrary to law, as a result of which the name of the company was struck off by the Registrar of Companies. The appellants also came to know that their shareholding was not reflected in the Register of Members and they accordingly filed a composite petition before the NCLT under Sections 59 and 241 of the Act of 2013. 23. Satisfactory answers having been furnished by the appellants as aforestated, it would be appropriate at this stage to take note of the statutory provisions and precedential law relating thereto. Originally, Section 155 of the Companies Act, 1956, dealt with rectification proceedings in connection with entry of names in the Register of Members of a company. Section 155 was omitted with effect from 31.05.1991. Section 111 and Section 111-A were inserted in the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 249 Chalasani Udaya Shankar and others v. M/s.