In other words, such a vulnerable woman cannot be constrained to seek remedy only under the provisions of the 1986 Act. The choice remains with her to be exercised in accordance with law and discretion. However, if a divorced Muslim woman already has an passed under Section 125 of the CrPC, and thereafter also files an application under Section 3 or Section 4 of the 1986 Act and an is made under the said Act also, in such an event, there could be an alteration in the of payment for maintenance or interim maintenance, as the case may be, under Section 127 of the CrPC. This is in to ensure that there is no double benefit which would be availed by a divorced Muslim woman under Section 125 of the CrPC as well as under the 1986 Act. x. Hence, what emerges is that the 1986 Act is not a substitute for Section 125 of the CrPC and nor has it supplanted it and both can operate simultaneously at the option of a divorced Muslim woman as they operate in different fields. As I find no conflict between the provisions of the 1986 Act, which is a piece of legislation in the nature of quasi-personal law insofar as the divorced Muslim wife is concerned and Section 125 of the CrPC which is a statutory provision applicable to women belonging to all faiths therefore the latter cannot be restricted in its operation to divorced Muslim women. I find that if Section 125 of the CrPC is excluded from its application to a divorced Muslim woman, it would be in violation of Article 15(1) of the Constitution of India which states that the State shall not discriminate against any [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1309 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. citizen only on the ground of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them. Further, our interpretation is consistent with the spirit of Article 15(3) of the Constitution. 2019 Act: 41. At this juncture, Section 5 of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019 (“2019 Act”) merits consideration. “5. Subsistence allowance.- Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained in any other law for the time being in force, a married Muslim woman upon whom talaq is pronounced shall be entitled to receive from her husband such amount of subsistence allowance, for her and dependent children, as may be determined by the Magistrate.” Section 5 extends to Muslim women upon whom talaq is pronounced. Talaq is defined in Section 2(c) as ‘talaq-e-biddat’ or any other similar form of talaq having the effect of instantaneous and irrevocable divorce pronounced by a Muslim husband which is void and illegal as per Section 3 of the said Act.’ In other words, married Muslim woman can seek subsistence allowance if talaq, as defined in the 2019 Act, is pronounced on her. In case a woman has been divorced in a valid manner, she can approach the Magistrate under the 1986 Act but if she has been the victim of the mischief defined under the 2019 Act, then her right to subsistence allowance is secured through Section 5 of the 2019 Act.