The provisions of Section 12, coupled with the Fifth and Seventh Schedules, will come to the aid of the court in coming to the conclusion on whether the arbitral tribunal maintains the sanctity of a credible remedy. 28. Section 11(8): Section 11(8) of the Arbitration Act recognises the power of the court to appoint an arbitrator de hors the arbitration agreement to secure the independence and impartiality of the arbitral tribunal, and consequently to ensure that public policy is protected. Sections 11(6) and 11(8) reads: “11. Appointment of arbitrators – … (6) Where, under an appointment procedure agreed upon by the parties,— (a) a party fails to act as required under that procedure; or (b) the parties, or the two appointed arbitrators, fail to reach an agreement expected of them under that procedure; or [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2309 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company (c) a person, including an institution, fails to perform any function entrusted to him or it under that procedure, a party may request the Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court or any person or institution designated by such Court to take the necessary measure, unless the agreement on the appointment procedure provides other means for securing the appointment. *** (8) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court or the person or institution designated by such Court, before appointing an arbitrator, shall seek a disclosure in writing from the prospective arbitrator in terms of sub- section (1) of section 12, and have due regard to— (a) any qualifications required for the arbitrator by the agreement of the parties; and (b) the contents of the disclosure and other considerations as are likely to secure the appointment of an independent and impartial arbitrator.” 29. Section 11(8) comes into play when the court is required to secure the appointment of the arbitrator on an application by the parties under sub-sections (4), (5), or (6). We are concerned with sub- section (6) here, as it applies when the parties have determined an appointment procedure but it fails due to the failure of one of the parties, the appointed arbitrators, or the entrusted arbitral institution. In such cases, the court will appoint the arbitrator upon an application from the parties, and while doing so, it shall have due regard to the qualifications required of the arbitrator by the agreement and other consideration as are likely to secure the appointment of an independent and impartial arbitrator, as provided under sub- section (8). 30. While the general rule is that the court may adhere to the appointment procedure in the agreement in view of party autonomy, it is not bound by this procedure.57 Rather, Section 11(8) allows the Court to weigh 57 Indian Oil Corporation v. Raja Transport Pvt Ltd (2009) 8 SCC 520, para 45; North Eastern Railway v. Tripple Engineering Works (2014) 9 SCC 288, paras 5-8. 2310 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports other considerations regarding the qualifications of the arbitrator under the agreement, or to secure the independence and impartiality of the arbitrator, and in that light, appoint a person as an arbitrator by deviating from the procedure in the agreement.58 When “there is material to create a reasonable apprehension that the person mentioned in the arbitration agreement as the arbitrator is not likely to act independently or impartially… then the Chief Justice or his designate may, after recording reasons for not following the agreed procedure for referring the dispute to the named arbitrator, appoint an independent arbitrator in accordance with Section 11(8) of the Act.”59 31.