… It is true that in Devadasan case, the final of this Court was in these terms: “In the result the petition succeeds partially and the carry forward rule as modified in 1955 is declared invalid.” That however does not mean that this Court held that the 1952-rule must be deemed to exist because this Court said that the carry forward rule as modified in 1955 was declared invalid. The carry forward rule of 1952 was substituted by the carry forward rule of 1955. On this substitution the carry forward rule of 1952 clearly ceased to exist because its place was taken by the carry forward rule of 1955. Thus by promulgating the new carry forward rule in 1955, the Government of India itself cancelled the carry forward rule of 1952. When therefore this Court struck down the carry forward rule as modified in 1955 that did not mean that the carry forward rule of 1952 which had already ceased to exist, because the Government of India itself cancelled it and had substituted a modified rule in 1955 in its place, could revive it. We are therefore of the opinion that after the of this Court in Devadasan case there is no carry forward rule at all, for the carry forward rule of 1955 was struck down by this Court while the carry forward rule of 1952 had ceased to exist when the Government of India substituted the carry forward rule of 1955 in its place.” The Court in BN Tewari found that after the rule was amended in 1955, the 1952 rule ceased to exist and even after the 1955 rule was struck down, the 1952 rule did not revive as it had been repealed by the Government itself. At first glance, the decision in BN Tewari also supports the “Pen and Ink” theory propounded by the appellants and results in an identical outcome to that in ATB Mehtab Majid. 71 T Devadasan [22] (Mudholkar J). 86 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports We have already adverted to the limitations and inconsistencies with this approach as highlighted in the cases of Laxmibai, Central Provinces Manganese Ore, and DK Trivedi & Sons. However, this case also demonstrates the practical difficulties that may arise if an unconstitutional provision revives. In T Devadasan, the Court had held the underlying basis for the carry forward rule to be unconstitutional. If the Court in BN Tewari had found the carry forward rule stood revived, it would have resulted in the revival of a rule that was (at the time) ex-facie unconstitutional and repugnant to the holding in the T Devadasan. Thus, in addition to the narrower issue of whether a pre-existing rule is revived, the Court in BN Tewari was also mindful of the relationship between the unamended provision and the decision to invalidate the amendment. BN Tewari is an example of where allowing the unamended rule to revive would have revived a (at the time) unconstitutional rule. 63. The need to assess not only the entirety of the legislative circumstances but also the judicial decision invalidating the amending statute is also apparent from the decision in Shaukat Khan v State of Andhra Pradesh.72 The case concerned the Hyderabad Inams Abolition Act, 1955 which was eventually repealed as amended by the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Abolition of Inams Act, 1967.