(3) to (7) xx xx 776 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 7. Procedure in relation to Board.— (1) & (2) xx xx (3) A Board may act notwithstanding the absence of any member of the Board, and no passed by the Board shall be invalid by the reason only of the absence of any member during any stage of proceedings: Provided that there shall be atleast two members including the Principal Magistrate present at the time of final disposal of the case or in making an under sub-section (3) of section 18. (4) In the event of any difference of opinion among the members of the Board in the interim or final disposal, the opinion of the majority shall prevail, but where there is no such majority, the opinion of the Principal Magistrate, shall prevail. x x x Section 14. Inquiry by Board regarding child in conflict with law.—(1) Where a child alleged to be in conflict with law is produced before Board, the Board shall hold an inquiry in accordance with the provisions of this Act and may pass such s in relation to such child as it deems fit under sections 17 and 18 of this Act. (2) The inquiry under this section shall be completed within a period of four months from the date of first production of the child before the Board, unless the period is extended, for a maximum period of 2 more months by the Board, having regard to the circumstances of the case and after recording the reasons in writing for such extension. (3) A preliminary assessment in case of heinous offences under section 15 shall be disposed of by the Board within a period of three months from the date of first production of the child before the Board. (4) If inquiry by the Board under sub-section (2) for petty offences remains inconclusive even after the extended period, the proceedings shall stand terminated: [2024] 5 S.C.R. 777 Child in Conflict with Law Through his Mother v. The State of Karnataka and Another Provided that for serious or heinous offences, in case the Board requires further extension of time for completion of inquiry, the same shall be granted by the Chief Judicial Magistrate or, as the case may be, the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, for reasons to be recorded in writing. (5) xx xx x x x Section 15. Preliminary assessment into heinous offences by Board.—(1) In case of a heinous offence alleged to have been committed by a child, who has completed or is above the age of sixteen years, the Board shall conduct a preliminary assessment with regard to his mental and physical capacity to commit such offence, ability to understand the consequences of the offence and the circumstances in which he allegedly committed the offence, and may pass an in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 18: Provided that for such an assessment, the Board may take the assistance of experienced psychologists or psycho- social workers or other experts.