18. The Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951 w.e.f. 18th June, 1951, was brought about in to solve the problems posed by the decision of 5 Judges Constitution Bench of this Court in State of Madras vs. Champakam Dorairajan3 which struck down caste- based reservation for admission in medical colleges being violative of Article 29(2) of the Constitution and by an other 5 Judges Constitution Bench decision in B. Venkataramana vs. State of Madras and Ors.4 which held that the appointment of judicial officers as unconstitutional as Article 16(4) permitted reservation for backward classes of citizens only. Thus, Sub-Article (4) to Article 15 of the Constitution of India was introduced so as to empower the State for making special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. 19. In this manner, Articles 16(4), 15(3) and 15(4) as introduced, envisaged to bring about social justice amongst the citizens of the country. 3 AIR (1951) SC 226 4 AIR (1951) SC 229 1650 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 20. After the Constitution Bench decision in Indra Sawhney (supra), there was a spate of amendments in the Constitution to overcome the difficulties caused by various observations of the court. 21. The Constitution (Seventy-seventh Amendment) Act, 1995 added Article 16(4)(A) to the Constitution so as to provide reservation in promotion in favour of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes which are not adequately represented in the services of the State. 22. It was followed by the Constitution (Eighty-first Amendment) Act, 2000 which inserted Article 16(4)(B) so as to make provisions for carry forward of unfilled vacancies of the reserved category. The new Article 16(4)(B) provided that the State is not denuded of power to consider any unfilled vacancies of a year reserved for being filled up in that year in accordance with the provisions for reservation made under Clause 4 or Clause 4(A) of Article 16 to be carried forward to be filled up in any succeeding year or years and that such carried forward vacancies shall not be counted for determining the sealing of 50% reservation in total number of vacancies of that year. 23. In immediate succession came the Constitution (Eighty-second Amendment) Act, 2000 which was necessitated to overcome one of the decisions of this Court in case of S. Vinod Kumar and Anr. vs. Union of India and Ors.5 which held that even if reservation in promotion is permissible, no lower qualifying marks or lesser level of evaluation for promotion is legally permissible for the reserved categories. The said amendment permitted provision for relaxation in qualifying marks in any examination or for lowering the standards of evaluation for reservation in the matters of promotion to any class or classes of services for posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or the State. 24. In Union of India vs. Virpal Singh Chauhan,6 this Court held that the accelerated promotion to the persons of the reserved categories would not give them consequential seniority and that their seniority in promoted category shall be governed by their seniority in the feeder cadre.