Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 5204 of 2024 From the and dated 20.08.2024 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay at Aurangabad in CRWP No. 698 of 2024 Appearances for Parties Nachiketa Joshi, Sr. Adv., Sandeep Sudhakar Deshmukh, Nishant Sharma, Ankur S. Savadikar, Advs. for the Appellant. Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Bharat Bagla, Aditya Krishna, Ms. Preet S. Phanse, Adarsh Dubey, Advs. for the Respondents. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 639 Arjun S/o Ratan Gaikwad v. The State of Maharashtra and Others / of the Supreme Court B.R. Gavai, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The appeal is taken up for hearing. 3. This appeal challenges the and dated 20th August 2024 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, Bench at Aurangabad in Criminal Writ Petition No. 698 of 2024, thereby dismissing the petition filed by the appellant herein. 4. Shorn of details, the facts leading to the present appeal are as under: 4.1 The District Magistrate, Parbhani passed an under Section 3(2) of the The Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug-Offenders, Dangerous Persons, Video Pirates, Sand Smugglers and Persons Engaged in Black-Marketing of Essential Commodities Act, 1981 (hereinafter referred to as ‘MPDA Act’) and thereby detaining the appellant for a period of twelve months, so as to prevent him from indulging in the activities of bootlegging thereby preventing the maintenance of peace. 4.2 The detaining authority had basically relied on the six cases registered against the appellant by the State Excise Department. The grounds of detention were communicated to the appellant on 5th March 2024. The detention was approved on 14th March 2024 by the Home Department and the confirmation was passed on 8th May 2024 by the Government of Maharashtra. Several grounds were raised in the petition including the ground that there was no nexus with the alleged activities of the appellant and the of the detention, inasmuch as there was a gap of about two and a half months between the proposal for detention being forwarded to the detaining authority and the detention being passed. It is also submitted that the authority had acted in a mechanical manner and without there being any material, had passed the detention . It was submitted that in any case, the alleged activities do not constitute a threat to the public and they would fall amongst cases which can be dealt with by ordinary law and machinery. 640 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 5. We have heard Shri Nachiketa Joshi, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant and Shri Siddharth Dharmadhikari, learned Standing Counsel for the State of Maharashtra. 6. Though, arguments have been advanced on various issues and a number of authorities have been cited, we find that the appeal deserves to be allowed on a short ground, inasmuch as none of the activities which form the basis of the detention can be said to be affecting public . 7. The basis on which the proposal for detention is passed is the following six cases which are registered by the Authority against the appellant:- Sr. Office with Crime No., Date and Charge Remark No.