(Dissenting) Entry 49 List II deals with taxation of lands and buildings – It does not cover taxes on mineral bearing lands – Constitutional position is different qua mineral bearing lands on account of Entry 50 List II read with Entry 54 List I and s.2 of the MMDR Act – Thus, any imposition on the basis of royalty by a State Legislature or involving royalty as a measure of the value of the minerals extracted from the land is impermissible – State legislatures have legislative competence under Art.246 read with Entry 49 List II to tax lands and buildings but not lands which comprise of mines and quarries or have mineral [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1553 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. deposits as mineral bearing lands do not fall within the description of lands (under Entry 49 List II) – Similarly, States can tax such mineral bearing lands which are not covered within the scope of MMDR Act-minor minerals, under Entry 50 List II and not under Entry 49 List II as tax on exercise of mineral rights – Thus, mineral bearing lands cannot be taxed under Entry 49 List II – Further, the yield of mineral bearing lands, in terms of quantity of mineral produced or royalty paid cannot also be used as a measure to tax such lands under Entry 49 List II – Decision in Goodricke’s case does not require any clarification – Entry 50 List II read with Entry 54 List I Seventh Schedule. [Paras 40d, 41f, g] Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 – ss.9, 2 – Constitution of India – Entry 49 List II, Entry 50 List II Seventh Schedule – Entry 50 List II, if a specific Entry in relation to Entry 49 List II, and would consequently subtract mining land from the scope of Entry 49 List II: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) Entries 49 and 50 of List II deal with distinct subject matters and operate in different fields – Mineral value or mineral produce can be used as a measure to impose a tax on lands under Entry 49 List II – “Limitations” imposed by Parliament in a law relating to mineral development with respect to Entry 50 List II do not operate on Entry 49 List II because there is no specific stipulation under the Constitution to that effect. [Para 342g, h] – Held: (per B.V. Nagarathna, J.) (Dissenting) Entry 50 List II is a specific Entry in relation to Entry 49 List II and would consequently subtract mining lands from the scope of Entry 49 List II, having regard to Entry 50 List II to be read with Entry 54 List I and s.2 of the MMDR Act. [Para 40e] Mines and Minerals – Royalty, in the nature of tax or not – Divergence between India Cement’s case and Kesoram’s case – India Cement’s case held that royalty is a tax, and as such a cess on royalty being a tax on royalty, is beyond the competence of the State legislature because s.9 of the Central Act covers the field and the State legislature is denuded of its competence under Entry 23 List II whereas Kesoram’s case held that royalty is not a tax, but a payment made to the owner of land who may be a person and may not necessarily be the State: 1554 [2024] 7 S.C.R.