7. The Principal Judge of the Family Court has submitted a report on the modalities which were followed. 8. Ms Saleena V G Nair has also submitted a comprehensive report dealing with her interaction with ‘X’. The report by Ms Nair indicates that sufficient time was granted to ‘X’ to express her intent and desire and she was given a break in the course of the recording of her statement so as to reflect on what she had stated. 9. ‘X’ is a major and has completed her Masters degree in Arts. She has stated that she intends to become a lecturer and is focused on her career. She has stated that she is in possession of a mobile phone and is free to move wherever she desires. Moreover, she has stated that she is living with her parents out of her own volition. While she has stated that the appellant is an “intimate friend”, she has stated that she does not wish to marry any person or live with any person for the time being. 10. There is no reason for this Court to disbelieve the report which has been prepared by a senior Judicial Officer after duly ascertaining the wishes of ‘X’. 11. Consequently, we are not inclined to entertain the Special Leave Petition on the ultimate outcome before the High Court. 12. However, we would wish to address a note of caution. Learned counsel for the appellant has submitted that in such matters, the High Court has been passing s directing the counselling of persons similarly situated as ‘X’ and there is an apprehension that [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1277 Devu G Nair v. The State of Kerala & Ors. the counselling should not turn out into a means to overcome the will of the corpus particularly in regard to their sexual orientation. 13. The High Courts must duly bear this facet in mind. Ascertaining the wishes of a person is one thing but it would be completely inappropriate to attempt to overcome the identity and sexual orientation of an individual by a process of purported counselling. Judges must eschew the tendency to substitute their own subjective values for the values which are protected by the Constitution. 14. Directions for counseling or parental care have a deterrent effect on members of the LGBTQ+ community. Courts must bear in mind that the concept of ‘family’ is not limited to natal family but also encompasses a person’s chosen family. This is true for all persons. However, it has gained heightened significance for LGBTQ+ persons on account of the violence and lack of safety that they may experience at the hands of their natal family. When faced with humiliation, indignity, and even violence, people look to their partner and friends who become their chosen family. These chosen families often outlast natal families as a source of immeasurable support, love, mutual aid, and social respect. 15. The importance of a chosen family is sometimes lost to the traditional assumption that the natal family is respectful of a person’s choices and freedoms.