In my opinion the legislation in question infringes the fundamental rights of the petitioner and offends against Article 14 of our Constitution.” [emphasis supplied] 37. It can be seen that His Lordship observed that if the mismanagement affecting production and resulting in unemployment is to be the basis of a classification for making a law for preventing mismanagement and securing production and employment, then the law must embrace within its ambit all companies which now are or may hereafter become subject to the vice. His Lordship held that the basis of classification by its very nature cannot be exclusively applicable to any particular company and its shareholders but was capable of wider application [2024] 10 S.C.R. 471 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another and, therefore, the law founded on that basis must also be wide enough so as to be capable of being applicable to whoever may happen at any time to fall within that classification. His Lordship observed that the basis of classification by its very nature was much wider and that there would be no classification at all and, therefore, there was no reason to throw on the petitioner the almost impossible burden of proving that there were other companies which were in fact precisely and in all particulars similarly situated. His Lordship observed that in the facts of the said case, the petitioner could very well claim to have discharged the onus of showing that the Company and its shareholders had been singled out for discriminating treatment, by showing that the Act, on the face of it, had adopted a basis of classification which, by its very nature, could not have been exclusively applicable to the Company and its shareholders, but which could also be equally applicable to the other companies and their shareholders. 38. It can thus be seen that though there appears to be disagreement on other aspects but all the opinions unanimously hold that even a legislation dealing with a single entity or an undertaking would be permissible in law, if it is based on a reasonable classification having nexus with the object to be achieved. The classification should be such wherein an entity or an undertaking to whom a special treatment is provided can be singled out on the basis of some reasonable classification from the others in the same class. 39. However, there appears to be disagreement with regard to the discharge of burden. Whereas the majority is of the view that there is a presumption with regard to validity of the enactment and that the burden is on the person who challenges the validity thereof, the minority holds that in such cases wherein an entity has been singled out, then once the petitioner points out that he has been singled out from a class similarly circumstanced, the same should be taken as having discharged the burden. It has been held by the minority that asking the petitioner to discharge the burden by placing the evidence in such cases would be asking him to do an impossibility.