If persons with disabilities must repeatedly turn to the courts to correct the missteps of authorities, then the rights recognized by this Court and the RPWD Act risk becoming hollow assurances. For every person who has the awareness or ability to move this Court there are numerous others 16 [2021] 13 SCR 823 : (2023) 2 SCC 209 2210 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports who suffer in silence. In the present case, the appellant was subjected to protracted and mentally exhausting assessments that failed to apply the correct standards, leading to a declaration of ineligibility. His first journey by air was not for leisure or education but to undergo a medical assessment in Delhi by an of this Court. In this process, valuable time was lost, and the appellant faced intrusive and irrelevant questioning. Persons with disabilities often confront systemic failures that engender a deep sense of disappointment - a disappointment that reflects the frequency and predictability with which the system fails them. Those with disabilities who aspire to succeed must not only plan meticulously but also brace themselves for the barriers they will inevitably face due to their disabilities. 33. For many persons with disabilities, the stress of medical visits - the frequent trips to hospitals, the constant readiness to attend appointments, the long waits, the uncertainty of a doctor’s availability, and the anxiety over the results - forms part of their lived reality. At the very least, they deserve a process and an outcome that is fair and reasoned. The mental toll which processes before a medical board has on people is recognised by this Court. In A (Mother of X) v. State of Maharashtra,17 this Court had the opportunity to opine on the shifting stances of medical boards which are often observed in cases relating to medical termination of pregnancy. This Court held that the lack of application of proper standards, simpliciter recantation of statutory provision and changes in opinions cause undue mental trauma to the pregnant person. In the backdrop of the fear of prosecution which many registered medical practitioners (RMP) have, this Court emphasised on the role of medical experts to ensure that the fundamental rights of persons before them is not compromised. The Court held as follows: “...The opinion of the RMP is decisive in matters of termination of pregnancy under the MTP Act. The purpose of the opinion of the RMP borrows from the legislative intent of the MTP Act which is to protect the health of a pregnant person and facilitate safe, hygienic, and legal abortion. The right to abortion is a concomitant right of dignity, autonomy 17 2024 INSC 371 : [2024] 5 SCR 470 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2211 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. and reproductive choice. This right is guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The decision to terminate pregnancy is deeply personal for any person. The choice exercised by a pregnant person is not merely about their reproductive freedom but also about their agency as recognised by this court in X v. State (NCT of Delhi).