The borrowers have admitted that they were in default and that the Bank had a right to recover its dues in accordance to law; (iii). After the auction sale, the borrowers have deposited the entire outstanding amount independent of the auction money which is additionally lying with the Bank; 638 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iv). The Bank has admitted that there was non-compliance of the statutory provisions in conducting the sale and as such had conceded before the DRT that the sale in question may be set aside and the Bank be granted liberty to proceed afresh; (v). The Bank has admitted that the auction money of Rs.12.40 lacs is lying in a separate fixed deposit and this amount is in addition to the outstanding amount deposited by the borrower after the auction sale. 12. Considering the above facts and circumstances and the arguments advanced, we proceed to deal with the same: (i). In view of the concurrent finding based on the admission by the Bank that mandatory notice of 30 days was not given to the Borrower before holding the auction/sale, the setting aside of the auction/sale cannot be faulted with. The same has to be approved. (ii). Once the sale is set aside, the status of the appellants as owners would automatically revert to that of tenants. The status of possession at best could have been altered from that of an owner to that of tenants but Bank would not have any right to claim actual physical possession from the appellants nor would the appellants be under any obligation to handover physical possession to the Bank. The DRT fell in error on the said issue. Therefore, the direction issued by the DRT that the Bank will first take possession and thereafter refund the auction money with interest applicable to fixed deposits, is not a correct direction; (iii). The entire controversy has arisen because of the Bank not following the prescribed mandatory procedure for conducting the auction sale and, therefore, the Bank must suffer and should be put to terms for unnecessarily creating litigation. As of date the dues of the Bank have been fully discharged and an additional amount of the auction money is lying with the Bank since 2009. This amount is to be returned to the appellants. In such facts and circumstances of the case, we are of the view that the award of interest on the auction money at the rate applicable to fixed deposits is not a correct view. The rate of interest deserves to be enhanced. (iv). We could have considered awarding 24 per cent per annum compound interest on the auction money to be refunded to the [2024] 4 S.C.R. 639 Govind Kumar Sharma & Anr. v. Bank of Baroda & Ors. appellants in view of serious illegality committed by the Bank in conducting the auction and driving the parties to litigation. Considering the fact that the money of the Bank is also public money, we feel that interest of justice would be best served if the auction money with 12 per cent per annum compound interest is returned to the appellants.