In matrimonial disputes, this Court has emphasized the need to prioritize welfare and dignity of both parties. Forcing a marriage to continue when it has become a source of unhappiness and conflict undermines the very purpose of the institution of marriage. In the present case, the interests of both the parties are best served by allowing both parties to move on with their lives independently. 35. In view of the above, this Court upholds the of the High Court granting a decree of divorce to the respondent. The appellant’s submissions are rejected as lacking in merit, both on procedural and substantive grounds. This Court reiterates that cruelty, long separation, and irretrievable breakdown of marriage, as established in this case, and thus, provide sufficient justification for dissolving the marriage. 36. While granting the decree of divorce, we deem it appropriate to award permanent alimony to the appellant wife and the parties’ daughter. Although the appellant wife has not specifically claimed any monetary relief or maintenance during these proceedings, it is trite and equitable to grant such relief, considering the financial status of 9 [1997] 2 SCR 875 : (1997) 4 SCC 226 10 [2023] 5 SCR 165 : (2022) 15 SCC 754 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 767 Amutha v. A.R. Subramanian the parties, their professional backgrounds, and the larger interest of justice. The financial independence of a party does not preclude the High Court from granting maintenance if it is necessary to secure dignity, social standing, and financial stability post-divorce, especially in cases where the marriage has subsisted for a long period. 37. It is undisputed that both, the appellant and the respondent are software engineers and were earning handsomely at the time of their marriage more than two decades ago. It is reasonable to infer that their respective incomes must have increased substantially over the years. However, considering the dynamics of their separation and the financial burdens the appellant may have borne during the protracted litigation, this Court finds it necessary to award her a lumpsum permanent alimony of Rs. 50,00,000/- (Rupees Fifty lakhs only) to secure her financial independence and ensure that she can lead her life with dignity. As observed in Kiran Jyot Maini vs. Anish Pramod Patel,11 the concept of maintenance and alimony encompasses a right to sustenance that allows the spouse to live in a manner suited to her status and standard of living, and the aim is not to penalise the husband. 38. Further, this Court recognizes the responsibility of both parents toward the well-being, education, and future prospects of their child. Although the daughter may be of an age where she is approaching independence, the financial support provided through this will be instrumental in meeting her educational needs as well as expenses related to her future marriage. A sum of Rs. 50,00,000/- (Rupees Fifty lakhs only) is, therefore, awarded to the daughter for these purposes. This is in line with the principles of safeguarding the interests of children suffering under distress of such prolonged matrimonial disputes between the parents.