The learned Judge rejected the approach of disaggregating the process of substitution into the two steps of repeal and enactment. When Parliament acted to substitute one provision with the other, it cannot be said to have intended to independently repeal the original provision absent clear evidence to the contrary. Where no intention to independently repeal the existing provision of law is to be found, the effect of invalidating a substitution is that the entirety of the substitution stands at nullity. In the NJAC Decision, Justice Khehar also opined on the dire consequences of the pre- existing appointment process for judges not reviving. He wrote: “413. … it would have to be kept in mind that if the construction suggested by the learned Solicitor General was to be adopted, it would result in the creation of a void. We say so, because if neither the impugned constitutional provision nor the amended provisions of the Constitution would survive, it would lead to a breakdown of the constitutional machinery inasmuch as there would be a lacuna or a hiatus insofar as the manner of selection and appointment of Judges to the higher judiciary is concerned. Such a position, in our view, cannot be the result of any sound process of interpretation..,” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 83 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. The above extract highlights a key issue originally expounded by Justice Hidayatullah in Laxmibai and reiterated by Central Provinces Manganese Ore and DK Trivedi & Sons; namely, that giving effect to the repeal while simultaneously invalidating the enactment could lead to a lacuna in the law, rendering a provision unworkable, or as in the case of the NJAC Decision, lead to a “constitutional crisis”. 61. The opinion of Justice MB Lokur in the NJAC Decision also highlights another aspect of this issue that must be kept in mind. Justice Lokur assessed the outcome of non-revival of the unamended text vis-à-vis the principles expressed in the judgement. The learned Judge wrote: “961. … If the contention of the learned Solicitor General is accepted, then on the facts of the case, the result would be calamitous. The simple reason is that if the 99th Constitutional Amendment Act is struck down as altering the basic structure of the Constitution and if Article 124(2) in its original form is not revived then Article 124(2) of the Constitution minus the words deleted (by the 99th Constitution Amendment Act) and minus the words struck down (those inserted by the 99th Constitution Amendment Act) would read as follows: “(2) Every Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal and shall hold office until he attains the age of sixty-five years:” 962. This would give absolute power to the President to appoint a Judge to the Supreme Court without consulting the Chief Justice of India (and also to appoint a Judge to a High Court). The result of accepting his submission would be to create a tyrant […] 963.