Digital Supreme Court Reports offence was committed by a person referred to in clause (b) during the period while a Proclamation issued under clause (1) of Article 356 of the Constitution was in force in a State, clause (b) will apply as if for the expression “State Government” occurring therein, the expression “Central Government” were substituted.] [Added by Act 43 of 1991, Section 2 (w.e.f. 2-5-1991).] 22. As already noted, the object and purpose of the said provision is to protect officers and officials of the State from unjustified criminal prosecution while they discharge their duties within the scope and ambit of their powers entrusted to them. A reading of Section 197 of the CrPC would indicate that there is a bar for a Court to take cognizance of such offences which are mentioned in the said provision except with the previous sanction of the appropriate government when the allegations are made against, inter alia, a public servant. There is no doubt that in the instant case the appellant herein was a public servant but the question is, whether, while discharging her duty as a public servant on the relevant date, there was any excess in the discharge of the said duty which did not require the first respondent herein to take a prior sanction for prosecuting the appellant herein. In this regard, the salient words which are relevant under sub-section (1) of Section 197 are “is accused of any offence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty, no Court shall take cognizance of such offence except with the previous sanction”. Therefore, for the purpose of application of Section 197, a sine qua non is that the public servant is accused of any offence which had been committed by him in “discharge of his official duty”. The said expression would clearly indicate that Section 197 of the CrPC would not apply to a case if a public servant is accused of any offence which is de hors or not connected to the discharge of his or her official duty. However, there are a line of s which have considered this expression in two different ways which we shall now advert to. 23. Learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the appellant have submitted the following s which indicate that Section 197(1) would apply prior to the initiation of a criminal proceeding under Section 197 of the CrPC. On the basis of the said s they have contended that it is during the discharge of her official duty that the demolition had taken place in the instant case and therefore, the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1613 Gurmeet Kaur v. Devender Gupta & Another necessity of an of sanction being passed by the Government was a sine qua non prior to initiation of the criminal proceeding. The s relied upon by the learned senior counsel for the appellant herein could be adverted to at this stage. a) In D.T. Virupakshappa vs. C. Subhash (2015) 12 SCC 231 (“D.T.