Therefore, the offence under Section 15(1) of the POCSO Act is not made out in the instant case.” (Emphasis supplied) (ii) Secondly, it observed that, even for the purposes of Section 67B of the IT Act there must be some material to show that the accused person had either browsed, downloaded, published, transmitted or created any material in electronic form depicting a child in a sexually explicit act or conduct. To constitute an offence under Section 67B of the IT Act the accused person must have intentionally either downloaded, browsed, recorded or transmitted a pornographic material involving a child. In the absence of any material to show or establish specific intention on the part of the accused to share or transmit the pornographic material found, no offence could be said to have been made out under Section 67B of the IT Act. Any accidental or automatic download of such material will not fall within the purview of the said provision. The relevant observations read as under: - “11. Publishing, transmitting or causing any material in electronic form which depicts children engaged in sexually explicit act or conduct or creation of text or digital images etc. are the ingredients under Section 67B of the IT Act also. xxx xxx xxx [2024] 10 S.C.R. 209 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. 13. Therefore, going by the decision, automatic or accidental downloading of children engaged in sexually explicit act or conduct is not an offence under Section 67B, once the specific intention to do so is not established, by the materials which form part of the prosecution records. 14. In the present case, the materials collected during investigation would show that some pornographic messages, which would depict children engaged in sexually explicit act or conduct were found in the devise of the accused. But there are no materials to show that the petitioner intentionally downloaded or browsed or recorded the same. More particularly there are no materials to show that the petitioner had either shared, transmitted or published the same in any manner. 15. Thus, the materials available do not suggest the ingredients to find prima facie, commission of offence under Section 67B of the IT Act.” (Emphasis supplied) As besides the recovery of the pornographic material from the device of the accused there was nothing to show that he had either shared or transmitted or intentionally downloaded the same in the first place. In such circumstances, the learned Single Judge held that no prima facie offence had been made out either under Section(s) 15(1) of the POCSO or 67B of the IT Act and thus, proceeded to quash the criminal proceedings. 68. Similarly, in Akash Vijay v. State of Kerala reported in 2024 KER 42626, the Kerala High Court placing reliance on the decision of Shantheeshlal T (supra) held that mere storage or possession of any pornographic material involving a child will not constitute an offence under Section(s) 15 of the POCSO or 67B of the IT Act in the absence of any material to show that the accused person either intentionally downloaded or browsed the said material or that he shared or transmitted the same.