Similarly, a man complicit of an offence, could very well institute a complaint under Section 200 Cr.P.C., examine himself as 10 ‘IPC’ [2024] 9 S.C.R. 371 Raghuveer Sharan v. District Sahakari Krishi Gramin Vikas Bank & Anr. a witness, make statements incriminating himself and claim immunity from prosecution. It could also be so that an investigating officer, under an honest mistake examines a man complicit of an offence as a witness in the case, the Court upon examining the other evidence, could conclude that the witness was complicit in the offence, the question then would be whether there would be complete bar on the Court to prosecute such witness for the offence on the basis of such other material. 19. The question that would then arise is whether the qualified privilege under the proviso to Section 132 of the Act, grants complete immunity to a person who has deposed as a witness (and made statements incriminating himself), notwithstanding the availability of other material with the prosecution? a. Whether a Court while trying an offence, is barred from initiating process under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C, against a witness in the said proceeding on the basis of other material on record? 20. As noted above, the qualified privilege under the proviso to Section 132 of the Act, is intended to ensure that all the evidence is placed before the Court to reach a just conclusion. In our view, it is not fathomable that a provision in the Evidence Act, the primary purpose of which was to ensure that all the material is before the Court and ensure that the ends of justice are met, could itself grant a blanket immunity to a witness (albeit complicit). Such an interpretation in our opinion would be unsustainable. Needless to say, that his statement cannot be used for any purpose whatsoever for the purposes of bringing such witness to trial. As such we hold that the qualified privilege under the proviso to Section 132 of the Act does not grant complete immunity from prosecution to a person who has deposed as a witness (and made statements incriminating himself). 21. However, the next question that would arise is what is the course available to a Court, which in the course of trial is confronted with evidence, other than the statement of the witness (against whom incriminating material is available)? Whether the Court can rely upon the statement of the witness for invoking the provisions of Section 319 Cr.P.C? Whether reference to any statement tendered by the witness would vitiate the under Section 319 Cr.P.C? 22. There cannot be an absolute embargo on the Trial Court to initiate process under Section 319 Cr.P.C., merely because a person, who 372 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports though appears to be complicit has deposed as a witness. The finding to invoke Section 319 Cr.P.C., must be based on the evidence that has come up during the course of Trial. There must be additional, cogent material before the Trial Court apart from the statement of the witness.