The borrower was directed to pay the dues of the Bank within 15 days with up to date interest, failing which the Bank would be at liberty to proceed further under the SARFAESI Act for recovery of its dues. 7. The appellants preferred an appeal before the DRAT registered as Appeal No. R-57 of 2015, which came to be dismissed, vide dated 19.04.2018. Thereafter the appellants approached the High Court by way of a Writ Petition registered as Writ Petition (C) No.20266 of 2018, which has since been dismissed by the impugned and , giving rise to the present appeal. 8. The submission advanced by learned counsel for the appellants is two-fold: firstly, that they were bonafide purchasers for value and, therefore, the DRT, the DRAT and the High Court erred in setting aside the sale and confirming it. The second submission advanced is that after the sale certificate was issued, the appellants have developed the suit property and have invested approximately Rs.60 lacs and in case the sale is to be set aside, the appellants should be suitably compensated not only by refund of the auction money [2024] 4 S.C.R. 637 Govind Kumar Sharma & Anr. v. Bank of Baroda & Ors. along with interest but also for the improvements made by them in developing the property and investment made therein. 9. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent-Bank submitted that although it had followed the procedure prescribed but could not substantiate with any material to rebut the findings recorded by the DRT, DRAT and the High Court that the Bank had failed to follow the statutory provisions of notice under Rules 8(6) and 8(7) of the 2002 Rules. It was further submitted that as the appellants have enjoyed the property as it was already in their possession, they cannot claim any additional compensation for the improvements made by them as they were well aware of the litigation initiated by the borrower by filing an application under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act and whatever improvements have been made were at their own risk. 10. Further, learned counsel for the borrower (respondent nos.3 and 4) submitted that they have already paid the entire outstanding dues of the Bank without adjusting the auction money received by the Bank which is lying separately in an escrow account because of the litigation. It was also submitted that the Bank admits that the entire dues have been paid but at the same time it has declined to issue the No Dues Certificate because of pendency of the litigation. It was also submitted that the Bank, without following due procedure, had conducted the auction and, therefore, the DRT rightly set aside the sale which has been confirmed by the DRAT and the High Court. 11. From the facts, as narrated above and the arguments advanced, the following is the admitted position: (i). The appellants were tenants in the premises in question which had been put up for auction. Their possession and status as tenants were converted into that of owners after the sale was confirmed and the sale certificate issued; (ii).