[2024] 2 S.C.R. 47 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu Explanation. In estimating the loss or damage arising from a breach of contract, the means which existed of remedying the inconvenience caused by the non-performance of the contract must be taken into account.” 49. The principles underlying Section 73 of the 1872 Act are well settled. The classic case dealing with remoteness of damages is Hadley & Anr. v. Baxendale & Ors. reported in (1843-60) ALL E.R. Rep. 461, wherein it was observed: “Where two parties have made a contract which one of them has broken, the damages which the other party ought to receive in respect of such breach of contract should be such as may fairly and reasonably be considered as either arising naturally, i.e., according to the usual course of things, from such breach of contract itself, or such as may reasonably be supposed to have been in the contemplation of both parties at the time they made the contract as the probable result of the breach of it. If special circumstances under which the contract was actually made were communicated by the plaintiffs to the defendants, and thus known to both parties, the damages resulting from the breach of such a contract which they would reasonably contemplate would be the amount of injury which would ordinarily follow from a breach of contract under these special circumstances so known and communicated. But, on the other hand, if these special circumstances were wholly unknown to the party breaking the contract, he, at the most, could only be supposed to have had in his contemplation the amount of injury which would arise generally, and in the great multitude of cases not affected by any special circumstances, from such a breach of contract. For, had the circumstances been known, the parties might have provided for the breach of contract by special terms as to the damages in that case; and of this advantage it would be very unjust to deprive them.” 50. The above principles were explained and clarified by the Court of Appeal in Victoria Laundry (Windsor) Ltd v. Newman Industrial Ltd., [1949] 2 K.B. 528 as under: 48 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “(1.) It is well settled that the governing purpose of damages is to put the party whose rights have been violated in the same position, so far as money can do so, as if his rights had been observed: … (2.) In cases of breach of contract the aggrieved party is only entitled to recover such part of the loss actually resulting as was at the time of the contract reasonably foreseeable as liable to result from the breach. (3.) What was at that time reasonably so foreseeable depends on the knowledge then possessed by the parties or, at all events, by the party who later commits the breach. (4.) For this purpose, knowledge “possessed” is of two kinds; one imputed, the other actual. Everyone, as a reasonable person, is taken to know the “ordinary course of things” and consequently what loss is liable to result from a breach of contract in that ordinary course.