In the arrest memo dated 26.06.2024, CBI mentioned in column 7 that it had explained the grounds of arrest to the appellant. The grounds of arrest were mentioned as under: He is not co-operating with the investigation and concealing the true facts even after being confronted with evidences gathered during the investigation so far and also the facts which are exclusively in his knowledge and relevant for the purpose of the investigation to reach to the just conclusion of the case. He is trying to purposely derail the investigation. He may influence the witnesses. 11.1 In the remand application, CBI mentioned in paragraph 17 that appellant was examined/interrogated in Tihar Jail on 25.06.2024. During his interrogation he remained evasive [2024] 9 S.C.R. 711 Arvind Kejriwal v. Central Bureau of Investigation and non-cooperative, failing to give satisfactory replies to the questions put to him regarding his role in the conspiracy. CBI mentioned as under: That Arvind Kejriwal was examined/interrogated in Tihar Jail on 25.06.2024. During his interrogation, he remained evasive and non-cooperative, failing to give satisfactory replies to the questions raised to him regarding his role in the matter of demand of upfront money of Rs. 100 Crores from co-accused persons of South Group, the acceptance and delivery of the same to Aam Aadmi Party through his close associate Vijay Nair as well as utilization of the ill-gotten money so received in the Assembly Elections of Goa during the year 2021-22 to meet the election related expenditures of Aam Aadmi Party. He further gave evasive replies regarding his role and the role of other co-accused in respect of criminal conspiracy hatched. His replies are contrary to the oral and documentary evidence gathered by CBI during the investigation. He is not disclosing the facts truthfully, despite being confronted with the incriminating evidence and also concealing the vital facts, which are exclusively in his knowledge. These facts are relevant for the purpose of the investigation to reach to the just conclusion of the case. 11.2 On 29.06.2024, learned Special Judge remanded the appellant to judicial custody till 12.07.2024. 12. Criminal Appeal No. 2493 of 2024 was heard by this Court in the meanwhile. On 12.07.2024, a detailed was passed. A bench of two Hon’ble Judges of this Court framed the following three questions of law for consideration by a larger bench: (a) Whether the “need and necessity to arrest” is a separate ground to challenge the of arrest passed in terms of Section 19(1) of the PML Act? (b) Whether the “need and necessity to arrest” refers to the satisfaction of formal parameters to arrest and take a person into custody, or it relates to other personal grounds and reasons regarding necessity to arrest a person in the facts and circumstances of the said case? (c) If questions (a) and (b) are answered in the affirmative, what are the parameters and facts that are to be taken into consideration 712 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by the court while examining the question of “need and necessity to arrest”?