2; and Punit Pal have been cooperating with the trial, however, the Appellant has stalled proceedings before the Trial Court; and (b) That the allegation levelled against Respondent No. 2; and Punit Pal vis-à-vis extension of threats to the Appellant was wholly erroneous and is in fact, a part of a calculated effort to paint Respondent No. 2; and Punit Pal in bad light; and 13. We have heard the learned counsel(s) appearing on behalf of the parties and perused the materials on record. 14. The fulcrum of the dispute before this Court is whether the High Court appropriately exercised its discretion under Section 439 of the CrPC to grant Respondent No. 2; and Punit Pal bail in relation to the proceeding(s) emanating out of the FIR? 15. It is well settled that the grant of bail involves the exercise of a discretionary power which ought not to be used arbitrarily, capriciously; and injudiciously.1 In the aforesaid prism we must assess the correctness of the (s) of the High Court granting Respondent No. 2; and Punit Pal bail in relation to the proceeding(s) emanating out of the FIR. 16. This Court in Prasanta Kumar Sarkar v. Ashis Chatterjee, (2010) 14 SCC 496, enunciated certain parameters on which the correctness of 1 Neeru Yadav v. State of U.P. [2014] 12 SCR 453 : (2014) 16 SCC 508 [2024] 4 S.C.R. 691 Ramayan Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. an granting bail must be evaluated. The relevant paragraph(s) are reproduced as under: “9. …It is trite that this Court does not, normally, interfere with an [Ashish Chatterjee v. State of W.B., CRM No. 272 of 2010, dated 11-1-2010 (Cal)] passed by the High Court granting or rejecting bail to the accused. However, it is equally incumbent upon the High Court to exercise its discretion judiciously, cautiously and strictly in compliance with the basic principles laid down in a plethora of decisions of this Court on the point. It is well settled that, among other circumstances, the factors to be borne in mind while considering an application for bail are: (i) whether there is any prima facie or reasonable ground to believe that the accused had committed the offence; (ii) nature and gravity of the accusation; (iii) severity of the punishment in the event of conviction; (iv) danger of the accused absconding or fleeing, if released on bail; (v) character, behaviour, means, position and standing of the accused; (vi) likelihood of the offence being repeated; (vii) reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being influenced; and (viii) danger, of course, of justice being thwarted by grant of bail. *** 10. It is manifest that if the High Court does not advert to these relevant considerations and mechanically grants bail, the said would suffer from the vice of non-application of mind, rendering it to be illegal.” 17. Furthermore, this Court in Mahipal v. Rajesh Kumar, (2020) 2 SCC 118, followed Prasanta Kumar Sarkar (Supra) and succinctly summarised the position qua interference by this Court vis-à-vis an granting bail.