This is because, while exercising the jurisdiction under Article 142, this Court may not be bound by procedural requirements of law. However, while doing so, this Court cannot affect the substantive rights of those litigants who are not parties to the case before it. The right to be heard before an adverse is passed is not a matter of procedure but a substantive right. (iv) The power of this Court under Article 142 cannot be exercised to defeat the principles of natural justice, which are an integral part of our jurisprudence. 974 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports V. Position of the High Courts and its power of superintendence 23. A High Court is also a constitutional Court. It is well settled that it is not judicially subordinate to this Court. In the case of Tirupati Balaji Developers (P) Ltd. & Ors. v. State of Bihar & Ors.12, this Court has explained the position of the High Courts vis-à-vis this Court. In paragraph 8, this Court observed thus: “8. Under the constitutional scheme as framed for the judiciary, the Supreme Court and the High Courts, both are courts of record. The High Court is not a court “subordinate” to the Supreme Court. In a way the canvas of judicial powers vesting in the High Court is wider inasmuch as it has jurisdiction to issue all prerogative writs conferred by Article 226 of the Constitution for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III of the Constitution and for any other purpose while the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court to issue prerogative writs remains confined to the enforcement of fundamental rights and to deal with some such matters, such as Presidential elections or inter-State disputes which the Constitution does not envisage being heard and determined by High Courts. The High Court exercises power of superintendence under Article 227 of the Constitution over all subordinate courts and tribunals; the Supreme Court has not been conferred with any power of superintendence. If the Supreme Court and the High Courts both were to be thought of as brothers in the administration of justice, the High Court has larger jurisdiction but the Supreme Court still remains the elder brother. There are a few provisions which give an edge, and assign a superior place in the hierarchy, to the Supreme Court over High Courts. So far as the appellate jurisdiction is concerned, in all civil and criminal matters, the Supreme Court is the highest and the ultimate court of appeal. It is the final interpreter of the law. Under Article 139-A, the Supreme Court may transfer any case pending before one High Court to another High Court or may withdraw the case to itself. Under Article 141 12 [2004] Supp. 1 SCR 494 : (2004) 5 SCC 1 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 975 High Court Bar Association, Allahabad v. State of U.P. & Ors. the law declared by the Supreme Court shall be binding on all courts, including High Courts, within the territory of India.