Therefore, in such cases, the Union indeed bears a duty to protect the State from such unabated immigration that it amounts to external aggression or internal disturbance; and those statutes which violate this duty can be held unconstitutional. 361. Having established that, we shall now consider whether Section 6A falls flat because of being violative of Article 355. (c) Section 6A vis-à-vis Article 355 362. In this regard, the Respondents have argued that the claim under Article 355 is not maintainable since migration cannot be termed as external aggression, and because a statute cannot be held unconstitutional for being violative of Article 355 simpliciter. However, as seen above, this contention has already been negatived in Sarbananda Sonowal (supra), to which we profoundly agree. Therefore, their objection against the maintainability of Petitioners’ claim is rejected. 363. That being said, the Respondents are seemingly right to contend that the cited decision is not applicable to the facts at hand presently. As may be seen from the reproduction of the analysis in Sarbananda Sonowal (supra) at paragraph 358 above, this Court held that migration could constitute ‘external aggression’. Although the present situation is similar in nature to Sarabananda Sonowal (supra), but it differs in degree. There, this Court was dealing with a situation where millions of illegal immigrants had been coming into the State of Assam incessantly post-1971 and were posing a security threat for the country. This understanding of ‘external aggression’ is also in tune with the case of Extra-Judicial Execution Victim Families Assn. v. Union of India,220 wherein this Court interpreted the term and held that it threatens the security of the country. In Constituent Assembly Debates as well, the term ‘external aggression’ was interpreted to include situations similar to war, without its actual declaration.221 364. However, in the present case, Section 6A is limited in its ambit and does not by itself create unabated migration or legitimize its continuance. As was seen in paragraph 25 of this judgement, Section 6A segregates immigrants from East Pakistan to Assam into 220 Extra-Judicial Execution Victim Families Assn. v. Union of India (2016) 14 SCC 536, para 169. 221 H.V. Kamath, Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 9, 02.08.1949 1140 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports three classes. It grants deemed citizenship only to the immigrants who migrated before 01.01.1966, and citizenship by registration to immigrants between 01.01.1966 and 25.03.1971. Further, when read along with other legislations on immigration and citizenship, it declares by implication, immigration into the State post-1971, as illegal. In fact, Section 6A adopts a practical solution for the problem of incessant illegal immigration into Assam by devising an implementable solution keeping in mind India’s commitments, international relations and administrative realities. 365. Not only this, as was deliberated in the section on ‘manifest arbitrariness’, the migrants also need to satisfy certain conditions for invoking Section 6A, apart from being persons of Indian origin and ordinary residents in India. Hence, unlike the immigration scrutinized in Sarbananda Sonowal (supra), Section 6A addresses a controlled and regulated form of immigration that in our opinion would fall short of ‘external aggression’.