16. 2005 Justice A.J. This Commission was appointed to identify the Sadashiva castes, races and tribes of scheduled castes Commission, in the State to whom the benefit of reservation was not being adequately extended. Karnataka The Commission recommended the division of 101 castes specified in the Presidential List into four categories with 15% of the total reservation of scheduled castes to each of the categories. 17. 2007 Mahadalit The Commission was to identify the castes Commission, within the scheduled castes that lagged behind. Bihar The Commission recommended inclusion of 18 castes as extremely weaker castes from amongst the list of scheduled castes. 18. 2007 Justice Jasraj The Committee reported that Gurjar’s live Chopra in remote, isolated and uninhabited areas Committee, and are extremely backward and therefore Rajasthan recommended that they may be provided with better facilities than those available to the other backward classes. 19. 2008 Justice The Committee recommended that the Thiru M.S. Arunthathiyar’s deserve differential treatment Janarthanam in reservation. Committee, Tamil Nadu 20. 2017 K. Ratna Based upon the recommendation of this Prabha Committee, The Karnataka Extension of Committee, Consequential Seniority to Govt. Servants Karnataka Promoted on the Basis of Reservation (to the posts in the Civil Services of the State) Act, 2018 was enacted and the matter came up to the Supreme Court wherein the validity of the Act was upheld and it was opined that the reserved category candidates are not only entitled to accelerated promotion but to consequential seniority. 1662 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. 2018 Justice According to the Report there are 79 castes Raghvendra under the OBC category in the State out of Kumar which 9 are backward, 37 are more backward Committee, and 33 are most backward classes. Therefore, it recommended splitting of 27% quota of OBC Uttar Pradesh in the State: 7% for backward classes, 11% for more backward classes and 9% for most backward classes. THE RAMIFICATIONS OF RESERVATION 51. The above history of “Reservation” in the country would amply indicate that tremendous amount of effort has been put in by all the three organs of the State i.e. the Legislature, the Executive and the Judiciary to bring about social justice by promoting the reservation policy and its implementation in such a manner that not only the backwards but the most backwards of the backwards are brought into the forefront with the mainstream. So the question arises that how far has the reservation policy succeeded in someone’s wild guess? Notwithstanding, the success or failure of the reservation policy, one thing is for sure that it has burdened the Judiciary at all levels specially the High Courts and the Supreme Courts with enormous litigation which could have been avoided if a robust reservation policy with a vision would have been envisaged under the constitutional provisions in the very beginning instead of making piecemeal changes. 52. It is a matter of experience that every kind of process of selection and appointment in the government services and admission at higher level has come to be challenged before the courts inter-alia on the grounds of misapplication of the rule of reservation.