239. One prevalent misconception is that sex education encourages promiscuity and irresponsible behaviour among youth. Critics often argue that providing information about sexual health and contraception will lead to increased sexual activity among teenagers. However, research has shown that comprehensive sex education actually delays the onset of sexual activity and promotes safer practices among those who are sexually active.18 17 Paul G. Cassel, James Marsh & Jeremy M. Christiansen, The Case for Full Restitution for Child Pornography Victims, 82 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 61 (2013). 18 Padminin Iyer & Peter Aggleton, Seventy years of sex education – A Critical Review, 74(1) Health Educ. 296 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 240. Another common belief is that sex education is a Western concept that does not align with traditional Indian values. This view has led to resistance from various state governments, resulting in bans on sex education in schools in some states. This type of opposition hinders the implementation of comprehensive and effective sexual health programs, leaving many adolescents without accurate information. This is what causes teenagers and young adults to turn to the internet, where they have access to unmonitored and unfiltered information, which is often misleading and can plant the seed for unhealthy sexual behaviours. 241. Additionally, there is a misconception that sex education only covers biological aspects of reproduction. Effective sex education encompasses a wide range of topics, including consent, healthy relationships, gender equality, and respect for diversity. Addressing these topics is crucial for reducing sexual violence and promoting gender equity. 242. Despite some of these challenges, there are successful sex education programs in India, such as the Udaan program in Jharkhand. This program’s success highlights the importance of community involvement, transparency, and government support in overcoming resistance and creating a supportive environment for sex education.19 243. Positive age-appropriate sex education plays a critical role in preventing youth from engaging in harmful sexual behaviours, including the distribution, and viewing of CSEAM.20 Positive sex education focuses on providing accurate, age-appropriate information about sexuality, consent, and respectful relationships. Research indicates that comprehensive sex education can significantly reduce risky sexual behaviours, increase knowledge, enable healthy decision- making, reduce misinformation, delay sexual debut, decrease the number of sexual partners, and increase contraceptive use. The research done in India has shown the need for comprehensive sex education programs. A study of over 900 adolescents in Maharashtra J. 3 (2015). 19 See, the Udaan Adolescent Education Program by the Centre for Catalyzing Change in Jharkhand in India. 20 Cortney Lollar, Child Pornography and the Restitution Revolution, 103 J. crim. l. & criminology 343 (2013). [2024] 10 S.C.R. 297 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. found that students not exposed to scientific literature on reproductive and sexual health were more likely to initiate sex early.21 244. Furthermore, positive sex education promotes healthy attitudes towards sexuality and relationships, which can counteract the distorted perceptions often associated with the consumption of child pornography. It can also help foster greater empathy and respect for others, reducing the likelihood of engaging in exploitative behaviours.