(2) The provisions of this Act relating to land acquisition, consent, compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement, shall also apply, when the appropriate Government acquires land for the following purposes, namely: — (a) for public private partnership projects, where the ownership of the land continues to vest with the Government, for public purpose as defined in sub-section (1); 230 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) for private companies for public purpose, as defined in sub-section (1): Provided that in the case of acquisition for— (i) private companies, the prior consent of at least eighty per cent, of those affected families, as defined in sub-clauses (i) and (v) of clause (c) of section 3; and (ii) public private partnership projects, the prior consent of at least seventy per cent. of those affected families, as defined in sub- clauses (i) and (v) of clause (c) of section 3, shall be obtained through a process as may be prescribed by the appropriate Government: Provided further that the process of obtaining the consent shall be carried out along with the Social Impact Assessment study referred to in section 4: Provided also that no land shall be transferred by way of acquisition, in the Scheduled Areas in contravention of any law (including any or of a court which has become final) relating to land transfer, prevailing in such Scheduled Areas. (3) The provisions relating to rehabilitation and resettlement under this Act shall apply in the cases where,— (a) a private company purchases land, equal to or more than such limits in rural areas or urban areas, as may be prescribed by the appropriate Government, through private negotiations with the owner of the land in accordance with the provisions of section 46; (b) a private company requests the appropriate Government for acquisition of a part of an area so prescribed for a public purpose: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 231 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Provided that where a private company requests the appropriate Government for partial acquisition of land for public purpose, then, the rehabilitation and resettlement entitlements under the Second Schedule shall be applicable for the entire area which includes the land purchased by the private company and acquired by the Government for the project as a whole.” 12.8 Similarly, there are State enactments which allow acquisition of land from private owners for the purpose of distribution to eligible persons in to best subserve the common good. The acquisition process of privately owned land or other immovable property ensures that it ultimately vests with the appropriate Government and transforms the material resource privately owned as material resource of the community. As already noted, such land or other immovable property can be utilized by the State and its authorities, agencies and instrumentalities so as to best subserve the common good. Alternatively, the State could distribute the said land to eligible persons having regard to the nature of the public purpose for which such land is acquired under the respective Acquisition Act or any other enactment which provides for acquisition of land, such as, Town Planning Act or City Development Authority Act etc.