The mediators and Inspector, N. Chandrashekar (PW-11) also came into the shop and occupied a nearby table. The DySP (PW-10) and other staff members kept vigil at the entry gate of the coffee shop. While they were waiting, the appellant (AO1) came to the complainant’s table and occupied the chair opposite to the one on which the complainant (PW-1) and PW-2 were sitting. The appellant (AO1) enquired whether he had brought the demanded amount; to which the complainant (PW-1) answered in affirmative. While the complainant (PW-1) was about to pass on the tainted currency notes to the appellant (AO1), he showed reluctance and suggested that the amount should not be given in the hotel and directed the complainant (PW-1) to proceed to the cellar. Accordingly, the complainant (PW-1), PW-2 and the appellant (AO1) proceeded to the cellar and reached near the generator room. There, the appellant (AO1) opened the zip of his rexine bag and asked the complainant (PW-1) to put the money in that bag. In conformance, the complainant (PW-1) took the tainted currency notes from his left side shirt pocket and placed the same in the bag of the appellant (AO1) wherein, some book and papers were lying. The appellant (AO1) pushed down the currency notes with his right hand, handed some papers to the complainant (PW-1) and closed the zip of the bag. The appellant (AO1) asked the complainant (PW-1) to tear the said papers, who complied and torn the papers. In the meanwhile, PW-2 left them and proceeded outside. In a short while, the DySP (PW-10) and the trap party rushed down into the cellar and disclosed their identity to AO1 (appellant). The DySP (PW-10), then asked the complaint (PW-1) to narrate the intervening sequence of events. The version as given out by the complainant (PW-1) was incorporated by the mediators in the post-trap memo (Exhibit P-11). The version of PW-2 was also noted down by the mediators in the same memo. The panchnama was drawn in a lounge on the second floor of the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 657 Mir Mustafa Ali Hasmi v. The State of A.P. hotel. The trap party stayed at the hotel till 5:00 pm. The complainant (PW-1) and PW-2 were called to the ACB office and their statements were recorded. Later on, Section 164 CrPC statements of both the complainant (PW-1) and PW-2 were also recorded. In his statement, the complainant (PW-1) stated that the torn papers, upon which the appellant (AO1) had taken his signatures during the very first raid i.e. on 6th January, 2003, were handed over to the DySP (PW-10) at the time of drawing the post trap memo. 34. In cross examination, the complainant (PW-1) stated that he was not aware that one M. Ashok of Vanasthalipuram was running the saw-mill and that the same M. Ashok turned out to be a signatory to the seizure proceeding conducted on 6th January, 2003 at the saw- mill as well as a panch witness in the trap proceedings. A pertinent question was put to the complainant regarding the calls made to him by AO1 (appellant), and he admitted that the appellant (AO1) did not call him between 6th January, 2003 to 23rd January, 2003 in relation to demand of bribe.