In allocating this land to NTBCL, NOIDA alone incurred the costs associated with compensation, rehabilitation, revised enhancements, and provision of employment. The assertion that NTBCL independently raised funds for the project is thus false and misleading. (h) Pradeep Puri, designated as the Director of NTBCL, did not perform any substantive function; nevertheless, all expenses associated with his role, including his hefty remuneration, were incorporated into the Total Project Cost. A letter circulated by Puri indicated that the unrecovered Project Cost would stand at Rupees 5330 crores as of 31.03.2031. This figure included legal fees amounting to Rupees 11 crores, travel expenses of Rupees 4 crores, and costs associated with restructuring deep discount bonds totalling Rupees 33 crores. Consequently, the Total Project Cost is substantially higher than the actual investment made, and NTBCL has already received sums far exceeding their original investment, including reasonable profits and interest accrued from toll income. D. Contentions on behalf of Respondent no. 9 (il&fs) 7. Mr. Gopal Jain, Senior Counsel representing IL&FS, primarily supported the Appellant. The contentions put forth by him which were unique to IL&FS, may however be summarised as follows: (a) As of present day, IL&FS is under the control of the Union of India, pursuant to the dated 01.10.2018 passed by the NCLT, Mumbai, directing the suspension of the then-existing Board of 2016 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Directors of IL&FS and constitution of a new Board of Directors comprising of nominees of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. (b) IL&FS, as the Sponsor of the Project, not only enabled and arranged the entire financing of the Total Project Cost but provided an indemnity under the Concession Agreement to NOIDA that it would ensure the due implementation of the Project by the Appellant. (c) The concession period is not perpetual as there is no automatic renewal of the Concession Agreement due to the inability to recover the Total Project Cost and returns. This is because Clause 2.4 of the Concession Agreement does not provide for a deemed extension of the concession period and instead requires NOIDA to extend it by two years at a time. If NOIDA does not do so, the day immediately following the last day of the concession period would be the transfer date and the obligation to transfer the Project would become effective. The language of Clause 2.4 does not say that if the Total Project Cost and returns were not recovered, the concession period would stand extended or be deemed to have been extended. Instead, it specifically vests the discretion to extend it with NOIDA. (d) The recovery of the Project Cost was miscalculated by the High Court as it did not consider the actual rate of return received by the Appellant on the total investment made into the Project, which included not only the costs of construction but also the expenditure towards operation and maintenance, and taxes. The computation of the recovery of the Project cost as stated in the impugned did not consider: (i) the final/actual project cost of Rupees 461.11 crores; (ii) the interest on debt paid by the Appellant till March 2014 (being an amount of Rupees 296.26 crores); (iii) the repayment of principal amount undertaken by the Appellant till March 2014 (being an amount of Rupees 280.36 crores); and (iv) other expenses of Rupees 22.90 crores, and additional taxes such as MAT and FBT, that had been paid by the Appellant, aggregating to Rupees 50.42 crores.