On this aspect, the of this Court in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) is correct. Ques. Does the mere enactment of Section 18G of the above Act, give rise to a presumption that it was the intention of the Central Government to cover the entire field in respect of Entry 33(a) - List III so as to oust the States’ competence to legislate in respect of matters relating thereto? Ans. : Yes, the mere enactment of section 18G of the IDRA gives rise to a presumption that it was the intention of the Parliament and Central Government to cover the entire field in respect of Entry 33(a) - List III so as to oust the States’ competence to legislate in respect of matters relating thereto. Answer given to question (3) above is reiterated here. Ques. 5. Does the mere presence of Section 18G of the above Act, oust the State’s power to legislate in regard to matters falling under Entry 33(a) of List III? Ans. : Yes, the mere presence of Section 18G of the IDRA would oust the State’s power to legislate in regard to matters falling under Entry 33(a) - List III. The doctrine of occupied field applies. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2177 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Ques. 6. Does the interpretation given in Synthetics and Chemicals case (1990) 1 SCC 109 in respect of Section 18G of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, correctly state the law regarding the States’ power to regulate “industrial alcohol” as a product of the scheduled industry under Entry 33(a) of List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution in view of Clause (a) thereof? Ans. : Yes, the interpretation given in Synthetics and Chemicals case (1990) 1 SCC 109 in respect of Section 18G of the IDRA correctly states the law. Even with regard to “industrial alcohol” as a product which falls within “Fermentation Industries” in respect of which the Union has assumed control, in the absence of a notified , the competence of the State to act under Entry 33 - List III is denuded. My answers to the conclusions of learned Chief Justice: 33. His Lordship, the Chief Justice of India has overruled the in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) and has come to the following conclusions and my answers to the same are in a tabular form as under: Point(s) Conclusions arrived at My Conclusions by Hon’ble the CJI a. Entry 8 of List II of the In my view, Entry 8 – List II deals Seventh Schedule to the with “intoxicating liquors”. The Constitution is both an misuse, diversion or abuse industry-based entry and of “industrial alcohol” as a product-based entry. “intoxicating liquors” can also The words that follow the be controlled and prevented expression “that is to say” in under Entry 8 – List II by the the Entry are not exhaustive State Legislatures having of its contents. It includes regard to Article 47 of the the regulation of everything Constitution.