[Paras 168-170, 177, 179, 180] – Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI.) (Concurring) Classification is constitutionally permissible, when two prong test that there must be an intelligible differentia between those forming a group and those left out; and the differentia must have a reasonable nexus with the object sought to be achieved, is satisfied – Court now, within the traditional two prong test has advocated for a more substantial inquiry that subsumes the following prongs which is the objective and the means – Determination of the yardstick for classification will help in the assessment of whether a provision is under-inclusive or over-inclusive – Yardstick must have a nexus with the object and must be in consonance with constitutional principles. [Paras 59, 68(c)] Citizenship Act, 1955 – s.6A – Over-inclusiveness and under-inclusiveness – Determination – s.6A, under-inclusive or over-inclusive : Held: (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) Classification u/s.6A, not violative of Art. 14 simply because it is applicable to the State of Assam alone – In adjudicating the validity of a statute, the concept of under-inclusiveness arises when classification within the law fails to encompass all individuals similarly situated with respect to the law’s intended purpose – Even if there are States that could share similar characteristics with Assam, comparison should be between two broad classes: Assam and the rest of India, rather than each individual constituent of these two classes – Since other States, in general, were not facing similar issues, unique political situation 968 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports created in Assam by the influx of immigrants, the differentiation in classes was reasonable – Hence, even if some States like West Bengal were placed similarly to Assam, that in and of itself would not lead to holding s.6A unconstitutional – Striking down s.6A on the grounds of non-inclusion only of West Bengal would amount to allowing an under-inclusivity challenge in disguise, which, is not generally permitted. [Paras 180, 203, 204] – Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI.) (Concurring) s.6A is neither under-inclusive nor over-inclusive – Over-inclusiveness and under-inclusiveness must be determined based on whether there are similarly situated persons/situations who or which have not been included or have been included based on the yardstick identified – Determination cannot be made with reference to the objective without reference to the yardstick – Doing so would limit the ability of the Legislature to identify the degrees of harm – Yardstick can be challenged where another yardstick affects or is related to the objective in a comparable manner – 6A would be under-inclusive only when all those who are similarly situated with respect to the object and on the application of the rational yardstick are not included – Provision would be over-inclusive only when those who are not similarly situated with respect to these two parameters are included. [Paras 75, 76] – Held: (per Pardiwala, J.) (Concurring) s.6A cannot be said to be violative of Art. 14 for being under-inclusive – Distinction drawn between the State of Assam and other states for the grant of citizenship to immigrants was on the basis of special circumstances prevailing in Assam at the time of enactment of s.6A – s.6A was a statutory codification of a political settlement reached between the Government and the people of Assam and thus, not violative of the equality clause enshrined u/Art.14 at the time of its enactment in 1985.