Therefore, he can withdraw because of the parties’ non-cooperation in the proceedings. But in such a case, his mandate will be terminated, not the arbitral proceedings. 14. Now, we come to Section 32 of the Arbitration Act, which reads thus: “32. Termination of proceedings.— (1) The arbitral proceedings shall be terminated by the final arbitral award or by an of the arbitral tribunal under sub-section (2). (2) The arbitral tribunal shall issue an for the termination of the arbitral proceedings where— (a) the claimant withdraws his claim, unless the respondent objects to the and the arbitral tribunal recognises a legitimate interest on his part in obtaining a final settlement of the dispute, [2024] 6 S.C.R. 771 Dani Wooltex Corporation & Ors. v. Sheil Properties Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. (b) the parties agree on the termination of the proceedings, or (c) the arbitral tribunal finds that the continuation of the proceedings has for any other reason become unnecessary or impossible. (3) Subject to section 33 and sub-section (4) of section 34, the mandate of the arbitral tribunal shall terminate with the termination of the arbitral proceedings.” (emphasis added) Section 32 provides for the termination of the arbitral proceedings in the following contingencies: a. On making final arbitral award; b. On the Claimant withdrawing his claim as provided under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of Section 32; c. Parties agreeing on termination of arbitral proceedings as provided under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 32; or d. When the Arbitral Tribunal finds that the continuation of proceedings has become unnecessary or impossible for any other reason, as provided under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of Section 32. 15. Therefore, clause (c) of sub-section (2) of Section 32 can be invoked for reasons other than those mentioned in sub-section (1) of Section 32 and clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 32. Under clause (c), the mere existence of a reason for terminating the proceedings is not sufficient. The reason must be such that the continuation of the proceedings has become unnecessary or impossible. In a given case, when a claimant files a claim and does not attend the proceedings, clause (a) of Section 25 comes into operation, resulting in the learned Arbitrator terminating the proceedings. If, after filing a claim, the claimant fails to appear at an oral hearing or fails to produce documentary evidence, it cannot be said that the continuation of proceedings has become unnecessary. If the claimant fails to appear at an oral hearing after filing the claim, in view of clause (c) of Section 25, the learned Arbitrator can proceed with the arbitral proceedings. The fact that clause (c) of Section 25 enables the 772 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Arbitral Tribunal to proceed in the absence of the claimant shows the legislature’s intention that the claimant’s failure to appear after filing the claim cannot be a ground to say that the proceedings have become unnecessary or impossible. 16. Therefore, if the party fails to appear for a hearing after filing a claim, the learned Arbitrator cannot say that continuing the arbitral proceedings has become unnecessary.