Pay to each of the complainants & to each buyer having same interest, compensatory interest @ 18% p.a. for abnormal & inordinate delay in handing over possession of flats to complainants, computing the total period of delay as indicated in Para 11.11 of the Consumer Complaint; ii. Refund the illegally charged car parking fee to complainants & to each buyer having same interest with an interest @ 18% p.a. & to hold the OP guilty of committing unfair and restrictive trade practice against the complainants & also against each buyer having same interest; iii. Refund to the complainants & to all buyers having same interest, the excess and illegally charged “legal fee” at the actual with an interest @ 18% p.a. and also to declare the OP guilty of committing unfair & restrictive trade practice against the complainants and also against each buyer having same interest; iv. Refund to the complainants & to all buyers having same interest, fee charged towards BESCOM & BWSSB charges after deducting as per actual with an interest @ 18% p.a. & also to declare the OP guilty of committing unfair and restrictive trade practice against the complainants & also against each buyer having same interest; and/or v. Direct OPs to provide in time bound manner, Green Jogging Track and Convenience Store as promised in [2024] 7 S.C.R. 827 Kaushik Narsinhbhai Patel & Ors. v. M/s S.J.R. Prime Corporation Private Limited Brochure, else pay compensation of Rupees Five Lakhs to each complainant and to each buyer having same interest; and/or vi. Pass any other and/or further relief, which this Hon’ble Commission thinks fit and proper, in the facts and circumstances of the case, in favour of the complainants and against the OP.” 2. The complaint was partially allowed by the NCDRC as per the impugned dated 15.09.2022. Before considering the rival contentions raised before us, it is worthwhile to refer to certain vital facts. 3. The complainants filed Consumer Complaint No.945 of 2019 in May, 2019. Subsequent to its filing, the first respondent-builder issued certain e-mails to complainants between January, 2020 to June, 2020, addressing them individually and requiring them to contact its legal department in connection with the grievance raised in C.C. No.945 of 2019. Though this was done during the pendency of the Consumer Complaint, and that too, in respect of the grievance raised in C.C. No.945 of 2019, notice to the first respondent remained unserved. Thereupon, the NCDRC passed an on 27.01.2021 on the following lines: - “Notice of the complaint still remains unserved. Issue fresh notice of the Complaint along with all pending applications to the Opposite Party under Section 38 (3) (a) of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 making it clear that if the Opposite Party wishes to contest the allegations in the Complaint, it may file the Written Statement within thirty days of the receipt of notice in the complaint, failing which its right to file Written Statement may be closed.” 4. The aforesaid was challenged by the appellants before this Court in Civil Appeal No.715 of 2021 which was allowed as per (Annexure P-18, referred as such in the SLP) dated 11.08.2021.