Someone called out Narayan Singh’s name from outside, prompting him to open the door. At that moment, Rachna Bai (PW-2) heard a gunshot. She ran towards Narayan Singh, and shortly after, a second gunshot was fired, striking Narayan Singh in the chest, and causing him to fall. When Rachna Bai (PW-2) went outside, she saw her daughter-in-law, Laadkunwar Bai (Narayan Singh’s wife), and Jitendra Singh (Narayan Singh’s son) standing on the opposite side of the house. She also saw two individuals with their faces covered fleeing the scene on a motorcycle. 7. The prosecution’s primary evidence against the appellant, Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal, also referenced in the impugned , is the recovery (Exhibit P-6) of a pistol and the ballistic report (Exhibit P-57), which confirms that the bullet (Exhibit B-1) recovered from the body of the victim, Narayan Singh, was fired from the country-made pistol (Exhibit A-1 and C-1). There is evidence to show that the pistol was recovered (Exhibit P-6) from the appellant, Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal, and we would accept the said version of the prosecution. 8. There are no eyewitnesses to the crime, implicating the appellant, Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal. The case against the appellant, Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal, rests entirely on circumstantial evidence. 9. Where the case rests entirely on circumstantial evidence, a finding of guilt is justified only if all the incriminating facts and circumstances are incompatible with the accused’s innocence. In other words, there must be a chain of evidence so far complete, such that every hypothesis is excluded but the one proposed to be proved and such circumstances must show that the act has been done by the accused within all human probability.1 10. In Sharad Birdhichand Sharda v. State of Maharasthra,2 this Court outlined five essential principles, often referred to as the 1 Hanumant v. State of Madhya Pradesh (1952) 2 SCC 71 2 [1985] 1 SCR 88 : (1984) 4 SCC 116 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 613 Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal v. State of Madhya Pradesh “golden rules”, which must be satisfied for circumstantial evidence to conclusively establish the guilt of the accused: “(1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. xxx xxx xxx (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.” 11. The ballistic report (Exhibit P-57) connects the pistol recovered (Exhibit P-6) from the appellant, Santosh @ Rajesh @ Gopal, with the bullet (Exhibit B-1) recovered from the body of the victim, Narayan Singh.