I also concur with the proposed as regards the identification of the five elements of Article 39(b). However, I must elaborate on the proposed , on the legal distinction between how a private resource qualifies as one “of 214 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the community” and how such a resource is subsequently distributed to subserve the common good. It is on this crucial point that I have penned my separate opinion. 9.1 In my considered opinion, a fundamental prerequisite for the distribution of a resource in a manner that serves the common good is to first bring that resource within the collective domain of the community, thereby rendering it a “material resource of the community”. 9.2 While a public resource owned and/or controlled by the State is inherently part of the community’s collective domain, a private resource which is a material resource may be brought within this pool through various mechanisms, including acquisition, nationalization, or by operation of law. The act of distributing a private material resource, however, cannot proceed in isolation from such preliminary steps to first incorporate such private material resource into the community’s pool. Thus, acquisition, nationalization, and vesting by operation of law are instances of actions that bring a private material resource into the community’s collective domain, rather than being termed as methods of distributing such resources. It is this crucial distinction that need elaboration. 9.3 In my opinion, I propose to discuss in detail the reasons as to why this material distinction assumes significance in the context of the instant reference and in light of the relevant Articles of the Constitution. Articles 37, 38 and 39(b) and (c): 10. Articles 37, 38 and 39(b) &(c) of the Constitution read as under:- “37. Application of the principles contained in this Part.—The provisions contained in this Part shall not be enforceable by any court, but the principles therein laid down are nevertheless fundamental in the governance of the country and it shall be the duty of the State to apply these principles in making laws. 38. State to secure a social for the promotion of welfare of the people.—(1) The State shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and [2024] 11 S.C.R. 215 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. protecting as effectively as it may a social in which justice, social, economic and political, shall inform all the institutions of the national life. (2) The State shall, in particular, strive to minimise the inequalities in income, and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities, not only amongst individuals but also amongst groups of people residing in different areas or engaged in different vocations. 39. Certain principles of policy to be followed by the State.—The State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing— x x x (b) that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good; (c) that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment;” Before proceeding further, it would be useful to extract the reply to the debate on the provisions of Directive Principles in general given by Dr. Ambedkar as under: “It is no use giving a fixed, rigid form to something which is not rigid, which is fundamentally changing and must, having regard to the circumstances and the times, keep on changing.