(2) Where a law made by the Legislature of a State with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the Legislature of such State shall, if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent, prevail in that State: Provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the Legislature of the State.” 8.2 Article 254 of the Constitution makes provision firstly, as to what would happen in case of a conflict between a Central and a State law with regard to subjects enumerated in the Concurrent List, and secondly, for resolving such conflict. Clause (1) to Article 254 lays down the general rule. As discussed in T.Barai vs. Henry Ah Hoe [1983] 1 SCR 905, clause (1) lays down that if a State law relating to a Concurrent subject is ‘repugnant’ to a Union law relating to that subject, then, whether the Union law is prior or later in time, the Union law will prevail and the State law shall, to the extent of such repugnancy, be void. 8.3 Clause (2) is an exception to clause (1). As held in Hoechst Pharmaceuticals Ltd. vs. State of Bihar [1983] 3 SCR 130, clause (2) provides that if the President assents to a State law [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1499 Naeem Bano Alias Gaindo v. Mohammad Rahees & Anr. which has been reserved for her consideration, it will prevail notwithstanding its repugnancy to an earlier law of the Union, both laws dealing with a concurrent subject. In such a case, the Central Act will give way to the State Act only to the extent of inconsistency between the two. 8.4 The Proviso to clause (2) qualifies the exception provided in Clause (2) to Article 254. It empowers the Parliament to repeal or amend a repugnant State law, either directly, or by itself enacting a law repugnant to the State law with respect to the ‘same matter’. 9. In Zaverbhai Amaidas vs. State of Bombay [1955] SCR 799, this Court noted that Article 254(2) is in substance, a reproduction of section 107(2) of the Government of India Act, 1935 and that the proviso in Article 254(2) was incorporated as a further addition. This Court further noted that, by incorporating the proviso, the Constitution has enlarged the powers of Parliament. That a State law will be void if it conflicts with a later “law with respect to the same matter” that may be enacted by Parliament even if it did not expressly repeal the State law. 9.1 Further, in Gauri Shankar Gaur vs. State of UP [1993] Supp.1 SCR 667, this Court held as follows: “An exception has been engrafted to this rule by Cl.2 thereof, namely, if the state law has been reserved for consideration and the President gives assent to a State Law, it will prevail, notwithstanding it repugnance to a earlier law made by the Union, though both laws are dealing with concurrent subject occupying the same field but operate in a collision course.