It is argued on behalf of the Complainants that there ought to have been a Notification passed by the Reserve Bank of India, fixing a maximum ceiling rate of interest for all banks, and in pursuance thereto had approached the National Commission by filing the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1491 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd. v. Awaz & Ors. Consumer Complaint no. 51 of 2007. It was prayed that the Appellant along with Respondent nos. 5, 6 & 7 be permanently restrained from charging excessive interest and service charges, de-hors the Prime Lending Rate, and the directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India. It was further prayed that all banks who have issued credit cards to Respondent no. 3 and members of the Respondent no.1 be directed to refund the amount of interest, claiming the same to be more than Rs. 5 crores. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF BANKS 6. The Appellant, along with the Respondent nos. 5, 6 and 7 are foreign banks carrying on the business of banking in India under the provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and are scheduled commercial Banks as notified by the Reserve Bank of India. 7. The Appellants submit that the allegations raised by the Complainant that the rate of interest, charged by banks from its credit card holders, constitutes an unfair trade practice, is erroneous. It is stated that the modus of adopting any unfair methods, or deceptive means to promote the sale, use or supply of any goods or for providing any service, is manifestly absent. The Banks assert that they have neither indulged in any unfair trade practice nor have done anything which would bring them within the mischief of Section 2(r)(l)(i) to 2(r)(l)(x). 8. Further, there are also no specific allegations raised by the Complainants or any materials on record, to elicit any unfair trade practices adopted by the Banks. The Counsel for the Appellant submits that the National Commission has barely acted on the assumption that banks are indulging in unfair trade practices. It is stated that there are no facts to suggest that any of the scheduled banks under the purview of the Reserve Bank of India, are indulging in unfair trade practices, including charging exorbitant rates of interest. The National Commission has made the observation that rates of interest charged by banks is an unfair trade practice, without even discussing the scope of the definition under section 2(1)(r) of the Act. The only reason given with respect to the practice of charging excessive interest being unfair trade practice is that “if the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 requires that the RBI shall discharge certain functions in the public interest and the RBI does not discharge such 1492 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports functions, it would amount to unfair trade practice, but, that question is not required to be dealt with finally in this matter.” 9. It is argued that the exercise of jurisdiction by the National Commission is ostensible and non-est in law. The administrative policy decisions of the determination of interest on credit cards and the regulation of the banks across the country, are within the specific statutory domain of the Reserve Bank of India.