1986 Act cannot be interpreted in a manner so as to restrict the rights of a divorced Muslim woman to other available remedies such as under Section 125 of the CrPC. 33. This Court in Danial Latifi was alive to the hardship that would befall Muslim women if the provisions of the 1986 Act were construed in a manner that deprived them of the protection that was equal to the protection afforded to non-Muslim women under Section 125 of the CrPC. It was reasoned that to make a Muslim woman run from pillar to post in search of her relatives one after the other and ultimately to knock at the doors of the Wakf Board could not be reasonable and a fair substitute for the provisions of Section 125 of the CrPC. In this respect, the observations of this Court deserve to be quoted in full: “33. In Shah Bano case [(1985) 2 SCC 556 : 1985 SCC (Cri) 245] this Court has clearly explained as to the rationale behind Section 125 CrPC to make provision for [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1299 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. maintenance to be paid to a divorced Muslim wife and this is clearly to avoid vagrancy or destitution on the part of a Muslim woman. The contention put forth on behalf of the Muslim organisations who are interveners before us is that under the Act, vagrancy or destitution is sought to be avoided but not by punishing the erring husband, if at all, but by providing for maintenance through others. If for any reason the interpretation placed by us on the language of Sections 3(1)(a) and 4 of the Act is not acceptable, we will have to examine the effect of the provisions as they stand, that is, a Muslim woman will not be entitled to maintenance from her husband after the period of iddat once the talaq is pronounced and, if at all, thereafter maintenance could only be recovered from the various persons mentioned in Section 4 or from the Wakf Board. This Court in Olga Tellis v. Bombay Municipal Corpn. [(1985) 3 SCC 545] and Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India [(1978) 1 SCC 248] held that the concept of “right to life and personal liberty” guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution would include the “right to live with dignity”. Before the Act, a Muslim woman who was divorced by her husband was granted a right to maintenance from her husband under the provisions of Section 125 CrPC until she may remarry and such a right, if deprived, would not be reasonable, just and fair. Thus the provisions of the Act depriving the divorced Muslim women of such a right to maintenance from her husband and providing for her maintenance to be paid by the former husband only for the period of iddat and thereafter to make her run from pillar to post in search of her relatives one after the other and ultimately to knock at the doors of the Wakf Board does not appear to be reasonable and fair substitute of the provisions of Section 125 CrPC.