Nor is the Contract Act necessarily exhaustive: see P. R. & Co. v. Bhagwandas [(1909) 34 Bom. 192, = 2 I.C. 475 = 11 Bom. L.R. 335]. Furthermore, it is to be noted that in this particular contract there was a specific condition of the sale by auction that the deposit was to be forfeited in case of default by the purchaser and we think that such a clause is not unreasonable and must be given effect to. Our own High Court rules regarding the sale by the Sheriff’s office (R. 391) specifically allow a deposit to be forfeited and the mere fact that the word “may” is used in that Rule cannot be taken to mean that only such sum out of the deposit can be forfeited as the Court may think proper as damages following the failure of the buyer to complete the sale.” (Emphasis supplied) 66 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 74. Subsequently, a 5-Judge Bench of this Court in its decision in Fateh Chand v. Balkishan Dass reported in AIR 1963 SC 1405, held that a forfeiture clause in an ordinary contract would fall within the meaning of the words “any other stipulation by way of penalty” of Section 74 of the 1872 Act, and thus only a reasonable amount can be forfeited. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “(10) Section 74 of the Indian Contract Act deals with the measure of damages in two classes of cases (i) where the contract names a sum to be paid in case of breach and (ii) where the contract contains any other stipulation by way of penalty. We are in the present case not concerned to decide whether a covenant of forfeiture of deposit for due performance of a contract falls within the first class. The measure of damages in the case of breach of a stipulation by way of penalty is by S. 74 reasonable compensation not exceeding the penalty stipulated for. In assessing damages the Court has, subject to the limit of the penalty stipulated, jurisdiction to award such compensation as it deems reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the case. Jurisdiction of the Court to award compensation in case of breach of contract is unqualified except as to the maximum stipulated; but compensation has to be reasonable, and that imposes upon the Court duty to award compensation according to settled principles. The section undoubtedly says that the aggrieved party is entitled to receive compensation from the party who has broken the contract, whether or not actual damage or loss is proved to have been caused by the breach. Thereby it merely dispenses with proof of “actual loss or damages”; it does not justify the award of compensation when in consequence of the breach no legal injury at all has resulted, because compensation for breach of contract can be awarded to make good loss or damage which naturally arose in the usual course of things, or which the parties knew when they made the contract, to be likely to result from the breach.