Superintendence, Control and Administration of the Force.--- ( 1) The superintendence of, and control over, the Force shall vest in the Central Government; and the Force shall be administered by the Central Government, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, and of any rules made there under, through such officers as the Central Government may from time to time appoint in this behalf. (2) The headquarters of the force shall be at Neemuch or at such other place as may from time to time be specified by the Central Government. (3) While on active duty outside its headquarters, the Force shall be subject to the general control and direction of such authority or officer as may be prescribed or as may be specially appointed by the Central Government in this behalf. 442 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes of the Act. Sub-section (2) of Section 18 provides that without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the matters specified therein. Amongst other matters specified therein, clause (d), inter alia, empowers the Central Government to make rules for regulating the award of minor punishment under Section 11, and providing for appeals from, or the revision of, s under that section. 16. An overview of the CRPF Act would make it clear that the Central Government has overall superintendence and control over the Force and the Force is to be administered by the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of the CRPF Act and of any rules made thereunder through such officers as the Central Government may from time to time appoint. Discussion/ Analysis 17. The rule-making power of the Central Government found in Section 18 is in broad terms. sub-section (1) of Section 18 empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out the purposes of the CRPF Act. Rule-making power under sub-section (2) of Section 18 is without prejudice to the generality of the power conferred by sub-section (1) thereof. Thus, the Central Government is not only empowered to make rules for regulating the award of minor punishment under Section 11 but also to carry out the purposes of the Act which includes superintendence of, and control over, the Force as well as its administration. Punishment of compulsory retirement is intra vires the CRPF Act 18. Ordinarily a person in service cannot be visited with a punishment not specified in the contract of service or the law governing such service. Punishments may be specified either in the contract of service or in the Act or the rules governing such service. In State Bank of India and Ors. v. T.J. Paul13 this Court had occasion to deal with a situation where, for a proven charge of gross misconduct, punishment of removal was not one of the punishments specified in the extant rules though, punishment of dismissal was imposable. 13 [1999] 2 SCR 1060 : 1999 (4) SCC 759 [2024] 6 S.C.R.