[Ed. : The matter between two asterisks has been emphasised in Avam Evam Vikas Parishad case (2013) 5 SCC 182.] By merely giving bids, the bidders had not acquired any vested rights [Ed. : The matter between two asterisks has been emphasised in Avam Evam Vikas Parishad case (2013) 5 SCC 182.]’. 31. In view of the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decisions, the learned Senior Counsel Mr Rakesh Dwivedi has rightly placed reliance upon the same in support of the case of the first defendant, which would clearly go to show that the plaintiff had not acquired any right and no vested right has been accrued in his favour in respect of the plot in question merely because his bid amount is highest and he had deposited 20% of the highest bid amount along with the earnest money with the Board. In the absence of acceptance of bid offered by the 938 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports plaintiff to the competent authority of the first defendant, there is no concluded contract in respect of the plot in question, which is evident from letters dated 26-5-1977 and 8-7-1977 wherein the third defendant had rejected the bid amount deposited by the plaintiff and the same was refunded to him by way of demand draft, which is an undisputed fact and it is also not his case that the then Assistant Housing Commissioner who has conducted the public auction had accepted the bid of the plaintiff.” 15. This Court in Om Prakash Sharma case [U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad v. Om Prakash Sharma (2013) 5 SCC 182 : (2013) 2 SCC (Civ) 737] has held that in the absence of a concluded contract which takes place by issuance of allotment letter, suit could not be said to be maintainable as there is no vested right in the plaintiff without approval of the bid by the competent authority. Thus, in the wake of the aforesaid decision, in the absence of a concluded contract, the suit could not have been decreed for mandatory injunction. It amounted to enforcing of contract in the absence thereof. 16. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, it is evident that in the absence of a concluded contract i.e. in the absence of allotment letter and acceptance of highest bid, the suit filed by the plaintiff was wholly misconceived. Even if non-acceptance of the bid was by an incompetent authority, the court had no power to accept the bid and to direct the allotment letter to be issued. Merely on granting the declaration which was sought that rejection was illegal and arbitrary and by incompetent authority, further relief of mandatory injunction could not have been granted, on the basis of findings recorded, to issue the allotment letter, as it would then become necessary to forward the bid to competent authority—Chief Administrator—for its acceptance, if at all it was required. 30. In Meerut Development Authority v. Assn. of Management Studies [Meerut Development Authority v. Assn.