174 – Term “Legislature”, on the other hand, refers to the wider concept under Art. 168, comprising the Governor and the Houses of the Legislature – Use of the phrase “in the Legislature” instead of “House of Legislature” is significant. [Paras 174, 175.] Constitution of India – Arts. 105, 194 – Parliamentary privilege under: Held: Is integral to deliberative democracy in facilitating the functioning of a parliamentary form of governance – It ensures that legislators in whom citizens repose their faith can express their views and opinions on the floor of the House without ‘fear or favour’ – Legislator belonging to a political party with a minuscule vote share can fearlessly vote on any motion; a legislator from a remote region of the country can raise issues that impact her constituency without the fear of being harassed by legal prosecution; and a legislator can demand accountability without the apprehension of being accused of defamation. [Para 1] Constitution of India – Art. 105, clause (1), (2), (3), (4) – Powers, privileges, etc. of the Houses of Parliament and of the members and committees thereof – Explanation: Held: Clause (1) declares that there shall be freedom of speech in Parliament, subject to the Constitution and to the rules and [2024] 3 S.C.R. 469 Sita Soren v. Union of India standing s regulating the procedure in Parliament – First limb of Clause (2) prescribes that a member of Parliament shall not be liable before any court in respect of “anything said or any vote given” by them in Parliament or any committee thereof and second limb prescribes that no person shall be liable before any court in respect of the publication by or under the authority of either House of Parliament of any report, paper, vote or proceedings – Clauses (1) and (2) explicitly guarantee freedom of speech in Parliament – Clause (1) is a positive postulate which guarantees freedom of speech whereas Clause (2) is an extension of the same freedom postulated negatively – Clause (3) states that in respect of privileges not falling under Clauses (1) and (2) of Art. 105, the powers, privileges and immunities, shall be such as may from time to time be defined by Parliament by law – Clause (3) allows Parliament to enact a law on its privileges from time to time – Clause (4) extends the freedoms in the above clauses to all persons who by virtue of the Constitution have a right to speak in Parliament – Thus, four clauses in Arts. 105 and 194 form a composite whole which lend colour to each other and together form the corpus of the powers, privileges and immunities of the Houses of Parliament or Legislature, and of members and committees. [Paras 63-66, 73] Parliamentary privileges – History of privileges of legislatures in India: Held: History can be traced to the history of parliamentary privileges in the House of Commons in the UK as well as the struggle of the Indian Legislatures to claim these privileges under colonial rule – Unlike the House of Commons in the UK, India does not have ‘ancient and undoubted’ privileges which were vested after a struggle between Parliament and the King – Statutory privilege transitioned to a constitutional privilege after the commencement of the Constitution.