The second reason behind seeking child marriage reform was to protect young wives against forcible sexual intercourse, often by their husbands who were significantly older.41 20. Reformers like Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar had successfully advocated for widow remarriage which was hitherto believed to be impermissible under Hindu law. These efforts led to the enactment of the Hindu Widows’ Remarriage Act 1856. However, the demands against child marriages were not immediately realised. Child marriage, an aversion to widow remarriage and the low mortality rate combined and morphed into a lethal destructive element in the Indian society.42 21. To address the devastation caused, in particular to women and girls, social reformers called for raising the minimum age of consent for women in penal rape statutes. The idea behind the demand for raising the age of consent was to avoid the bodily harm inflicted on girls by their often-elderly husbands. A person below the age of consent could not legally consent to any sexual activity thereby throwing any sexual conduct within the confines of statutory rape. Such laws already existed in the presidency towns of Calcutta, Madras and Bombay as 39 NFHS-5. 40 Tahir Mahmood (1980). Marriage Age in India and Abroad – A Comparative Aspect. Journal of Indian Law Institute 22, 39. 41 Jaya Sagade. Child Marriage in India: Socio-legal and human Rights Dimensions. Oxford University Press, 2nd ed. (2012) 37. 42 Tahir Mahmood (1980). Marriage Age in India and Abroad – A Comparative Aspect. Journal of Indian Law Institute 22, 39. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1539 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. early as 1828.43 The laws in these presidency towns stipulated the age of consent for girls to be eight years and the offence of rape against a girl below the age of consent was punishable with death.44 In 1847, when the Law Commission was drafting the Indian Penal Code it decided, for the first time, to criminalise the consummation of marriage by a husband with his underage wife. The initial version of the Indian Penal Code 186045 stipulated the age of consent to be ten years and criminalised marital rape by a husband against his wife under the age of consent.46 22. Raising the age of consent was seen as undue interference by the colonial legislature into the personal laws of Indians.47 The movement gained a groundswell of support because of efforts by Behramji Malabari, a journalist from Bombay, who began publishing his ‘notes’ in his newspaper the ‘Indian Spectator’ in 1884.48 He highlighted the consequences of ‘infant marriages’ and ‘enforced widowhoods’ by recounting anecdotal accounts of victims. His polemical style of reporting sought to appeal to the humanity of the readers.49 Around the same time, two cases came to the fore and exposed the evils which come out of child marriage. i. Rukhmabai’s case 23. In 1874, at the age of eleven, Rukhmabai was married off to Dadaji Bhikaji, a nineteen-year-old boy who was a cousin of her step-father. Owing to his reformist views, Rukhmabai’s stepfather did not send her to live with Dadaji Bhikaji immediately upon attaining puberty.