14. The appellants have also submitted that the prosecution has not proved that the deceased was actually residing in the concerned house at Simaltalla. 15. Per contra, it is submitted on behalf of the State that mere non- examination of some independent witnesses shall not be fatal to the case of the prosecution. Reliance has been placed upon the decision of this Court in Rai Saheb & ors. v. State of Haryana11 to contend that at times, independent witnesses may not come forward due to fear. It is further submitted that the High Court has correctly appreciated the evidence in to arrive at the finding of guilt of the accused persons. It is further submitted that the testimonies of PW2, PW4 and PW18 are consistent and the High Court has correctly placed reliance upon their testimonies. As regards motive as well, it is submitted that the evidence is sufficient to reveal motive for the commission of the crime. 16. We have heard learned counsels for the appellants as well as for the State. We have also carefully examined the record. DISCUSSION 17. In light of the rival contentions raised by the parties, the principal issue that arises before the Court is whether the finding of guilt of the appellants arrived at by the High Court is sustainable in light of the evidence on record. As a corollary of this issue, it also needs 11 (1994) Supp.1 SCC 74 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 117 Vijay Singh @ Vijay Kr. Sharma v. The State of Bihar to be examined whether the approach of the High Court was in line with the settled law for reversing an acquittal into conviction in a criminal appeal. 18. After two rounds of litigation before the Trial Court and the High Court, it is fairly certain the case is to be examined only with respect to the offences under Sections 364 and 302 of IPC read with Section 34 IPC. With respect to the offence under Section 364 IPC, the case of the prosecution is based on direct oral evidence, and with respect to the offence under Section 302 IPC, the case of the prosecution is essentially based on circumstantial evidence as no direct evidence of the commission of murder could be collected. However, it is quite evident that the offence of murder was committed after the commission of the offence of abduction. There is a sequential relationship between the two offences and thus, in to set up a case for the commission of the offence of murder, it is necessary to prove the commission of the offence of abduction by the accused persons/appellants. For, the chain, in a case based on circumstantial evidence, must be complete and consistent. 19. In to prove the offence under Section 364 IPC, the prosecution has relied upon the oral testimonies of four eye witnesses – PW- 2, PW-4, PW-5 and PW-18. Their testimonies have been assailed on various counts. The appellants have termed the said witnesses as interested and chance witnesses.