[2024] 5 S.C.R. 523 : 2024 INSC 405 Sant Bhagwan Baba Shikshan Mandal & Ors. v. Gunwant & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 2225 of 2011) 03 April 2024 [Hima Kohli and Ahsanuddin Amanullah, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the High Court was justified in allowing the writ petition filed by the respondent no.1 and appointing him to the post of Shikshan Sevak in the appellant no.3-school. Headnotes Service Law – Appointment – Shikshan Sevak – Respondent no.1 was appointed as a peon in the appellant no.3-school – According to respondent no.1, he acquired requisite qualifications for the post of Shikshan Sevak and he had submitted several representations for the said post, but the same were not considered favourably – Appellant no.1 issued advertisement inviting application for appointment to the post of Shikshan Sevak – Respondent no.1 did not apply, instead after the post was filled by the appellants, respondent no.1 filed writ petition before the High Court – The writ petition was decided in favour of respondent no.1 – Correctness: Held: Once the respondent no.1 had acquired the requisite qualification in the course of his service with the respondent no. 3-School, and the relevant GR which was ultimately incorporated in the Maharashtra Employees of Private Schools (Conditions of Service) Act, 1977, permitted appointment of a non-teaching employee in a school as a Shikshan Sevak subject to the employee acquiring the requisite educational qualifications and further, subject to such a post being available, the appellants cannot be heard to state that the respondent no.1 being a part of the non-teaching staff, was not entitled for being considered for appointment to the subject post – In fact, the language used in the regulation dated 10.06.2005, itself makes it clear that the employee was not required to take any steps by making a representation for being appointed to the post of a Shikshan Sevak and an obligation was cast on the appellants to ensure 524 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that on a permanent vacancy being available to the post of Shikshan Sevak, a member of the non-teaching staff, who would have acquired the educational qualification required for such a post, ought to be appointed directly – Therefore, the impugned is well reasoned and does not require any interference. [Paras 11 and 12] List of Acts Maharashtra Employees of Private Schools (Conditions of Service) Act, 1977. List of Keywords Service Law; Appointment; Shikshan Sevak; Requisite qualifications; Non-teaching employee; Entitlement to appointment; Balancing equities; Senority; Retiral benefits. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 2225 of 2011 From the and dated 17.11.2009 of the High Court of Bombay, bench at Aurangabad in WP No. 1895 of 2007 Appearances for Parties Adarsh Kumar Pandey, Shivaji M. Jadhav, Vignesh Singh, Ms. Apurva, Brij Kishor Sah, Prafulla, Alok Kumar, Advs. for the Appellants. Vivek C. Solshe, Varun V. Solshe, Anjani Kumar Jha, Sachin Patil, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Bharat Bagla, Sourav Singh, Geo Joseph, Durgesh Gupta, Risvi Muhammed, Aditya Krishna, Advs. for the Respondents.