The Court opined that such an act cannot be said to be in the purported exercise of his duty and held that sanction under Section 197 CrPC was not necessary. However, it was also observed that the necessity of sanction may reveal itself in the course of progress of the case and that it would be open to the accused to place materials on record during the trial for showing what his duty was and also that the acts complained of were so interrelated to his duty that protection under Section 197 CrPC must be granted to him. It was observed as follows: “3. We must also make it clear that this is not the end of the matter. As was pointed out in Sarjoo Prasad v. King-Emperor [AIR 1946 FC 25 : 1954 FCR 227 : 47 Cri LJ 838] referring to the observations of Sulaiman, J. in Hori Ram Singh case the mere fact that the accused proposes to raise a defence of the act having purported to be done in execution of duty would not in itself be sufficient to justify the case being thrown out for want of sanction. At this stage we have only to see whether the acts alleged against the 2nd respondent can be said to be in purported execution of his duty. But facts subsequently coming to light during the course of the judicial inquiry or during the course of prosecution evidence at the trial may establish the necessity for sanction. Whether sanction is necessary or not may have to depend from stage to stage. The necessity may reveal itself in the course of the progress of the case [see observations in Matajog Dobey v. H.C. Bhari]. In Bhagwan Prasad Srivastava v. N.P. Misra also it was pointed out that it would be open to the appellant (the 2nd respondent in this case) to place the material on record during the course of the trial for showing what his duty was and also that the acts complained of were so inter-related with his official duty so as to attract the protection afforded by Section 197 CrPC.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 12 S.C.R. 827 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. 70. In B. Saha (supra), the Court went on to observe that they have no quarrel with the proposition that the question of sanction under Section 197 CrPC can be raised and considered at any stage of the proceedings. Moreover, it was also stated that in considering the question whether or not sanction for prosecution was required, it is not necessary for the Court to confine itself to the allegations in the complaint, and it can take into account all the material on record at the time when the question is raised and falls for consideration. Similar to the rationale adopted in B. Saha (supra), this Court in State of Bihar v. Kamla Prasad Singh and Others reported in (1998) 5 SCC 690 also re-affirmed that while determining whether the public servant was “acting in the discharge of his official duty”, the Court must consider not only the allegations made in the complaint but also other materials available on record.