The expression ‘intoxicating liquor’ could also mean the regulation of alcohol used in the production of other products since opium and narcotic drugs are also used as raw materials in the production of other products (like pain relivers) 188 Report of the Joint Committee on Indian Constitutional Reform; Entry 19(ii) of List II 189 See Rainbow Steels v. Sales Tax Commissioner, UP AIR 1981 SC 2010; State of Bombay v. Hospital Mazdoor Sabha, AIR 1960 SC 610, 613; Rohit Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd v. Collector of Central Excise, AIR 1991 SC 754 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2023 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons 105. Mr TT Krishnamachari moved an amendment to delete references to narcotic drugs and opium in Entry 40 of List II of the Draft Constitution 1948 (which correspondes to Entry 31 of List II of the 1935 Act). The amendment was adopted by the Assembly. Mr Krishnamachari submitted that it was necessary to delete references to opium and narcotic drugs because they were covered by other entries in List I and List III: “This amendment is necessary because we have shifted poisons and drugs to the Concurrent List and opium happens to be in the Central List. This entry, therefore, will suffice for the purposes of State Governments.”190 106. An analysis of the evolution of the legislative entries relating to alcohol does not provide an unambiguous interpretation. While the evolution of the entries does indicate that the drafters were aware of the distinction between potable alcohol and alcohol used as a raw material in the production of other products, there is no clear answer to whether ‘intoxicating liquor’ includes both. The evolution of the entries provides us with some context and background but not a conclusive answer. We now proceed to apply the third principle of interpretation, the workability or harmonious interpretation principle. d. The harmonious interpretation 107. The expression ‘intoxicating liquor’ can possibly be interpreted to mean the following: a. Alcohol which is used as a beverage for human consumption such as beer or gin, that is, potable liquor; b. If liquor means liquid, then Entry 8 of List II includes all liquids which contain alcohol; and c. Alcohol which is used as a raw material to prepare other products such as pharmaceutical products and cosmetic drugs. This could include denatured alcohol but also other types of alcohol that are used in the production of products without denaturing it. 108. A preliminary observation needs to be made. It may be recalled that the State does not have the competence to levy excise duty with 190 Constituent Assembly Debates (2 September 1949) Volume IX 2024 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports respect to toilet and medical preparations containing alcohol. However, this cannot influence the interpretation of the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ in Entry 8 of List II. The Seventh Schedule demarcates the legislative competence on taxes and regulation. It is settled law that the Legislature cannot derive taxation powers from a general regulatory entry.191 Thus, the lack of competence to levy tax on products other than alcoholic beverage cannot influence the interpretation of the regulatory entry.