However, such presumption is rebuttable. Even on the basis of the preponderance of probability, the accused can rebut the same. In the present case, the prosecution proved its case beyond reasonable doubt, in respect of the ‘demand’ and ‘acceptance’ of the bribe amount from the complainant and recovery of tainted currency notes from the possession of the respondent. The said operation is preceded by recording of the demand in the tape rec. In such circumstances, the respondent has to rebut the presumption by disproving the case of the prosecution either in the cross-examination [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1489 The State of Karnataka v. Chandrasha of the prosecution side witnesses or by adducing material evidence that the receipt of Rs.2,000/- was not a bribe amount, but a legal fee or repayment of loan. However, he failed to do so and on the contrary, we find the prosecution to have proved the case beyond any doubt. 22. Though the respondent in his statement recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C as well as before the Lokayukta Police, stated that there were loan transactions between himself and the complainant; 8 to 10 days prior to the date of incident the complainant borrowed a hand loan of Rs.2,000/- from the respondent; and when the respondent pressurized the complainant to return the loan amount, the present false case was registered against him, there was absolutely no evidence either in oral or documentary adduced to substantiate the same. It is an admitted fact that the complainant was working in a private aided school and the respondent was working as First Division Assistant in the Office of the Sub Treasury, Afzalpur. There was no material evidence produced to the effect that both were related closely to each other so as to grant a hand loan and to prove the grant of loan. In the absence of such material evidence produced, the plea so taken by the respondent, seems to be unbelievable. Therefore, it can safely be inferred that the respondent had received or accepted the currency notes on his own volition and the testimony of P.W.1 to P.W.5 including the testimony of P.W.10 and P.W.12 would go to show the demand, acceptance and recovery of the bribe amount from the possession of the respondent and the prosecution proved the charges framed against the respondent beyond reasonable doubt. 23. In view of the aforesaid analysis, we find that the trial Court based on the oral and documentary evidence adduced by the parties, rightly found the respondent guilty of the offences punishable under Sections 7 and 13 (1) (d) r/w Section 13 (2) of the Act and sentenced him for the same. However, the High Court by placing reliance on the decision of this Court in A.Subair’s case (supra), held that since no work was pending with the respondent as on the date of trap, the ingredient to attract and complete the offences punishable under Sections 7, 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of the Act was not met. The view so taken by the High Court is unsustainable as the decision of this Court in A.Subair’s case (supra) did not support the 1490 [2024] 11 S.C.R.