19. Publication of Draft Development Plan.—(1) The Director shall forthwith publish the draft development plans prepared under section 18 in such manner as may be prescribed together with a notice of the preparation of the draft development plan and the place or places where the copies may be inspected, inviting objections and the suggestions in writing from any person with respect thereto, within thirty days from the date of publication of such notice. Such notice shall specify in regard to the draft development plan the following particulars, namely:— (i) the existing land use maps; 19 As amended vide Himachal Pradesh Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Act 2013 (Act No. 41 of 2013). 998 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) a narrative report, supported by maps and charts, explaining the provisions of the draft development plan; (iii) the phasing of implementation of the draft development plan as suggested by the Director; (iv) the provisions for enforcing the draft development plan and stating the manner in which permission to development may be obtained; (v) an approximate estimate of the cost of land acquisition for public purposes and the cost of works involved in the implementation of the plan. (2) The Director shall, not later than ninety days after the date of expiry of the notice period under sub-section (1), consider all the objections and suggestions as may be received within the period specified in the notice under sub-section (1) and shall, after giving reasonable opportunity to all persons affected thereby of being heard, make such modifications in the draft development plan as he may consider necessary, and submit not later than six months after the publication of the draft development plan, the plan so modified, to the State Government for approval together with all connected documents, plans, maps and charts. 20. Sanction of Development Plan.—(1) As soon as may be after the submission of the development plan under Section 19, the State Government may either approve the development plan or may approve it with such modifications as it may consider necessary or may return it to the Director to modify the same or to prepare a fresh plan in accordance with such directions as it may issue in this behalf. (2) Where the State Government approves the development plan with modifications, the State Government shall, by a notice published in the Official Gazette invite objections and suggestions in respect of such modifications within a period of not less than thirty days from the date of publication of the notice in the Official Gazette. (3) After considering objections and suggestions and after giving a hearing to the persons desirous of being heard the State Government may confirm the modification in the development plan. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 999 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another (4) The State Government shall publish the development plan as approved, under the foregoing provisions in the Official Gazette and shall along with the plan publish a public notice, in such manner as may be prescribed, of the approval of the development plan and the place or places where the copies of the approved development plan may be inspected.