Grade Pay/ grant of financial benefits shall not amount to actual or functional promotion of the employees concerned. Roster point etc. will not be applicable. 18. Clause 21 states that the pay drawn in the Pay Band and Grade Pay allowed under the MACPS shall be taken as the basis for determining the terminal benefits in respect of the retiring employees. 19. The illustrations in Clause 28 clearly affirm the view we have taken and are in accord with what we have stated above. 20. In view of the aforesaid position of the MACPS, we fail to understand how we can ignore the financial upgradation, which was granted upon completion of two or four years of service in the posts of Pharmacist or Superintendent, as the case may be, for the purpose of deciding as to whether or not the Government employee would [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1531 Union of India & Ors. v. N.M. Raut & Ors. be entitled to the next financial benefit under the MACPS. To ignore the financial upgradation granted on completion of two or four years of service as Pharmacists or Superintendents, would be contrary to the intent and purpose of the scheme, the language employed as well as the examples/illustrations which have been given. No doubt, certain anomalies may arise because of the fact that the ACPS and MACPS did operate during different periods; the nature of financial upgradations was different; and the time periods specified for financial upgradation were different, but this cannot be a ground and reason to re-write or ignore the expressed language of the MACPS and the intent and purpose behind the scheme. Read in this light, we have no difficulty in accepting the present appeal and setting aside the impugned s. Hence, we allow the present appeals. 21. In other words, the respondents would be entitled to the benefits of the MACPS only after taking into consideration all the financial upgradations earned by them, in terms of the CCS RP Rules. Financial upgradations under the said Rules have to be accounted for and will be treated as financial upgradations earned for the purpose of reckoning the 10-year intervals and the three assured financial upgradations, in terms of Grade Pay, under the MACPS. 22. We are informed that, in the present case, the Government of India had implemented and executed the MACPS by granting benefits to the respondents and, later on, recoveries were initiated. As many of the employees may have retired, in terms of the decision of this Court in “State of Punjab and Others vs. Rafiq Masih (White Washer) and Others,10 we deem it appropriate to direct that the Union of India will not effect any recovery of arrears from the retirees or those who are retiring within one year from the date of pronouncement of this . 23. In other cases, the recoveries may be made after issuing notice to the employee concerned, whose request for proportionate recovery over a period of time not exceeding two years, may be considered depending upon the quantum of recovery which is to be made.