A plain reading of statutory provision makes it abundantly clear that in the event, the Public Prosecutor opposes the prayer for bail either regular or anticipatory, as the case may be, the Court would have to record a satisfaction that there are grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty of the offence alleged and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. 10. It is apposite to note that the High Court not only omitted to record any such satisfaction, but has rather completely ignored the factum of recovery of narcotic substance (ganja), multiple times the commercial quantity. The High Court also failed to consider the fact that the accused has criminal antecedents and was already arraigned in two previous cases under the NDPS Act. 11. In case of recovery of such a huge quantity of narcotic substance, the Courts should be slow in granting even regular bail to the accused what to talk of anticipatory bail more so when the accused is alleged to be having criminal antecedents. 12. For entertaining a prayer for bail in a case involving recovery of commercial quantity of narcotic drug or psychotropic substance, the Court would have to mandatorily record the satisfaction in terms of the rider contained in Section 37 of the NDPS Act. 13. Manifestly, a very strange approach has been adopted by the learned Single Judge in the impugned whereby the anticipatory bail was granted to the respondent on the condition that the appellant would deposit a sum of Rs. 30,000/- to the credit of the registered Tamil Nadu Advocate Clerk Association, Chennai along with various other conditions. The condition no. [a] (supra) so imposed by the High Court is totally alien to the principles governing bail jurisprudence and is nothing short of perversity. 14. The fact that after investigation, the charge-sheet has been filed against the respondent-accused along with other accused persons, fortifies the plea of the State counsel that the Court could not have recorded a satisfaction that the accused was prima facie not guilty of the offences alleged. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 363 State by the Inspector of Police v. B. Ramu 15. As a consequence, the impugned is cryptic and perverse on the face of the record and cannot be sustained. Thus, the same is quashed and set aside. 16. The appeal is allowed in these terms. 17. The respondent-accused shall surrender before the learned trial court within a period of 10 days from today. 18. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeal allowed.