It was further submitted that the impugned FIR is a counterblast and has been maliciously lodged only to resist the appellant from recovering the amount paid by him to the respondent no.6. It is also submitted that the alleged transaction according to the FIR is of April, 2019 whereas the FIR has been lodged in July, 2022 after more than three years and, therefore, on the ground of delay, the alleged FIR deserves to be quashed. 9. On the other hand, learned counsel for the State of Chhattisgarh as also learned counsel for the respondents have submitted that a cognizable offence was disclosed in the FIR and as such the High Court has rightly dismissed the petition; the investigation must be allowed to continue and if ultimately the police report is submitted under section 173(2) Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 finding the appellant prima facie guilty of the charge on the basis of the evidence collected during the investigation, the appellant would have adequate remedy of assailing the charge sheet and also claiming discharge at the stage of framing of charges. There is no justification for scuttling the investigation which may ultimately not only deprive the respondent no.6 of her hard-earned money but also the offence committed by [2024] 2 S.C.R. 369 Deepak Kumar Shrivas & Anr. v. State of Chhattisgarh & Ors. the appellant would go unpunished. It was also submitted that it was a clear case of cheating as the appellant had deceitfully induced the respondent no.6 to provide a job to her daughter by taking huge amount of money and thereafter neither providing the job nor returning the money. 10. Having heard learned counsel for the parties, we proceed to analyse the material on record and submissions advanced by the parties. 11. In the complaint made by the appellant in 2021 to the Collector an enquiry has been made by the Station House Officer of the Police Station concerned in which the fact that the respondent no.6 had stated that she had paid Rs.4 lacs to the appellant for providing a job to her daughter was recorded. This clearly means that respondent no.6 was well aware of the complaint made by the appellant and in the enquiry her statement had been actually recorded. The respondent no.6 therefore cannot raise a plea that she had no knowledge of the complaint made by the appellant. Despite the same she did not lodge any complaint against the appellant and his brother and waited for more than a year to lodge the FIR in July, 2022. 12. According to the allegations made in the FIR, the job was to be provided by the appellant within three months of April, 2019 i.e. by July, 2019. However, the respondent no.6 did not take any action for a period of three years till July, 2022 when the FIR in question was lodged. Thus, the FIR suffers from a serious delay of three years which is totally unexplained. 13. A reading of the entire material on record clearly reflects that it was totally an unlawful contract between the parties where money was being paid for securing a job in the government department(s) or private sector.