949 of 1994 for assailing acquittal of A1, A2, A3 and A5 before the Gujarat High Court. 12. The appeal preferred by the State being Criminal Appeal No. 949 of 1994 was allowed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Gujarat vide dated 11th December, 2015 whereas the appeal 1184 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports preferred by the accused appellants was dismissed. The High Court reversed the acquittal of the accused and convicted them for the offences punishable under Sections 302 and 396 IPC and sentenced them to undergo life imprisonment and the fine and default sentence imposed by learned trial Court was maintained. 13. The aforesaid dated 11th December, 2015 is assailed in these appeals preferred on behalf of the accused appellants. Submissions on behalf of accused appellants:- 14. Learned counsel for the accused appellants contended that the prosecution did not prove any document whatsoever to establish that the jeep bearing registration No.GJ-08-114 was owned by or was in possession of the deceased. The incriminating articles allegedly recovered at the instance of the accused were never got examined through the Forensic Sciences Laboratories (FSL). Only the blood samples of two accused were sent to the FSL for serological examination. 15. The prosecution miserably failed to prove the fact that A1 was found present in the Jeep bearing registration No.GJ-08-114, when the same was stopped by the PSI J.N. Chaudhary (PW-22) of the Kubernagar Police Station. In this regard, attention of the Court was drawn to the communication i.e. Exhibit-96 forwarded by PSI J.N. Chaudhary (PW-22) to the officer in-charge of the Sardarnagar Police Station wherein the registration number of the jeep is not mentioned. Learned counsel urged that this omission is fatal to the prosecution case. 16. It was thus urged that there is no reliable and tangible evidence establishing guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt so as to justify conviction of the accused-appellants as directed by the Division Bench of the Gujarat High Court while reversing the findings of acquittal recorded by the trial Court. 17. It was further contended that A2, A3 and A5 have been convicted solely on the basis of the confessional statement of A1 recorded by the Police Inspector PW-22. Learned counsel submitted that the said disclosure being in the form of a confession recorded by the Police Officer, is totally inadmissible in evidence as being hit by Sections 25 and 26 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872(hereinafter being referred to as ‘Evidence Act’). [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1185 Thakore Umedsing Nathusing v. State of Gujarat 18. It was further submitted that the High Court, while reversing the acquittal of the accused as recorded by the trial Court, has not recorded any such finding that the view taken by the trial Court was perverse or two views i.e. one favouring the accused and the other favouring the prosecution were not possible from the evidence as available on record. It was contended that the findings recorded by the High Court in the impugned s are not based on any tangible evidence and are drawn sheerly on conjectures and surmises.