The General Manager, Railways would send a list of at least four names, from which the other party must suggest at least two names as its nominee. The General Manager would then appoint one of these two persons as the contractor’s nominee, and appoint the balance arbitrators, including the presiding arbitrator, from within or outside the panel. The Court held that appointment of arbitrators must be as per the arbitration agreement,77 and that appointment from a panel of retired officers is not prohibited under Section 12(5) of the Act.78 It held that the rulings in TRF (supra) and Perkins (supra) will not apply to the present case 73 ibid, para 20. 74 ibid, para 21. 75 ibid. 76 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. ECI-SPIC-SMO-MCML (JV) (2020) 14 SCC 712. Hereinafter referred to as “CORE”. 77 ibid, para 22. The Court relied on Union of India v. Parmar Construction Company (2019) 15 SCC 682 and Union of India v. Pradeep Vinod Construction Co (2020) 2 SCC 464. 78 ibid, para 26. The Court relied on Voestalpine (supra) and Govt. of Haryana PWD Haryana (B and R) Branch v. G.F. Toll Road (P) Ltd (2019) 3 SCC 505. 2316 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports as the advantage accruing to the Railways through appointing their arbitrator is counter-balanced by the contractor’s right to choose two names from the list, out of which the General Manager will appoint at least one of them as the contractor’s nominee.79 There are three noteworthy aspects of this reasoning: first, that the Court relies on Parmar Construction (supra) and Pradeep Vinod Construction (supra) while ruling on adherence to the appointment procedure in the agreement, but does not consider that these cases interpreted Clause 64 of the GCC prior to the amendment in law and the arbitration clause pursuant to the 2015 Amendment. Second, the Court does not deal with the prescriptions for a panel-based appointment that were set out in Voestalpine (supra) – that the other party must have freedom to make its choice from the complete panel rather than a limited list, and that the panel must be broad-based. The panel in CORE (supra) does not meet these criteria, but has been upheld by the Court. Further, CORE (supra) does not overrule or doubt TRF (supra) and Perkins (supra), but only differentiates its facts and in fact, relies on the counter-balancing exception set out in these s. VI. In Glock Asia-Pacific Limited v. Union of India,80 the Court appointed an independent arbitrator under Section 11 as the arbitration agreement provided for a person ineligible under Section 12(5) read with clause 1 of the Seventh Schedule to act as the arbitrator. Subsequently, in Lombardi Engineering Limited v. Uttarakhand Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited,81 the Court cited and followed Perkins (supra) to appoint an independent arbitrator, as the arbitration agreement therein was similar to that in Perkins (supra). 39. This Court has also interpreted entries of the Fifth and Seventh Schedules of the Act, and has set out their contours in various cases.