Consequently, Customs Department sought to collect the duty payable on such goods. The High Court accepted the importer’s challenge to imposition and collection of duty on the ground that Section 183 proceedings authorised only a fine and not customs duty. This court allowed the appeal of the Custom Departments by drawing a distinction between the power to impose or recover duty under Section 20 (Section 12/28 of our Act) on one hand, and the power to impose penalty and/or fine under Section 183 (Section 125 of our Act). This Court held that they are distinct and operate independently. The relevant portion of the judgement is as under: “5. Does the under Section 183 preclude him from levying duty under Section 20? This is the short issue before us. A close study of the scheme of the relevant provisions, powers and levies discloses a clear dichotomy which has escaped the attention of the High Court. Import/Export duty is an obligation cast by Section 20 of the Act. It is a tax, not a penalty; it is an innocent levy once the exigible event occurs; it is not a punitive impost for a contravention of the law. Confiscation, penalty and fine provided for under Sections 167 (item 8) and 183 are of the species of punishment for violation of the scheme of prohibition and control. Once this distinction and duality are remembered, the interpretative process simplifies itself. 10 [1976] 2 SCR 87 : (1976) 1 SCC 166, hereinafter referred to as Security Finance case. 1194 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 8. ….In the present case, the Deputy Collector, the competent authority, has chosen to give the owner of the goods, the respondent, option to pay, in lieu of confiscation, a fine. He has not confiscated the goods and, therefore, Section 184 is not operational in this context. In short, the obligation under Section 20 is independent of the liability under Section 183. The , dual in character, although clubbed together in a single document, is therefore valid in entirety. Even so, the confusion has been caused by the Deputy Collector failing to keep distinct the two powers and the two liabilities and thereby leading to avoidable jumbling. 10. However, we are prepared to gather from the under attack two levies imposed in exercise of two distinct powers, as earlier explained. The import duty has been made a condition for the clearance of the goods. This is right and it is impossible to say that the said payment is not justified by Section 20. Likewise, the authority when it imposed a fine, was exercising its power under Section 183. We can readily see that he did not mean to confiscate the goods. He only proposed to confiscate and proceeded to fix a fine in lieu thereof. Non-felicitous and inept expressions used in the are perhaps apt to mislead, but the intendment is clear that what was done was not confiscation but giving an option to pay a quantified fine in place of confiscation.