Section 6A was a statutory codification of a political settlement reached between the Government and the people of Assam and thus was not violative of the equality clause enshrined under Article 14 at the time of its enactment in 1985. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1237 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 208. However, Section 6A has acquired unconstitutionality with the efflux of time. The efflux of time has brought to light the element of manifest arbitrariness in the scheme of Section 6A(3) which fails to provide a temporal limit to its applicability. 209. The prescribed mechanism also shifts the burden of detection of a foreigner solely on the State, thus, counter-serving the very purpose for which the provision was enacted, that is, the expedient detection of immigrants belonging to the 1966-71 stream, their deletion from the electoral rolls, and conferment of de-jure citizenship only upon the expiry of ten-years. 210. Justice Surya Kant has said in so many words that although Section 6A might not have been constitutionally invalid from its inception, yet the possibility of the provision incurring such invalidity anytime in future should not be ruled out. In light of the discussion in the foregoing paragraphs, I am of the clear view that Section 6A suffers from the vice of manifest arbitrariness on account of the “systematic failure of the legislative vision”, if I may put it in the very words of my learned brother. 211. Justice Surya Kant has also acknowledged the fact that despite the enactment of Section 6A, the influx of illegal immigrants into the State of Assam did not abate after 1985. He has relied upon the report published by the then Governor of Assam in 1998, to underscore that there are hordes of immigrants who have illegally entered Assam and are residing there. However, the ultimate view taken by him is that such illegal immigration cannot be attributed to Section 6A which is limited in its ambit and does not by itself create unabated immigration. As discussed earlier, Section 6A owing to its inherent problems of absence of temporal limit and the sole onus of detection upon the State, has indeed resulted in the influx and continued presence of illegal immigrants into the State of Assam, to this date. 212. One another issue on which I would like to respectfully disagree with Justice Surya Kant pertains to the fundamental premise that Section 6A aligns with the fundamental purpose of Articles 6 and 7 respectively of the Constitution – that is, Section 6A also confers citizenship rights on those affected by the partition of India. However, a careful perusal of Section 6A vis-à-vis Articles 6 and 7 respectively would reveal that despite a few similarities between the 1238 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports two, the crucial difference lies in the fact that in Article 6, the onus of registration for a person seeking citizenship lies on that person and not on the State. Additionally, all those persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after 19.07.1948, had to make an application before the commencement of the Constitution.