Further, this is also to ensure that the arbitral proceeding is concluded within a reasonable period to minimise the impact of the pre-award interest as well as interest pendente lite; thereby promoting efficiency in the arbitration process. Similarly, grant of post-award interest also serves a salutary [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1603 North Delhi Municipal Corporation v. M/s. S.A. Builders Ltd. purpose. It primarily acts as a disincentive to the award debtor not to delay payment of the arbitral amount to the award holder. 40. In S.L. Arora (supra), a two-Judge Bench of this Court considered amongst others the question as to whether Section 31 (7) of the 1996 Act authorises and enables arbitral tribunals to award interest on interest from the date of the award till payment. After referring to the old Arbitration Act, 1940 as well as to the provisions of the Interest Act, 1978, the Bench observed that unlike the old Act the 1996 Act contains specific provision dealing with power of the arbitral tribunal to award interest. Analysing the aforesaid provision, the Bench further observed that Section 31 (7) makes no reference to payment of compound interest or payment of interest upon interest; nor does it require the interest which accrues till the date of the award to be treated as part of the principal from the date of the award for calculating the post-award interest. Examining the difference between clauses (a) and (b) of Section 31 (7) of the 1996 Act, the Bench observed that clause (a) relates to pre-award period interest whereas clause (b) relates to post-award period interest. The contract binds and prevails in regard to interest during the pre-award period. The contract has no application in regard to interest during the post-award period. Clause (a) gives discretion to the arbitral tribunal in regard to the rate, the period, the quantum (principal) when awarding interest. But such discretion is always subject to the contract between the parties. Clause (b) also gives discretion to the arbitral tribunal to award interest for the post-award period but that discretion is not subject to any contract; moreover, if that discretion is not exercised by the arbitral tribunal, then the statute steps in and mandates payment of interest at the specified rate of 18% per annum for the post-award period. While clause (a) gives the parties an option to contract out of interest, no such option is available in regard to the post-award period. 40.1. Summing up, the Bench observed that in regard to pre-award period, interest has to be awarded as specified in the contract and in the absence of any contract, as per the discretion of the arbitral tribunal. On the other hand, in regard to the post-award period, interest is payable as per the discretion of the arbitral tribunal and in the absence of exercise of such discretion, at the mandatory statutory rate of 18% per annum. According to the Bench, the award of interest under sub-Section (7) of 1604 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Section 31, like award of cost under sub-Section (8) of Section 31 of the 1996 Act, are ancillary matters when the arbitral tribunal decides the substantive dispute(s) between the parties.