We make it clear that on the failure of the respondent to deposit the said amount, the granting bail to the respondent is liable to be set aside. As and when the said amount is deposited, the Registry will invest it in the interest bearing deposit with auto renewal facility.” In terms of the said , the respondent has deposited a sum of Rs.15,00,000/-, which has been invested in a fixed deposit under the s of this Court. SUBMISSIONS 3. Shri K M Nataraj, learned Additional Solicitor General of India, pointed out that the finding against the respondent and co-accused by the Special Court is that there was an embezzlement of approximately a sum of Rs.46,00,000/-. He pointed out that what is suspended under the impugned is the substantive sentence of 7 years. As the respondent has paid only a sum of Rs.15,00,000/- out of the total fine amount of Rs.95,00,000/- and as the direction to pay a fine has not been suspended under the impugned , the respondent will have to be taken into custody for undergoing sentence imposed in default of payment of a fine. Learned ASG relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Satyendra Kumar Mehra v. State of Jharkhand.1 He pointed out the interpretation put by this Court to 1 [2018] 4 SCR 1033 : (2018) 15 SCC 139 934 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 357 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, ‘the CrPC’). He relied upon what is held in paragraph 36 of the said decision. He urged that there is a power to suspend the fine conferred by Section 389 of the CrPC with or without condition. He submitted that the impugned does not record that the of fine has been suspended. He, therefore, submitted that the impugned would not help the respondent to avoid enforcement of the sentence in default of payment of the fine. He submitted that, in any case, the High Court could not have granted an unconditional stay of the directing payment of a fine of Rs.95,00,000/-. He submitted that until the impugned was passed, the respondent had only been incarcerated for about 8 months. 4. Shri Naidu, learner senior counsel representing the respondent, submitted that the entire sentence, including the sentence of fine, has been suspended by the impugned . He submitted that the substantive sentence and the sentence in default of fine are limited period sentences. As the appeal against conviction is not likely to be heard in the near future, the High Court has rightly suspended the sentence. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 5. Section 389 of the CrPC reads thus: “389. Suspension of sentence pending the appeal; release of appellant on bail.—(1) Pending any appeal by a convicted person, the Appellate Court may, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, that the execution of the sentence or appealed against be suspended and, also, if he is in confinement, that he be released on bail, or on his own bond: Provided that the Appellate Court shall, before releasing on bail or on his own bond a convicted person who is convicted of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than ten years, shall give opportunity to the Public Prosecutor for showing cause in writing against such release: Provided further that in cases where a convicted person is released on bail it shall be open to the Public Prosecutor to file an application for the cancellation of the bail.