5. The officials of the National Highway demolished the complainant’s house by getting the support of the 2356 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports district administration in an illegal way by hiding the true facts, which was not fair. 6. On 04/07/2019, Smt. Laxmi Devi, wife of Shri Sushil Kumar Tibrewal, presented a letter before the then District Magistrate Maharajganj and it was conveyed that Digar Araji was being marked, out of the road. In this regard, no information and prior notice has been given to them. If land is acquired by damaging the house etc. of the applicant, then appropriate compensation should be provided to him. According to the records, no action was taken at this time, due to which the dispute in question arose. The construction should have been destroyed only after determining this relationship, and after determining and distributing the compensation, which has not been done. Therefore, the then District Magistrate, Maharajganj seems guilty for not following the procedure laid down in the case in question. 7. As far as the question regarding complainant attached at different levels presented with appointment section-5 of Uttar Pradesh Government letter 52/2- 5-2020 dated 27/01/2020 and G-1-15 / 2-5-2020 dated 07/02/2020, it is worth mentioning that, in the complaint letters addressed to the Director, Enforcement Directorate, Government of India and Government of India, the Hon’ble Prime Minister, complaint regarding the Disproportionate assets of Amarnath Upadhyay, then District Magistrate, Maharajganj. It has been requested to investigate the issue by making a high-level team. Therefore, it would not be expedient to make any kind of comments etc. in this regard from this level.” 22. Following a representation by the District Magistrate, the Commissioner passed a further dated 31 July 2020 whereby he observed : “It is clear that administrative before providing the administrative support, the then above District Magistrate Maharaganj had full responsibility to investigate the fact from their revenue records that whether the land on [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2357 In Re: Manoj Tibrewal Akash which National Highway is constructing a road claiming to be in their ownership belongs to them or not. Without verifying the same from the revenue and tehsil records, the house in question was demolished through police and administrative support which was not appropriate from any view point. During the terrestrial inspection, it was found by me that the width of the road at the site in question has been reduced. The place where the complainant’s house was located is not mentioned as a road land in the maps. The responsibility Of demarcating and fixing the land of the road which belongs to Public Works department, is of the then District Magistrate Maharaganj. Therefore, the representation/ statement furnished by the then District Magistrate Maharaganj Sh. Amarnath Upadhyay to the effect that he had no direct responsibility in the case in question cannot be accepted under any circumstances. Therefore, the representation/ assertion submitted by the then District Magistrate Sh. Amarnath Upadhyay is not acceptable at all.” 23. We have heard Mr Siddharth Bhatnagar, senior counsel who appeared on behalf of the petitioner and Ms Tulika Mukherjee, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Uttar Pradesh.