They should not take an obstructive approach or seek to leverage the resolution process solely for individual benefit, as such actions would risk destabilizing the corporate debtor’s recovery trajectory. Instead, they must be prepared to collaborate fully, sharing the responsibility to make the resolution process work in practice. Through a spirit of cooperation and shared purpose, the Successful Resolution Applicant and lenders together can ensure that the corporate debtor is given the best chance for revival and sustained growth, reflecting the Code’s intent to rescue viable companies and protect broader economic interests. 176. The IBC, 2016 is silent as regards the phase of implementation of the Resolution Plan by the Successful Resolution Applicant. This is mostly due to the fact that each Resolution Plan might be unique and customized to the specific needs of the Corporate Debtor and an excessive amount of statutory control over the implementation of the Plan may prove to be counterproductive to the cause of the Corporate Debtor. However, this has unfortunately led to the consequence of giving excessive leeway to the Successful Resolution Applicants to act in flagrant violation of the terms of the Resolution Plan in a lackadaisical manner. The SRAs repeatedly approach the Adjudicating Authority or the NCLAT for the grant of reliefs in relation to relaxation of the strict compliance to the terms of the Plan, including the timelines imposed therein. The NCLT and NCLAT more often than not, accede to such requests in exercise of their inherent powers under Rule 11 or their power to extend time under Rule 15 of the NCLT and NCLAT Rules, 2016 respectively. It is reiterated that the NCLT and NCLAT must not entertain such repeated attempts at violating the integrity of a CoC approved Resolution Plan by accommodating the incessant requests of the Successful Resolution Applicants. The exercise of discretion as regards altering the binding terms of the Resolution Plan, including the timelines imposed, must be kept at a minimum, at best. The NCLTs/ NCLATs need to be sensitised of not exercising their judicial discretion in extending the timelines fixed under IBC, 2016 or the Resolution Plan, in such a way that it may make the Code lose its effectiveness thereby rendering it obsolete. 2168 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 177. Section 30(2)(d) of the IBC, 2016 states that the resolution professional shall mandatorily examine each resolution plan that is received to confirm that it provides for the implementation and supervision of the resolution plan. Regulation 38 of the 2016 Regulations provides for the mandatory contents of a Resolution Plan. Regulation 38(2) specifically states that the Resolution Plan shall provide for the term of the plan and its implementation schedule, along with adequate means for supervising its implementation. Further, under Regulation 38(3), a resolution plan must demonstrate that it addresses the cause of default, is feasible and viable, has provisions for its effective implementation, has provisions for approvals required and the timelines for the same and, that the resolution applicant has the capability to implement the resolution plan.