743 Manik & Ors. v. The State of Maharashtra own for the prosecution, I think it only proper to proceed with further consideration of the present case. 33. In the contextual situation, it is also relevant to refer to the decision of this Court in State of Karnataka v. M.V. Mahesh.12 Even in the absence of corpus delicti, it is possible to establish in an appropriate case commission of murder on appropriate material being made available to the court, it was held therein. Therefore, the question is when the opinion on the fingerprint test is eschewed from the evidence, what survives to sustain the finding of guilt of appellant-convicts concerned under Section 304, Part-II, IPC, in the case on hand. 34. The case on hand allegedly, being a case of custodial death, as an abundant caution, I have taken pain to see whether any other material and acceptable evidence was adduced by the prosecution to establish homicide of Shama @ Kalya by the appellant-convicts during his illegal custody. It is a fact that none of the prosecution witnesses had deposed to the effect that he/she had seen the veins of legs of Shama @ Kalya in a cut off state or that he/she had seen his dead body anywhere in Gondia City Police Station including in any part of the Detective Branch Room. True that PW-1 and PW-16 have spoken to have seen Shama being beaten while in police custody. Hence, in the absence of any such specific statement from any of the prosecution witnesses while being examined and in the absence of any medical evidence in that regard, the question is how the Trial Court and the High Court arrived at the conclusion that veins of legs of Shama @ Kalya were cut off and such injuries, though not sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, ultimately caused his death while being in custody. 35. In the contextual situation, it is relevant to deal further with the oral testimonies of the witnesses. PW-1, Amrutabai, the wife of Shama @ Kalya would depose that Shama was involved in several theft cases and used to be in jail frequently. She would also depose that he had plans to dispose of property at Kalamana. PW-16, who is the mother-in-law of Shama @ Kalya had also deposed in regard to his proposal to dispose of property at Kalamana. The relevance of their evidence in regard to disposal of Kalmana property will be looked into later, in another context. Evidence of PW-1, Amrutabai would reveal 12 [2003] 2 SCR 553 : (2003) 3 SCC 353 744 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that while being examined-in-chief, she deposed that on 18.12.1995 she was tortured in a room by some of the accused and Shama was also brought to the said room later and then she saw him bleeding from his legs. She would further depose that on being enquired Shama would say that police had cut the veins of his leg and he might not survive and therefore, she would have to look after their children.