15. The prosecution, insofar as the memorandum under Section 27 of the Evidence Act is concerned, has relied on the depositions of Ramkumar (PW-5) and Ajab Singh (PW-18). According to the prosecution, the statement of Ravishankar Tandon (accused No. 1) was recorded on 3rd December 2011 at 10:00 am. On the same day, the statement of Umend Prasad Dhritalhare (accused No. 2) was recorded at 10:30 am, and that of Dinesh Chandrakar (accused No. 3) at 11:00 am. Whereas the statement of Satyendra Kumar Patre (accused No. 4) was recorded on 6th December 2011 at 07:00 pm. It will be relevant to refer to the relevant part of the evidence of Ramkumar (PW-5), which reads thus: “2. In front of me, accused Ravishankar have told to the police that at the behest of accused Dinesh, they have killed Dharmender for Rs. 90,000 and made a plan and Ravishankar called Dharmender called him to buy silver and killed him in Bhatgaon stuffed his dead body in a sack and threw it in the pond. On being shown the memorandum statement of Exhibit P- l0 have told to be his signature on Part A to A. 3. Umed had also told the police in front of me that Sattu along with Ravi Shankar had killed Dharmendra and threw him in Bhatagaon’s lake on the advice of Dinesh. Witness Memo statement is Exhibit P-11 and accepts his signature on part A to A. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 571 Ravishankar Tandon v. State of Chhattisgarh 4. Dinesh had told in front of me that 6 months back he had made a deal with Ravishankar and sattu to kill Dharmender for 90 thousand rupees. Dinesh also told that Shankar had said that the work is done, give him the money. On being shown Exhibit P-12, accepted to have his signature on Part A to A. Witness states that it was seized from the pond in front of me. 5. Village Kunda is 16 km away from my village. It is correct that Dharmendra had come to know about the murder on 3rd. Witness states that it was informed by the police. On that other morning, at about 7 -8 o’clock in the morning, it is correct that on my arrival in village Kunda, my brother-in-law and nephew Narendra had told me about the murder which was done by the accused. By that time we did not reach the spot that’s why whether it was Dharmender’s body or not I cannot.” 6. I went from Kunda to Bhatgaon on 2nd with the police, then he says that at that time it was about two and a half o’clock in the evening. It is correct that when I reached Bhatgaon there were many people of the village. It is correct that because of dead body there were many people there. It is correct to say that police have brought the dead body to Mungeli police station where PM was done. 7. It is correct that accused were brought to Mungeli police station.