Section 11 of the Act, 1986 delineates the function to be discharged and the procedure to be adopted by the Advisory Board. It inter-alia states that the Advisory Board must form an opinion and specify as to whether there is sufficient cause warranting the detention of the detenu. The Advisory Board has to form this opinion by considering all the materials placed before it in terms of Section 10 of the Act, 1986. Section 11 further empowers the Advisory Board to call for any other information or to hear the detenu, wherever necessary so as to ascertain the sufficiency of cause for preventive detention. The relevant provision reads as under: - “11. Procedure of Advisory Boards. (1) The Advisory Board shall, after considering the materials placed before it and, after calling for such 1224 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports further information as it may deem necessary from the Government or from any person called for the purpose through the Government or from the person concerned, and if, in any particular case, the Advisory Board considers it essential so to do or if the person concerned desires to be heard, after hearing him in person, submit its report to the Government within seven weeks from the date of detention of the person concerned. (2) The report of the Advisory Board shall specify in a separate part thereof the opinion of the Advisory Board as to whether or not there is sufficient cause for the detention of the person concerned. (3) When there is a difference of opinion among the members forming the Advisory Board, the opinion of the majority of such members shall be deemed to be the opinion of the Board. (4) The proceedings of the Advisory Board and its report, excepting that part of the report in which the opinion of the Advisory Board is specified, shall be confidential. (5) Nothing in this section shall entitle any person against whom a detention has been made to appear by any legal practitioner in any matter connected with the reference to the Advisory Board.” 54. Section 12 of the Act, 1986 provides that where the Advisory Board in its report is of the opinion that sufficient cause exists warranting detention, the Government may confirm the detention i.e., it gives the appropriate Government the discretion to either confirm or revoke the of detention. But where the Advisory Board in its report is of the opinion that no sufficient cause exists for the detention of the detenu, the same is binding on the Government, and the detenu is forthwith required to be released. The relevant observations read as under: - “12. Action upon report of Advisory Board. (1) In any case where the Advisory Board has reported that there is, in its opinion, sufficient cause for the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1225 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. detention of a person, the Government may confirm the detention and continue the detention of the person concerned for such period, not exceeding the maximum period specified in section 13 as they think fit.