139. Having concluded that the Constitution guarantees a right to informational privacy of political affiliation, it needs to be decided if the right can be extended to the contributions to political parties. The Electoral Bond Scheme has two manifestations of privacy: first, informational privacy by prescribing confidentiality vis-a-vis the political party; and second, informational privacy by prescribing non- disclosure of the information of political contributions to the public. The Union of India submitted that contributions made to political parties must be protected both from the political party itself and the public because donor privacy is an extension of the principle of secret ballot and is a facet of free and fair elections. The petitioners argue that equating political contributions with expression of political preference through voting is flawed because it conflates money with speech. The petitioners also argue that informational privacy does not extend to political contributions because they are by their very nature public acts which influence public policy, and thus, must be subject to public scrutiny. 155 Colin Bennet, The politics of privacy and privacy of politics: Parties, elections, and voter surveillance in Western Democracies. First Monday, 18(8) 2013 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 522 Digital Supreme Court Reports 140. The issue before this Court is not whether public funding of political parties is permissible. Neither is the issue whether a restriction can be placed on the contribution which can be made by a citizen to a political party. If it was, then the question of whether financial contribution to a political party is in furtherance of the right to freedom of political soeech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) or the right to freedom to form associations under Article 19(1)(c) would arise. However, that not being the case, this Court is not required to decide whether financial contribution to a political party is protected by Articles 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(c). 141. This Court in PJuustitce tKS aswamy(9 3) (Supra) did not trace the right to privacy to a particular provision of the Constitution such as Article 21. Rather, this Court observed that privacy is crucial for the fulfilment of the constitutional values of self-determination, autonomy and liberty in addition to its essentiality for realizing the fundamental freedoms such as the freedom of speech and expression. This Court further held that the non-intrusion of the mind (the ability to preserve beliefs, thoughts and ideologies) is as important as the non-intrusion of the body. This Court (Supra) did not hold that privacy is extendable to the action of speech or the action of expression, both of which are required to possess a communicative element to receive the protection under Article 19(1)(a).1°° Rather, the proposition in Justice PKS uttaswam(y9J) is that privacy (including informational privacy) is extendable to thoughts, beliefs, and opinions formed for the exercise of speech and action. Thus, informational privacy would extend to financial contributions to political parties even if contributions are not traceable to Article 19(1)(a) provided that the information on political contributions indicates the political affiliation of the contributor.