For this very reason, during cross-examination, suggestion was given to the investigating officer (PW-10) that recoveries were bogus, and documents were prepared at one go while sitting at the police station. Similarly, PW-8 was cross-examined about his presence at the time of recovery. PW-8, initially, responded by stating that he had not accompanied the police, though he happened to be present at that time. On further query, PW-8 stated that the police must have arrived between 11 and 12. Later, PW-8 stated that the accused were arrested in the evening of 6.2.1997. This indicates that he is not sure as to when the recovery took place. Further, distance of PW-8’s village from Madhkhetla is 2 km. All these circumstances create a serious doubt about the presence of the witness at the time and place of the alleged recovery. Besides that, the site plan of the place from where recovery was made on 6.2.1997 was not prepared until 9.2.1997. This makes us wonder whether papers in connection therewith were prepared at one go as suggested by the defense. Unfortunately, the High Court did not at all advert to these circumstances and relied on the disclosure statement/discovery/ recovery without carefully weighing the evidence on record. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1255 Suresh Chandra Tiwari & Anr. v. State of Uttarakhand CONCLUSION 39. In view of the discussion above, we conclude as under: (a) The trial court and the High Court failed to test the evidence on record to find out whether the incriminating circumstances were proved beyond reasonable doubt and whether they were of definite tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused-appellants. (b) The circumstance of (i) last seen; (ii) recovery of a meat bag from near the spot; (iii) accused-appellants walking on the pathway near Mohan Singh’s shop in the night; and (iv) accused- appellants inquiring about the deceased in the evening of 2.2.1997 are not of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused-appellants. Circumstance (iii) above, was not even proved beyond reasonable doubt. (c) The disclosure statement was not admissible as it did not lead to discovery. The stone, etc. were allegedly recovered even before the disclosure statement was recorded. That apart, neither Doctor’s (PW-1’s) statement nor forensic report could connect them with the crime. (d) In consequence, no case was made out to hold the appellants guilty. Hence, the appeal deserves to be allowed. 40. Before parting, we would like to put on record that the High Court also erred in converting the conviction from one punishable under Section 302 to Section 304 Part I of IPC only because, according to it, the fatal injury could be a result of a solitary blow. What it overlooked was that there were multiple injuries on the body of the deceased apart from two incised wounds on the head with underlying fracture of occipital bone of the skull. In such a scenario, whosoever committed the crime had clear intention to kill the deceased. Once that is the position, in a case based on circumstantial evidence, when no effort is made on the part of the accused either to take a plea, or lead evidence to show, that their act would fall in any of the exceptions to Section 300 IPC, there was no justification at all to alter the conviction.