2, Nagaon in Title Suit No. 83/2004 is set aside and quashed. 16. Further, the and decree dated 16.07.2011 passed by the Munsif No.2, Nagaon in Title Suit No.83/2004 is affirmed.” 5. Being dissatisfied with the and passed by the High Court, referred to above, the plaintiff is here before this Court with the present appeal. B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT / PLAINTIFF 6. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant would submit that Section 97 of the Regulation, 1886 provides that a suit for imperfect partition would be maintainable, inter alia, on two conditions stipulated therein being satisfied: a. The person seeking partition is in actual possession of the property in respect of which he seeks partition, and; [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1923 Abdul Rejak Laskar v. Mafizur Rahman & Ors. b. Consent of the recorded co-sharers of land, holding in aggregate more than one-half of the estate. 7. He submitted that since both these conditions were absent in the case of the appellant herein, the Additional Deputy Commissioner, Nagaon held that the imperfect partition suit was not maintainable before the Revenue Authority. That being the position, the civil court would have jurisdiction to entertain the appellant’s partition suit. He submitted that the jurisdiction of the civil court under Section 154(1)(e) will be barred only if an imperfect partition suit is otherwise maintainable under Section 97. In the facts of the present case, where the ingredients for invoking the remedy of imperfect partition under Section 97 are admittedly absent, the bar contained in Section 154(1)(e) would not apply. He submitted that any other interpretation of the said Regulation would render the appellant remediless in seeking partition, even after having a decree of right, title and possession in his favour. 8. The learned counsel further submitted that the Revenue Authorities are competent to carry out perfect/imperfect partition of an estate only if all the co-sharers give their consent for such amicable partition. However, if there is any dispute with regard to the title or possession raised by any of the co-sharers, the matter will be decided by the competent civil court having jurisdiction over the matter. C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS / DEFENDANTS 9. On the other hand, learned counsel appearing for the respondents submitted that no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned and . He submitted that the claim of the appellant herein for imperfect partition is barred under Section 154(1)(e) of the Regulation, 1886 which categorically prohibits the civil courts from entertaining the claims for imperfect partition of revenue paying estates except in those cases where a perfect partition is refused by the revenue authorities under specific conditions. 10. He further submitted that the civil court have been conferred jurisdiction only on the fulfilment of the following conditions, namely: a. Where a perfect partition could not be claimed from the revenue authorities; 1924 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports b.