41. We would like to underscore that although the impugned of the High Court is voluminous and runs into more than 55 pages, yet it regrettably falls short of addressing the pivotal issues raised by the plaintiffs. While the High Court has observed that the of the trial court has virtually decided the suit, in favour of the plaintiffs, a reading of the impugned indicates other way round that it is indeed the of the High Court which seems to have accepted the entire defence put forward by the defendants as the gospel truth, without assigning any cogent reasons for not accepting the prima facie case put up by the plaintiffs. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1363 Ramakant Ambalal Choksi v. Harish Ambalal Choksi & Others 42. Instead of subjecting the of the trial court to the right degree of appellate scrutiny warranted in appeals against interlocutory s, the High Court has made general and overbroad observations touching upon the malicious intention of the plaintiffs in filing the civil suit and the application below Exhibit-5 for the grant of temporary injunction. The failure of the High Court in pointing out any perversity in the of the trial court is a glaring reminder of why the High Courts must exercise their appellate jurisdiction against interlocutory s involving the exercise of discretion of the trial court with great caution and mindfulness. High Courts must not lightly set aside the decision arrived at by the trial court in exercise of its discretion unless the of the trial court fails to satisfy the parameters as delineated by us in the preceding paragraphs. The failure to engage with these crucial aspects renders the High Court’s deficient, detracting from the objective of rendering substantive and reasoned justice. 43. It is also pertinent to observe that immediately after the High Court set aside the of the trial court granting interim injunction, the defendant no. 3 entered into a transaction which created a third party right on the suit property. A perusal of the impugned indicates that although a specific request was made by the plaintiffs before the High Court to stay the operation of the impugned to enable them to file an appeal before this Court, yet the request was not accepted. It is beyond our comprehension as to why such urgency was exhibited by the High Court in vacating the status quo on the suit property, more so when the suit was still pending before the trial court and the rights of the parties were yet to be crystallized. The sequence in which events have transpired in the present case best illustrates how the exercise of appellate jurisdiction by the High Court in a casual manner can have a cascading effect, which only prolongs litigation and counter-serves the interest of justice. 44. We need not say anything as regards the subsequent transfer of the suit property at this stage for the simple reason that if it has been transferred pending any proceedings, it is for the court trial court to see whether the transaction is hit by lis pendens or not.