Relevant extracts from the are as follows: “65. On a conspectus of all the aforesaid decisions what is discernible is that there is a fine distinction between the plea that the claims raised are barred by limitation and the plea that the application for appointment of an arbitrator is barred by limitation. xxx xxx xxx 76. At the cost of repetition, we state that when the bank guarantee came to be encashed in the year 2016 and the requisite amount stood transferred to the Government account that was the end of the matter. This “Breaking Point” should be treated as the date at which the cause of action arose for the purpose of limitation. 77. Negotiations may continue even for a period of ten years or twenty years after the cause of action had arisen. Mere negotiations will not postpone the “cause of action” for the purpose of limitation. The Legislature has prescribed a limit of three years for the enforcement of a claim and this statutory time period cannot be defeated on the ground that the parties were negotiating. xxx xxx xxx 80. The case on hand is clearly and undoubtedly, one of a hopelessly barred claim, as the petitioner by its conduct slept over its right for more than five years. Statutory arbitrations stand apart.” (emphasis supplied) 74. The learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent has strongly relied on the in M/s B and T AG (supra) to argue that [2024] 3 S.C.R. 117 M/S Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/S Aptech Ltd. the facts of the present case are squarely covered by the dicta laid down in the said . However, we are of the view that the said is of no avail to the respondent. 75. The respondent, relying upon the legal notice dated 26.08.2021 issued by the petitioner, submitted that the cause of action arose on 01.11.2017. The relevant part of the said notice is extracted here: “10. Our client is entitled to receive 90% of the amount certified by the Embassy in Kabul. While reserving our rights without prejudice and subject to settlement of accounts illegally withheld, this notice is issued calling upon you to pay Rs. 73,53,000/- with interest compounded monthly @18% w.e.f. 1st November 2017 within 15 days of from the receipt of this notice, under intimation to us, failing which our client has given instructions to file appropriate legal proceedings before competent courts in India including a suit for settlement of accounts for recovery of money and also by way of damages or otherwise for, breach of trust, breach of contract. In default, Aptech will be fully responsible for all costs, risks, responsibilities, expenses and consequences thereof.” 76. From the email communications placed on record, it appears that due to the pre-existing disputes between the parties in relation to the franchise agreements, the respondent sent a demand notice to the petitioner seeking payment of royalty and renewal fees from the petitioner. It appears that in reply to the said notice dated 23.03.2018, the petitioner raised the issue of payment of dues relating to the ICCR project.