In view of the aforesaid discussion, my conclusions on the interplay of the legislative Entries under consideration are as under: I. The field of legislation comprised in Entry 8 – List II is carved out of Entry 24 – List II. Thus, the subject relating to “intoxicating liquors”, that is to say, the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of “intoxicating liquors” being a specific subject is taken out of the general subject of “industries” under Entry 24 – List II. II. As a result, Entry 52 – List I or any law made under that Entry by the Parliament cannot intrude or trench upon any law made by the State Legislatures under Entry 8 – List II. Thus, the Parliament cannot take under its control the subject pertaining to “intoxicating liquors” under any law, such as, IDRA made under Entry 52 – List I. Therefore, the subject “intoxicating liquors” falls exclusively within the domain of the State Legislatures which also have the obligation to prevent “industrial alcohol” being converted into “intoxicating liquors” as an abuse and, therefore, pass legislations or take State action in that regard having regard to Article 47 of the Constitution of India. III. Entry 33(a) – List III (Concurrent List) and any law made or to be made by the State Legislatures under the said Entry is subject to Parliamentary law made either under Entry 52 – List I or under Entry 33(a) – List III in terms of the first part and second part of Article 254(1) respectively. Thus, if any law has been made by the Parliament by virtue of Entry 52 – List I, such as, the IDRA and there is an intention to occupy the field, the State law would be subject to the doctrine of occupied field. Thus, Section 18G of the IDRA which has been made by virtue of Entry 52 – List I thereof would prevail on the basis of the aforesaid doctrine. Consequently, it is held that issuance of a notified under Section 18G of the IDRA is neither a sine qua non nor is it a condition precedent for the State Legislatures to restrain exercise of powers under Entry 33(a) – List III. In other words, the mere insertion of Section 18G to the IDRA implies that the Parliament has intended to 2172 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports occupy the field demarcated under the aforesaid provision. Also, a notified when issued by the Central Government under Section 18G of the IDRA cannot be questioned in any Court of law. This also indicates that the doctrine of occupied field applies to the said Section vis-à-vis a scheduled industry under the IDRA. IV. If the Parliament has made a law under Entry 52 – List I and intends to occupy the whole field then the State Legislatures are denuded of their powers and therefore, they would lack legislative competence to enact a law under Entry 33(a) – List III. In the context of “industrial alcohol” and in terms of Item 26 of the First Schedule of the IDRA i.e.