This Court in its decision in Ramchandra Shankar Deodhar v. State of Maharashtra, reported in (1974) 1 SCC 317 held that: “10. …There was a delay of more than ten or twelve years in filing the petition since the accrual of the cause of complaint, and this delay, contended the respondents, was sufficient to disentitle the petitioners to any relief in a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution. We do not think this contention should prevail with us. In the first place, it must be remembered that the rule which says that the Court may not inquire into belated and stale claims is not a rule of law, but a rule of practice based on sound and proper exercise of discretion, and there is no inviolable rule that whenever there is [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1023 Urban Improvement Trust v. Smt. Vidhya Devi and Ors. delay, the Court must necessarily refuse to entertain the petition. Each case must depend on its own facts. The question, as pointed out by Hidayatullah, C.J., in Tilokchand Motichand v. H.B. Munshi [(1969) 1 SCC 110, 116 : (1969) 2 SCR 824] “is one of discretion for this Court to follow from case to case. There is no lower limit and there is no upper limit .... It will all depend on what the breach of the fundamental right and the remedy claimed are and how the delay arose”. …[ SCC para 11] …” (Emphasis supplied) 51. The decisions of this Court have consistently held that the right to property is enshrined in the Constitution and requires that procedural safeguards be followed to ensure fairness and non-arbitrariness in decision-making especially in cases of acquisition by the State. Therefore, the delay in approaching the court, while a significant factor, cannot override the necessity to address illegalities and protect right to property enshrined in Article 300A. The court must balance the need for finality in legal proceedings with the need to rectify injustice. The right of an individual to vindicate and protect private property cannot be brushed away merely on the grounds of delay and laches. 52. In the present case, we find that there are three instances of procedural irregularity that may prejudice the rights of the respondents herein: (1) the notice under Section 52(2) was not served individually to the landowners and the same was not pasted at a conspicuous area of the locality where the property was situated; (2) the possession was allegedly taken by the State Government and handed over to the appellant Trust prior to the deposit of compensation in contravention to Section 52(7) of the RUI Act; and (3) the compensation in respect of the Nangli Kota lands was not paid in terms of the timelines stipulated in sub-sections (3) and (4) of Section 60A. 53. These procedural anomalies are glaring and necessitate discussion regarding the propriety of the acquisition proceedings so as to ensure that the landowners are not dispossessed of their property without following due procedure. 1024 [2024] 12 S.C.R.