As a result, the States have been denuded of their power to legislate with respect to those industries on that account. It was further observed that a three-Judge Bench in McDowell had held that Entry 52 overrides only Entry 24 - List II and no other Entry in List II. That Entry 8 – List II is not overborne in any manner by Entry 52 – List I, which means that so far as “intoxicating liquors” are concerned, they are within the exclusive sphere of the States. 9.8.5 Referring to the of Sabyasachi Mukharji, J. ( as he then was) in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), particularly paragraph 85, it was observed that the expression “both potable and” is an accidental error as the in its earlier paragraphs had stated that so far as potable alcohol is concerned, they are governed by Entry 8 – List II and are within the exclusive domain of the States. The said did not intend to convey that the industries engaged in the manufacture or production of potable liquors have been controlled by the Union by virtue of Item 26 of the First Schedule to the IDRA. So far as potable liquors are concerned, their manufacture, production, possession, transport, purchase and sale are within the exclusive domain of the States and the Union of India has no say in the matter. 2094 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9.8.6 In this case, the Court further noted the contentions urged on behalf of the State to the effect that rectified spirit is “intoxicating liquors” within the meaning of Entry 8 - List II and hence outside the purview of Entry 24 - List II, which would in turn mean that the Union cannot take over its control by making a declaration in terms of Entry 52 - List I. Further Item 26 of the Schedule to the IDRA is ineffective and invalid insofar as it seeks to regulate the production and manufacture, etc. of rectified spirit. The State submitted that the decision to the contrary in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) is not correct and requires reconsideration. 9.8.7 The State next contended that Entry 51 - List II and Entry 84 - List I speak of “alcoholic liquors for human consumption” and not “alcoholic liquors “fit” for human consumption”. That the in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), read the word “fit” in the Entries and thus curtailed the legislative power of the States. It was further contended that rectified spirit is really and essentially “intoxicating liquors” and by the process of “reduction of liquor” by adding water and spices (optional) does not cease it to be “intoxicating liquors”. In the State of U.P., bulk of the rectified spirit is used for the purpose of obtaining country liquor or IMFLs and a small quantity is used for industrial purposes. Therefore, the expression “intoxicating liquors” must include rectified spirit. It was further submitted that during the course of manufacture of rectified spirit, potable liquor comes into existence and the main raw material for rectified spirit is molasses.