26. In this respect, our analysis is confined to assessing whether Section 41A(3) was violated, thereby rendering the arrest per se illegal. First, it is trite law that there is no insurmountable hurdle in 700 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the conversion of judicial custody into police custody by an of a Magistrate. Thus, there is no impediment in terms of arresting a person already in custody for the purposes of investigation, whether for the same offence or for an altogether different offence.3 The Appellant’s arrest by the CBI was thus entirely permissible, in light of the Trial Court’s dated 25.06.2024. 27. Second, Section 41A(3) allows for arrest, provided the reasons are recorded, justifying the necessity of such a step, and the police officer is satisfied that the individual should be arrested. In this context, we have already noted that the CBI, in their application dated 25.06.2024, clearly recorded the reasons as to why they deemed the Appellant’s arrest necessary. These reasons were also summarized in the arrest memo dated 26.06.2024. It is important to clarify that our current analysis is limited to verifying whether the CBI followed the correct procedure, including the recording of sufficient reasons. This issue would not detain us further, as the reasons as to why the Appellant’s arrest was necessitated are discernible from the CBI’s application dated 25.06.2024. 28. Third, Section 41A(1), when read with Section 41A(3) CrPC, does not impose an absolute prohibition on the arrest of an individual against whom there exists reasonable suspicion of having committed a cognizable offence punishable with imprisonment up to seven years. This is evident from the language of the provision itself. Section 41A(3) explicitly states that an arrest is permissible if the police officer believes it to be necessary and duly records the reasons for such arrest. This provision thus essentially carves out an exception to the general rule under Section 41A, which mandates that an individual whose appearance is required should not be arrested under Section 41(1) of the CrPC. 29. Therefore, in view of these considerations, we do not find any merit in the Appellant’s contention that the CBI failed to comply with Section 41A CrPC, in its true letter and spirit. ii. Whether Section 41(1)(b)(ii) of the CrPC is applicable? 30. At the outset, it is imperative to clarify that our analysis will be restricted to the procedure outlined under Section 41(1)(b)(ii) of the 3 Central Bureau of Investigation v. Anupam J. Kulkarni (1992) 3 SCC 141 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 701 Arvind Kejriwal v. Central Bureau of Investigation CrPC. This is because Section 41(1), in its entirety, addresses multiple situations and complexities regarding the procedure for arrest, which may not be directly applicable to the intricacies of the present case. 31. In this vein, the language of Section 41(1)(b) postulates as follows: “41. When police may arrest without warrant.— (1) Any police officer may without an from a Magistrate and without a warrant, arrest any person— ….. (b) against whom a reasonable complaint has been made, or credible information has been received, or a reasonable suspicion exists that he has committed a cognizable offence punishable with imprisonment for a term which may be less than seven years or which may extend to seven years whether with or without fine, if the following conditions are satisfied, namely:— (i) the police officer has reason to believe on the basis of such complaint, information, or suspicion that such person has committed the said offence; (ii) the police officer is satisfied that such arrest is necessary— (a) to prevent such person from committing any further offence; or (b) for proper investigation of the offence; or (c) to prevent such person from causing the evidence of the offence to disappear or tampering with such evidence in any manner; or (d) to prevent such person from making any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or to the police officer; or (e) as unless such person is arrested, his presence in the Court whenever required cannot be ensured, and the police officer shall record while making such arrest, his reasons in writing: 702 [2024] 9 S.C.R.