As noticed above, a committee constituted by NTA first recommended that the compensatory marks be awarded. However, as the controversy surrounding the award of these marks became more prominent, a second committee was constituted. This committee recommended the cancellation of compensatory marks and the conduct of a re-exam in their place for those students. A body such as NTA which is entrusted with immense responsibility in relation to highly important competitive exams cannot afford to misstep, take an incorrect decision, and amend it at a later stage. All decisions must be well-considered, with due regard to the importance of the decision. Flip-flops are an anathema to fairness. 101. Intense competition amongst the aspirants coupled with the commercialisation of education has led to a few towns or cities becoming hubs for classes which train candidates for competitive exams. While these towns or cities may have a higher rate of success than some others, instances of malpractice at such centres should be treated on par with any other instance. All instances of the use of unfair means must be dealt with firmly. 102. NTA is directed to ensure that all the concerns highlighted by the Court in this are addressed. The committee constituted by the Union Government is also requested to keep these issues in mind while formulating its recommendations. G. Issues in the conduct of the examination and the remit of the committee constituted by the Union Government 103. During the hearing, the petitioners urged that there were systemic flaws in the conduct of the examination and that a more thorough [2024] 8 S.C.R. 93 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India & Ors. procedure needs to be put in place to ensure that malpractice is avoided. Given the crucial role of the examination in shaping the careers of future medical professionals responsible for public health, any compromise in the merit-based selection process jeopardizes the quality of healthcare as well as the careers of aspirants. The fairness and reliability of the examination system cannot be such that public confidence is lost. 104. The formation of a committee is essential to thoroughly investigate and address the structural issues. A dedicated committee with suitably qualified experts can ensure a comprehensive review of the security measures, candidate verification processes, and the overall management of the examination. By identifying and rectifying vulnerabilities, such a committee will help restore trust in the examination system and implement robust safeguards to prevent future malpractice. 105. The Court has been apprised of the fact that the Union Government has constituted a seven-member expert committee, chaired by Dr K Radhakrishnan, former Chairman, ISRO, consisting of the following members: “(i) Dr Randeep Guleria, Member (ii) Prof B J Rao, Member (iii) Prof Ramamurthy K, Member (iv) Shri Pankaj Bansal, Member (v) Prof Aditya Mittal, Member (vi) Shri Govind Jaiswal, Member Secretary” 106. The remit of the Committee, in addition to the tasks that it has been entrusted with by the Union government and the NTA, shall encompass the following: a. Examination Security and Administration i.