He submits that the perusal of the material on record would show that the detenu has indulged himself in hawala dealings, illegal purchase, sale and carriage of foreign currencies. 11. Shri Nachiketa Joshi further submits that as per the provisions contained in Section 8(b) of the COFEPOSA, the case of detention of the detenu was referred to the State Advisory Board, Kerala High Court. The Advisory Board, after hearing the detenu and considering the material, had opined that there were sufficient grounds for the detention of the detenu. 12. The learned Senior Counsel submits that the High Court has rightly held that even if the statements of Preethi Pradeep is eschewed, the Detaining Authority could have arrived at the subjective satisfaction that the detention of the detenu was necessary. 13. The learned Senior Counsel relies on the of this Court in the case of Vakil Singh vs. The State of J & K and another19 in support of his submission that the grounds must contain the pith and substance of primary facts but not subsidiary facts or evidential details. 14. The learned Senior Counsel further submits that in view of Section 5A of the COFEPOSA, even if the detention was not sustainable on one ground, if it can be sustained on other grounds, the detention would not be vitiated. In this respect, he relies on the of this Court in the case of A. Sowkath Ali vs. Union of India and others.20 15. Shri Nachiketa Joshi further submits that it is not necessary to furnish copy of each and every documents to which casual or passing reference may be made in the course of narration of facts and which are not relied upon by the Detaining Authority in making the of detention. In this respect, he relies on the of this Court in the case of L.M.S. Ummu Saleema vs. B.B. Gujaral.21 19 (1975) 3 SCC 545 20 [2000] Supp. 2 SCR 48 : (2000) 7 SCC 148 21 [1981] 3 SCR 647 : (1981) 3 SCC 317 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 323 Jaseela Shaji v. The Union of India & Ors. 16. Insofar as the delay in deciding the representation by the Detaining Authority and the Central Government is concerned, Shri Nachiketa Joshi, learned Senior Counsel submits that representations made by the detenu on 27th September 2023 were never received by the Detaining Authority and the Central Government. However, after the notice was issued by this Court in the present matter, the record was called from the Jail Authorities and they decided the representations on 11th June 2024 and 12th June 2024 respectively. He, therefore, submits that there is no delay in deciding the representations by the Detaining Authority or the Central Government. CONSIDERATION 17. Though the detention is assailed on several grounds, we propose to consider only two grounds, viz., (a) As to whether the non-supply of the statements of Ms. Preetha Pradeep has affected the right of the detenu to make an effective representation under Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India.