First of all we were preferred by Nipun Aneja, ZILV, Vijay Dev Sharma, Manish Sharma, M.A. Khan and others in the meeting. In the meeting of last month for all the salesman the voluntary retirement scheme of Districts of East Uttar Pradesh for all the salesman is brought in front and the same is done through the Unnav company which is not accepted by most of the persons. In the meeting which took place now also most of the salesman were made as responsible for lower category from past on making changes in profile which is beyond our status. Shri Rajiv Jain started crying on being tensed in the meeting. In this manner the company started the procedure of changing the VRS to CRS. Meeting came to an end at around 5:30 PM. I went on the residence of my sister Sudha. From there at 8 PM returned back in hotel and came in room no.123 and along with my colleague Keshav Tiwari son of Shri Rakesh Tiwari along with Pandey General Store Kachehri Chowk Bier reached in room no.244. Room was closed from inside. Efforts are made to get it open and called up through telephone. But no reply was there then we contacted the Manager of the hotel who on making efforts at his own level Subhash Nath Employee was sent inside from the bathroom of the room and got the door opened and saw that Shri Rajiv Jain tied the knot of bed sheet and was hanging from fan. He was checked and found that he is dead. Information about all this is given during the course of meeting to M. Venkatesh on 03.11.06. Letter which was given to Rajiv Jain in the meeting is found in his room. I am giving the same to you.” 1490 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. The second statement is one of Shri Jayant Kumar Ghatak. His police statement reads thus: “Jayant Kumar Ghatak son of Late Vijay Kumar Ghatak resident of 124 Sohaptia Bagh police station Daraganj Allahabad on oath stated that on 03.07.06 the panchayatnama was filled of Rajiv Jain who committed suicide in Amber Hotel and the dead body was sent on duly stamping and sealing to the constables for the purpose of post-mortem. Signatures were taken. Statement of witness - Jayant Kumar Ghatak son of Late Shri Vijay Kumar Ghatak resident of 184 Sohaptia Kaam Allahabad police station George Town District Allahabad on oath stated with regard to his colleague Late Rajiv Jain with regard to the incident committed along with him then he stated on oath during the course of enquiry that each month meeting of one day - one day is done with regard to sales by officers which took place one day in each month but this month two days the meeting was called. On first day meeting took place in Amber Hotel, in which the talks were held by the officers who came in the meeting with regard to sales but on 03.11.06 the meeting which was held in Deep Palace, that was called for harassing the employees salesman who are not taking VRS and for the purpose of doing their demotion.