Digital Supreme Court Reports power from High Courts to tribunals. Justice J S Khehar (as the learned Chief Justice then was), writing for the Constitution Bench, held that the basic structure of the Constitution will stand violated if Parliament does not ensure that the newly created tribunals do not “conform with the salient characteristics and standards of the court sought to be substituted.”64 53. In Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association v. Union of India,65 this Court had to decide the constitutional validity of the Constitution (Ninety-ninth Amendment) Act 2014 and the National Judicial Appointments Commission Act 2014. Justice J S Khehar (as the learned Chief Justice then was) built upon his reasoning in Madras Bar Association (supra) by observing that a challenge to ordinary legislation for violation of the basic structure would only be a “technical flaw” and “cannot be treated to suffer from a legal infirmity.”66 He observed that the determination of the basic structure of the Constitution is made exclusively from the provisions of the Constitution. The observations of the learned Judge are instructive and extracted below: “381. […] when a challenge is raised to a legislative enactment based on the cumulative effect of a number of articles of the Constitution, it is not always necessary to refer to each of the articles concerned when a cumulative effect of the said articles has already been determined as constituting one of the “basic features” of the Constitution. Reference to the “basic structure” while dealing with an ordinary legislation would obviate the necessity of recording the same conclusion which has already been scripted while interpreting the article(s) under reference harmoniously. We would therefore reiterate that the “basic structure” of the Constitution is inviolable and as such the Constitution cannot be amended so as to negate any “basic features” thereof, and so also, if a challenge is 64 Madras Bar Association (supra) [136]. [“136. (iii) The “basic structure” of the Constitution will stand violated if while enacting legislation pertaining to transfer of judicial power, Parliament does not ensure that the newly created court/tribunal conforms with the salient characteristics and standards of the court sought to be substituted.”] 65 (2016) 5 SCC 1 66 Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association (supra) [381] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 403 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. raised to an ordinary legislation based on one of the “basic features” of the Constitution, it would be valid to do so. If such a challenge is accepted on the ground of violation of the “basic structure”, it would mean that the bunch of articles of the Constitution (including the Preamble thereof, wherever relevant), which constitute the particular “basic feature”, had been violated. We must however credit the contention of the learned Attorney General by accepting that it would be technically sound to refer to the articles which are violated, when an ordinary legislation is sought to be struck down as being ultra vires the provisions of the Constitution.” 54. However, Justice Lokur differed with Justice Khehar on the issue of testing the validity of a statute for violation of the basic structure doctrine.