The only entry under which a law on reservation for the Scheduled Castes can be enacted is Entry 97 of List I. Thus, even if sub-classification of the Scheduled Castes is permissible, only Parliament and not the Legislature of the State has the power to enact such a law; [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1359 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. e. The National Commission for Scheduled Castes constituted under Article 338 can consider any new data sets or experiences of the Scheduled Castes and make recommendations. However, the power to alter the list solely vests with Parliament; f. Courts through a judicial exercise cannot include or exclude any caste from the list of Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes notified by the President;44 g. Classification within the Scheduled Castes is based on caste which is impermissible by virtue of Article 16(2); and h. Contrary to the submissions of the petitioners, Chinnaiah (supra) discusses the interplay between Articles 16(4) and 341 of the Constitution. 35. Mr Salil Sagar, senior counsel made the following submissions: a. The direct impact and effects standard45 must be used to decide the issue of whether granting preference to certain castes amounts to tinkering the Presidential List. Sub-classification, in effect, restricts the scope and operation of the Presidential list in the following manner: i. It has an exclusionary effect, disturbing the scheme of reservation sought to be implemented; ii. It disproportionately increases the share of reservation available to certain communities and decreases the share available to the rest of the communities; and iii. The sub-grouping of castes violates the legal fiction in Article 341 by which a homogenous group is created for the purposes of the Constitution. b. In Indra Sawhney (supra), this Court held that sub-classification of other backward classes is constitutionally valid. This Court cautioned against the application of the same principles to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes; and 44 Bhaiyalal v. Harikishan Singh (1965) 2 SCR 877; State of Maharashtra v. Milind (2001) 1 SCC 4; Bir Singh v. Dekhi Jal Board (2018) 10 SCC 312 45 Relied on IR Coelho v. State of Tamil Nadu (2007) 2 SCC 1 1360 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c. Sub-classification of the Scheduled Castes cannot be held constitutional merely because Articles 341, 342 and 342-A are pari materia. The classes represented by the Scheduled Castes and the Other Backward Classes are distinct. Castes which are notified as Scheduled Castes have a feature of commonality; they all suffer from the historical injustice of untouchability. 36. Dr KS Chauhan, senior counsel made the following submissions: a. In Indra Sawhney (supra), this Court held that a caste can be a class for the purposes of reservation under Article 16 if the caste is socially and educationally backward;46 and b. In Indra Sawhney (supra), Justice Jeevan Reddy observed that Article 16(4) of the Constitution mainly contemplates that reservation must be on the grounds of social backwardness. There cannot be any further classification of the Scheduled Castes since all the castes which are notified as Scheduled Castes by the President share the commonality of social backwardness in the form of untouchability.