[2024] 2 S.C.R. 758 : 2024 INSC 145 M/S Brahmaputra Concrete Pipe Industries Etc. Etc. v. The Assam State Electricity Board and Others (Miscellaneous Application (Civil) No. 2045 of 2022) IN (Curative Petition (Civil) Diary No. 23828 of 2020) IN (Review Petition (Civil) No.789 of 2019) IN (Civil Appeal No. 8450 of 2016) 26 February 2024 [Aniruddha Bose* and Sudhanshu Dhulia, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether registry has the power to dismiss a curative petition solely on the ground that no averment has been made to the effect that the review petition was dismissed by circulation. Headnotes Supreme Court Rules, 2013 – Ord. XLVIII r.2 (1) – Curative petition – Registry’s power to dismiss – Dismissal of review petition in open court after oral hearing and not by circulation – Curative petitions filed thereagainst – of the registrar declining registration of curative petitions on the ground that no averment made to the effect that the review petition was dismissed by circulation – Legality: Held: Instant matter ought to be decided by a Bench of this Court and not by the Registry – Registry cannot be vested with power to decide whether a review petition, after being dismissed in open Court hearing, merited relook through the curative jurisdiction – That would be a judicial exercise – A curative petition arising from an dismissing a review petition upon hearing in open Court must contain a plea or prayer seeking excuse from compliance of making averment as contained in Ord. XLVIII r. 2(1) – Proper course for the Registry on receiving such a petition with a prayer to be excused from the above requirement would be to obtain instructions from the Judge in chambers and thereafter communicate such instructions to the parties – r. 2, second part, provides that the * Author [2024] 2 S.C.R. 759 M/S Brahmaputra Concrete Pipe Industries Etc. Etc. v. The Assam State Electricity Board and Others Registrar herself can direct the applicant to serve the other party with a notice of motion returnable before the Court while she opines that it is desirable that the application should be dealt with in the open Court but would not apply where the applicant approaches this Court after the review petition is dismissed in open court hearing – In cases where review plea is dismissed by circulation, the curative petition has to be circulated first to a Bench of three senior-most Judges of this Court and the Judges who passed the complained of, if available – Thereafter, the course prescribed in sub-clauses (2), (3) and (4) of r. 4 of Ord. XLVIII would be followed as may be applicable – In the instant appeal, said course not followed when the was passed declining registration of the curative petition – Said being contrary to the provisions of the Rules, thus, set aside, however, not a fit case to remand the matter to the Registrar as substantial time has lapsed – No case made out for invoking the curative jurisdiction to take relook into the case – Purpose would not be served in sending the matter back to the Chamber Judge for instructions in the given circumstances.