Digital Supreme Court Reports as to the genuineness and bona fides of a complaint and a reasonable belief both as to the person’s complicity and even so as to the need to effect arrest. Denying a person of his liberty is a serious matter. The recommendations of the Police Commission merely reflect the constitutional concomitants of the fundamental right to personal liberty and freedom. A person is not liable to arrest merely on the suspicion of complicity in an offence. There must be some reasonable justification in the opinion of the officer effecting the arrest that such arrest is necessary and justified. Except in heinous offences, an arrest must be avoided if a police officer issues notice to person to attend the Station House and not to leave the Station without permission would do. 28. In the case of Sidhartha Vashisht alias Manu Sharma Vs. State (NCT of Delhi),2 this Court emphasized that investigation must be fair and effective. Investigation should be conducted in a manner so as to draw a just balance between a citizen’s right under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India and the expansive power of the police to make investigation. Concept of fair investigation and fair trial are concomitant to preservation of the fundamental right of the accused under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 29. This Court in the case of Arnesh Kumar Vs. State of Bihar,3 while examining the provisions of Sections 41 and 41A Cr.P.C. observed that arrest brings humiliation, curtails freedom and cast scars forever. This Court, while emphasizing the need to sensitize the police against high-handed arrest, deprecated the attitude to arrest first and then to proceed with the rest. While emphasizing that police officers should not arrest the accused unnecessarily and that the Magistrate should not authorize detention casually and mechanically, this Court observed as follows: 5. Arrest brings humiliation, curtails freedom and casts scars forever. Lawmakers know it so also the police. There is a battle between the lawmakers and the police and it 2 [2010] 4 SCR 103 : (2010) 6 SCC 1 3 [2014] 8 SCR 128 : (2014) 8 SCC 273 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 717 Arvind Kejriwal v. Central Bureau of Investigation seems that the police has not learnt its lesson: the lesson implicit and embodied in CrPC. It has not come out of its colonial image despite six decades of Independence, it is largely considered as a tool of harassment, oppression and surely not considered a friend of public. The need for caution in exercising the drastic power of arrest has been emphasized time and again by the courts but has not yielded desired result. Power to arrest greatly contributes to its arrogance so also the failure of the Magistracy to check it. Not only this, the power of arrest is one of the lucrative sources of police corruption. The attitude to arrest first and then proceed with the rest is despicable. It has become a handy tool to the police officers who lack sensitivity or act with oblique motive.