The object is to undertake the rehabilitation and social re-integration process of such victims based on individual care plans as provided under Section 39 of the JJ Act. Section 46 is a provision that requires the State Governments to frame rules to provide financial support to any child living in a child care institution upon completion of 18 years of age. The financial support has to be very exhaustive as the object of financial support is to facilitate a child’s re-integration into mainstream society. 35. However, at the grassroot level, sub-section (6) of Section 19 is not being implemented. Even if the information is provided to the CWC, the children in need of care and protection are not being produced before the CWC. Even if the information is given under sub-section (6) of Section 19 of the POCSO Act, the CWCs are not taking any action, though, under clause (xii) of Section 30, CWC has the duty to take suo motu congnizance of the cases and reach out to the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 609 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents children in need of care and protection who are not produced before the CWC. Under sub-section (6) of Section 19, the police are under a mandate to report the matter to the jurisdictional Special Court or the jurisdictional Sessions Court, in the event the Special Court has not been established. On getting information, it will be ideal if the Special Courts or the Sessions Courts forward the information to the jurisdictional CWC. It is very crucial that sub-section (6) of Section 19 is scrupulously implemented and the CWCs take immediate action to protect the victim. Therefore, we are directing that a copy of this should be forwarded to the Secretaries of the Law Department of each State and Union Territories. The Law Secretaries must coordinate with the concerned departments and ensure that the benefits of these statutory provisions under the JJ Act are extended to the victims of the offences under the POCSO Act. The Secretaries will also ensure that the State Governments undertake the process of framing rules as required by Section 110(1), including the rules provided under Section 46, to make the measures provided under the JJ Act more effective. 36. It is nobody’s case that, in the present case, recourse was taken to the provisions starting from sub-section (6) of Section 19 of the POCSO Act. As these statutory provisions were overlooked entirely, a situation was created which did not allow the victim to make an informed choice about her future. She did not get that opportunity even after attaining majority. 37. It is the responsibility of the State to take care of helpless victims of such heinous offences. Time and again, we have held that the right to live a dignified life is an integral part of the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Article 21 encompasses the right to lead a healthy life. The minor child, who is the victim of the offences under the POCSO Act, is also deprived of the fundamental right to live a dignified and healthy life.