It is submitted that the concerned doctor initially deposed that he could not definitively state whether the death of the deceased was homicidal or suicidal, however, the witness later opined that 100% percent burn injuries were uncommon in suicide cases. It is submitted that in case of suicide, the act of burning is a voluntary act and therefore, 100% burn injuries are completely possible. To buttress, it is contended that the evidence of an expert is not the evidence of fact and is only advisory in nature. It is added that medical jurisprudence is not an exact science and in the expert testimony cannot be considered as a conclusive proof of the fact. 8. Learned counsel has also submitted that the trial court and the High Court have failed to analyze the circumstances of the case in an [2024] 11 S.C.R. 911 Vijaya Singh & Anr. v. State of Uttarakhand objective manner and the findings of the said courts are based more on conjectures and less on evidence. 9. Per contra, it has been contended on behalf of the respondent State that the circumstances of the present case have proved the guilt of the appellants beyond reasonable doubt. It has been submitted that the chain of circumstances is complete and falls within the parameters laid down by this Court with respect to circumstantial evidence. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent has placed reliance upon the decision of this Court in Prabhudayal and Ors. v. State of Maharashtra3 to contend that in bride burning cases, the absence of cries or shouts from the victim is suggestive of the fact that it was not a case of suicide. Learned counsel has also laid emphasis on the false plea of alibi taken by appellant no. 2, and has submitted that if a false plea is taken by the accused in the course of a trial, it could be considered as an additional circumstance against the accused. 10. We have heard the respective parties and we may now proceed to answer the seminal issue whether the findings arrived at by the High Court are based on a correct appreciation of the evidence on record and are sustainable in the eyes of law. DISCUSSION 11. At the outset, it may be noted that the entire case of prosecution hinges on the circumstantial evidence, in as much as there was no eye witness to the incident in question. It is a well settled principle of law that when a case is based on circumstantial evidence, the circumstances proved must point unequivocally to the guilt of the accused and must be incompatible with any theory of his being innocent. The principles governing the appreciation of circumstantial have been laid down by this Court in unequivocal terms in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra.4 The principles, termed as the Panchsheel or five principles of circumstantial evidence, are traceable in the following para: “153. A close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established: 3 [1993] 3 SCR 878 : (1993) 3 SCC 573 4 [1985] 1 SCR 88 : (1984) 4 SCC 116 912 [2024] 11 S.C.R.