The corollary is that the question of framing the charge would arise only in a case where the court upon such exercise satisfies itself about the prima facie case revealing from “the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith” against the accused concerned. In short, it can be said in that view of the matter that the intention embedded is to ensure that an accused will be made to stand the ordeal of trial only if ‘the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith’ discloses ground for proceeding against him. When that be so, in a case where an application is filed for discharge under Section 227, Cr.PC, it is an irrecusable duty and obligation of the Court to apply its mind and answer to it regarding the existence of or otherwise, of ground for proceeding against the accused, by confining such consideration based only on the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the prosecution in that behalf. To wit, such conclusion on existence or otherwise of ground to proceed against the accused concerned should not be and could not be based on mere suppositions or suspicions or conjectures, especially not founded upon material available before the Court. We are not oblivious of the fact that normally, the Court is to record his reasons only for discharging an accused at the stage of Section 227, Cr.PC. However, when an application for discharge is filed under Section 227, Cr.PC, the Court concerned is bound to disclose the reason(s), though, not in detail, for finding sufficient ground for rejecting the application or in other words, for finding prima facie case, as it will enable the superior Court to examine the challenge against the of rejection. 23. By applying the laws enunciated and the principles laid, we will proceed to consider the case on hand. In the final report filed in FIR No.371 of 1993 viz., in the custodial death case, the afore- extracted portion from it revealed that the essence of the accusation is commission of custodial death owing to the torture to which Ram Kishore was subjected to, from 17.07.1993 to 23.07.1993. It reveals that going by the same, he was illegally kept in the Police Station by accused Nos.1 and 2. A scanning of the charge as also the other materials including the statements of the witnesses recorded under 1170 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 161, Cr.PC, would reveal that there is absolute absence of any accusation or even an insinuation that the appellant had played any role in torturing Ram Kishore. Therefore, the question is how he is arraigned as third accused in the aforesaid crime. In that regard, it is apposite to refer again to the final report dated 21.02.2000 filed in Crime No.371/1993. The relevant portion in the final report in this regard, reads thus: - “…In this manner from this investigation, it was found that deceased Ram Kishore was kept in the Police Station from dated 17.07.1993 to 23.07.1993 in the Police Station under the criminal Conspiracy of the accused persons mentioned in the column no.3 during which he was tortured and interrogated regarding the incident of loot and knowingly with the intention of saving their skins no entry of the same was made in the records of the Police Station nor was the same mentioned by the complainant in its report.