iii. The challenge under Article 355 79. The petitioners urged that Section 6A violates Article 355 of the Constitution because: (a) Article 355 casts a duty on the Union to prevent external aggression; (b) the expression “external aggression” has been construed by a three-Judge Bench in Sarbananda Sonowal v. Union of India132 to include aggression caused due to external migration; and (c) instead of preventing external migration, Section 6A induces more migration into Assam. The in Sarbananda Sonowal (supra) was cited to support the submission that the constitutional validity of a provision can be challenged for violation of Article 355. 80. Article 355 provides that it is the duty of the Union to protect States against external aggression and internal disturbance and ensure that the Government of every State is carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.133 In Sarbananda Sonowal (supra), proceedings were initiated under Article 32 to challenge the constitutional validity of the IMDT Act and the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Rules 1984.134 Their validity was challenged on the ground that the enactment and Rules which dealt with the detection of undocumented migrants in Assam were not as 132 [2005] Supp. 1 SCR 472 : (2005) 5 SCC 665 133 “355. Duty of the Union to protect States against external aggression and internal disturbance.- It shall be the duty of the Union to protect every State against external aggression and internal disturbance and to ensure that the government of every State is carried on in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution.” 134 “IMDT Rules” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1287 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 effective as the Foreigners Act which applied to the rest of India. A three-Judge Bench of this Court allowed the writ petition and struck down the provisions of the IMDT Act and the IMDT Rules. 81. This Court observed that the Union has a constitutional obligation (or ‘duty’) to protect states from external aggression in view of Article 355. The three-Judge Bench held that the expression ‘aggression’ in Article 355 is of wide import and includes actions other than war, such as the inflow of a large number of persons from a neighbouring country.135 Referring to the Report of Lt. Colonel SK Sinha, the Bench observed that migration from Bangladesh to Assam has led to an alteration of the demographic pattern of the State, thereby reducing the Assamese into a minority in their own State. The Bench noted that since the State of Assam is facing “external aggression and internal disturbance” due to large-scale illegal migration of Bangladesh nationals, the Court must determine if the Union had “taken any measures for that purpose” in view of the constitutional mandate under Article 355.136 This Court then held that the IMDT Act and IMDT Rules are unconstitutional for violating Article 355: "67. The above discussion leads to irresistible conclusion that the provisions of the IMDT Act and the Rules made thereunder clearly negate the constitutional mandate contained in Article 355 of the Constitution, where a duty has been cast upon the Union of India to protect every State against external aggression and internal disturbance.