Option to be governed by the provisions of sections 125 to 128 of Act 2 of 1974.- If, on the date of the first hearing of the application under sub-section (2) of section 3, a divorced woman and her former husband declare, by affidavit or any other declaration in writing in such form as may be prescribed, either jointly or separately, that they would prefer to be governed by the provisions of sections 125 to 128 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974); and file such affidavit or declaration in the court hearing the application, the Magistrate shall dispose of such application accordingly. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “date of the first hearing of the application” means the date fixed in the summons for the attendance of the respondent to the application. xxx xxx xxx 7. Transitional provisions.- Every application by a divorced woman under section 125 or under section 127 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) pending before a Magistrate on the commencement of this Act, shall, notwithstanding anything contained in that Code and subject to the provisions of section 5 of this Act, be disposed of by such Magistrate in accordance with the provisions of this Act.” 32. I find that Section 5 provides for a situation where a Muslim woman and her former husband decide to voluntarily elect to pursue the remedies under Sections 125 to 128 of the CrPC by way of a 1298 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports written application on the first date of hearing of an application under Section 3 of the 1986 Act. The provision seeks to provide an option that can be mutually exercised by the Muslim woman and her former husband. The deliberate use of the words ‘option’ and ‘former husband’ demonstrates that Section 5 does not statutorily confine the circumstances under which the claim of maintenance of a divorced Muslim woman can be governed under the secular law of maintenance. Similarly, Section 7, being a transitional provision, only determines that every pending application under Section 125 of the CrPC for maintenance at the time of commencement of the 1986 Act would be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of 1986 Act. The purpose of a transitional provision is to mitigate uncertainty from the minds of the litigants who were faced with the peculiar situation with respect to pending maintenance applications and the possibility of fresh applications being filed under the 1986 Act as per the option of the parties. The use of the expression in Section 7 of the 1986 Act ‘notwithstanding anything contained in that Code,’ with respect to the CrPC does not indicate the intent to abrogate the independent right of a Muslim woman, as a victim of neglect or destitution, to claim maintenance from her husband. Moreover, Section 7 is subject to Section 5 of the said Act. Also, a transitional provision is of a temporary nature. On the strength of a transitional provision the main Act i.e.