reported in (2004) 3 SCC 711 and Shree Hanuman Cotton Mills & Ors. v. Tata Air Craft Limited reported in (1969) 3 SCC 522, laid down the principles regarding earnest money, which read as under: - [2024] 2 S.C.R. 71 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu “9. … “21. From a review of the decisions cited above, the following principles emerge regarding ‘earnest’: ‘(1) It must be given at the moment at which the contract is concluded. (2) It represents a guarantee that the contract will be fulfilled or, in other words, “earnest” is given to bind the contract. (3) It is part of the purchase price when the transaction is carried out. (4) It is forfeited when the transaction falls through by reason of the default or failure of the purchaser. (5) Unless there is anything to the contrary in the terms of the contract, on default committed by the buyer, the seller is entitled to forfeit the earnest.”” 78. This Court in Satish Batra (supra) after taking note of the decisions in Delhi Development Authority v. Grihshapana Cooperative Group Housing Society Ltd. reported in 1995 Supp (1) SCC 751, V. Lakshmanan v. B.R. Mangalagiri & Ors. reported in 1995 Supp (2) SCC 33 and HUDA v. Kewal Krishnan Goel reported in 1996 (4) SCC 249 concluded that only that deposit which has been given as an earnest-money for the due performance of the obligation is liable to be forfeited in the event of a breach. The relevant observations read as under: - “15. The law is, therefore, clear that to justify the forfeiture of advance money being part of ‘earnest money’ the terms of the contract should be clear and explicit. Earnest money is paid or given at the time when the contract is entered into and, as a pledge for its due performance by the depositor to be forfeited in case of non-performance by the depositor. There can be converse situation also that if the seller fails to perform the contract the purchaser can also get double the amount, if it is so stipulated. It is also the law that part-payment of purchase price cannot be forfeited unless it is a guarantee for the due performance of the contract. In other words, if the payment is made only towards part-payment of consideration and not intended as earnest money then the forfeiture clause will not apply.” 72 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 79. Since Rule 9 sub-rule (5) provides for the forfeiture of only the earnest- money deposit of the successful auction purchaser i.e. only 25% of the total amount, by no stretch of imagination it can be regarded as a penal clause by virtue of the afore-stated decisions of this Court in Fateh Chand (supra), Maula Bux (supra) and Satish Batra and as such Section(s) 73 and 74 of the 1872 Act will have no application. 80. Even otherwise, what is discernible from the above referred decisions of Fateh Chand (supra), Maula Bux (supra) and Satish Batra (supra) is that there lies a difference between forfeiture of any amount and forfeiture of earnest money with the former being a penal clause and the latter a general forfeiture clause.