Section 70 empowers the appropriate authority to apply in writing to the State Government for variation of the preliminary or final scheme after it has come into force, if the said authority considers that the scheme is defective on account of an error, irregularity or informality. Section 71 is titled ‘Variation of Town Planning Scheme by another scheme’. It begins with a non-obstante clause and reads as under: - ‘71. Variation of town planning scheme by another scheme. -Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 70, a town planning scheme may at any time be varied by a subsequent scheme made, published and sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of this Act.’ 22. Section 81 is titled ‘Transfer of right from original to final plot or extinction of such right’ and states that any right in an original plot which, in the opinion of the Town Planning Officer, is capable of being transferred wholly or in part, without prejudice to the making of a Town Planning Scheme, to a final plot shall be so transferred and any right in an original plot which, in the opinion of the Town Planning Officer, is not capable of being so transferred, shall be extinguished. Section 82 is titled ‘Compensation in respect of property or right injuriously affected by the scheme’ and states that the owner of any property or right which is injuriously affected by the making [2024] 6 S.C.R. 611 Mrugendra Indravadan Mehta and Others v. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation of a Town Planning Scheme shall, if he makes a claim before the Town Planning Officer within the prescribed time, be entitled to be compensated in respect thereof by the appropriate authority or by any person benefited or partly by the appropriate authority and partly by such person, as the Town Planning Officer may in each case determine. The proviso thereunder states that the value of such property or right shall be deemed to be its market value on the date of declaration of the intention to make a scheme or the date of the notification issued by the State Government under Section 43(1) without reference to improvements contemplated in the scheme, as the case may be. Section 84 deals with cases in which the amount payable to the owner exceeds the amount due from him and states that, if the owner of an original plot is not provided with a plot in the preliminary scheme or if the contribution to be levied on him under Section 79 is less than the total amount to be deducted therefrom under any of the provisions of the Act of 1976, the net amount of his loss shall be payable to him by the appropriate authority in case or in such other manner as may be agreed upon by the parties. Section 105 is titled ‘Bar of legal proceedings’ and states that no suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the State Government, the appropriate authority or any public servant or person duly appointed or authorized under the Act of 1976 in respect of anything in good faith done or purported to be done under the provisions thereof or any rules or regulations made thereunder.