The actus reus required is the use of any video or any other electronic means to record any sexually explicit act being done either by the accused himself or by anyone else in the presence of a child. b. It must be borne in mind, that the sexually explicit act itself need not be done in the actual presence of the child, rather what is required is that the child was made privy to such sexually explicit act, and the same was recorded by the accused in any electronic form. Say for instance, that in the presence of a child, a pornographic video is played, and the same is then recorded by the accused. Here since, the recording includes a child being subjected to a sexually explicit act in the form a pornographic video, an offence would be constituted under the said provision, even though no such act was done in the actual presence of the child. c. In other words, what is penalized under Section 67B sub- section (e) is the act of exposing or subjecting a child to any sexually explicit act by anyone, and recording the same in any electronic form. 248 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 151. From the aforesaid, it is clear that Section 67B of the IT Act is a comprehensive provision designed to address and penalize the various electronic forms of exploitation and abuse of children online. It not only punishes the electronic dissemination of child pornographic material, but also the creation, possession, propagation and consumption of such material as-well as the different types of direct and indirect acts of online sexual denigration and exploitation of the vulnerable age of children. 152. This Court in Sharat Babu Digumarti v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi reported in (2017) 2 SCC 18 held that Chapter XI of the IT Act, more particularly Section(s) 67 through 67B are a complete code in itself when it comes to offences relating to electronic forms of obscene and pornographic material. The relevant observations read as under: - “31. Having noted the provisions, it has to be recapitulated that Section 67 clearly stipulates punishment for publishing, transmitting obscene materials in electronic form. The said provision read with Sections 67-A and 67-B is a complete code relating to the offences that are covered under the IT Act. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 153. Thus, Section(s) 67, 67A and 67B of the IT Act being a complete code, ought to be interpreted in a purposive manner that suppresses the mischief and advances the remedy and ensures that the legislative intent of penalizing the various forms of cyber-offences relating to children and the use of obscene / pornographic material through electronic means is not defeated by a narrow construction of these provisions. iii. The Presumption of Culpable Mental State under Section 30 of the POCSO. 154. As discussed earlier, the POCSO is a special legislation that was specifically enacted to punish aggravated forms of offences related to sexual abuse and exploitation of children as well as including the well-being of the children.