62 State of Uttar Pradesh v. Ajay Kumar Sharma (2016) 15 SCC 292 63 Shanker Raju v. Union of India (2011) 2 SCC 132 1812 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 97. In this light, we respectfully disagree with the opinion of Hon’ble the Chief Justice that the reference in Anjuman (supra) passes muster. Such a reading risks opening the floodgates to further complexity and disruption, where smaller benches could disregard established principles and overturn decisions of larger benches. This would erode the concept of well-settled principles and destabilize the legal framework, as each would strive to chart new directions, undermining legal certainty and continuity. Ironically, the reference in Anjuman (supra) strikes through the very core of Dawoodi Bohra (supra) and the law laid therein. 98. We thus have no hesitation in holding that it is the Chief Justice of India alone, who is the custodian of the authority to determine the composition of benches, and, in public or national interest, place a matter before any bench he deems appropriate, even in the absence of any reference. That being so, the 2019 Reference issued by a three-judge bench, which included the then Chief Justice of India, cannot be faulted. Consequently, based on that , we consider it appropriate to proceed with the determination of some of the issues concerning the constitutional challenge. 99. We also respectfully disagree with the opinion of Hon’ble the Chief Justice in paragraph 39 of his draft judgement, according to which, Anjuman (supra) has merely ‘doubted’ and not ‘disagreed’ with Azeez Basha (supra). It seems to us that the terms ‘doubt’ and ‘disagree’ broadly carry similar connotations. It is difficult to doubt a judicial opinion unless we disagree with the correctness of its contents and substance. Similarly, a disagreement would originate only when such opinion is shrouded with doubts on law or on facts. G. Issue II: Whether the Appellant has the locus standi to bring the present challenge? 100. The Respondents have countered the Appellant’s locus standi to invoke Article 30. They have argued that there was no such Fundamental Right available at the time when AMU was established. It is their assertion that since Fundamental Rights are not retrospectively applicable, and considering AMU was established before the Constitution, it cannot claim protection under Article 30. In addition, the Respondents have challenged the Appellant’s locus on the ground that Muslims did not constitute a ‘minority’ in 1920. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1813 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 101. The Appellant has controverted the Respondents’ objections by arguing that even pre-Constitution institutions can invoke the right under Article 30 and that Muslims did indeed constitute a minority in the State of Uttar Pradesh at the relevant time because they were numerically lesser when compared to other communities. Accordingly, the Appellant contended that it has the locus standi to enforce the right granted by Article 30. 102. These contentions thus merit a determination as to whether a claim can be brought under Article 30 in the first place.