(2) An arbitral award may be set aside by the Court only if— … (b) the Court finds that— (i) the subject-matter of the dispute is not capable of settlement by arbitration under the law for the time being in force, or (ii) the arbitral award is in conflict with the public policy of India. [Explanation 1.—For the avoidance of any doubt, it is clarified that an award is in conflict with the public policy of India, only if,— (i) the making of the award was induced or affected by fraud or corruption or was in violation of Section 75 or Section 81; or 294 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) it is in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law; or (iii) it is in conflict with the most basic notions of morality or justice. Explanation 2.—For the avoidance of doubt, the test as to whether there is a contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law shall not entail a review on the merits of the dispute.] [(2-A) An arbitral award arising out of arbitrations other than international commercial arbitrations, may also be set aside by the court, if the court finds that the award is vitiated by patent illegality appearing on the face of the award: Provided that an award shall not be set aside merely on the ground of an erroneous application of the law or by reappreciation of evidence. ]” 21. In so far as the state of the law prior to such Amendment is concerned, the situation stands encapsulated by this Court, in DDA v. R.S Sharma9 where the grounds whereby courts may intervene against arbitral award, were listed. 22. Observations of this Court in Associate Builders v. DDA10 are also of note. It was held: “15. This section in conjunction with Section 5 makes it clear that an arbitration award that is governed by Part I of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 can be set aside only on grounds mentioned under Sections 34(2) and (3), and not otherwise. Section 5 reads as follows: “5. Extent of judicial intervention.—Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters governed by this Part, no judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided in this Part.” 9 (2008) 13 SCC 80 (2 Judge Bench) 10 (2015) 3 SCC 49 (2 Judge Bench) [2024] 1 S.C.R. 295 S.V. Samudram v. State of Karnataka & Anr 16. It is important to note that the 1996 Act was enacted to replace the 1940 Arbitration Act in to provide for an arbitral procedure which is fair, efficient and capable of meeting the needs of arbitration; also to provide that the tribunal gives reasons for an arbitral award; to ensure that the tribunal remains within the limits of its jurisdiction; and to minimise the supervisory roles of courts in the arbitral process. 17. It will be seen that none of the grounds contained in sub-section (2)(a) of Section 34 deal with the merits of the decision rendered by an arbitral award.