47. The counsel also submitted that the SRG Group was not a party to the mediation proceedings since vide email dated 20.12.2021, the AMP Group invoked mediation as per clause 7.1.2 of the FAA only against the JRS Group for resolving disputes between themselves. It has been admitted in the same email that the AMP Group had no contact with the SRG Group regarding any SPAs for Millenium and Deegee or otherwise and the AMP Group even castigated the JRS Group for pushing pending obligations inter se the parties on the SRG Group when “the SRG group is not even a party to the FAA”. The minutes of the 1st mediation meeting dated 19.01.2022 also reflect that the same was not attended by the members or representatives of the SRG Group. The counsel further submitted that when the negotiations were resumed for the second time vide email dated 23.05.2022, the SRG Group neither attended nor was represented in the same. 48. The counsel submitted that the SRG Group at no point of time, appointed, engaged or authorised, either the JRS Group or Mr. Kalpesh Parmar to undertake any actions or make any representations on its behalf or bind it to any agreement that has been entered into by and between the AMP and JRS Groups either expressly or impliedly. It was submitted that even as per the petitioners’ own case, the so called joint meeting dated 14.01.2020 that was arranged by Mr. Kalpesh Parmar was done so by him representing the JRS Group and “was attended by Mr. Ashit Patel for AMP Group and Respondent No.9 of the SRG Group”. Therefore, the petitioners cannot blow hot and cold and allege that Mr. Parmar also attended in 924 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the capacity of a representative of the SRG Group. Further, the JRS Group itself nominated Mr. Kalpesh Parmar as its representative for mediation vide email dated 26.12.2021 and therefore, it is not proper for the petitioners to contend that the SRG Group was represented by Mr. Kalpesh Parmar or the JRS Group. 49. The counsel submitted that the Notice invoking arbitration sent by the JRS Group on 11.12.2023 was not addressed to the SRG Group. Only in the Reply to the Arbitration Notice issued by the AMP Group on 12.01.2024, the SRG Group was marked and this is the first instance that the AMP Group alluded to the SRG Group as a participant in the FAA and that to after a span of almost 4 years. This, according to him, was clearly an afterthought. 50. The counsel in the last submitted that, in the facts of the present case, even the prima facie threshold required to be met to warrant joinder of non-parties to arbitral proceedings, either by the referral court or by an arbitral tribunal, has not been met. E. ANALYSIS 51. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the SRG Group, being a non- signatory to the FAA, should also be referred to arbitration along with the AMP and JRS Groups?