The bar is not intended to take away remedy against a crime but only to protect an innocent person against false or 1462 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports frivolous proceedings by a private person. The expression “the public servant or his administrative superior” cannot exclude the High Court. It is clearly implicit in the direction of the High Court quoted above that it was necessary in the interest of justice to take cognizance of the offence in question. Direction of the High Court is on a par with the direction of an administrative superior public servant to file a complaint in writing in terms of the statutory requirement. The protection intended by the section against a private person filing a frivolous complaint is taken care of when the High Court finds that the matter was required to be gone into in public interest. Such direction cannot be rendered futile by invoking Section 195 to such a situation. Once the High Court directs investigation into a specified offence mentioned in Section 195, bar under Section 195(1)(a) cannot be pressed into service. The view taken by the High Court will frustrate the object of law and cannot be sustained.” (Emphasis supplied) 26. The High Court differentiated the of this Court in Sivamani (supra), to the facts of the case herein, stating that in this case, the final report came to be filed on the basis of an administrative and not a judicial one. We are unable to agree with the reasoning of the High Court on this aspect. 27. As discussed above, the initiation of the present proceedings in the present case, was from the and dated 5th February, 1991 of the Kerala High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 20 of 1991, in acquitting Andrew Salvatore directing the matter of planting of Mo2 be positively looked into. This was followed by an investigation by the vigilance officer of the Court. Therefore, in the impugned , the High Court has erroneously observed that there is no judicial concerning the present proceedings. 28. The High Court also distinguished Sivamani (supra) on the ground that the public interest present therein is absent in the present case. This is the second aspect that must be clarified. The alleged act is a glaring occurrence where the process of criminal prosecution stands interfered with, impugning upon the sanctity of judicial proceedings, resulting in a travesty of justice. Such actions not only erode public [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1463 M.R. Ajayan v. State of Kerala & Ors. trust in the judicial system but compromise the principles of the rule of law and fairness, which are essential for the justice delivery system. Such incidents strike at the foundation of the independence and integrity of the judicial process, hence, it cannot be said that there is a lack of public interest herein. In the peculiar circumstances obtained in this case where the accused allegedly received a material object in question, from the judicial custody, despite there being no specific for release thereof, and subsequently tinkered/ assisted in tinkering with the same and thereafter substituted it for the original.