[2024] 11 S.C.R. 1013 : 2024 INSC 885 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 2161 of 2012) 22 November 2024 [C.T. Ravikumar and Sanjay Karol,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Issue arose with respect to the devolution of property by way of Marumakkathayam law. Nature and character of the scheduled properties. Whether the property obtained by a female and her children after partition would be considered their separate property or would it belong to her tharwad; whether, in the present facts, ‘PA’ had the legal right to transfer the entire property of her son to her daughter-in-law and grandchildren by way of a mortgage deed or was her right only limited to one-sixth of the property as contended by the original defendants. Headnotes† Madras Marumakkattayam Act, 1932 – ss.3(j)(i), 38 – ‘thavazhi’ – The Travancore Nayar Regulation, II of 1100 – s.2(3) – Cochin Nayar Act, XXIX of 1113 – Parties governed by the Marumakkathayam law – Right of marumakkathayee female on partition – Whether the property obtained by a female and her children after partition would be considered their separate property or would it belong to her tharwad (a Marumakkathayam joint family comprising of a female ancestor, her children, her daughter’s children, her daughter’s daughter’s children and all such other descendants, however remote, in the female line): Held: The minority opinion of the Full Bench of Kerala High Court in Mary Cheriyan case correctly holds that if at the time of partition the female is single, she continues to hold the property as her own, even if she has children in the future – Partition alters the nature of the property from, at one point being jointly held property or tharwad to a property held solely by her – In for a thavazhi (branches of tharwad) to be formed, there has to be at least one female and her successive generation, either male or female, in *Author 1014 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the generation immediately succeeding and thereafter progeny of the female line – The majority view in Mary Cheriyan falters for in their understanding one single female is sufficient to form a thavazhi – ‘PA’ and her descendants formed a thavazhi and had received the scheduled properties under item No.1 collectively (two sets of scheduled properties being item No.1 and item No.2) – Further, the divergence of opinion between the minority and majority was in respect of single female(s) receiving property in partition which is not the case here – All five Judges were ad idem when it comes to property being received at partition by females and members of her thavazhi – Since the properties were received by the thavazhi and not by a woman who is single, the property is unquestionably tharwad property – The fact that branch 5 (‘PA’ and her children) held the property jointly is supported by the fact that the compromise deed, which granted them the said property, was never challenged – The appointment of one of the sons of ‘PA’ as karanavan also manifests the intention that the parties wished to jointly hold the property as tharwad – The original defendants’ reliance on the minority view is thus, misplaced as the difference of opinion was only with respect to inheritance by single females and not thavazhis – Though on the point of law, the minority view of the Full Bench of the Kerala High Court in Mary Cheriyan case is upheld, on facts, the finding about which all five judges were ad idem applies – The pronouncement of law in this to apply prospectively – Preliminary decree passed by the Trial Court and upheld by the High Court affirmed.