The Statement further seeks inter alia to promote and protect the rights of consumers such as— “2. … (a) the right to be protected against marketing of goods which are hazardous to life and property; (b) the right to be informed about the quality, quantity, potency, purity, standard and price of goods to protect the consumer against unfair trade practices; (c) the right to be assured, wherever possible, access to variety of goods at competitive prices; (d) the right to be heard and to be assured that consumers’ interests will receive due consideration at appropriate forums; (e) the right to seek redressal against unfair trade practices or unscrupulous exploitation of consumers; and (f) right to consumer education.” 12. The idea behind the Consumer Protection Act from 1986 till today has been to help the consumers get justice and fair treatment in matters of goods and services purchased and availed of by them in a market dominated by large trading and manufacturing bodies. The entire Act revolves around the consumer and is designed to protect their interests. 13. Leaving aside India for the time being, if we consider the international practice with regard to the inclusion of lawyer-client relationships within the ambit of consumer protection laws, we would notice that the practice of common law countries evidences the exclusion of lawyers from the umbrella of consumer protection laws. It must be kept in mind that the consumer protection laws of almost all countries are based upon the same resolution of 526 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the UNO which forms the foundation for framing the Consumer Protection Act in India. 14. To illustrate, Consumer Protection Act, 1999 enacted by the Parliament of Malaysia vide Section 2 (2)(e) specifically provides that the said act shall not apply, inter alia, to services provided by professionals who are regulated by any law. It may be worth noting that the services of the professionals such as lawyers in Malaysia are governed by Legal Profession Act, 1976. Therefore, by virtue of the above Section 2 (2) (e), the services provided by the professionals such as lawyers stand excluded from the application of the Consumer Protection Act of Malaysia. 15. This legislative intent of excluding regulated professions from the ambit of Consumer Protection Law has been continuing for over a considerable period of time now. Aspects of such exclusion find mention in the DIRECTIVE 2011/83/EU OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 25 OCTOBER 2011 on consumer rights where it has been said that provisions of the said directive should not apply to regulated professions. 16. At the heart of this legislative intent to exempt such ‘regulated professions’ from the scope of consumer laws lies the fact that such professions are sui generis and paramount as services of general interest. 17. The recent DIRECTIVE (EU) 2018/958 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 28 June 2018 bears a befitting testimony to this continuing intent of lawmakers and the desire to safeguard regulated professions from any outside interreference.