[…]” 77. On the facts of the case, the Constitution Bench observed that the endowments were made on such terms that did not confer the right to manage the properties to the denomination. This Court held that the right to administer the property could not be claimed if the terms of the endowment did not confer administration to the denomination. 78. Azeez Basha (supra) relied on the decision of the Constitution Bench in Durgah Committee (supra) which dealt with clauses (c) and (d) of Article 26 which guarantee the right of any religious denomination to own property and administer such property. They were not made in the context of Article 26(a) by which the right to establish and maintain institutions is conferred on religious denominations. 79. A parallel could have been drawn between the right guaranteed by Article 26(a) and Article 30(1), which is what this Court in Azeez Basha (supra) attempted to do. However, a parallel cannot be drawn between clauses (c) and (d) of Article 26, and Article 30(1). [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1723 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. The rights differ in nature and scope. Article 26(d) guarantees the right to administer property in ‘accordance with law’. The provision does not confer any special right to administration as in the case of minority educational institutions. iv. Applicability of Article 30 to a ‘University’ established before the commencement of the Constitution 80. Mr Rakesh Dwivedi, senior counsel appearing for the respondents made two submissions on the application of Article 30 to educational institutions which were established before the commencement of the Constitution. First, he urged that the claimant must prove that they were a linguistic or religious minority when the institution was established and not when the Constitution commenced; and second, before the Constitution was adopted, Universities (unlike schools and colleges which could be established by persons) could only be established by the Imperial Government. Thus, Universities which could not have been established by persons before the Constitution was adopted cannot, according to the submission, claim a right under Article 30. The observations in re Kerala Education Bill,69 Rev. Bishop SK Patro v. State of Bihar70 and St. Stephen’s (supra) that Article 30(1) applies to educational institutions which were established before the Constitution was adopted were distinguished on the ground that those cases dealt with colleges and schools, and not Universities. The learned Attorney General also made a similar argument. He submitted that in the absence of a legal competence to establish a given class of institutions (that is, universities), the question of availing of all attendant rights and claims in relation to Article 30 cannot arise. In the subsequent sections, we will answer the following two questions: a. Whether ‘universities’ established before the commencement of the Constitution are excluded from the purview of Article 30(1); and b. Whether those who established an educational institution have to prove that they were a minority at the time of establishment. 69 [1958] SCR 995 70 (1969) 1 SCC 863 1724 [2024] 11 S.C.R.