For better appreciation, the relevant part of the chargesheet is reproduced as under: * K. Veeraswami vs. Union of India and Others (1991) 3 SCC 655 1024 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “17.10 The investigation disclosed that many Muslim youth were recruited as PFI Cadres (Categorized as “Protected witnesses) -B” (LW-8) were sent to Periyapattinam, Ramanathapuram to attend beginners camp where he attended Tharbiya classes in which PFI functionaries/ preachers sermonized that Muslims who were ruling India have been relegated as second grade citizens. The Indian Muslims were systematically and increasingly getting marginalized in their home land, the privileges earlier enjoyed by Muslims in terms of property rights, etc. were withdrawn and Government jobs were denied, trade facilities were restricted and the rights of Sharia were being denied. They preached that the Muslims were being attacked by Hindu right-wing leaders. During the camp, PE classes were conducted in the morning and evening in which they were taught to attack, assault, maim and murder with bare hands. During the camps, PFI leaders namely Adv. Kalith Mohammed and Barakatullah used to supervise the activities of weapons training in the camp. 17.11 The investigation disclosed that the accused persons, A-1 along with A-2, A-3, A-5 and A-6 had approached one witness categorized as “Protected witnesses-C & D” to expand the Mohalla committees through Masjids and recruit Muslim youth in to PFI organisation and impart weapons training to attack targeted persons and establish Islamic rule in India. A-1 told Protected Witness-C that Muslims should be united in to attack the Hindu leaders and their organizations for which more young Muslims must join the PFI and they should equip themselves with weapons training provided by the PFI through Mohalla Committees. The PW-C also revealed that the objective of PFI is to establish Islamic Rule in India through an Islamic army. The Protected Witness-C also mentioned that A-4, A-8 later met Protected Witness-D to convince them about the Mohalla committees. Further, Protected Witness-C also stated that he had opposed the move of PFI usurping the office of a body named, confederation of mosques in Madurai, an apex governing body of Muslims in Madurai in June 2022. Protected Witnesses also stated that the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1025 Union of India Rep. by The Inspector of Police National Investigation Agency Chennai Branch v. Barakathullah etc. accused persons knowingly and intentionally wanted to control the confederation of mosques in Madurai, the initiative to spread Mohalla committee activities of imparting weapons training could easily sail through. Since Protected Witnesses did not agree with the accused persons and opposed them, he was being followed by some unknown persons. 17.12 The investigation disclosed that the accused A-4 insisted on imparting weapons training to Muslim youth through mosques and indoctrinating them in to establish Islamic rule by 2047. Further, investigation disclosed that A-8 mentioned that such training was being imparted in PFI Arivagam, Theni and at various parts of Ramanathapuram district so that the youth are in readiness to commit terrorist acts and unlawful activities and to disrupt the sovereignty and integrity of India and to establish Islamic rule as per Shariah law.