[2024] 7 S.C.R. 611 : 2024 INSC 497 Ujagar Singh (Dead) Thr. Lrs. & Anr. v. Punjab State & Ors. (Civil Appeal No.1365 of 2011) 09 July 2024 [Vikram Nath* and Prashant Kumar Mishra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the High Court fell in error in dismissing the suit primarily on the ground that the Civil Court’s jurisdiction was barred by s.21 of the Punjab Land Reforms Act, 1972 when the issue of jurisdiction was not pressed by the respondents during the trial court proceedings. Headnotes† Punjab Land Reforms Act, 1972 – s.21 – Jurisdiction of Civil Courts, if barred – Appellants filed suit for declaration and perpetual injunction, asserting that the land in question was exempt under the Act – They sought declaration that the land belonged to the religious and charitable shrine Dam Dama Sahib of Una and an injunction to prevent the respondents from transferring or declaring it surplus – Trial Court dismissed the suit – First Appellate Court partly allowed appeal – High Court set aside the of First Appellate court, holding that the Civil Court’s jurisdiction was barred u/s.21 of the Act – Correctness of: Held: The issue of jurisdiction was not pressed by the respondents during the Trial Court proceedings – The Trial Court specifically recorded that the issue of jurisdiction was not pressed and decided it in favour of the plaintiffs – The respondents did not challenge this finding before the first appellate Court, and, hence precluded from raising it in the second appeal before the High Court – s.21 of the Land Reforms Act bars the jurisdiction of Civil Courts only in specific circumstances – (a) suits for specific performance of a contract for transfer of land, and – (b) questioning the validity of any proceeding or taken or made under the Act – The present suit does not fall under either of these two categories – * Author 612 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The appellants’ suit was essentially for a declaration that the land belonged to the religious and charitable shrine Dam Dama Sahib, and there was no challenge to the validity of any under the Act – The Civil Court alone has the jurisdiction to decide and declare whether the land belonged to the religious shrine or to Tikka Devinder Singh in his personal capacity – The suit filed by the appellants was not a challenge to the validity of the surplus but a suit for declaration regarding the ownership of the land – Matter remitted back to High Court for fresh consideration on merits. [Paras 5, 7, 8] List of Acts Punjab Land Reforms Act, 1972. List of Keywords Suit for declaration and perpetual injunction; Surplus land; Bar of jurisdiction of Civil Courts; Section 21 of the Land Reforms Act; Land dedicated to religious and charitable institution; Religious shrine; Dam Dama Baba Sahib Singh of Una; Transfer of land. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 1365 of 2011 From the and dated 09.03.2010 of the High Court of Punjab & Haryana at Chandigarh in RSA No.