The answer to this is that this Court, as one, might speak through a singular voice or several voices as the occasion might demand. In any event, these voices, though marked by their individual tone(s), enjoin to form a collective melody, [2024] 5 S.C.R. 989 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others akin to a choir of justice. It cannot be forgotten that no matter the strength, all these voices bear the symbol of the Supreme Court of India. While we may have our specific functions and jurisdictions, the collective objective is to find our bearings towards धर्मम (duty) and न्यााया (justice). In this sense, it can be said that each Bench speaks for the Court as a whole, contributing to the intricate symphony of justice that defines the Supreme Court of India. 70. It is here that the need arises for a Bench to be careful, cautious, and circumspect while being critical of a precedent of a previous Bench. Every Bench is supposed to bear in mind two overriding considerations. The first is that of deference to the views expressed by a Bench in a primary decision and the other is maintaining judicial discipline and propriety if, upon threadbare consideration, it is found difficult to assent to the justification for such primary decision. In such an eventuality, dignity and decency would demand disagreement voiced by the subsequent Bench and reference of the matter to the Hon’ble the Chief Justice for constitution of a larger Bench in a tone that does not sound like critical observations and adverse comments in respect of the primary decision rendered by a coordinate Bench. 71. Here too, the grounds of the RPs refer to the ‘liberty’ granted by the decision in Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra). The question, as noted above, is whether the Bench while deciding Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) could have granted any ‘liberty’ to the review petitioners to apply for review, assuming that the words “open to be reviewed in appropriate cases” did mean ‘liberty to apply’. 72. Prior to attempting an answer to that question, it would also be apposite to note what the dicta in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community v. State of Maharashtra 42 is, as laid down by another Constitution Bench of this Court. The legal position summed up in paragraph 12 reads as follows: “12. Having carefully considered the submissions made by the learned Senior Counsel for the parties and having examined the law laid down by the Constitution Benches in the abovesaid decisions, we would like to sum up the legal position in the following terms: 42 [2004] Supp. 6 SCR 1054 : (2005) 2 SCC 673 990 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (1) The law laid down by this Court in a decision delivered by a Bench of larger strength is binding on any subsequent Bench of lesser or coequal strength. (2) A Bench of lesser quorum cannot disagree or dissent from the view of the law taken by a Bench of larger quorum.