The statement of objects and reasons of the RCT Act reads as under: - “STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS An Act to provide for the establishment of a Railway Claims Tribunal for inquiring into and determining claims against a railway administration for loss, destruction, damage, deterioration or non-delivery of animals or goods entrusted to it to be carried by railway or for the refund of fares or freight or for compensation for death or injury to passengers occurring as a result of railway accidents or untoward incidents] and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1083 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. 29. Section 13 of the RCT Act provides that the Railway Claims Tribunal shall inter-alia exercise powers and jurisdiction under Chapter VII of the erstwhile Act, 1890 (now Chapter XI of the Act, 1989) pertaining to inquiry and determination of claims for compensation for loss, destruction, damage etc. and claims for refund of freight etc. in respect of goods carried by railway. The said provision reads as under: - “13. Jurisdiction, powers and authority of Claims Tribunal. – (1) The Claims Tribunal shall exercise, on and from the appointed day, all such jurisdiction, powers and authority as were exercisable immediately before that day by any civil court or a Claims Commissioner appointed under the provisions of the Railways Act, — (a) relating to the responsibility of the railway administrations as carriers under Chapter VII of the Railways Act in respect of claims for — (i) compensation for loss, destruction, damage, deterioration or non-delivery of animals or goods entrusted to a railway administration for carriage by railway; (ii) compensation payable under section 82A of the Railways Act or the rules made thereunder; and (b) in respect of the claims for refund of fares or part thereof or for refund of any freight paid in respect of animals or goods entrusted to a railway administration to be carried by railway. (1A) The Claims Tribunal shall also exercise, on and from the date of commencement of the provisions of section 124A of the Railways Act, 1989 (24 of 1989), all such jurisdiction, powers and authority as were exercisable immediately before that date by any civil court in respect of claims for compensation now payable by the railway administration under section 124A of the said Act or the rules made thereunder. 1084 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (1B) The Claims Tribunal shall also exercise, on and from the commencement of Part XIV of Chapter VI of the Finance Act, 2017 (7 of 2017), the jurisdiction, powers and authority conferred on the Tribunal under Chapter VII of the Railways Act,1989 (24 of 1989). (2) The provisions of the Railways Act, 1989 (24 of 1989) and the rules made thereunder shall, so far as may be, be applicable to the inquiring into or determining, any claims by the Claims Tribunal under this Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 30. Section 15 of the RCT Act bars the jurisdiction of courts and other authorities from entertaining or exercising any power in respect of matters referred to in Section 13 of the RCT Act.