175. Though Article 16(4) only refers to the “backward class” collectively, the Scheduled Castes are differentiated because they suffer from social backwardness in the form of untouchability which leads to educational and economic backwardness. The Scheduled tribes are classified as a separate class because they suffer from social backwardness because of their spatial and cultural isolation from the rest of the population.235 Since the State can use any yardstick to determine inter-se backwardness, it is not necessary that the criteria for sub-classification and the criteria used to distinguish 232 See the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act 2006 233 Seats have been reserved for women through executive notifications issued by various states. 234 See The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016, Sections 32, 34 235 Galanter,supra, 147 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1429 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. the class from the other classes must be the same. That is, if the criteria for recognizing the Scheduled Castes as a backward class is untouchability, it is not necessary that the group can be sub- classified only if there is inter-se backwardness due to the same identity (that is, untouchability). 176. The Scheduled Castes are a collection of castes, races or tribes or parts of groups, races or tribes.236 Caste is both a unit in the sense that it consists of a homogenous group of people and is also an indicator of backwardness because it is an occupational grouping.237 The nexus between caste and occupation continues to persist, more predominantly in the rural areas. This position has been expounded by numerous cases right from Balaji (supra) to Indra Sawhney (supra). A caste whose traditional occupation is that of scavenging and another caste whose traditional occupation is that of weaving may both face the stigma of untouchability. However, the caste whose traditional occupation is that of scavenging will be more socially backward when compared to the weaver caste because of the caste-occupation-poverty nexus. 177. How does the State identify inter-se social backwardness within the Scheduled Castes? As discussed above, the inter-se backwardness can, inter alia, be identified based on inadequacy of effective representation. However, it must be proved that inadequacy of effective representation of a caste is because of its social backwardness. I have had the benefit of reading the erudite opinion of my learned Brother, Justice Gavai. My learned Brother and I agree that the State must prove that the group/caste carved out from the larger group of Scheduled Castes is more disadvantaged and inadequately represented. viii. The limits of sub-classification 178. Having held that sub-classification of the Scheduled Castes for the purposes of reservation is valid and having laid down the yardstick which must be used for further categorization, the next issue that falls for our consideration is its scope. In this section, we will answer the following issues: 236 Constitution of India 1950; Article 366(24) 237 (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 [ Justice Jeevan Reddy, 779] 1430 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a.