1958 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3. In exercise of the power under Article 2469 read with Entry 52 of List I, Parliament enacted the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act 1951.10 Section 2 of IDRA stipulates that it is expedient in public interest that the Union should take control of the industries specified in the First Schedule to the enactment. Item 26 of the First Schedule read as follows: “26. Fermentation industries: (1) Alcohol (2) Other products of fermentation industries” 4. In 2016, Item 26 of the First Schedule to the IDRA was amended to exclude potable alcohol from the ambit of the Item.11 Item 26 reads as follows after the amendment: “26. Fermentation industries (other than potable alcohol): (1) Alcohol (2) Other products of fermentation industries” 5. Section 18-G of IDRA12 grants the Central Government the power to regulate the supply and distribution “of any article or class of articles relatable to a scheduled industry” for securing equitable distribution and availability at fair prices. 9 “246. Subject matter of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of States.” 10 “IDRA” 11 The Industries (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act 2016 12 “18G. Power to control supply, distribution, price, etc., of certain articles.— (1) The Central Government, so far as it appears to it to be necessary or expedient for securing the equitable distribution and availability at fair prices of any article or class of articles relatable to any scheduled industry, may, notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, by notified , provide for regulating the supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by sub-section (1), a notified made thereunder may provide— (a) for controlling the prices at which any such article or class thereof may be bought or sold; (b) for regulating by licences, permits or otherwise the distribution, transport, disposal, acquisition, possession, use or consumption of any such article or class thereof; (c) for prohibiting the withholding from sale of any such article or class thereof ordinarily kept for sale; (d) for requiring any person manufacturing, producing or holding in stock such article or class thereof to sell the whole or the part of the articles so manufactured or produced during a specified period or to sell the whole or a part of the article so held in stock to such person or class of persons and in such circumstances as may be specified in the ; (e) for regulating or prohibiting any class of commercial or financial transactions relating to such article or class thereof which in the opinion of the authority making the are, or if unregulated are likely to be, detrimental to public interest; [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1959 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons ii. The in Synthetics (7J) 6. The United Provinces Excise Act 191013 was enacted to “consolidate and amend the law in force in the United Provinces relating to the import, export, transport, manufacture, sale and possession of intoxicating liquor and of intoxicating drugs”.