882 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. In the case of Bihar State Co-operative Bank Ltd.,7 in paragraph 2 (SCC report), this Court set out the questions involved which read thus: “2. In its return the appellant showed these various sums as “other sources”, but nothing turns on the manner in which the appellant chose to show this income in its return. The Income Tax Officer, however, assessed the interest for these three years under Section 12 of the Income Tax Act, as income from “other sources”. The appellant took an appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner where it was contended that as the business of the appellant Bank consisted of lending money and the deposits had been made not for the purpose of investment but for that business and thereby fulfilling the purpose for which the cooperative Bank was constituted, these various sums of interest were not subject to income tax because of the notification issued by the Central Government under Section 60 of the Income Tax Act. The relevant portion of that notification, CBR Notification 35 dated 20-10-1934, and No. 33 dated 18-8-1945, was: “The following classes of income shall be exempt from the tax payable under the said Act, but shall be taken into account in determining the total income of an assessee for the purpose of the said Act: *** (2) The profits of any cooperative society other than the Sanikatta Salt Owners’ Society in the Bombay Presidency for the time being registered under the Cooperative Societies Act, 1912 (Act 2 of 1912), the Bombay Cooperative Societies Act, 1925 (Bombay Act 7 of 1925), or the Madras Cooperative Societies Act, 1932 (Madras Act 6 of 1932), or the dividends or other payments received by the members of any such society out of such profits. Explanation : For this purpose the profits of a cooperative society shall not be deemed to include any income, profits or gains from: [2024] 10 S.C.R. 883 Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax (1) Investments in (a) securities of the nature referred to in Section 8 of the Indian Income Tax Act; or (b) property of the nature referred to in Section 9 of that Act; (2) dividends, or (3) the ‘other sources’ referred to in Section 12 of the Indian Income Tax Act.” The Appellate Assistant Commissioner, however, repelled the contention of the appellant. He held that the business of the appellant consisted of ‘lending money, and selling agricultural and other products to its constituents’ which could be planned ahead and required no provision for extraordinary claims He remarked that it appeared from the balance sheets that in the Accounting Year 1945 the Bank invested Rs 13,50,000 as fixed deposits, which, in the following year was raised to Rs 15,00,000 and it was only in the Accounting Year 1947 that the fixed deposits, “were realised on maturity with interest”. He was also of the opinion that the length of the period during which this money “was kept locked in this way” showed clearly that “not the exigencies of pressing necessities, but the motives of investment of surplus fund had actuated the deposits”.