Application for restitution.—(1) Where and in so far as a decree [or an ] is [varied or reversed in any appeal, revision or other proceeding or is set aside or modified in any suit instituted for the purpose, the Court 7 AIR 1948 MAD.12 8 [1953] SCR 559 634 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which passed the decree or ] shall, on the application of any party entitled in any benefit by way of restitution or otherwise, cause such restitution to be made as will, so far as may be, place the parties in the position which they would have occupied but for such decree [or ] or [such part thereof as has been varied, reversed, set aside or modified]; and, for this purpose, the Court may make any s, including s for the refund of costs and for the payment of interest, damages, compensation and mesne profits, which are properly [consequential on such variation, reversal, setting aside or modification of the decree or ]. [Explanation.—For the purposes of sub-section (1) the expression “Court which passed the decree or ” shall be deemed to include,— (a) where the decree or has been varied or reversed in exercise of appellate or revisional jurisdiction, the Court of first instance; (b) where the decree or has been set aside by a separate suit, the court of first instance which passed such decree or ; (c) where the Court of first instance has ceased to exist or has ceased to have jurisdiction to execute it, the Court which, if the suit wherein the decree or was passed were instituted at the time of making the application for restitution under this section, would have jurisdiction to try such suit.] (2) No suit shall be instituted for the purpose of obtaining any restitution or other relief which could be obtained by application under sub-section (1).” The principle behind the of restitution made after the original decree is reversed or varied or modified has been explained by this Court in the matter of South Eastern Coal Fields (supra) in the following words in paras 26, 27 & 28: “26. In our opinion, the principle of restitution takes care of this submission. The word “restitution” in its etymological sense means restoring to a party on the modification, variation or reversal of a decree or , what has been lost to him in execution of decree or of the court or in direct consequence of a decree or (see Zafar [2024] 6 S.C.R. 635 Bhikchand S/o Dhondiram Mutha (Deceased) Through Lrs. v. Shamabai Dhanraj Gugale (Deceased) Through Lrs. Khan v. Board of Revenue, U.P. [1984 Supp SCC 505 : AIR 1985 SC 39] ) In law, the term “restitution” is used in three senses: (i) return or restoration of some specific thing to its rightful owner or status; (ii) compensation for benefits derived from a wrong done to another; and (iii) compensation or reparation for the loss caused to another. (See Black’s Law Dictionary, 7th Edn., p. 1315).