However, ASI Tikota Police Station (PW-18) testified on oath that complainant (PW-1) came to the police station and submitted a written report which was taken as the complaint of the incident. He did not state anything about any complaint being recorded at the house of the complainant prior to lodging of the report. Thus, there is a grave 5 [2024] 5 SCR 174 : 2024 OnLine SC 561 370 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports contradiction on this important aspect as to whether the report was submitted by the complainant (PW-1) in the form of a written complaint or whether the oral statement of complainant (PW-1) was recorded by the police officials at his home leading to the registration of FIR (Exhibit P-10). The non-production of the Daily Dairy maintained at the police station assumes great significance in the backdrop of these facts. Apparently thus, the FIR (Exhibit P-10) is a post investigation document and does not inspire confidence.” (emphasis supplied) 31. In addition to all the above noted inconsistencies and contradictions in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, this Court has to be conscious about the deposition of Demistalkumar (PW-12) who has categorically stated that when he reached the crime scene, he saw only the injured lying on the road with the three assailants brandishing sharp weapons towards Mohammed Sohail, and about four minutes later, some other people came there. Thus, the evidence of Demistalkumar (PW-12) makes the very presence of the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) at the crime scene doubtful. 32. Had there been an iota of truth in the claim of the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) that he was an eyewitness to the occurrence then, there was no reason as to why he did not divulge the details thereof to Police Constable, Demistalkumar (PW-12) present at the spot. The natural reaction of any prudent man would be to make a complaint of the incident to the policeman present at the spot. 33. Furthermore, the Police Constable, Demistalkumar (PW-12), stated that he got blood stains while placing the injured in the rickshaw. On the other hand, the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11), however, admitted that he did not receive any blood stains either on his hands or on his clothes at the time when the injured was placed inside the rickshaw. Rather, he did not acknowledge that Demistalkumar (PW-12) also helped in placing the victim on to the rickshaw. Had there been any iota of truth in the version of the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) that he had seen the assault being made on his cousin brother, Mohammad [2024] 8 S.C.R. 371 Allarakha Habib Memon Etc. v. State of Gujarat Sohail (deceased) and that he had helped in lifting the injured and placing him in the rickshaw then, it is impossible that he would not have received the blood stains from the blood oozing out from the multiple sharp weapon injuries suffered by Mohammad Sohail. As per Demistalkumar (PW-12), when he reached the crime scene, the victim was lying on the ground and no one else was to be seen near him other than the assailants.