[2024] 7 S.C.R. 97 : 2024 INSC 479 Frank Vitus v. Narcotics Control Bureau & Ors. (Criminal Appeal No. 2814-2815 of 2024) 08 July 2024 [Abhay S. Oka* and Ujjal Bhuyan, JJ.] Issue for Consideration The appellant was ed to be enlarged on bail subject to various terms and conditions incorporated in the said . The petitioner is aggrieved by the two conditions imposed while granting bail. The two conditions are as follows: (i) A certificate of assurance from the High Commission of Nigeria is to be placed on record that the applicants/accused shall not leave the country and shall appear before the Special Judge as and when required; (ii) Accuse shall drop a PIN on the google map to ensure that their location is available to the Investigation Officer of the case. Headnotes† Constitution of India – Art. 21 – Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – Terms and conditions in a bail – A condition of dropping pin on Google Map: Held: In an affidavit, Google LLC stated that the user has full control over sharing PINs with other users – It does not impinge on the user’s privacy, as the user retains full control – Most importantly, it is stated that the PIN location does not enable real-time tracking of the user or the user’s device – Therefore, the condition of the accused dropping a pin on Google Maps, as it stands, is completely redundant as the same does not help the first respondent-Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) – Imposing any bail condition which enables the Police/Investigation Agency to track every movement of the accused released on bail by using any technology or otherwise would undoubtedly violate the right to privacy guaranteed under Article 21 – In the instant case, the condition of dropping a PIN on Google Maps has been incorporated without even considering the technical effect of dropping a PIN and the relevance of the said condition as a condition of bail – This cannot be a condition of * Author 98 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports bail – Accordingly, the condition is ed to be deleted. [Paras 10.1, 10.2] Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – Terms and conditions in a bail – A condition of furnishing certificate of the Embassy: Held: It is not necessary that in every case where bail is granted to an accused in an NDPS case who is a foreign national on the ground of long incarceration of more than 50% of the minimum sentence, the condition of obtaining a ‘certificate of assurance’ from the Embassy/High Commission should be incorporated – It will depend on the facts of each case – Even if such a condition is incorporated, on an application made by the accused, the concerned Embassy/High Commission declines or fails to issue the certificate within a reasonable time, say within a period of seven days, the Court always has the power to dispense with the said condition – Grant of such a certificate by the Embassy/ High Commission is beyond the control of the accused to whom bail is granted – Therefore, when the Embassy/High Commission does not grant such a certificate within a reasonable time, as explained above, the accused, who is otherwise held entitled to bail, cannot be denied bail on the ground that such a condition, which is impossible for the accused to comply with, has not been complied with – Hence, the Court will have to delete the condition – Instead of the condition of obtaining such a certificate, the condition of surrendering the passport and regularly reporting to the local police station/Trial Court can always be imposed, depending upon the facts of each case – Accordingly, in the instant case, the said condition of furnishing certificate of the Embassy is ed to be deleted.