In Commissioner of Wealth Tax v. Amateur Riders Club,40 this Court noted that while latitude can be granted to the government, it has to show its bona fide and diligence in filing the appeals. In case of bureaucratic indifference, delay cannot be condoned. 35. Subsequently, in the case of Postmaster General (supra), this Court noted that the delay cannot be condoned mechanically only because the appellant is a government entity. The Court explicitly negated the earlier rationale of impersonal machinery and inherited bureaucratic methodology given modern improvements in technology. Lastly, the Court held that government entities must show bona fide and demonstrate diligence in pursuing the matter. 36. This Court has again in State of Madhya Pradesh v. Bherulal,41 reiterated the reasoning of the Postmaster General (supra) and held that the Collector (LA) (supra) could not be relied upon any longer as it was laid down in a different bureaucratic and technological period. The proposition that government entities ought to be afforded greater latitude on issues of delay on account of administrative exigencies, is no longer a precedent to be followed routinely. 37. Although the appellants have cited two more decisions of this Court in support of their prayer for condonation of delay, we find both of them distinguishable on facts. In Koting Lamkang (supra) a three- judge bench of this Court, in the peculiar circumstances where certain individual officers had acted with mala fide, chose not to extend the burden of individual recklessness to the State’s institutional interest; as may be seen from the following extract: 40 (1994) Supp. (2) SCC 603, para 3. 41 [2020] 8 SCR 912 : (2020) 10 SCC 654, para 3. 1252 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “8. Regard should be had in similar such circumstances to the impersonal nature of the Government’s functioning where individual officers may fail to act responsibly. This in turn, would result in injustice to the institutional interest of the State. If the appeal filed by the State are lost for individual default, those who are at fault, will not usually be individually affected.” [emphasis supplied] 38. Similarly, in Sheo Raj Singh (supra), the marked distinction was the scope of interference by this Court while exercising judicial review of an of condoning delay passed by a High Court. This Court distinguished between the two situations, namely: (i) its constraints while sitting in appeal over a discretionary ; and (ii) itself considering an application for condonation of delay. Such a distinction is discernable from the following passage in Sheo Raj Singh (supra): “30. Be that as it may, it is important to bear in mind that we are not hearing an application for condonation of delay but sitting in appeal over a discretionary of the High Court granting the prayer for condonation of delay. In the case of the former, whether to condone or not would be the only question whereas in the latter, whether there has been proper exercise of discretion in favour of grant of the prayer for condonation would be the question…” [emphasis supplied] 39.