Therefore, in any of the these situations, mesne profit would be payable. 21. Having considered the submissions made across the Bar, we note that the disputed nature of the lease deed, in other words, its continuation or forfeiture on account of non-payment is heavily contested and stemming therefrom, so is the nature of payment to be made. We also note that the location of demised premises is in the heart of Kolkata and if the submissions of the petitioner are to be believed, they have been deprived of rent for a considerable period of time. Taking a lock stock and barrel view of the present dispute, the averments and the documents placed before us, we may record a prima facie view, that the respondent-tenant has for the reasons yet undemonstrated, been delaying the payment of rent and/or other dues, payable to the petitioner-applicant landlord. This denial of monetary benefits accruing from the property, when viewed in terms of the unchallenged market report forming part of the record is undoubtedly substantial and as such, subject to just exceptions, we pass this for deposit of the amount claimed by the petitioner-applicant, to ensure complete justice inter se the parties, After all, we cannot lose sight of the fact that the very purpose for which a property is rented out, is to ensure that the landlord by way of the property is able to secure some income. If the income remains static over a long period of time or in certain cases, as in the present case, yields no income, then such a landlord would be within his rights, subject of course, to the agreement with their tenant, to be aggrieved by the same. The factors considered by us have been referred to in Martin and Harris (Supra). We are supported in our conclusion by the observations and guidelines issued by this Court in Mohammad Ahmed & Anr. v. Atma Ram Chauhan [2024] 5 S.C.R. 877 Bijay Kumar Manish Kumar HUF v. Ashwin Bhanulal Desai & Ors.13. We reproduce the ones relevant to the adjudication of the present dispute hereinbelow- “21. According to our considered view majority of these cases are filed because the landlords do not get reasonable rent akin to market rent, then on one ground or the other litigation is initiated… (i) The tenant must enhance the rent according to the terms of the agreement or at least by ten per cent, after every three years and enhanced rent should then be made payable to the landlord. If the rent is too low (in comparison to market rent), having been fixed almost 20 to 25 years back then the present market rate should be worked out either on the basis of valuation report or reliable estimates of building rentals in the surrounding areas, let out on rent recently. (ii) Apart from the rental, property tax, water tax, maintenance charges, electricity charges for the actual consumption of the tenanted premises and for common area shall be payable by the tenant only so that the landlord gets the actual rent out of which nothing would be deductible.