Definition of criminal conspiracy.- When two or more persons agree to do, or cause to be done, (1) an illegal act, or (2) an act which is not illegal by illegal means, such an agreement is designated a criminal conspiracy: Provided that no agreement except an agreement to commit an offence shall amount to a criminal conspiracy unless some act besides the agreement is done by one or more parties to such agreement in pursuance thereof.’ ‘120B. Punishment of criminal conspiracy.- (1) Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death, [imprisonment for life] or rigorous imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards, shall, where no express provision is made in this Code for the punishment of such a conspiracy, be punished in the same manner as if he had abetted such offence. (2) Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy other than a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable as aforesaid shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding six months, or with fine or with both. ]’ 10. The sine qua non to make out an offence under Section 420 IPC, insofar as the present case is concerned, is an act on the part of the appellants to ‘cheat and thereby dishonestly induce the person so deceived, viz., the AICTE, to deliver any property’. Therefore, the [2024] 4 S.C.R. 315 Vipin Sahni and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation appellants, while applying for and on behalf of the Society, should have either suppressed material information or projected incorrect information so as to induce the AICTE, by such dishonest means, to grant approval for its educational institutions. Further, as no official of the AICTE has been implicated in the offence, as per the charge sheet, the alleged ‘criminal conspiracy’ under Section 120B IPC would also be attributable to the appellants only. 11. Viewed in this light, we may note that the first application dated 22.01.2007 submitted by appellant No. 1 for starting ‘Business School of Delhi’ clearly mentioned the fact that a part of the leased land admeasuring about 5 acres was to be used for setting up this institution and that a term loan of ₹5.75 crore had been raised from the Corporation Bank. The repayable outstanding loan was also shown as above ₹3 crore. Clause 6 of the application dealt with ‘Land’ and it was stated thereunder that the government’s leased land of about 5 acres was intended to be used for establishing the college. Clause 6(v) of the application and the Society’s response thereto are extracted hereunder. '(v) Any loans/mortgage raised against the titles of the land Yes  No’ 12. Further, as already noted, the AICTE deemed it fit to grant approval on 17.08.2007 to start this institution. This was despite the AICTE’s ‘Approval Process 2006’ providing that the land should have been registered in the name of the applicant’s society/trust on or before the date of submission of the proposal, free from any encumbrances.