However, the unamended Section 8 did not mention ‘Transport Vehicle’: “—8(1) Any person who is not disqualified under section 4 for driving a motor vehicle and who is not for the time being disqualified for holding or obtaining a driving licence may, subject to the provisions of section 7, apply to the licensing authority having jurisdiction in the area— 596 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) in which he ordinarily resides or carries on business, or (ii) in which the school or establishment referred to in section 12 from where he intends to receive instruction in driving a motor vehicle is situate, for the issue to him of a learner’s licence. (2) Every application under sub-section (1) shall be in such form and shall be accompanied by such documents and with such fee as may be prescribed by the Central Government. (3) Every application under sub-section (1) shall be accompanied by a medical certificate in such form as may be prescribed by the Central Government and signed by such registered medical practitioner, as the State Government or any person authorised in this behalf by the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint for this purpose: XX]” 52. The amended 8(3) reads as under: (3) Every application [to drive a transport vehicle made] under sub-section (1) shall be accompanied by a medical certificate in such form as may be prescribed by the Central Government and signed by such registered medical practitioner, as the State Government or any person authorised in this behalf by the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint for this purpose:” [emphasis supplied] 53. Rule 5(1) of the amended MV Rules titled ‘Medical Certificate’ reiterates such a requirement. While for other vehicles, there is a requirement of a self-declaration of fitness, a Medical certificate by a registered Medical practitioner is necessary for driving a ‘Transport Vehicle’. The unamended Rule 5 which does not mention ‘Transport Vehicle’ reads as under: “5. “Medical Certificate- Every application for the issue of a learner’s licence or a driving licence or for making addition of another class or description of motor vehicle to a driving licence or for renewal of learner license or a driving license, [2024] 11 S.C.R. 597 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. shall be accompanied by a medical certificate in Form 1 issued by a registered medical practitioner referred to in sub-section (3) of section 8”” 54. The amended Rule 5 is also extracted below: “5. Medical Certificate- Every application for the issue of a learner’s licence or a driving licence or for making addition of another class or description of a motor vehicle to a driving licence or for renewal of a driving licence to drive a vehicle other than a transport vehicle shall be accompanied by a self-declaration as to the physical fitness as in Form 1 and every such application for a licence to drive a transport vehicle shall be accompanied by a medical certificate in Form 1-A issued by a registered medical practitioner referred to in sub-section (3) of section 8” [emphasis supplied] 55.