669 The Executive Engineer, KNNL v. Subhashchandra & Ors. “In the impugned (s) and (s), the High court has made no effort to analyze the concerned case(s) either notification-wise or for that matter, village-wise, including the other parameters required to be observed for arriving at a just compensation amount. Further, in most of the appeals, the appellant (Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Limited} was not made party in the appeal proceeding before the High Court. It is also the grievance of the appellant that most of the cases, entertained at the instance of land owners, were grossly delayed and yet they have been granted enhancement, and in some cases along with interest. The fact remains that the High Court in the impugned (s) and (s) has not analyzed each case independently much less notification-wise concerning particular village or area and keeping in mind the parameters delineated in the reported decision, adverted to earlier. In our opinion, it is appropriate that the parties are relegated before the High Court for reconsideration of the entire matter afresh and in accordance with law. Learned counsel appearing for the land owners were at pains to point out that some matters pertaining to some of the notifications, referred to in the present appeal proceedings, have reached upto this Court and decided in favour of the land owners, including in some cases the appellants have acted upon the decision by paying compensation amount. Even the effect of such s passed by this Court can be examined by the High Court on its own merits and in accordance with law. Accordingly, we keep all contentions available to both sides open, to be considered by the High Court on its own merits and in accordance with law. The impugned (s) and (s) are set aside and the concerned appeals/petitions are remanded to the High Court for reconsideration in the above terms. 670 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The parties to appear before the High Court on 11.07.2022, when the High Court may assign suitable date for hearing of the concerned batch of cases which, as aforesaid, must proceed notification-wise pertaining to concerned village as a separate group. Needless to observe that some of the notifications pertain to the year 1983, therefore, it would be appropriate that the High Court disposes of the appeal(s) expeditiously. The appeals are disposed of in the above terms.” 9. The High Court s, which were set aside and the cases remanded back for fresh consideration, also included the s rendered by the High Court in MSA No.200020/2018 (LAC) titled Rajshekhar s/o Sangappa deceased by Lrs. vs. The Special Land Acquisition Officer, MSA No.200014/2018 (LAC) titled Kalappa S/o Paudapppa v. The Special Land Acquisition Officer and MSA No.200147/2017 (LAC) titled Motibee W/o Mashak Patel v. The Spl. Land Acquisition Officer & Anr. decided on 19.02.2018, 21.02.2018 and 09.01.2018 respectively, awarding compensation of Rs.1,64,223/acre, Rs.1,64,223/acre and Rs.1,52,059/acre respectively for the dry lands. Consequently, Rajshekhar’s case (supra) has also been remanded to the High Court for fresh adjudication.