There was no error in the decision of the authorities to direct the closure of the unit. 12. This Court must have due regard to these findings of fact and law while adjudicating whether grounds for interference with the impugned are made out. b. The High Court did not commit an error of jurisdiction [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1129 Vedanta Limited v. The State of Tamil Nadu & Ors 13. Essentially, five grounds were urged in the s for the closure of the unit. They are: a. The unit had failed to furnish ground water examination reports to ascertain the impact on ground water quality; b. An extensive amount of copper slag lying on third party land had not been removed. A physical barrier had not been constructed between the copper slag and the river to prevent the slag from reaching the river; c. The unit had applied for authorization to generate and dispose of hazardous waste but did not have an extant licence; d. There was a failure to measure emissions in terms of the National Air Quality Ambient Standards; and e. The requirement of a gypsum pond (mandated by guidelines issued by CPCB) had not been observed. 14. Apart from the merits, the principal submission which has been urged on behalf of the petitioner by Mr Shyam Divan, senior counsel (supported by Mr Krishnan Venugopal, senior counsel) is that since the closure was founded on the above five grounds, the High Court was not justified, while exercising its writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution, in enquiring into other grounds of environmental violations. 15. The above submission has been opposed both by Mr CS Vaidyanathan, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the TNPCB and Mr Gopal Sankaranarayanan, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Government of Tamil Nadu. They have submitted, on the basis of the reliefs which were sought in the writ proceedings, that the petitioners had not merely challenged the s adverse to them but had, in addition, sought a mandamus for the issuance of renewal permissions. Hence, it was urged that in such an event, it was open to the High Court not only to enquire into the grounds on which closure had been directed but to determine whether the petitioner was entitled to a renewal of permissions. 16. From a reading of the of the High Court, it has emerged that the petitioner had expressly consented to the High Court enquiring into all the facets of the matter so as to determine fully and finally as to whether the petitioner would be entitled to a renewal of the 1130 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports permissions which were granted to it. Otherwise, even if the s impugned were to be set aside, both the Board and the Government would have been justified in requesting the High Court to remand the proceedings back to the competent statutory authorities for re- determination afresh. This course of action was obviated on the petitioner submitting to the High Court that it was ready and willing to have the High Court evaluate the entirety of the matter in its full perspective.