Further, any immigrant who came into Assam after 24.03.1971 was not considered entitled to citizenship at all. Thus, it is evident that within the first two categories, the conditions for acquisition of citizenship were more stringent for the immigrants belonging to the 1966-71 stream, while there was a complete denial of citizenship to immigrants belonging to the post-1971 stream. 117. The mechanism of graded conferment of citizenship was introduced to arrive at a common ground during the negotiations, which otherwise might have ended in a failure, due to the reluctance of the student protestors to agree to a blanket conferment of citizenship up to the cut-off date in 1971. 118. It could be said that Section 6A was a humanitarian and beneficial provision for the immigrants. However, to say that the sole object sought to be achieved by Section 6A was to confer benefits on the immigrants alone would amount to taking a reductive view of the historical context in which the provision was enacted. 119. In the aforesaid context, I may only say that if such was the sole object of the provision, then there was no need for the legislature to create two distinct categories of immigrants who were eligible for citizenship. The legislature could have simply conferred deemed citizenship on every immigrant who came into Assam before 24.03.1971 from the date of coming into force of Section 6A. The very fact that a second category of immigrants (1966-71) was statutorily created and subjected to undergo a more stringent test of procedure for the purpose of obtaining citizenship would indicate that conferment of citizenship was not the sole object of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1193 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 Section 6A(3). The object behind insertion of Section 6A(3) seems to have been to pacify the apprehension of the people of Assam that conferment of citizenship would not have an immediate impact on the then upcoming elections in the State of Assam due to the inclusion of a large number of immigrants. The apprehension was taken care of by the scheme of Section 6A(3) which provides for the removal of the immigrants belonging to the 1966-71 stream from the electoral rolls for a period of ten years from the date of their detection. Section 6A(3) embodies the approach of the government of the day in finding a middle ground between two competing interests prevailing at that time – on one hand, adopting a humanitarian approach towards the immigrant population in Assam; and on the other, ensuring that large scale immigration doesn’t result into the loss of culture, economy and the political rights of the people of Assam. 120. While construing the object of enactment of Section 6A, one should not lose sight of an important fact that Section 6A was enacted to give a statutory avatar to certain clauses of the Assam Accord. The provision, thus, could be said to have been multifaceted in design and purpose and representative of the interests of all the parties to the negotiation.