After payment, the food inspector purchased 1500 grams [2024] 3 S.C.R. 359 M/s A.K. Sarkar & Co. & Anr. v. The State of West Bengal & Ors of sugar boiled confectionery contained in three packets of 500 grams each, and as per due process sent the samples for examination in a laboratory. The public analysis/Lab report shows that the food articles were not adulterated, but it said that the packets did not show the prescribed particulars such as complete address of the manufacturer and the date of manufacturing. Thus, there was violation of Rule 32(c) and (f) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules, 1955 (for short ‘Rules’). In view of these findings, the inspector filed a complaint before the Trial Court under Section 16(1)(a)(i) read with Section 7 of the Act. 5. The plea of the appellants before the Trial Court was that they had not manufactured the food articles, instead Bose Confectionary, Calcutta had manufactured these items. All the same, the appellants could not show any valid proof of their contention and thus, the Trial Court and the Appellate Court (as well as the Revisional Court) did not accept this contention raised by the appellants. The appellant stood convicted of the offence under Section 16(1)(a)(i) read with Section 7 of the Act and appellant no.2 was sentenced to undergo 3 months simple imprisonment along with fine. While appellant no.1 was sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.2,000/-. 6. Before this Court, learned Counsel for the appellants would argue that the entire case of the prosecution is liable to be dismissed for the simple reason that the appellants were charged under Rule 32 (c) and (f) of the Rules but these provisions were not related to misbranding and were regarding something else. 7. All the same, this contention is totally misconceived inasmuch on the date of occurrence i.e., 06.12.2000 when the samples were taken, the provisions which were applicable were Rule 32 (c) and (f) only (as the Rules had been amended vide G.S.R 422(E) dated 29.04.1987), and Rule 32 as per the Gazette Notification reads as under :- “32. Package of food to carry a label: -- (a) ………… (b) ………… (c) The name and complete address of the manufacturer or importer or vendor or packer. (d) ……….. (e) ……….. 360 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (f) The month and year in which the commodity is manufactured or prepacked.” Therefore, this contention of the learned counsel for the appellant regarding non-applicability of the provision is not correct. There are concurrent findings of three Courts below and there is absolutely no question of us having any measure of doubt as to the findings, inasmuch as that the packets which were taken from shop/godown of the appellants were misbranded as defined under Section 2(ix) (k) of the Act, as they were not labelled in accordance with the requirements of the Act or the Rules made thereunder. The only question which now remains is of sentence. The plea here is of reduction of sentence and if only fine can be imposed, which is permissible as per the law currently applicable.