Although, the computation of royalty for different minerals is purely a matter of policy yet we should not just shut our eyes to the prima-facie anomaly that exists both in the very computation mechanism of average sale price [2024] 12 S.C.R. 103 Kirloskar Ferrous Industries Limited & Anr v. Union of India & Ors. for minerals in terms of the aforesaid provisions and the perplexing stance of exclusion of only coal from such mechanism despite the general nature and application of the aforesaid rules. 77. However, we intend to grant one last opportunity to the respondents herein to seriously consider the mechanism of computation of average sale for the purposes of determining the rate of royalty for all other minerals in terms of the Explanation(s) to Rule 38 of the MCR, 2016 and Rule 45 of the MCDR, 2017. We direct the respondents to conclude the process of public consultation in respect of the compounding of royalties and take a well-meaning decision keeping in mind the representations made by the petitioners herein. 78. We may remind the respondents that, it cannot continue to keep the aforesaid issue in limbo on the pretext of ongoing process of public consultation process. In this regard, we may refer to the decision in State of Jharkhand v. Brahmputra Metallics Ltd., reported in (2023) 10 SCC 634, wherein the following observations of this Court are significant: - "50. It is one thing for the State to assert that the writ petitioner had no vested right but quite another for the State to assert that it is not duty-bound to disclose its reasons for not giving effect to the exemption notification within the period that was envisaged in the Industrial Policy, 2012. Both the accountability of the State and the solemn obligation which it undertook in terms of the policy document militate against accepting such a notion of State power. The State must discard the colonial notion that it is a sovereign handing out doles at its will. Its policies give rise to legitimate expectations that the State will act according to what it puts forth in the public realm. In all its actions, the State is bound to act fairly, in a transparent manner. This is an elementary requirement of the guarantee against arbitrary State action which Article 14 of the Constitution adopts. A deprivation of the entitlement of private citizens and private business must be proportional to a requirement grounded in public interest. This conception of State power has been recognised by this Court in a consistent line of decisions. As an illustration, we would like to extract this Court’s observations in National Buildings Construction 104 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Corpn. [National Buildings Construction Corpn. v. S. Raghunathan (1998) 7 SCC 66 : 1998 SCC (L&S) 1770] : (SCC p. 75, para 18) “18. … The Government and its departments, in administering the affairs of the country, are expected to honour their statements of policy or intention and treat the citizens with full personal consideration without any iota of abuse of discretion.