Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. Section 3 provides the constitution of the Board. Sub-section (1) of Section 3 provides that the Board shall be established at Lucknow on the date declared by the State government by a notification. Sub-section (2) states that the Board shall be a body corporate, while Sub-section (3) details the composition of the Board. The majority of the members of the Board are either part of the State Government (or the legislature) or nominated by the State Government. The Board consists of the following members: a. a renowned Muslim educationist in the field of Madarsa Education, nominated by the State Government, who is the Chairperson; b. the Director, Minority Welfare, Uttar Pradesh, who is the Vice Chairperson; c. principal, Government Oriental College, Rampur; d. one Sunni-Muslim Legislator to be elected by both houses of the State Legislature; e. one Shia-Muslim Legislator to be elected by both houses of the State Legislature; f. one representative of the National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT); g. two heads of institutions established and administered by Sunni Muslims, nominated by the State Government; h. one head of institution established and administered by Shia Muslims, nominated by the State Government; i. two teachers of institutions established and administered by Sunni Muslims nominated by the State Government; j. one teacher of an institution established and administered by Shia Muslims, nominated by the State Government; k. one Science or Tibb teacher of an institution nominated by the State Government; l. the Account and Finance Officer in the Directorate of Minority Welfare, Uttar Pradesh; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 381 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. m. the Inspector;16 and n. an officer not below the rank of Deputy Director nominated by the State Government, who is the Registrar. 15. Sub-section (4) of Section 3 deals with the issuance of a notification by the State Government that the Board has been duly constituted, after the election and nomination of the members. Sub-section (5) pertains to the procedure to nominate or elect members who are Sunni-Muslim or Shia-Muslim legislators in certain special circumstances. Sub-section (6) stipulates that from the date of the establishment of the Board, the erstwhile Arbi and Farsi Education Board shall stand dissolved. 16. Section 4 pertains to the power of the State Government to remove members, other than ex-officio members, from the Board. This removal may be ed, if in the opinion of the State Government, the member has “so flagrantly abused his position … as to render his continuance on the Board detrimental to the public interest”. Section 5 specifies the term of office of the members and Section 6 mandates that the State Government take steps to reconstitute the Board before the expiry of the terms of office of the members. Section 7 governs the procedural specificities of the meetings of the Board, while Section 8 clarifies that no acts of the Board or its committees may be invalidated on the ground of a vacancy or defect in its constitution.