The said Guidelines provided that the ‘Tiger Safaris’ may be established in the buffer areas of tiger reserves which experience immense tourist influx in the core/critical tiger habitat for viewing tigers. It also provided for the establishment of interpretation and awareness centres in such buffer areas to foster awareness for eliciting public support. It provided that the management of such centres would be through the respective Panchayati Raj (PR) institutions. 95. Thereafter in 2016, the NTCA issued guidelines to establish ‘Tiger Safaris’ in the buffer and fringe areas of tiger reserves. These guidelines provided for the basic criteria, and procedure required in the buffer and fringe areas of tiger reserves for dealing with the establishment, management, and administration of ‘Tiger Safaris’ after following the due procedure prescribed under the law and the 2012 guidelines as also the CZA guidelines for the establishment of new zoos under section 38H(1A) of the WLP Act. Clause 8 of the said Guidelines provides that, if the carrying capacity is 100% utilized, then a proposal for establishing a ‘Tiger Safari’ can be placed before the NTCA. 252 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 96. Clause 9 of the 2016 guidelines is very important. It specifically provides that no tiger shall be obtained from a zoo exhibit. It further provides that wild tigers which are from the same landscape as that of the area where the tiger safari is established, would fall under the categories of (a) injured tigers (after suitable treatment); (b) conflict tigers; and (c) orphaned tiger cubs which are unfit for re-wilding and release into the wild should be selected. It further provides that no visibly injured or incapacitated tiger shall be put in the safari. It further provides that recovered/treated animals shall be put on display only after assessment by the NTCA. It further provides that no healthy wild tiger or any other animal shall be sourced from the wild as per the provisions of the National Zoo Policy. 97. Clause 10 of the 2016 guidelines further provides that the location of the tiger safari shall be identified preferably in the buffer (not falling in notified National Parks and/or Wildlife Sanctuary)/peripheral area of the tiger reserve on the basis of the recommendations of a committee comprising of members from the NTCA, CZA, Forest Department of State concerned, an experienced tiger biologist/ scientist/conservationist and a representative, nominated by the Chief Wildlife Warden of the concerned State. It further provides that tiger dispersal routes shall be avoided in all circumstances. 98. However, the NTCA has issued fresh guidelines in November 2019. The 2019 Guidelines are similar to the 2016 Guidelines, except clause 9, which provides that the selection of the animal shall be done in conformity with Section 38I of the WLP Act after due approval of the CZA. 99. It could thus be seen that under the 2016 Guidelines, the concept of ‘Tiger Safaris’ was mainly for rehabilitation of the injured tigers (after suitable treatment), conflict tigers, and orphaned tiger cubs which are unfit for re-wilding and release into the wild.