Their nurture and solicitude are our responsibility. Children’s programmes should find a prominent part in our national plans for the development of human resources, so that our children grow up to become robust citizens, physically fit, mentally alert and morally healthy, endowed with the skill and motivations needed by society. Equal opportunities for development of all children during the period of growth should be our aim, for this would serve our large purpose of reducing inequality and ensuring social justice.” (emphasis supplied) 203. This Court observed that if a child is a “national asset” as per the National Policy, the State bears the duty to nurture and ensure their full development, underscoring the expectation that children not be subjected to custodial detention. Here, the principles of care and protection are directly relevant to child marriage, as the practice obstructs the full and healthy development of minors by imposing on them responsibilities and roles they are neither physically nor emotionally prepared to undertake. Such an arrangement undermines their potential and violates their rights to education, health, and personal development, reinforcing cycles of poverty and inequality. 204. In this context, the principle of parens patriae—where the State assumes a protective role akin to that of a guardian—is particularly relevant. The State’s intervention in preventing child marriage aligns with its duty to act in the best interest of children, ensuring their [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1613 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. safety, development, and freedom from practices that harm their physical, emotional, and educational prospects. This principle has been repeatedly upheld by the judiciary as essential in upholding child rights and creating a supportive environment that upholds their well-being and growth into empowered, healthy citizens. 205. Similarly, in Society for Unaided Private Schools v. Union of India274 the Court addressed the constitutionality of Section 12 of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act 2009. This provision, which mandates a 25% reservation in schools for children from disadvantaged backgrounds, was challenged on the grounds that it violated Articles 19(1)(g) and 30 of those who had established schools in the private sector. The Court upheld the constitutionality of this provision, finding the following: “222. The provisions referred to above and other provisions of international conventions indicate that the rights have been guaranteed to the children and those rights carry corresponding State obligations to respect, protect and fulfil the realisation of children’s rights. The obligation to protect implies the horizontal right which casts an obligation on the State to see that it is not violated by non-State actors. For non-State actors to respect children’s rights casts a negative duty of non-violation to protect children’s rights and a positive duty on them to prevent the violation of children’s rights by others, and also to fulfill children’s rights and take measures for progressive improvement. In other words, in the spheres of non-State activity there shall be no violation of children’s rights.” … 224. The primary responsibility for children’s rights, therefore, lies with the State and the State has to respect, protect and fulfil children’s rights and has also got a duty to regulate the private institutions that care for children, to protect children from violence or abuse, to protect children from economic exploitation, hazardous work and to ensure human treatment of children.