for the Petitioners. S. Muralidhar, Sr. Adv., K. Parameshwar, Ms. Kanti, Shreenivas Patil, Ms. Chitransha Singh Sikarwar, Ms. Raji Gururaj, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Hrishikesh Roy, J. 1. Heard Mr. Arvind P. Datar, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the writ petitioners. The High Court of Himachal Pradesh is represented by Dr. S. Muralidhar, the learned Senior Counsel. 2. This writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India has been filed by the two seniormost District and Sessions Judges serving in the State of Himachal Pradesh. The prayer in the writ petition reads thus: "(a) Issue writ/writs including a writ in the nature of certiorari calling for the minutes of meeting of the collegium of the Hon’ble High Court of Himachal Pradesh whereby names of officers junior to the present petitioners have been recommended for elevation as Judges of the Hon’ble High Court ignoring the directions of reconsideration given by the Hon’ble Collegium of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. (b) Issue writ/writs, or direction, writ being in the nature of mandamus, directing the Respondent No. 1 to consider the names of the Petitioners as directed by the Hon’ble Collegium of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India vide Resolution dated 4.1.2024..” FACTS 3. The petitioners i.e. Chirag Bhanu Singh and Arvind Malhotra were recommended by the then Collegium of the High Court on 6th December 2022 for elevation as judges of the Himachal Pradesh High Court. On 12th July 2023, the Supreme Court Collegium, 154 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports however, deferred their consideration. Thereafter, on 4th January, 2024, the Supreme Court Collegium in its wisdom resolved that the proposal for the elevation of both be remitted for reconsideration to the Chief Justice of the Himachal Pradesh High Court. In the letter dated 16th January, 2024, addressed by the Minister for Law and Justice to the Chief Justice of the Himachal Pradesh, in reference to the Supreme Court Collegium Resolution dated 4th January, 2024, a request was made that fresh recommendations be sent for the two officers against the available service quota vacancies in the Himachal Pradesh High Court. 4. The grievance of the writ petitioners is that the High Court Collegium without first reconsidering the two petitioners in terms of the Supreme Court Collegium Resolution dated 4th January, 2024 as communicated in the Law Minister’s letter dated 16th January, 2024 had recommended two other judicial officers for elevation. The argument is that if the latter recommended persons are considered for appointment ahead of the two petitioners, it would amount to ignoring their seniority and long-standing unblemished service. 5. On 13th May, 2024, adverting to the contentions raised, this Court issued notice only to the Registrar General of the Himachal Pradesh High Court with the following : "1. Heard Mr. Arvind Datar, learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners. 2. The counsel would submit that the two petitioners are the senior most judicial officers serving in the State of Himachal Pradesh. Their names were recommended for elevation to High Court Judgeship in December, 2022.