They ought to have [2024] 5 S.C.R. 583 Ajwar v. Waseem and Another been explained by the prosecution and since it seems that there is a cross version of the incident and it is very difficult to ascertain at this stage who was the aggressor and it will be decided at the stage of trial after taking evidence from both the sides; but without expressing any opinion on merits, this Court finds it to be a fit case for bail.” ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT-COMPLAINANT 8. Appearing for the appellant-complainant, Mr. Shreeyash U. Lalit and Mr. Ansar Ahmad Chaudhary, learned counsel submitted that this is a case of double murder of two young sons of the appellant-complainant at the hands of the accused persons who harboured previous enmity against him and his family members. Waseem (A-7) was arrested on 27th May, 2020. The other accused persons were arrested on different dates. After their arrest, the police conducted a search of the respondents and recovered five illegal country-made pistols, seven live cartridges and five used cartridges from the possession of Aslam (A-2). A specific role has been attributed to each of the four respondents herein that resulted in the death of the appellant’s two sons and serious injuries to his nephew. All the four respondents herein were named in the FIR, besides the other co-accused. During the course of investigation, the statements of eleven independent witnesses were recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. wherein an active role has been attributed to all the four respondents. Later on, the appellant-complainant entered the witness box and appeared as PW-1. He has reiterated the role played by the respondents herein in committing the offence. Two other independent eye witnesses, namely, Abdullah (PW-2), Asjad (PW-3) and Fahimuddin (PW-4) have supported the testimony of the appellant (PW-1). 9. Learned counsel for the appellant-complainant further states that the High Court has completely overlooked the fact that the respondents- accused parties were the aggressors who had forcibly entered the house of the appellant-complainant and indiscriminately fired at him, his sons and other persons who had gathered at his house to break the fast. They have criminal antecedents and several cases are registered against them. Even before completion of a period of six months granted by the High Court, by an earlier dated 7th April, 2022 passed on an application moved by the appellant- complainant under Section 482 Cr.P.C for issuing directions to the 584 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports trial Court to complete the trial in a definite period, the High Court has proceeded to grant bail in favour of Waseem on the grounds of parity with his father; similar s have been passed in favour of Nazim12, Aslam13 and Abubakar14. It has also been pointed out that from the side of the accused persons, a cross case was registered15 on the basis of an application moved under Section 156(3) of the Cr.P.C. The matter was investigated and the police filed its final report. The Magistrate directed fresh investigation, which was followed by a second final report.