980 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Statement of Rajdeep Kumar 38. We have perused the statement, as summarized in the complaint, of Rajdeep Kumar. Rajdeep Kumar merely states that he worked for the appellant and has met Afshar Ali after the appellant introduced him at the house of the appellant regarding dealing of a land situated at Cheshire Home. He further states that he has met Saddam Hussain at the house of the appellant on the above stated land. He further adds that he has also seen Imtiaz Ahmed and Bharat Prasad, close associates of Afshar Ali and Saddam Hussain. Prima facie, we conclude that there is hardly any evidence to implicate the appellant for the offence under Section 3 and 4 of PMLA. Statement of Md. Saddam Hussain – Co-accused 39. Md. Saddam Hussain was arrested on 14.04.2023 also in ECIR/ RNZO/18/2022 (a different ECIR), in his statement of 26.04.2023, in the present ECIR he only speaks of knowing Rajdeep Kumar and meeting him for the purpose of unblocking a piece of land measuring 3.81 acres and about Rajdeep Kumar arranging a meeting with the then Deputy Commissioner - Chhavi Ranjan. His statement like that of Afshar Ali will not have the status of being a substantive evidence and will be of the same character as Afshar’s insofar as the co-accused are concerned. In the complaint, the prosecution infers that it was Rajdeep Kumar who was the link between the Deputy Commissioner, Chhavi Ranjan and Prem Prakash and who acted on the instructions of the appellant - Prem Prakash and helped Saddam Hussain for unblocking the land. Prima facie, in our opinion, this statement carries the case of the prosecution no further. The corroboration drawn from his further statement of 29.08.2023 recorded in judicial custody of the above statement adds nothing further to support the prosecution apart from the fact that the statement of 29.08.2023 lacked the character of substantive evidence. Statement of Punit Bhargava 40. Insofar as the statement of Punit Bhargava is concerned, it was recorded on 09.12.2022. He is supposed to have stated that he knew Bishnu Agarwal since March, 2021 when on the directions of appellant, he sold 1 acre of land to Bishnu Agarwal. He is supposed to have further stated that he had bought the piece of land under [2024] 8 S.C.R. 981 Prem Prakash v. Union of India Through The Directorate of Enforcement the supervision of Prem Prakash and that under the instructions of Prem Prakash, he acquired a land in his name and accordingly on the instructions of the appellant, he sold it to Bishnu Kumar Agarwal. He stated that on the directions of the appellant, he gave Rs. 25 lakhs to Rajesh Rai through cheque after which the registration and mutation of the property was done but, further added that six post- dated cheques were given for encashing the balance amount later. He is supposed to have stated further that he was not aware as to why rest of the payment was not made even after the registration and mutation and that appellant could perhaps, give a reply.