Chinnaiah. Hence, it would be a fallacy to hold that the law laid down in E.V. Chinnaiah was not in consonance with Indra Sawhney or Jarnail Singh. 76. Since I have held that the State has neither executive nor legislative power to sub-classify or sub-divide or re-group the castes, races or tribes specified as the “Scheduled Castes” in the Presidential List notified under Article 341, the other questions pertaining to the criteria or yardstick for sub-classification, or requirement for collecting quantifiable data etc. by the State for sub-classification,are not required to be addressed. 23 [2006] 3 SCR 864 : (2006) 5 SCC 167 24 (1976) 8 SCC 521 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1641 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AND CONSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK 77. The affirmative actions of the States have to be within the Constitutional framework, and if they are not, the Courts cannot ratify the same by bending or moulding the specific mandates contained in the Constitution. Article 142 even with the width of its amplitude cannot be used to build a new edifice where none existed earlier, by ignoring Constitutional provisions dealing with the subject and thereby achieve something indirectly which cannot be achieved directly. * As held by the Constitution Bench in the landmark in case of Supreme Court Bar Association vs. Union of India and Another.25 “47. The plenary powers of this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution are inherent in the Court and are complementary to those powers which are specifically conferred on the Court by various statutes though are not limited by those statutes. These powers also exist independent of the statutes with a view to do complete justice between the parties. These powers are of very wide amplitude and are in the nature of supplementary powers. This power exists as a separate and independent basis of jurisdiction apart from the statutes. It stands upon the foundation and the basis for its exercise may be put on a different and perhaps even wider footing, to prevent injustice in the process of litigation and to do complete justice between the parties. This plenary jurisdiction is, thus, the residual source of power which this Court may draw upon as necessary whenever it is just and equitable to do so and in particular to ensure the observance of the due process of law, to do complete justice between the parties, while administering justice according to law. There is no doubt that it is an indispensable adjunct to all other powers and is free from the restraint of jurisdiction and operates as a valuable weapon in the hands of the Court to prevent “clogging or obstruction of the stream of justice”. It, however, needs to be remembered that the powers conferred on the Court by Article 142 being 25 [1998] 2 SCR 795 : (1998) 4 SCC 409 1642 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports curative in nature cannot be construed as powers which authorise the Court to ignore the substantive rights of a litigant while dealing with a cause pending before it.