Terming all actions of government, ranging from social security benefits, jobs, occupational licenses, contracts and use of public resources – as government largesse results in doctrinal misconceptions. The reason is that this [2024] 7 S.C.R. 561 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. conflates the State’s power with duty. The Constitution recognises the pursuit of the well-being of citizens as a desirable goal. In doing this the Constitution entrusts the State with a duty to ensure the well-being of citizens. Government actions aimed at ensuring the well-being of citizens cannot be perceived through the lens of a ‘largess’. The use of such terminology belittles the sanctity of the social contract that the ‘people of India’ entered into with the State to protect and safeguard their interests. xxx xxx xxx 13. In the early 1950s’, judicial review of the process of concluding contracts by government was limited. The courts allowed the State due deference on the ground of governmental policy. In C.K Achuthan v. State of Kerala, AIR 1959 SC 490 a Constitution Bench of this Court held that it is open to the Government ‘to choose a person to their liking, to fulfil contracts which they wish to be performed.’ The Court observed that when one party is chosen over another, the aggrieved party cannot claim the protection of Article 14 since the government has the discretion to choose with whom it will contract.” (Emphasis supplied) 42. Before proceeding further to discuss how the scope of judicial review came to be evolved, we would like to refer to the observations made by this Court in M.C. Mehta v. Union of India reported in (1987) 1 SCC 395 which are significant, and read as under: - “31. [...] Law has to grow in to satisfy the needs of the fast changing society and keep abreast with the economic developments taking place in the country. As new situations arise the law has to be evolved in to meet the challenge of such new situations. Law cannot afford to remain static. We have to evolve new principles and lay down new norms which would adequately deal with the new problems which arise in a highly industrialised economy. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 562 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b. Concept of ‘Public Law’ Element: Scope of Judicial Review in Contractual Matters. 43. Over a period of time the courts recognized the crucial role of judicial oversight in preventing the abuse of power and maintaining public confidence in the administrative process. Courts developed various doctrines and principles to guide their review, such as the principles of natural justice, reasonableness and proportionality. These principles ensured that the administrative actions are not arbitrary, discriminatory or capricious. By enforcing such standards, the courts also ensured that the rule of law was maintained and the individual rights were protected. 44. The interplay between judicial review and administrative discretion has been a dynamic process. As new challenges and complexities kept on arising before the courts as regards the State’s actions and governance, it continued to refine its approach.