33.5. If a matter is directed for retrial, the evidence and record of the previous trial is completely wiped out. 33.6. The following are some instances, not intended to be exhaustive, of when the Court could a retrial on the ground of miscarriage of justice: (a) The trial court has proceeded with the trial in the absence of jurisdiction; (b) The trial has been vitiated by an illegality or irregularity based on a misconception of the nature of the proceedings; and (c) The prosecutor has been disabled or prevented from adducing evidence as regards the nature of the charge, resulting in the trial being rendered a farce, sham or charade. (Emphasis supplied) 20. In the present case, the High Court, after acquitting the appellant, directed the CBI to re-investigate after considering the relevant material and documents on record. A perusal of the reveals that the learned division bench discussed the material on record in [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1569 P. Manikandan v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. depth in arriving at the conclusion that “this is a case where there is no evidence at all.” Considering that this was an appeal from a sentence of capital punishment, it was observed: “15. It is not known on what basis, particularly there is an acute dearth of evidence, the trial court has gone to the extent of awarding death sentence…” It would be worthwhile to refer to the two succeeding paragraphs as well. “16. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor would point out the observation made by the trial court, while giving conviction, stating that the sexual abuses against children are increasing; that the child marriage is also on the increase; that there is no protection for the children; that the child who innocently followed the accused, while not knowing fatefully unaware of, had been done to death; that the act of the accused is beastly, the accused is liable to be punished by hanging him to death, is totally illegal, unjust and unwarranted. 16.1 Whether these observations alone, without there being basic evidence connecting the crime and the accused, are sufficient to award a capital punishment?. Only if the evidence establishes the crime as against the accused, while considering the quantum of punishment, they may be relevant considerations. In any event, these factors cannot be consideration to record a finding of guilt as against the accused.” 21. This Court has observed in Kailash Gour v. State of Assam26 that any benefit accruing from faulty investigation ought to be given to the accused. The necessary corollary thereof being that simply because the investigation was less than satisfactory, the accused should not be subjected to the same once more. 43. ... That an accused is presumed to be innocent till he is proved guilty beyond a reasonable doubt is a principle that cannot be sacrificed on the altar of inefficiency, inadequacy or inept handling of the investigation by the 26 (2012) 2 SCC 34 1570 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports police. The benefit arising from any such faulty investigation ought to go to the accused and not to the prosecution.