154. These five golden principles, if we may say so, constitute the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence.” 9. It can thus clearly be seen that it is necessary for the prosecution that the circumstances from which the conclusion of the guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. The Court holds that it is a primary principle that the accused ‘must be’ and not merely ‘may be’ guilty before a court can convict the accused. It has been held that there is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between ‘may be proved’ and ‘must be or should be proved’. It has been [2024] 3 S.C.R. 775 Ravinder Kumar v. State of NCT of Delhi held that the facts so established should be consistent only with the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty. It has further been held that the circumstances should be such that they exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved. It has been held that there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probabilities the act must have been done by the accused. 10. It is settled law that the suspicion, however strong it may be, cannot take the place of proof beyond reasonable doubt. An accused cannot be convicted on the ground of suspicion, no matter how strong it is. An accused is presumed to be innocent unless proved guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. 11. In the light of the aforesaid , we have examined the present case. In the present case, the trial court and the High Court have basically convicted and affirmed the conviction under Section 302 IPC, finding the plea of the alibi to be without substance. It is a settled proposition of law that before the burden shifts on the accused under Section 106 of the Evidence Act, the prosecution will have to prove its case. No doubt that in view of the law laid down by this Court in the case of Trimukh Maroti Kirkan v. State of Maharashtra2, which is a case like the present one, where husband and wife reside together in a house and the crime is committed inside the house, it will be for the husband to explain how the death occurred in the house where they cohabited together. However, even in such a case, the prosecution will have to first establish that before the death occurred, the deceased and the accused were seen in the said house. In the present case, the incident had occurred on the intervening night of 28th/29th May, 2004. It was necessary for the prosecution to lead some evidence to establish that on the night of 28th/29th May 2004, deceased and accused were together in the house. This will be more necessary in view of the specific plea of the defence of alibi.