by way of fastening, bolting etc. whether or not it results into an immovable property, by holding that the subsequent treatment of capital goods or inputs after receipt by the provider of output service is not relevant for the purpose of availing credit in terms of Rule 3(1) of the CENVAT Rules. According to the Delhi High Court, the only condition which is required to be satisfied is that the said goods must be used for providing the output services, which was not in dispute. 10.9.17 The Delhi High Court accepted the plea of the Assessee that there was no break in the chain linking availability and actual availing of CENVAT credit. The towers and shelters were purchased in CKD condition and not as mere angles, channels, beams or bars and there is neither loss of identity of goods, nor emergence of a new entity with fresh identity with a distinct character, name or use and thus, there is no transformation to or new value addition to the parts assembled as towers and shelters. The identity of the inputs received (as parts of tower) and the inputs installed (as tower on assembling the parts thereof) are one and the same and in the absence of any manufacturing operation, there is no breakage of the credit chain. 1558 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10.9.18 The Delhi High Court on analysis of the case laws cited on behalf of the respective parties held that the definition of “input” does not contain any condition relating to emergence of immovable property rendering it ineligible for taking credit and eligibility of credit must be determined at the time of receipt of goods in terms of Rule 4(1) of the CENVAT Rules and as such credit cannot be denied. 10.9.19 The Delhi High Court held that denial of CENVAT credit to the Assessee on the premise that the towers, on erection, resulted in an immovable property is erroneous and contrary to the of this Court in the case of Solid and Correct Engineering (supra). The towers which are received in CKD condition are re-assembled and erected at the site, subsequently giving rise to a structure that remains immovable so long it is used for the reason of safety, stability and commercial reasons of use. 10.9.20 The Delhi High Court clarified that entitlement of CENVAT credit is determined at the time of receipt of the goods and the fact that such goods are later on fixed/fastened to the earth for use would not make them non-excisable commodities when received. 10.9.21 As regards the fifth question as to whether emergence of immovable structure at an intermediate stage will be a ground for denial of CENVAT credit, the Delhi High Court held that in view of the decision in Solid and Correct Engineering (supra), even if, in the intermediate stage, an immovable structure emerges, it is of no consequence in as much as entitlement of CENVAT credit is to be determined at the time of the receipt of goods and not at a later stage.