Section 11(2) allows the parties to agree on a procedure for appointing arbitrators. The procedure contemplated under Section 11(2) can include one party preparing a panel of arbitrators and giving a choice to the other party to select its nominee from the panel; b. The duty of the Supreme Court or the High Court to appoint an independent and impartial arbitrator under Section 11(8) arises only in situations contemplated under Sections 11(4), 11(5), and 11(6) where parties fail to abide by the agreed procedure. The provision does not hinder the right of the parties to agree on a procedure for appointment of arbitrators under Section 11(2); c. The action of “appointing” or “enlisting” a person as an arbitrator is distinct from “acting” as an arbitrator. Section 12(5) expressly prohibits a person who is ineligible in terms of the Seventh Schedule from being appointed as an arbitrator. However, the Arbitration Act does not expressly prohibit such an ineligible person from appointing an arbitrator or enlisting a panel of potential arbitrators; d. The Arbitration Act does not recognize any presumed ineligibility concerning arbitrators. The ineligibility must be real and actual according to Section 12; e. The equality of treatment under Section 18 does not refer to inter se equality between the parties at the stage of agreeing upon a procedure for appointing an arbitrator. Section 18 mandates the arbitral tribunal to treat the parties with equality and give them a full opportunity to present their case. Further, Section 2204 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 18 only applies after the composition of the arbitral tribunal during the conduct of arbitral proceedings; f. The Arbitration Act provides adequate statutory safeguards for securing the independence and impartiality of arbitrators. These safeguards include: (i) Section 12(5) read the Seventh Schedule; (ii) mandatory disclosure under Sections 12(1) read with the Fifth Schedule; (iii) challenge procedures under Sections 13 and 14; and (iv) judicial review of the decision of an arbitrator under Section 34; g. Voestalpine (supra) has upheld the maintenance of a panel of potential arbitrators by public sector undertakings. It correctly laid down the broad-based principle for the operation of a panel of arbitrators. Further, it did not bar former employees of the parties to the arbitration agreement from serving as arbitrators; h. TRF (supra) erred by relying on the maxim qui facit per alium facit per se which is usually applied in the context of delegation of authority. The act of appointing or nominating an arbitrator under an arbitration clause is not an act of delegation of the appointing authority’s power. Rather, the arbitrator exercises an independent power of adjudication within the limits laid down by the pertinent arbitration agreement and the Arbitration Act; and i. Non-banking financial companies19 include arbitration clauses in the standard form contracts entered into with the borrowers. Since the nature of the dispute generally involves default in payment by the borrowers, the arbitration clause allows the NBFCs to appoint an arbitrator. Nevertheless, the arbitrator has to satisfy the criteria laid down under Section 12.