Additional defendants 9 to 14 together are entitled to one share. 3. The plaintiffs will be put in possession of their joint 7/15 share. 4. The fifth defendant will be put in possession of her share. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1025 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. 5. The plaintiffs and fifth defendant are allowed to realize their share of income out of the shares of the other co-owners who will be liable proportionate to their shares. 6. The quantum of the share of income will be decided in the final decree proceedings 7. The costs shall come out of the estate” 13. For adjudication of the dispute before this Court, the findings returned in issues 3 and 4 are pertinent and the same are discussed in detail in the coming paragraphs. 14. In respect of item No.1, it was held that even though there was no evidence as to the original source of the property gifted by Krishna Menon, but the fact that the partition deed was executed by a natural group of Marumakkatayees led to the conclusion that the property was tharwad property. Parukutty Amma and her children forming part of a thavazhi and therefore being entitled to the property as members of the fifth branch is strengthened by the fact that the fifth branch comprising them was mentioned in the partition deed as a branch of Karunakaran Menon who was the Karnavan of the thavazhy. As such the conclusion drawn was that the property under item No. 1 was the thavazhi property of the fifth branch. 15. Issue no.4 before the Trial Court was in regard to item No.2. While answering in the affirmative, it was held that the said property would be tharwad property. Reasoning therefor was derived from the deed executed by Parvathy Amma in favour of Parukutty Amma and her children. The deed records that the former became the absolute owner of the property once Sankaran Padmanabhan died. Having become the absolute owner, she executed the said mortgage deed. Since Parvathy Amma was the absolute owner, she transferred the said property to her daughter-in-law and her successors. HIGH COURT 16. The High Court, qua item No.1, has held that the share allotted to a female on partition retains the tharwad characteristic. It further held that since after the passing away of Madhavi Amma and Ravunni Nair, two of the eleven persons upon whom the property originally devolved, it was divided amongst nine surviving co-donees in 1950. 1026 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports It is clear that even at this point in time, the method adopted for succession was in line with the property being thavazhi in nature. It also relied on the testimony of DW-1 who deposed that Parukutty Amma and her children were separated as one thavazhi in the above-mentioned partition of 1950. 17. Qua item No.2, it was observed: “The document is in favour of Parukutty Amma and her minor children. This mortgage was never redeemed by Parvathy Amma. Under the Prestine Marumakkathayam Law acquisition of a property in the name of mother and children who form a natural group had always been presumed to be on behalf of the tavazhi and even the existence of an original nucleus was not considered essential.