Notwithstanding any pending suit or other proceeding, each of the Chargors undertakes to give possession to the Security Trustee or its nominees or the Receiver within 7 (seven) Business Days of a notice of demand from the Security Trustee and/ or the Receiver the Charged Property and to transfer and to deliver to Security Trustee and/ or the Receiver all related bills, contracts and securities. Each of the Chargors further agrees to [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2061 China Development Bank v. Doha Bank Q.P.S.C. & Ors. accept the Security Trustee’s account of sales and realisations as sufficient proof of amounts realised and relative expenses and to pay on demand by the Security Trustee and/ or the Receiver any shortfall or deficiency thereby shown. Provided however, the Security Trustee Or the Receiver shall not be in any way liable or responsible for any loss, damage or depreciation that the Hypothecated Property may suffer or sustain on any account whatsoever whilst the same are in possession of the Security Trustee or the Receiver or by reason of exercise or non-exercise of rights and remedies available to the Security Trustee or the Receiver as aforesaid and that all such loss, damage or depreciation shall be wholly debited to the account of the relevant Chargor howsoever the same may have been caused, except where such loss, damage or depreciation is caused by any negligence or wilful default of the Security Trustee or the Receiver.” (emphasis added) In these appeals, we are called upon to interpret clause 5(iii) of the DoH and decide whether the clause creates any guarantee in favour of the appellants. Therefore, we need to analyse the said clause. GUARANTEE AS FINANCIAL DEBT 46. The question is whether the Corporate Debtor is a guarantor who has guaranteed the repayment of the loan amount by the borrowers of the appellant. As far as the appellant -China Development Bank is concerned, under five different agreements, it has advanced financial facilities to RCom and RTL. So far as the appellant, Asset Care and Reconstruction Enterprises Limited, is concerned, there is one agreement under which finance has been extended to RCom. The same is the case with Shubh Holdings Pte. Ltd. Regarding the Export Import Bank of China, four agreements were executed under which facilities were granted to RCom. In the case of the Industrial Commercial Bank of China, there is one agreement under which finance was provided to RCom. The appellants have not advanced any facilities to the Corporate Debtor. 2062 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 47. The answer to the question of whether the appellants are the Financial Creditors depends upon the answer to the question of whether the appellants are the guarantors. Therefore, we are adverting to the relevant provisions of IBC. Sub-section (6) of Section 3 of the IBC defines “claim” which reads thus: “3. Definitions:- .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (6) “claim” means – (a) a right to payment, whether or not such right is reduced to , fixed, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured, or unsecured; (b) right to remedy for breach of contract under any law for the time being in force, if such breach gives rise to a right to payment, whether or not such right is reduced to , fixed, matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, secured or unsecured;” Sub-section (11) of Section 3 of the IBC defines “debt” which reads thus: “3.