The factum of demand of bribe can also be verified by recording the telephonic conversation between the decoy and the suspect public servant. Often, a recording device is secretly placed on the person of the decoy to record the conversation which would transpire during the course of acceptance of bribe by the public servant. However, no such steps were taken by the DySP (PW-10), who straight away organized the trap without making any effort whatsoever to verify the 654 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports factum of demand attributed to the appellant (AO1) and AO2. It is relevant to mention here that PW-2 was the only witness associated by the DySP/TLO (PW-10) to accompany the complainant (PW-1) for witnessing the transaction of demand and acceptance of bribe. Evidently thus, PW-2 was kept as a shadow witness in the case. During the course of trial, the complainant (PW-1) and PW-2 both admitted that they were close friends. The complainant (PW-1) and PW-2 being close friends, it can safely be assumed that PW-2 was an interested witness. Hence, it is also manifested that TLO/DySP (PW- 10) did not make any effort whatsoever to associate an independent person to act as a shadow witness in the trap proceedings. It is recorded in the memorandum of the pre-trap proceedings (Exhibit P-4) that it was the DySP (PW-10) who summoned the PW-2 and asked him to act as a shadow witness to oversee and overhear the transaction of acceptance of illegal gratification. However, this fact is totally contradicted by the version as set out in the evidence of the complainant (PW-1) and PW-2. Both categorically stated that it was the complainant (PW-1) who asked PW-2 to accompany him during the trap proceedings scheduled to take place on the morning of 23rd January, 2003. In normal course, before proceeding to the stage of trap, it was incumbent upon the DySP (PW-10) to get an independent verification done of the alleged demand which fact assumes prominence considering the circumstance that the accompanying shadow witness, Ramesh Naidu (PW-2) is a close friend of the complainant (PW-1) who himself bore a grudge against the appellant (AO1) on account of the fine of Rs. 50,000/- imposed on the saw-mill. 32. Now, we shall proceed to discuss the evidence of the material prosecution witnesses. 33. The complainant (PW-1), stated in examination-in-chief that he had taken a premises on lease from E. Ramachary in the name of his wife and was running a saw-mill and timber depot thereupon. On 6th January, 2003, the Flying Squad of the Forest Department comprising of Mir Mustafa, Forest Section Officer (appellant herein) (AO1) and N. Hanumanthu, Forest Guard (AO2) along with three other staff members came to his saw-mill and conducted an inspection. They allegedly found teakwood stored in the saw-mill without any licence etc. and thus a case was booked against the complainant (PW-1) [2024] 7 S.C.R. 655 Mir Mustafa Ali Hasmi v. The State of A.P. who disputed that no teakwood was found in his mill.