Digital Supreme Court Reports the accounts of such business or profession audited under such law before the specified date and obtains before that date the report of the audit as required under such other law and a further report in the form prescribed under this section. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,— (i) “accountant” shall have the same meaning as in the Explanation below sub-section (2) of section 288; [(ii) “specified date”, in relation to the accounts of the previous year or years relevant to an assessment year, means the date of the expiry of four months from the end of the previous year or, where there is more than one previous year, from the end of the previous year which expired last before the commencement of the assessment year, or the 30th day of June of the assessment year, whichever is later.’.” 3.8 Pragmatically, the insertion of Section 44AB meant that persons covered by the provision must compulsorily get their accounts of relevant assessment year audited by a Chartered Accountant before the specified date and obtain a report of such audit in the prescribed form duly signed and verified by the Chartered Accountant furnishing the particulars stipulated in the rules made by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (for short, “CBDT”) and annex them to their returns filed in accordance with Section 139 of the IT Act, 1961. Consequently, Rule 6G to the Income Tax Rules, 1962 was inserted. 3.9 At this chronological juncture, a perusal of relevant material indicates that the objective of the insertion of Section 44AB was multifold: firstly, it was intended that compulsory audit will discourage tax avoidance and tax evasion by allowing faithful reflection of income of the taxpayer and only appropriate claims for deductions. Secondly, and importantly, as Chartered Accountants can devote more time to examination and verification of accounts than an Assessing Officer, it was believed that a compulsory audit would save considerable and precious time of [2024] 6 S.C.R. 793 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others assessing officers. Thirdly, it was hoped that proper presentation of income and records in a structured and presentable manner will be facilitated by compulsory audit. Comprehensively, it is apparent that the intent behind Section 44AB was not to codify an essential extant practice of the Chartered Accountant’s profession but to mandate tax audits to prevent evasion of taxes, plug loopholes leading to tax avoidance and also facilitate tax administration, thereby ensuring that the economic system does not result in concentration of wealth to the common detriment. 3.10 Post insertion of Section 44AB in the statute book and in pursuance of its operation, CBDT noted that the quality of tax audits was deteriorating as some Chartered Accountants were completing fifty tax audits a month. It is apparent on the face of the material perused that such a finding would run counter to the long sought and deliberated goal of plugging the loopholes in tax administration and saving considerable and precious time of assessing officers by presentation of quality audit reports.