Therefore, the appellant had no voting right in the COC. And since the appellant pressed its case only on the ground that it is a financial creditor, its challenge to the of approval had no basis. More so, when the commercial wisdom of the COC 18 [2021] 2 SCR 640 : (2021) 5 SCC 452 270 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is not justiciable. Further, once the resolution plan, which makes a provision for the appellant, is approved by the Adjudicating Authority, it cannot be questioned through a recall application. Analysis 16. Before we proceed to test the correctness of the impugned against the weight of rival submissions, it would be useful to have a look at the statutory provisions of the IBC and the Regulations framed thereunder with reference to the corporate insolvency resolution process. 17. As per the provisions of the IBC, on admission of a petition, and declaration of a moratorium under Section 13, a public announcement is made inviting claims against the CD by a specified date. The manner in which a public announcement is to be made and claims are to be submitted, is described in the CIRP Regulations 2016. 18. Regulation 719 of CIRP Regulations, 2016 deals with submission of a claim by a person who claims himself to be an operational creditor. Such claim is to be submitted in Form B specified in the Schedule. Whereas Regulation 820 deals with submission of a claim by a person who claims himself to be a financial creditor. Such a claim is to be submitted in Form C. Regulations 8-A, 9 and 9-A deal with other classes of creditors with which we are not concerned here. 19 7. Claims by operational creditors.—(1) A person claiming to be an operational creditor, other than workman or employee of the corporate debtor, shall submit claim with proof to the interim resolution professional in person, by post or by electronic means in Form B of the Schedule: Provided that such person may submit supplementary documents or clarifications in support of the claim before the constitution of the committee. (2) The existence of debt due to the operational creditor under this regulation may be proved on the basis of— (a) the records available with an information utility, if any; or (b) other relevant documents, including— (i) a contract for the supply of goods and services with corporate debtor; (ii) an invoice demanding payment for the goods and services supplied to the corporate debtor; (iii) an of a court or tribunal that has adjudicated upon the non-payment of a debt, if any; or (iv) financial accounts. 20 8. Claims by financial creditors.—(1) A person claiming to be a financial creditor, other than a financial creditor belonging to a class of creditors, shall submit claim with proof to the interim resolution professional in electronic form in Form C of the Schedule: Provided that such person may submit supplementary documents or clarifications in support of the claim before the constitution of the committee.