The documents prepared on 6th January, 2003 would definitely be sufficient to put DySP (PW-10) on guard. Thus, there was neither any reason for the appellant (AO1) to have demanded bribe from the complainant (PW-1) nor any justification for him to cave in to such demand. 51. The complainant (PW-1) alleged that after he lodged the complaint (Exhibit P-1) to the DySP (PW-10) on 22nd January, 2003, he was called by the appellant (AO1) and AO2 and was directed to come to the Hotel Quality-Inn with the proposed bribe amount of Rs.5,000/-. Acting on his own wisdom, the complainant (PW-1) asked his friend PW-2 to accompany him to the ACB office. The complainant (PW-1) further alleged that when he and Ramesh Naidu (PW-2) were about to proceed to ACB office, he received another phone call from the appellant (AO1) and AO2 in the morning of 23rd January, 2003 and who instructed him to reach Hotel Quality-Inn. This fact, however, does not find place in the complaint (Exhibit P-1) and is thus a very significant omission. When the pre-trap panchnama (Exhibit P-4) was drawn, the complainant (PW-1) modified his version and alleged that it was AO2, who telephoned him in the morning and asked him to come to the Hotel Quality-Inn with the bribe amount. This apparent modulation by the complainant (PW-1) regarding the accused who 664 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports had made the demand again throws a doubt on his conduct and credibility. The call detail records proved by PW-6 again decimates the version of the complainant (PW-1) because they clearly established that no call was made from the mobile number of the appellant (AO1) to the mobile number of the complainant (PW-1) after 17th January, 2003. As against the noting in the pre-trap panchnama (Exhibit P-4), the complainant (PW-1), during his sworn testimony, deposed that the phone call was made on 21st March, 2003 by both the appellant (AO1) and AO2. The complainant (PW-1) also alleged that after the pre-trap proceedings, the DySP (PW-10) called Ramesh Naidu (PW- 2) and instructed him to act as a shadow witness. However, the fact remains that Ramesh Naidu (PW-2) had already been asked by the complainant (PW-1) to accompany him in the trap proceedings. The complainant (PW-1) further alleged that a little while after he and Ramesh Naidu (PW-2) had occupied one table in the said coffee shop, the mediators and Inspector N. Chandrasekhar (PW-11) also came to the coffee shop and occupied a nearby table. The appellant (AO1) entered the coffee shop after some time and took the chair opposite to the ones wherein the complainant (PW-1) and the shadow witness were sitting. The appellant (AO1) asked the complainant (PW-1) whether he had brought the bribe amount of Rs.5,000/- to which the complainant (PW-1) replied in affirmative. When the complainant (PW-1) was about to handover the tainted currency notes, the appellant (AO1) hesitated and said that the amount should not be given in the coffee shop. The complainant (PW-1) was directed by the appellant (AO1) to proceed to the cellar of the hotel and accordingly, both he and PW-2 proceeded to the cellar and reached the generator room.