4 “MHADA Act” 5 Section 188, MHADA Act. 6 Section 1(2), MHADA Act. 36 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports For this purpose, the buildings in Brihan Mumbai are divided into three categories. Category A consists of buildings erected before 1 September 1940, Category B consists of buildings erected between 1 September 1940 and 31 December 1950 and Category C consists of buildings erected between 1 January 1951 and 30 September 1969.7 10. On 26 February 1986, the Governor of Maharashtra introduced an Ordinance to amend the MHADA Act.8 Subsequently, an amending Act came into force, which inserted Chapter VIII-A of the MHADA Act.9 The chapter deals with the ‘acquisition of cessed properties for co-operative societies of occupiers’, and its provisions apply to the buildings in Category A, i.e. cessed buildings erected before 1 September 1940 in Brihan Mumbai.10 The provisions of the Chapter envisage the acquisition of such properties by the state and their transfer to a cooperative society on payment of a hundred times the monthly rent of the premises if seventy per cent of the occupiers of the building make an application to this effect.11 Such acquisition may be for the better preservation of the buildings; for carrying out structural repairs or for the reconstruction of a new building. After the land is transferred to the cooperative society, it must be used solely for its original purpose, and there is a restriction on transferring the land or building.12 11. The intention behind inserting Chapter VIII-A has been stated by the legislature in the Preamble and the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Amending Act. It is stated that the provisions were introduced to address the urgent need for repairs and reconstruction of old, dilapidated buildings in urban areas, particularly in ‘Greater Bombay’. These buildings pose a significant danger due to their poor condition and risk of collapse. Previous efforts, including levying a cess and establishing an authority for structural repairs, failed to achieve the desired results due to the scale of the problem and insufficient financial resources. Thus, a new approach was adopted 7 Section 84, MHADA Act. 8 Maharashtra Housing and Area Development (Amendment) Ordinance, 1986 9 Maharashtra Housing and Area Development (Second Amendment) Act, 1986 [Mah. XXI of 1986] (“Amending Act”) 10 Section 103A, MHADA Act. 11 Section 103B, MHADA Act. 12 Section 103C, MHADA Act. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 37 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. by introducing Chapter VIII-A, involving occupiers in structural repairs or reconstruction by acquiring the old buildings and transferring ownership and control to the occupiers. The aim, according to the legislature, is to protect the occupiers’ shelter, prevent building collapses, and promote equitable distribution of ownership and control of tenements to subserve the ‘common good’. 12. Significantly, by the same Amending Act, Section 1A was also inserted in the MHADA Act containing the following declaration: “1-A. Declaration.—It is hereby declared that this Act is for giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principle specified in Clause (b) of Article 39 of the Constitution of India and the execution of the proposals, plans or projects therefor and the acquisition therefor of the lands and buildings and transferring the lands, buildings or tenements therein to the needy persons and the co- operative societies of occupiers of such lands or buildings.” 13.