(See Shri Sitaram Sugar Co. Ltd. v. Union of India [(1990) 3 SCC 223].) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1439 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. 50. Applying the above test, price fixation exercise is really legislative in character, unless by the terms of a particular statute it is made quasi-judicial as in the case of tariff fixation under Section 62 made appealable under Section 111 of the 2003 Act, though Section 61 is an enabling provision for the framing of regulations by CERC. If one takes “tariff” as a subject-matter, one finds that under Part VII of the 2003 Act actual determination/ fixation of tariff is done by the appropriate Commission under Section 62 whereas Section 61 is the enabling provision for framing of regulations containing generic propositions in accordance with which the appropriate Commission has to fix the tariff. This basic scheme equally applies to the subject-matter “trading margin” in a different statutory context as will be demonstrated by discussion hereinbelow.” (emphasis supplied) 50. The observations of the Constitution Bench are analysed below: a. Tariff-fixation, like price fixation is generally of a legislative character; b. Tariff-fixation is of an adjudicatory or quasi-judicial character if it is made so by the statute which confers the Authority with the power to determine tariff; c. The Electricity Act confers the Appropriate Commission with both regulatory and adjudicatory/decision-making powers, even with respect to tariff. Section 61 which confers the Appropriate Commission with the power to specify terms and conditions for the determination of tariff, is of legislative character while the power to determine tariff in terms of Sections 62 and 64 is an adjudicatory function; d. Though the decision does not expressly make a distinction between powers that are general in nature and powers that are specific/individual in nature, such an inference can be drawn from paragraph 50 which specifically applies the tests formulated in Sitaram Sugar (supra); and e. The fact that the of the Appropriate Commission determining tariff was subject to appeal was also one of the factors that weighed with this Court. 1440 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 51. The respondents have relied on PTC (supra) to contend that tariff determination by an Authority constituted under any statute is an adjudicatory function. Such an interpretation of the in PTC (supra), in our opinion is erroneous. This Court in PTC (supra) expressly noted that tariff fixation, like price fixation is generally of a legislative character. The in PTC (supra) is an authority only for the proposition that the question of whether determination of tariff is a legislative or an adjudicatory function must be determined upon an analysis of the provisions of the statute conferring the power. That was the test that was propounded in Sitaram Sugar (supra) as well. 52. In GRIDCO (supra), this Court was hearing appeals arising out of the decisions of the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity constituted under Section 110 of the Electricity Act 2003 which arose from s issued by the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission determining tariff.