The has to be expressed in the name of the Governor as required by clause (1) of Article 166 and then it has to be communicated. As already indicated, no formal modifying the decision of the Revenue Secretary was ever made. Until such an is drawn up the State Government cannot, in our opinion, be regarded as bound by what was stated in the file. [...] 10. The business of State is a complicated one and has necessarily to be conducted through the agency of a large number of officials and authorities. The Constitution, therefore, requires and so did the Rules of Business framed by the Rajpramukh of PEPSU provide, that the action must be taken by the authority concerned in the name of the Rajpramukh. It is not till this formality is observed that the action can be regarded as that of the State or here, by the Rajpramukh. [...] Indeed, it is possible that after expressing one opinion about a particular matter at [2024] 7 S.C.R. 591 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. a particular stage a Minister or the Council of Ministers may express quite a different opinion, one which may be completely opposed to the earlier opinion. Which of them can be regarded as the “” of the State Government? Therefore, to make the opinion amount to a decision of the Government it must be communicated to the person concerned.” (Emphasis supplied) [See also: Delhi Development Authority v. Hello Home Education Society : (2024) 3 SCC 148 at para 17 Mahadeo & Ors. v. Sovan Devi & Ors. : (2023) 10 SCC 807 at paras 15-17; Municipal Committee, Barwala v. Jai Narayan and Co. & Anr. : (2022) SCC OnLine 376 at para 16] 80. In Sethi Auto Service Station v. DDA reported in (2009) 1 SCC 180 this Court held that notings in a departmental file are nothing more than an opinion by an officer for internal use and consideration of other officials for the final decision making. The relevant observations read as under: - “14. It is trite to state that notings in a departmental file do not have the sanction of law to be an effective . A noting by an officer is an expression of his viewpoint on the subject. It is no more than an opinion by an officer for internal use and consideration of the other officials of the department and for the benefit of the final decision-making authority. Needless to add that internal notings are not meant for outside exposure. Notings in the file culminate into an executable , affecting the rights of the parties, only when it reaches the final decision-making authority in the department, gets his approval and the final is communicated to the person concerned.” (Emphasis supplied) 81. In Shanti Sports Club (supra) several representations were made by the landowners requesting to release their land from acquisition. After considering those representations, the concerned minister recorded in the note file that the land should be denotified on suitable terms and left the final decision to his successor.