74. Finally, apart from the aforementioned segregation of cases, the present batch of matters also includes SLP(C) No. 14308/2020 (Ashok Pratap Singh v. GNCTD) that has been filed by the landowner seeking altogether different relief. Accordingly, this case is ed to be de-tagged and listed separately on 22.07.2024. 1264 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 75. Before parting, we deem it appropriate to provide a cautionary note that the limited fact-finding conducted by this Court may not be entirely accurate due to the complex nature of cases involving subsequent sale transactions, earlier rounds of litigation, land titles, and status of compensation and/or possession. We accordingly grant liberty to the parties to approach the High Court if any factual disputes arise in future or if further clarification is required, and the High Court shall decide such cases based on the principles outlined above, taking into account the facts and, if necessary, the merits of the case. 76. It is also needless to clarify that the High Court shall proceed to decide the cases remitted to it as expeditiously as possible, but subject to its convenience, in accordance with law. 77. All the matters stand disposed of in aforementioned terms. Appendix List Sub-lists Description Result (if any) List A - Cases where the Remanded back to the respondent-landowners High Court (Suppression are alleged to have of facts) suppressed facts regarding them being subsequent purchasers and/or the land having vested in Gaon Sabha. List B - Notice not issued either on De-tagged and listed delay or on merits, and as separately on 22 July 2024. (Notice neither such no opportunity was on delay nor given to the landowners on merits) to contend the issue of delay. List C List C.1 Review Petitions To be dismissed using and Miscellaneous Article 142 and acquisition (Review Applications primarily to be re-initiated under Petitions/MAs) pleading change of law. 2013 Act (as per KL Rathi (supra)). List C.2 Review Petitions De-tagged and listed and Miscellaneous separately on 22 July 2024 Applications filed before (as per KL Rathi (supra)) Shailendra (supra) and/ or not primarily pleading change of law. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1265 Delhi Development Authority v. Tejpal & Ors. List D List D.1 Previous SLP dismissed To be dismissed using after granting leave. Article 142 and acquisition (Leave granted to be re-initiated under in previous 2013 Act (as per BSK SLP) Realtors (supra)). List D.2 Previous SLP allowed To be dismissed for having after granting leave. become infructuous (as per BSK Realtors (supra)) List E List E.1 No previous SLP or leave De-tagged and listed not granted in previous separately on 22 July 2024, (Leave not SLP, notice issued on for determining whether granted in delay, but no notice Manoharlal (supra) is previous SLP) issued on merits in the satisfied or not. present SLP. List E.2 No previous SLP or leave The acquisition under 1894 not granted in previous Act upheld. SLP, notice on merits issued in the present SLP, and Manoharlal (supra) test applicable. List E.3 No previous SLP or leave To be dismissed using not granted in previous Article 142 and acquisition SLP, notice issued on to be re-initiated under merits in the present SLP, 2013 Act.