The importance of recognition and affiliation cannot be understated. The position of law even at the time of the decision in Azeez Basha (supra), as held in re the Kerala Education Bill 1957 (supra), was that recognition on terms tantamount to the surrender of the right to administer the institution was a violation of Article 30(1). For Azeez Basha (supra) to hold that the minority character of the institution is surrendered upon enactment by central imperial legislation is to hold that the recognition of its degrees would result in the denial of the right under Article 30, reducing the choice available to a religious or linguistic minority. This would be in the teeth of settled law on the subject as well as Article 30(1). Azeez Basha (supra) failed to notice this aspect of the decision in In re the Kerala Education Bill 1957 (supra) discussed above and the decision in Rev. Sidhajbhai (supra). 105. Further, the decisions of this Court subsequent to Azeez Basha (supra) have not disturbed the relevant part of the precedents in In 1736 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports re the Kerala Education Bill 1957 (supra) and Rev. Sidhajbhai (supra). Azeez Basha (supra) is the lone case which stands apart in the long line of cases on this subject. In St. Xavier’s (supra), the majority of the nine-Judge Bench held that an unconstitutional condition of surrendering the minority character in exchange for affiliation or recognition cannot be imposed. 106. Presently, the decision of eleven Judges in TMA Pai (supra) holds the field on the subject and is binding on this Court. It, too, unequivocally affirms the proposition of law discussed above. One of the many relevant paragraphs in this regard is extracted below: “70. … The object of establishing an institution has thus been to provide technical or professional education to the deserving candidates, and is not necessarily a commercial venture. In that this intention is meaningful, the institution must be recognized. At the school level, the recognition or affiliation has to be sought from the educational authority or the body that conducts the school-leaving examination. … A college or a professional educational institution has to get recognition from the university concerned, which normally requires certain conditions to be fulfilled before recognition. It has been held that conditions of affiliation or recognition, which pertain to the academic and educational character of the institution and ensure uniformity, efficiency and excellence in educational courses are valid, and that they do not violate even the provisions of Article 30 of the Constitution; but conditions that are laid down for granting recognition should not be such as may lead to governmental control of the administration of the private educational institutions.” (emphasis supplied) 107. Compliance with the legal requirement to secure a benefit provided by the State cannot be on terms that require the relinquishment of fundamental rights. An interpretation that leans towards this consequence must not be adopted. Thus, the minority character of an educational institution could not have been denied merely because it was converted to a University through a legislative enactment.