(2) Subject to inclusion in categories referred to in paragraph 1, stressed Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises shall have access to the Committee for stressed Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises for deciding on a corrective action plan and determining the terms thereof in accordance with regulations prescribed in this Framework Provided that where the Committee decides that recovery is to be made as part of the corrective action plan, the manner and method of recovery shall be in accordance with the existing policies approved by the board of directors of the bank which has extended credit facilities to the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 149 M/s Pro Knits v. The Board of Directors of Canara Bank & Ors. enterprise, subject to any regulations prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India. 3-16 ...….” 11. The RBI in to make the said Framework contained in the Notification dated 29.05.2015 compatible with the existing regulatory guidelines on “Income Recognition, Asset Classification and provisioning pertaining to Advances” issued to the banks by the RBI, had made certain changes in the said Framework, in consultation with the Central Government and issued revised Framework along with the operating Instructions vide the Communication dated 17th March, 2016, addressed to all the Scheduled Commercial Banks. 12. It is pertinent to note that in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 21 and 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the Reserve Bank of India, after having being satisfied that it was necessary and expedient in the public interest to do so, had issued the Master Direction, called the “Reserve Bank of India [Lending to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Sector] Directions, 2016,” vide the Notification dated 21st July, 2016. The said Directions have been made applicable to every Scheduled Commercial Bank excluding Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) licensed to operate in India by the Reserve Bank of India. Amongst the other Directions, the Direction 4 contained in Chapter IV thereof, pertained to the common guidelines/ instructions for lending to MSME Sector. While advising all the Scheduled Commercial Banks to follow the guidelines/ instructions pertaining to MSMEs, it was directed in the Direction 4.8 as under: - “4.8 Framework for Revival and Rehabilitation of MSMEs. The Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Government of India, vide their Gazette Notification dated May 29, 2015 had notified a ‘Framework for Revival and Rehabilitation of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises’ to provide a simpler and faster mechanism to address the stress in the accounts of MSMEs and to facilitate the promotion and development of MSMEs. The Reserve Bank was advised to issue necessary instructions to banks for effective implementation and monitoring of the said Framework. After carrying out certain changes in the captioned Framework in consultation with the Government 150 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of India, Ministry of MSME so as to make it compatible with the existing regulatory guidelines on ‘Income Recognition, Asset Classification and provisioning pertaining to Advances’ issued to banks by RBI, the guidelines on the captioned Framework along with operating instructions were issued to banks on March 17, 2016.