For it is obvious that the Code contemplates procedure by way of review by the Court which has already given as being different from that by way of appeal to a Court of Appeal. The three cases in which alone mere review is permitted are those of new material overlooked by excusable misfortune, mistake or error apparent on the face of the record, or “any other sufficient reason.” The first two alternatives do not apply in the present case, and the expression “sufficient,” if this were all, would naturally be read as meaning sufficiency of a kind analogous to the two already specified, that is to say, to excusable failure [2024] 5 S.C.R. 107 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. to bring to the notice of the Court new and important matters, or error on the face of the record. But before adopting this restricted construction of the expression “sufficient,” it is necessary to have in mind, in the first place, that the provision as to review was not introduced into the Code for the first time in 1908, but appears there as a modification of previous provision made in earlier legislation : and, in the second place, that the extent of the power of a Court in India to review its own decree under successive forms of legislative provision has been the subject of a good deal of judicial interpretation, not, however, in all cases harmonious. That the power given by the Indian Code is different from the very restricted power which exists in England appears plain from the decision in Charles Bright and Co. v. Seller [[1904] 1 K.B. 6.] , where the Court of Appeal discussed the history of the procedure in England and explained its limits. xxx xxx xxx Their Lordships have examined numerous authorities, and they have found much conflict of judicial opinion on the point referred to. There is plainly no such preponderance of view in either direction as to render it clear that there is any settled course of decision which they are under obligation to follow. Some of the decisions in the earlier cases may have been influenced by the wider form of expression then in force, and these decisions may have had weight with the learned Judges who, in cases turning on the subsequent Code, had regarded the intention of the legislature as remaining unaltered. But their Lordships are unable to assume that the language used in the Codes of 1877 and 1908 is intended to leave open the questions which were raised on the language used in the earlier legislation. They think that R. 1 of O. 47 must be read as in itself definitive of the limits within which review is to-day permitted, and that reference to practice under former and different statutes is misleading. So construing it they interpret the words “any other sufficient reason” as meaning a reason sufficient on grounds at least 108 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports analogous to those specified immediately previously.