In the present case, however, we are confronted with a sweeping statement of contravention of provisions of the CrPC with little to no explanation as to how that may be the case. 43.1 Section 218 provides, first, that there should be a separate charge for each distinct offence; and secondly, that there should be a separate trial for every such charge, except in the four cases mentioned in Sections 219, 220, 221 and 223. 43.2 Section 219 provides that the three charges of three offences of the same kind committed within one year be tried together. The section contemplates a joint trial for three separate offences only when the offences are essentially of a simple kind and do not require the framing of a multitude of different charges. 43.3 Section 220 relates to the joinder of charges of offences committed by the same person. It applies to a case, when different offences form part of the same transaction, and are committed by the same person, then he may be charged with and tried at one trial for, every such offence. 43.4 Section 221 provides for cases where it is doubtful what offence has been committed. If a single act or series of acts is of such nature that it is doubtful which of several offences the facts, which can be proved will constitute, the charge can be framed for all offences or alternative charges can be framed. At the trial, if it is established that the accused has committed an offence, he may be convicted though he may not have been charged with the offence. 43.5 Section 222 applies to cases in which the charge is of an offence which consists of several particulars, a combination of some only of which constitutes a complete minor offence. 43.6 Section 223 provides for joinder of charges against more than one accused person in the same trial. It deals with the plurality of persons, who can be tried together, in other words, the joint trial of more than one person. 374 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 43.7 Section 224 deals with withdrawal of remaining charges on conviction on one of several charges. 44. Sections 218 to 222 pertain to the joinder of charges against the same person in the same trial. Section 223 deals with plurality of persons, i.e., more than one accused in the same trial. We may notice a few decisions of this Court, to put the application of these provisions, in context. 44.1 In Balbir v. State of Haryana,63 a Bench of three learned Judges observed as under: “11. …In both the aforesaid clauses the primary condition is that persons should have been accused either of the same offence or of different offences “committed in the course of the same transaction”. The expression advisedly used is “in the course of the same transaction”. That expression is not akin to saying “in respect of the same subject-matter”. It is pertinent to point out that the same expression is employed in Section 220(1) of the Code also [corresponding to Section 235(1) of the old Code].