Sanwalia, Rati Ram and Sheo Chand donees are also present who admit the above statement as correct. As such with the consent of the parties the land comprised in Khewat No.64, Khasra Nos. 1169[13-18], 1171[6-11], 1173[7-0], 1174 [10-19] total 38 Bigha 8 Biswas on behalf of Rai Bahadur Randhir Singh donor in favour of donees Sanwalia, Rati Ram, Sheo Chand in equal share. Mutation is sanctioned in favour of donees. 5. Unfortunately, the courts have lost sight of an important aspect here which has a crucial bearing on the case, which is the background of the transfer of land made in the year 1953. The transaction which is the subject matter of the dispute admittedly occurred in December, 1953. This was the period immediately after our independence where each State in the country had already framed or was in the process of framing legislations on land reforms with a focus on redistribution of land. Since land was in the State list (List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India), such legislation was being brought by almost every State in the country. 698 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Punjab was no exception. The land reforms were for acquisition of land from big landlords and zamindars after placing a limit on land holding and then to redistribute it to the landless and the marginal agriculturist. This was being done as this was the pledge given during our freedom movement by the leaders to the nation and immediately after our independence, this was the first task sought to be achieved everywhere in the country. The reference in our case would be to the Punjab Security and Land Tenures Act, 1953 (hereinafter “1953 Act”), which had become effective on 15th April, 1953. Even prior to this, attempts were made to reform land ownership such as the Punjab Act No.12 of 1950 and the Punjab Act No.5 of 1951, which were repealed by the 1953 Act. The big zamindars and big land owners were fully conscious that they would not be able to retain land beyond the ceiling fixed by the Statute, which had an outer limit of 30 standard Acres for a family. The surplus land (beyond 30 acres) was to vest with the State. The land owners, therefore, either were gifting their land to their helpers, agricultural workers, even to priests or to temples, or in any other manner where they thought their best interest would lie. One thing was clear that technically they would not be able to keep land beyond the surplus limit. During this period, gifting, donation or transfer of land in any possible manner permitted by law was common place, not only in Punjab but in all parts of the country. We have to examine the present transfer of land which took place in December, 1953 with this context and background in our mind. It is true again, that what we have here is a pure civil matter and considerations as we have just referred above are outside the scope of pure civil litigation.