Over a period of time, the legislature realized that despite the enactment of POCSO, there had been an increase rather than a decline in the number of cases pertaining to child sexual abuse. The legislature noted that some of the provisions of the POCSO were not proving to be effective in addressing the various forms of sexual degradation, abuse and exploitation of children in the country. The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act, 2019 earmarked a significant step by the legislature in response to the aforesaid problem, by introducing several new offences and further making the existing offences more stringent with enhanced punishments, as a form of deterrence to sexual predators and to combat the sexual exploitation of children in to safeguard a secure and dignified environment for them. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the 2019 Amendment Act read as under: - “STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS “1. The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (the said Act) has been enacted to protect children from offences of sexual assault, sexual harassment and pornography and provide for establishment of Special Courts for trial of such offences and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. 2. The said Act is gender neutral and regards the best interests and welfare of the child as a matter of paramount importance at every stage so as to ensure the healthy physical, emotional, intellectual and social development of the child. 3. However, in the recent past incidences of child sexual abuse cases demonstrating the inhumane mind-set of the abusers, who have been barbaric in their approach towards young victims, is rising in the country. Children are becoming easy prey because of their tender age, physical vulnerabilities and inexperience of life and society. The unequal balance of power leading to the gruesome act may also detriment the mind of the child to believe that might is right and reported studies establish that children who have been victims of sexual violence in their childhood become more abusive later in their life. The report of the National Crime Records Bureau for the year 2016 indicate [2024] 10 S.C.R. 215 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. increase in the number of cases registered under the said Act from 44.7 per cent. in 2013 over 2012 and 178.6 per cent. in 2014 over 2013 and no decline in the number of cases thereafter. 4. The Supreme Court, in the matter of Machhi Singh vs. State of Punjab [1983 (3) SCC 470], held that when the community feels that for the sake of self-preservation the killer has to be killed, the community may well withdraw the protection by sanctioning the death penalty. But the community will not do so in every case. It may do so in rarest of rare cases when its collective conscience is so shocked that it will expect the holders of the judicial power centre to inflict death penalty irrespective of their personal opinion as regards desirability or otherwise of retaining death penalty.