According to them, the new Act aims to free the landlords from the clutches of the 1956 Act by creating a balance between the rights of tenants and interest of the landlord. We agree with the view so far as it says that the purpose of the 1997 Act was to create a balance between the interests of tenants and landlords but we doubt that it can be extended to say that legislature intended to extinguish the rights of legal heirs (who had become tenants under the old Act after the death of their predecessor-in-interest) on a particular date. 16. The current position of law as it seems from the decision of the Calcutta High Court is that the 1997 Act represents a shift of legislative intent. While the 1956 Act approached tenancy as a heritable right that can be claimed by legal heirs of an original tenant, this position was changed by the 1997 Act, to provide a limited protection of five years to the specific heirs of an original tenant and, as per the High Court, in cases where original tenant had died during the existence of old Act, five years shall be counted from the commencement of the new Act. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 663 Rajesh Mitra @ Rajesh Kumar Mitra & Anr. v. Karnani Properties Ltd. 17. In our considered opinion, the above view of the Calcutta High Court cannot be sustained. The High Court in the case of Goutam Dey (supra) has held that the new statute which touches upon the existing rights cannot be retrospective, without an express provision or necessary implication expressing the clear intent of the Legislature. Goutam Dey (supra) relied upon Section 8(c) of the West Bengal General Clauses Act to say that a new statute does not affect existing rights. Section 45 of the 1997 Act repealed the 1956 Act but that cannot mean that rights accrued under the old Act are extinguished altogether with the enforcement of the new Act. The enforcement of a new statute ipso facto will not take away the rights already accrued under a repealed statute, unless this intention is reflected in the new statute. This Court in CIT v. Vatika Township (P) Ltd., (2015) 1 SCC 1 reiterated the general principles concerning retrospectivity of statutes. This is what was said: “28. Of the various rules guiding how a legislation has to be interpreted, one established rule is that unless a contrary intention appears, a legislation is presumed not to be intended to have a retrospective operation. The idea behind the rule is that a current law should govern current activities. Law passed today cannot apply to the events of the past. If we do something today, we do it keeping in view the law of today and in force and not tomorrow’s backward adjustment of it. Our belief in the nature of the law is founded on the bedrock that every human being is entitled to arrange his affairs by relying on the existing law and should not find that his plans have been retrospectively upset.