In other words, the assessing officer had accepted the returns submitted by the assessee for the three assessment years under question. At this stage, we may also mention that it is the case of the assessee that though it could not maintain and file regular books of account with the returns in the assessment proceedings for the three assessment years under consideration, nonetheless it had prepared and filed the details of accounts as well as incomings and outgoings of the assessee etc. for each of the three assessment years which were duly verified and enquired into by the assessing officer in the course of the assessment proceedings which culminated in the s of assessment under sub-section (3) of Section 143. Suffice it to say that a return filed without the regular balance sheet and profit and loss account may be a defective one but certainly not invalid. A defective return cannot be regarded as an invalid return. The assessing officer has the discretion to intimate the assessee about the defect(s) and it is only when the defect(s) are not rectified within the specified period that the assessing officer may treat the return as an invalid return. Ascertaining the defects and intimating the same to the assessee for rectification, are within the realm of discretion of the assessing officer. It is for him to exercise the discretion. The burden is on the assessing officer. If he does not exercise the discretion, the return of income cannot be construed as a defective return. As a matter of fact, in none of the three assessment years, the assessing officer had issued any declaration that the returns were defective. 44. Assessee has asserted both in the pleadings and in the oral hearing 676 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that though it could not file regular books of account along with the returns for the three assessment years under consideration because of seizure by the department, nonetheless the returns of income were accompanied by tentative profit and loss account and other details of income like cash flow statements, statements showing the source and application of funds reflecting the increase in the capital and current accounts of the partners of the assessee etc., which were duly enquired into by the assessing officer in the assessment proceedings. 45. Thus, having regard to the discussions made above, we are therefore of the view that the Tribunal was justified in coming to the conclusion that the reassessments for the three assessment years under consideration were not justified. The High Court has erred in reversing such findings of the Tribunal. Consequently, we set aside the common of the High Court dated 12.09.2009 and restore the common of the Tribunal dated 29.10.2004. 46. The above conclusions reached by us would cover the other civil appeals of this batch as well. Resultantly, all the civil appeals filed by the assessee and its partners are hereby allowed. No costs. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeals allowed.