The SBC justified charging Rupees six thousand as the enrolment fee on the basis of a BCI resolution dated 26 June 2013. The BCI resolution reads thus: “The council is of the unanimous view that the enrolment fee fixed earlier is too less amount and it has never been revised after the year of 1961. The council resolves that the enrolment fee per candidate will be Rs 6000 and for SC/ST Candidates, it should be Rs 3000. This provision is applicable throughout the country and out of this as per the provisions of the Act, 20% amount is to be sent to the Bar Council of India by all the State Bar Councils. These rules will come into effect the day it is published in the Gazette of India. Soon after the publication the office is directed to communicate this resolution to all the State Bar Councils and all the Bar Associations of the country. It is made clear that this resolution is confined to the enrolment fee only and the other charges fixed or prescribed by the different State Bar Councils would be applicable as of their own suitability.”56 In view of the above resolution, the BCI directed all the SBCs to charge the revised enrolment fee.57 42. All the SBCs justify charging the miscellaneous fees for the following reasons: (i) the miscellaneous fees are one-time fees paid by the 56 Resolution No. 32 of 2013, Gazette Notification dated 28 June 2013. 57 BCI. D 7114/2016(C1) dated 22 December 2016 1520 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports advocates to the Bar Councils; (ii) the fees are charged as a one-time lump sum because advocates do not pay the fees periodically after their enrolment; (iii) the SBCs do not get any financial assistance from the Government and have to sustain their operations, including payment of salaries to their employees, from the amount collected by way of enrolment fee and miscellaneous fees; and (iv) the lump sum fees are intended to defray the expenditure incurred by each SBC while discharging myriad statutory functions including continuing legal education and welfare schemes for advocates. 43. The Bar Council of Manipur has stated that it meets all its expenses including the staff salary and office maintenance from the enrolment fees. The SBC charges Rupees sixteen thousand six hundred fifty as enrolment fees from general candidates. Out of this, nine thousand five hundred is allowed to be used for office expenses while the balance is deposited into other accounts and used for specified purposes. According to the SBC, the average annual enrolment in Manipur is of a hundred advocates. Therefore, the total enrolment fee collected by the SBC is Rupees nine lakh fifty thousand against the overall annual expense of Rupees nine lakh. 44. The legal profession is a serious occupation and requires advocates to maintain exemplary conduct both inside and outside the court.58 The SBCs and the BCI perform the important function of regulating and maintaining the standards of conduct required from advocates.