The learned senior counsel submitted that the High Court erred in holding the notice to be invalid taking a hyper technical view. j) There is a presumption as per illustration (e) of Section 114 of the Evidence Act, 1872 that the notification under Section 52(1) was in conformity with the provisions of the RUI Act. Such presumption has not been dislodged by the respondents as no specific plea has been taken by them in respect of: (a) lack of power/authority of the person issuing the notification; and (b) that the procedure prescribed has not been followed in entirety, that is, no notice at all was issued to and served on any of the owners. Moreover, once the respondents participated regularly in the acquisition proceedings before the OSD and also handed over the possession of the lands proposed to be acquired on 23.10.1980, no question of argument of non-compliance of the provisions of the RUI Act could have been accepted. k) Further, the respondents filed a writ petition before the High Court in the year 1998. There was an inordinate delay of 21 years in challenging the acquisition proceedings which were initiated in the year 1976. The High Court erred in holding that the delay in approaching the court could be at best 5 to 6 years on the reasoning that the State Government issued and published the notification in the gazette to acquire the Nangli Kota lands on 03.09.1992. The appellant clarified that although the respondents were seeking to challenge the notification dated 16.06.1997 yet, the acquisition proceedings had begun 1010 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports in the year 1976. The subject land was handed over to the appellant on 15.01.1981. Therefore, taking the year 1976 to be the point of cause of action, the appellant submitted that the respondents approached the High Court 21 years after vesting of the said lands in the State Government. The learned senior counsel made an additional submission that once the land stood vested in the State and the possession was handed over to the appellant, the appellant could be said to have acquired ownership of the land. l) The Nangli Kota lands were acquired in the year 1977 for the purpose of a residential scheme. The general public would have been the beneficiary. However, the protracted litigation and inordinate delay frustrated the very purpose for which the land was even though the subject land has been in the possession of the appellant and lying vacant for almost 50 years. m) As regards the issue of quantum of compensation raised by the appellant, the learned counsel submitted that sub-section (3) of Section 53 provided for methods of determination of compensation. One of the methods provided therein was that compensation can be determined by way of an agreement between the State Government and the person to be compensated. Section 53(4) provided that where no such agreement could be reached, the State Government shall have to refer the case to the Collector for determination of the amount of compensation to be paid.