1777 Suhas Chakma v. Union of India & Ors. 8. In Madhav Hayawadanrao Hoskot v. State of Maharashtra (1978) 3 SCC 544, this Court, while holding that right to counsel for a prisoner is a fundamental right traceable to Article 21, held that procedural safeguards are the indispensable essence of liberty. This Court held as under:- “14. The other ingredient of fair procedure to a prisoner, who has to seek his liberation through the court process is lawyer’s services. Judicial justice, with procedural intricacies, legal submissions and critical examination of evidence, leans upon professional expertise; and a failure of equal justice under the law is on the cards where such supportive skill is absent for one side. Our judicature, moulded by Anglo-American models and our judicial process, engineered by kindred legal technology, compel the collaboration of lawyer-power for steering the wheels of equal justice under the law. Free legal services to the needy is part of the English criminal justice system. And the American jurist, Prof. Vance of Yale, sounded sense for India too when he said: [ Justice and Reform, Earl Johnson, Jr. p. 11] “What does it profit a poor and ignorant man that he is equal to his strong antagonist before the law if there is no one to inform him what the law is? Or that the courts are open to him on the same terms as to all other persons when he has not the wherewithal to pay the admission fee?” xx xx xx 25. If a prisoner sentenced to imprisonment, is virtually unable to exercise his constitutional and statutory right of appeal, inclusive of special leave to appeal, for want of legal assistance, there is implicit in the Court under Article 142, read with Articles 21 and 39-A of the Constitution, power to assign counsel for such imprisoned individual “for doing complete justice”. This is a necessary incident of the right of appeal conferred by the Code and allowed by Article 136 of the Constitution. The inference is inevitable that this is a State’s duty and not Government’s charity. Equally affirmative is the implication that while legal services must 1778 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports be free to the beneficiary, the lawyer himself has to be reasonably remunerated for his services….. 26. In the present petition, the party, though preferred legal aid by the court, preferred to argue himself. Even so we uphold the right to counsel not in the permissive sense of Article 22(1) and its wider amplitude but in the peremptory sense of Article 21 confined to prison situations. (Emphasis supplied) 9. In Sunil Batra (II) v. Delhi Administration. (1980) 3 SCC 488 in Para 30 and 78(3), this Cout held as under.- “30. We, therefore, affirm that where the rights of a prisoner, either under the Constitution or under other law, are violated the writ power of the court can and should run to his rescue. There is a warrant for this vigil. The court process casts the convict into the prison system and the deprivation of his freedom is not a blind penitentiary affliction but a belighted institutionalisation geared to a social good.