Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) in a recognised provident fund; (b) in the scheme referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 80-CCD; and (c) in an approved superannuation fund, to the extent it exceeds seven lakh and fifty thousand rupees in a previous year; (viia) the annual accretion by way of interest, dividend or any other amount of similar nature during the previous year to the balance at the credit of the fund or scheme referred to in sub-clause (vii) to the extent it relates to the contribution referred to in the said sub-clause which is included in total income under the said sub-clause in any previous year computed in such manner as may be prescribed; and (viii) the value of any other fringe benefit or amenity as may be prescribed: xx xx xx” (emphasis supplied) 7. Rule 3(7)(i) of the Rules9 reads: “(7) In terms of provisions contained in Sub-Clause (vi) of Sub-Section (2) of Section 17,10 the following other fringe benefits or amenities are hereby prescribed and the value thereof shall be determined in the manner provided hereunder: (i) the value of the benefit to the assessee resulting from the provision of interest-free or concessional loan for any purpose made available to the employee or any member of his household during the relevant previous year by the employer or any person on his behalf shall be determined as the sum equal to the simple interest computed at the rate charged per annum by the State Bank of India Act, 1955 9 As it stands after amendment vide Income Tax (First Amendment) Rules, 2004, with effect from 01.04.2004. 10 See supra note 4. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 917 All India Bank Officers’ Confederation v. The Regional Manager, Central Bank of India and Others (23 of 1955), as on the 1st day of the relevant previous year in respect of loans for the same purpose advanced by it on the maximum outstanding monthly balance as reduced by the interest, if any, actually paid by him or any such member of his household. However, no value would be charged if such loans are made available for medical treatment in respect of diseases specified in Rule 3A of these Rules or where the amount of loans are petty not exceeding in the aggregate of Rs.20,000: Provided that where the benefits relates to the loans made available for medical treatment referred to above, the exemption so provided shall not apply to so much of the loan as has been reimbursed to the employee under any medical insurance scheme.” 11 8. Section 17(1), provides a broad and inclusive definition of ‘salary’. It states that salary, inter alia, includes wages as well as other payments paid to employees like perquisites. Thus, perquisites paid by the employer to the employee are taxable as ‘salary’. 9. ‘Perquisite’ has been defined in Section 17(2) for clarity, and also, to include and widen its scope. Clauses (i) to (viiia) to Section 17(2) make the following taxable as ‘perquisites’: ⇒ Clause (i) – rent-free accommodation by employer.