The purpose of informing to the arrested person the grounds of arrest is salutary and sacrosanct inasmuch as, this information would be the only effective means for the arrested person to consult his Advocate; oppose the police custody remand 688 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and to seek bail. Any other interpretation would tantamount to diluting the sanctity of the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India. 21. The Right to Life and Personal Liberty is the most sacrosanct fundamental right guaranteed under Articles 20, 21 and 22 of the Constitution of India. Any attempt to encroach upon this fundamental right has been frowned upon by this Court in a catena of decisions. In this regard, we may refer to following observations made by this Court in the case of Roy V.D. v. State of Kerala3:- “7. The life and liberty of an individual is so sacrosanct that it cannot be allowed to be interfered with except under the authority of law. It is a principle which has been recognised and applied in all civilised countries. In our Constitution Article 21 guarantees protection of life and personal liberty not only to citizens of India but also to aliens.” Thus, any attempt to violate such fundamental right, guaranteed by Articles, 20, 21 and 22 of the Constitution of India, would have to be dealt with strictly. 22. The right to be informed about the grounds of arrest flows from Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India and any infringement of this fundamental right would vitiate the process of arrest and remand. Mere fact that a charge sheet has been filed in the matter, would not validate the illegality and the unconstitutionality committed at the time of arresting the accused and the grant of initial police custody remand to the accused. 23. Learned ASG referred to the language of Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India and urged that even in a case of preventive detention, the Constitutional scheme does not require that the grounds on which the of detention has been passed should be communicated to the detenue in writing. Ex facie, we are not impressed with the said submission. 24. The contention advanced by learned ASG based on the language of Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India persuaded us to delve deeper on the issue as to whether it is mandatory to communicate 3 [2000] Supp. 4 SCR 539 : (2000) 8 SCC 590 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 689 Prabir Purkayastha v. State (NCT of Delhi) the grounds of arrest or detention in writing to the accused or the detenue, as the case may be, even though the constitutional mandate under Articles 22(1) and 22(5) of the Constitution of India does not explicitly require that the grounds should be communicated in writing. 25. A Constitution Bench of this Court examined in detail the scheme of Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India in the case of Harikisan v. State of Maharashtra and Others4 and held that the communication of the grounds of detention to the detenue in writing and in a language which he understands is imperative and essential to provide an opportunity to detenue of making an effective representation against the detention and in case, such communication is not made, the of detention would stand vitiated as the guarantee under Article 22(5) of the Constitution was violated.