9. The High Court was dealing with the custody of the child, whose age at that time was one year and five months. The child had been in the custody of the appellants from the tender age of 11 months after her mother died. The child, at present, has been in the custody of the appellants for more than one and a half years. When the Court deals with the issue of Habeas Corpus regarding a minor, the Court cannot treat the child as a movable property and transfer custody without even considering the impact of the disturbance of the custody on the child. Such issues cannot be decided mechanically. The Court has to act based on humanitarian considerations. After all, the Court [2024] 9 S.C.R. 71 Somprabha Rana & Ors. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. cannot ignore the doctrine of parens patriae. Learned senior counsel appearing for the 2nd to 5th respondents submitted that if the Court is of the view that there is no proper consideration by the High Court, the of remand may be passed to the High Court. 10. We believe that considering the peculiar facts of the case and the child’s tender age, this is not a case where custody of the child can be disturbed in a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Only in substantive proceedings under the GW Act can the appropriate Court decide the issue of the child custody and guardianship. Regular Civil/Family Court dealing with child custody cases is in an advantageous position. The Court can frequently interact with the child. Practically, all Family Courts have a child centre/play area. A child can be brought to the play centre, where the judicial officer can interact with the child. Access can be given to the parties to meet the child at the same place. Moreover, the Court dealing with custody matters can record evidence. The Court can appoint experts to make the psychological assessment of the child. If an access is required to be given to one of the parties to meet the child, the Civil Court or Family Court is in a better position to monitor the same. 11. Coming to the facts of the case, at this stage, it will be very difficult to decide whether the welfare of the minor child requires custody of the maternal aunts to be disturbed. The child has not seen the father and grandparents for over a year. At the tender age of two years and seven months, if custody of the child is immediately transferred to the father and grandparents, the child will become miserable as the child has not met them for a considerably long time. Moreover, even the contesting respondents have not alleged that the child is not being looked after properly by the appellants. Whether the father is entitled to custody or not is a matter to be decided by a competent court, but surely, even assuming that the father is not entitled to custody, at this stage, he is entitled to have access to meet the child.