The High Court observed that the notification dated 25.02.2015 under no circumstances precluded the appellant from starting construction of other parts of the Property. 20. (v) Re: Appellant did not have the financial resources. Dealing with the findings of the AGRC and the High Court that the appellant did not have the financial resources as evidenced by the agreements that they have executed in favour of third parties, Mr. Sibal submitted that this issue was never raised in the show-cause notice dated 04.12.2020, which initiated the proceedings leading to the termination of the development agreement of the appellant. The factual background is that from 2017 onwards, the appellant executed certain financial agreements with third parties. On 17.02.2017, an agreement with M/s Rajesh Habitat Private Limited was executed as per which the saleable rights under the project were transferred in favour of Rajesh Habitat in lieu of finance of Rs. 30 crores. Further, Rajesh Habitat mortgaged their rights in favour of M/s Vistra ITCL [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1463 Yash Developers v. Harihar Krupa Co-Operative Housing Society Limited & Ors. by a deed dated 22.03.2017, which later came to be cancelled on 08.02.2019 and a deed of reconveyance between the appellant and Vistra was entered into. Later, one M/s Sanghvi Associates provided financial assistance of Rs. 50 crores to the appellant by way of a mortgage deed. In pursuance of these financing arrangements, Sanghvi Associates gave no objection to the appellant entering into an agreement with respondent no.6-Veena Developers. Following this, a joint development agreement dated 18.10.2019 was entered into between the appellant and respondent no. 6. 20.1. Mr. Sibal contended that the appellant has the requisite financial capacity of technical expertise to complete the project. He would submit that these agreements do not establish that the appellant does not have the financial capacity or the technical expertise to undertake and complete the project. That the appellant had the capacity is evidenced by the deposit of rents due to the slum dwellers and in fact, the SRA has certified the appellant’s financial capacity on 21.12.2019. 20.2. Mr. Sundaram submitted that all the documents were before the SRA and that the parties have made submissions on all aspects of the matter. He has taken us through the various findings of the High Court on the finances and the clauses in the agreements entered into with the third parties. The following findings of the High Court were referred to: “57. In any case, the petitioner struggled to avail finance and was facing severe financial crisis, this itself was material for the Chief Executive Officer of the SRA to come to a conclusion that it may not be possible for the petitioner to execute the scheme. The Chief Executive Officer however did not call upon the petitioner to satisfy that it had the appropriate finances to undertake the “entire scheme”. The Chief Executive Officer merely asking the petitioner to deposit the arrears of rent, can in no manner, whatsoever, be accepted as a certificate to the petitioner possessing a financial capacity to complete the project.