Moreover, there is no material on record to indicate that the contract was repudiated by the appellant on any date for non-completion of the project by the date stipulated. Rather, the materials on record, as recited in the award, indicate that parties continued to engage with each other and accepted performance of contractual obligations even beyond the stipulated date. Further, there is a clear finding in the award that the claimant was entitled to extension of 539 days. For the above reasons, we reject the alternative submission made on behalf of the appellant(s). Limitation Extended by Acknowledgement dated 19.04.2018 under Section 18 of the 1963 Act 115. As the limitation period of three years prescribed by Article 55, if counted from 19 March 2016, expired before the date of commencement of the arbitral proceeding (i.e., 2 May 2019), we will have to consider whether, by virtue of acknowledgment, if any, the claimant was entitled to extension of the period of limitation. 116. Section 18108 of the 1963 Act deals with the effect of acknowledgement in writing. Sub-section (1) thereof provides that where, before the expiration of the prescribed period for a suit or application in respect of any right, an acknowledgement of liability in respect of such right has been made in writing signed by the party against whom such right is claimed, a fresh period of limitation shall be computed from the time when the acknowledgment was so signed. The Explanation to this section provides that an acknowledgment may be sufficient though it omits to specify the exact nature of the right or avers that the time for payment has not yet come or is accompanied by a refusal to pay, or is coupled with a claim to set off, or is addressed to a person other than a person entitled to the right. 117. In Khan Bahadur Shapoor Fredom Mazda v. Durga Prasad Chamaria and others109 while dealing with Section 19 of the 1908 Act, which is pari materia Section 18 of the 1963 Act, this Court held 108 See Footnote 73 109 [1962] 1 SCR 140 : AIR 1961 SC 1236 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 589 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. that for a valid acknowledgement, under the provision, the essential requirements are: (a) it must be made before the relevant period of limitation has expired; (b) it must be in regard to the liability in respect of the right in question; and (c) it must be made in writing and must be signed by the party against whom such right is claimed. In paragraph 6 of the , it was observed: “6. ….. The statement on which a plea of acknowledgement is based must relate to a present subsisting liability though the exact nature or the specific character of the said liability may not be indicated in words. Words used in the acknowledgment must, however, indicate the existence of jural relationship between the parties such as that of debtor and creditor, and it must appear that the statement is made with the intention to admit such jural relationship.