v. Rule 7 prohibits any import, export, manufacture, process or use of genetically engineered organisms except with the approval of the GEAC. It also provides that genetically engineered organisms for the purpose of research are only allowed in areas notified by the Ministry of Environment and Forests for this purpose under the EPA, 1986. vi. Rule 9 empowers the GEAC to grant special approval for deliberate release of genetically engineered organisms. vii. Rule 10 extends the requirement of approval of GEAC to all substances and products that contain genetically engineered organisms. viii. Rule 13 provides for stipulation of terms and conditions while granting approval including terms and conditions as to the control to be exercised by the applicant, supervision, restriction on use, the layout of the enterprise and as to the submission of information to the State Biosafety Co-ordination Committee (hereinafter referred to as ‘SBCC’) or to the District Level Committee (hereinafter referred to as ‘DLC’). It lays down the time period for GEAC approval (cannot exceed 4 years) and specific criteria wherein the GEAC can revoke approval 1874 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports granted for a genetically engineered organism. Rule 14 gives an authority to GEAC for supervising the implementation of the conditions laid down while granting approval. ix. Further, Rule 15 provides for penalties imposed for non- compliance of s. The DLC or SBCC is empowered to take actions against person who is responsible for non-compliance. In situations which require immediate interference, DLC or SBCC could take action even without issuing any or notice. DLC or SBCC are also empowered to take samples for a more detailed examination of organisms and cells and for these purposes, these Committees could take assistance from any Government authority. x. Rule 18 grants the GEAC and other committees, the power to carry out inspections. xi. Rule 19 allows for appeal from the any decision made by the GEAC or the SBCC to the Appellate Authority (as may be appointed by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (hereinafter referred to as ‘MoEFCC’) within 30 days of such decisions. 16. In furtherance of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity, which has been ratified by India, The Biological Diversity Act, 2002 came to be introduced into the statute book. The aim and objective of this Act is to provide for conservation of biological diversity and its sustainable use. S.36 of this Act directs the Central Government to take measures for protection of biological diversity, its resources and habitats from environmental degradation and neglect. 17. The Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 is aimed at laying down science based standards for articles of food and to ensure availability of safe and wholesome food for human consumption. S.22 provides that no person shall manufacture, distribute or import any genetically modified articles of food or other articles of food enumerated therein. Issues for Consideration 18. I have heard extensive arguments on both sides, Mr. Sanjay Parikh, Mr. Trideep Pais, learned senior counsel, learned Advocates-on- Record Mr. Prashant Bhushan and Dr. Ravindra Chingale for the Petitioners and, Mr. R. Venkatramani learned Attorney General, [2024] 7 S.C.R.