On this basis alone, the law deserves to be struck down, for with the passage of time, Article 14 springs into action and interdicts such law as being manifestly arbitrary. That legislation can be struck down on the ground of manifest arbitrariness is no longer open to any doubt, as has been held by this Court in Shayara Bano v. Union of India [Shayara Bano v. Union of India (2017) 9 SCC 1 : (2017) 4 SCC (Civ) 277] …” (Emphasis supplied) 178. In my considered opinion, the aforesaid departure of the scheme of Section 6A from the Constitutional and statutory framework and the prevalent international practice coupled with the absence of any temporal limits on the applicability of Section 6A has the effect of rendering it manifestly arbitrary and constitutionally invalid. 179. While the test of manifest arbitrariness entails a two-prong test which requires that first, there is a reasonable classification based on an intelligible differentia; and second that such classification 1216 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports has a rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved by such classification. The test of temporal unreasonableness, on the other hand, would involve a further examination into whether the aforesaid two prongs have continued to remain relevant with the passage of time. 180. Thus, the test of temporal unreasonableness would require examining the provision in two different time frames – first, when the provision was enacted, and second when such provision comes to be challenged on the ground of temporal unreasonableness. Even if a provision passes the two-prong test in the first time-frame, it may still fail the test in the subsequent time-frame if the efflux of time renders either the classification, or the object sought to be achieved by such classification, or both as arbitrary and thus violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. This could be said to be the third prong in the test of manifest arbitrariness under Article 14 as envisaged by the doctrine of temporal unreasonableness. G. Damage cauSeD By the Scheme of Section 6a 181. From the discussion above, it can be seen that the mechanism by which the implementation of Section 6A is to take place is riddled by two serious problems – absence of a temporal limit as to the period of application, and shifting of the onus of identification and detection of an immigrant as a foreigner on the state. 182. In my view, the absurd and faulty mechanism that has been prescribed under Section 6A of the Citizenship Act, constitutes the genesis of the controversy before us. The legislature, instead of providing for a one-time process to avail the benefits of Section 6A to all those who are eligible has instead provided a process where each immigrant of the 1966-71 category has to be first identified and then referred to the foreigners tribunal. The tribunal is then required to determine in each individual case whether the person referred is an illegal migrant, his date of entry in Assam, whether he is entitled to any benefits under Section 6A, etc.