Landlord-tenant disputes often make their way to this Court, and obviously, the payment of rent/mesne profit/occupation charges/ damages becomes, more often than not a matter of high contest. Determination, as alleged to have taken place by the petitioner, can take place at the instance of both the landlord and the tenant. Halsbury’s Laws of England 3rd Edn. Vol.23 defines ‘determination by landlord’ as follows : “The tenancy is impliedly determined by the landlord when he does any act on the premises which is inconsistent with [2024] 5 S.C.R. 867 Bijay Kumar Manish Kumar HUF v. Ashwin Bhanulal Desai the continuance of tenancy; for example, when he re-enters to take possession (b), or puts in a new tenant (c), or cuts down trees or carries away stone (d), the trees and stone not being excepted from the demise (e), and also when he does an act off the premises which is inconsistence with the tenancy, as when he conveys the reversion (f), or grants a lease of the premises to commence forthwith (g). An act done off the premises, however, does not determine the tenancy until the tenant has notice of it (h).” 16.1 According to the petitioner, as already taken note of above, the lease was ‘forfeited’ due to non-payment of rent. Forfeiture, as defined by Corpus Juris Secundum is “the right of the lessor to terminate a lease because of lessee’s breach of covenant or other wrongful act”. Further, it mentions as under : “The word as used in a lease does not, strictly speaking, refer to any right given to the lessee to terminate the lease. Accordingly, it has been held that provisions for forfeiture, cancelation or termination of a lease are usually inserted for the benefit of the lessor and because of some default on the part of the lessee. A forfeiture is in the nature of a penalty of doing of failing to do a particular thing, and results from failure to keep an obligation.” 16.2 It would also be useful to refer to the concept of tenant at sufferance. As defined in the very same treatise, such a tenant is a person who enters upon a land by lawful title,but continues in possession after the title has ended without statutory authority and without obtaining consent of the person then entitled. 16.3 Wharton’s Law Lexicon Seventeenth Edn. discusses ‘tenancy at sufferance’ in the following terms : “Sufferance, Tenancy at, This is the least and lowest estate which can subsist in realty. It is in strictness not an estate, but a mere possession only it arises when a person after his right to the occupation, under a lawful title, is at an end, continues (having no title at all) in possession of the land, without the agreement or disagreement of the person in whom 868 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the right of possession resides. Thus if A is a tenant for yes, and his terms expires, or is a tenant at will, and his lessor dies, and he continues in possession without the disagreement of the person who is entitled to the same, in the one and the other of these cases he said to have the possession by sufferance – that is, merely by permission or indulgence, without any right : the law esteeming it just and reasonable, and for the interest of the tenant, and also of the person entitled to the possession, to deem the occupation to be continued by the permission of the person who has the right, till it is proved that the tenant withholds the possession wrongfully, which the law will not presume.