[2024] 9 S.C.R. 383 Pune Municipal Corporation v. Sus Road Baner Vikas Manch and Others for renewal and the authorization, vide communication of the MPCB dated 4th May 2017, was renewed for a period of five years i.e. till 31st December 2021. It is submitted that, before the expiry of five years period which was to expire on 31st December 2021, the appellant- Corporation and the respondent-Concessionaire again applied for renewal of the authorization to set up and operate on 26th October 2021 and vide communication dated 3rd August 2022, the authorization to set up and operate was renewed till 31st July 2027. Not only that, but on 1st November 2022, consent to operate was also obtained as per notification dated 6th September 2021. The consent to operate has been further renewed till 30th September 2025. 14. Shri Nadkarni further submitted that the Joint Inspection Committee appointed by the learned Tribunal erroneously applied the 2016 Rules which did not apply to the GPP which was conceived and became functional prior to 2016. 15. Insofar as the finding of the learned Tribunal regarding buffer zone is concerned, Shri Nadkarni submitted that the said buffer zone of 500 meters is to be maintained from land fill sites and does not apply to Waste Segregation Plant. Shri Nadkarni further submitted that the continuation of the Project was in the larger public interest. It is submitted that the GPP processes the organic waste generated in the western part of the city i.e., Aundh, Baner, Kothrud, Sinhagad road and Katraj. It is submitted that, prior to commencement of the said Plant, the organic waste generated in the western part of the city was taken all the way to Hadapsar which is in the eastern part of the city. It is submitted that this led to foul odour and nuisance to public. It is therefore submitted that the impugned of the learned Tribunal rather than subserving in public interest, would be detrimental to the public interest. 16. Shri Nadkarni submitted that, in any case, in to address the concern of the respondents, the appellant-Corporation is in the process of installing portable compactors with hook lifting mechanism to ensure that the reject waste generated does not touch the ground. It is submitted that the tenders for the same have already awarded to one M/s Global Waste Management and the installation of the machinery would be completed by December 2024. He further submitted that the construction of shed to cover the reject area would also be completed by December 2024. Shri Nadkarni further submitted that the appellant-Corporation would construct bitumen road to the Waste 384 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Segregation Plant and concrete the Reject Area immediately. This will in turn enhance the clean transfer of waste and avoid accumulation of water around the Waste Segregation Plant. He submitted that though the appellant-Corporation desired to do it earlier, it could not be done since the appellant-Corporation was facing objections from protestors due to pendency of the present proceedings.