720 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 40. The counsel for the respondents contended that the aforesaid criteria formulated in 1991 was adopted by the State of Goa (Sawant and Karapurkar Committees) pursuant to the dated 12.12.1996 passed by this Court in T.N. Godavarman (supra), however, despite being aware of the same, the Appellant did not challenge it. The respondents further contend that the State of Goa, on 08.12.1997 issued a public notice, which delineated the following criteria for the purpose of classifying “Forest”: i. 75% of the tress composition should be forestry species. ii. The area should be contiguous to the Govt. Forest and if in isolation, the minimum area should be 5 ha. iii. Canopy density should not be less than 0.4. 41. The learned counsel for the respondents contended that the public notice dated 08.12.1997, has also not been challenged by the present appellants Further, the Appellant had an opportunity to challenge the same before this Court in Goa Foundation Case (supra)19, wherein it had raised grievances about the Karapurkar Committee report, however, it did not do so, and the said proceedings were thereafter disposed of as being infructuous on account of the filing of the Karapurkar report, by an dated 10.02.2006. 42. Further, the counsel for the respondents have contended that Civil Appeal is ex facie barred by res judicata inasmuch as the very party that has preferred the same had sought to revisit the criteria twice before and failed. The respondents have pointed out to us that the Appellant preferred a Writ Petition before the High Court of Bombay at Goa disputing the criteria so adopted, and its application to a housing project. In an appeal preferred against the same, this Court in Tata Housing Development Corporation v. Goa Foundation (2003) 11 SCC 714 strongly disapproved any departure from such criteria and adoption of a new criteria. 43. The learned counsel has submitted that this Court in Tata Housing (supra), after examining the reports of the Sawant Committee, recorded the genesis of the criteria, and also took note of its facets. Further, the learned counsel has laid emphasis on paragraph 13 of the 19 Writ Petition No. 181 of 2001. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 721 T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others judgement in Tata Housing (supra), wherein this Court disapproved the approach of the High Court in accepting a new criterion, in what it termed as giving a “complete go-by” to the existing criteria. Accordingly, the counsel for the respondents contends that in sum and substance the pre-existing criteria received the imprimatur of this Court in Tata Housing (supra), hence, the principle of Res Judicata would apply and the present challenge to the criteria for identification of Forest deserves to be dismissed on this ground alone. The relevant paragraph 13 has been extracted below: “13. From a bare perusal of the Third Interim Report, it would appear that the three criteria laid down in the Second Interim Report of the Sawant Committee have been given a complete go-by and in relation to the appellants’ plot altogether different criteria have been adopted.