c) Similarly, while interpreting the significance of a constitutional provision being subject to another in The South India Corporation (P) Ltd. vs. The Secretary, Board of Revenue Trivandrum, AIR 1964 SC 207 (“South India Corporation”), this Court observed that the expression “subject to” conveys the idea of a provision yielding place to another provision or other provisions to which it is made subject. d) Helpful reference may also be made to the import of “subject to” in legislative uses. In Ashok Leyland Ltd. vs. State of Tamil Nadu (2004) 3 SCC 1 (“Ashok Leyland Ltd.”) this Court held that “subject to” is an expression whereby a limitation is expressed. 13.4 Having noted as above, it is also crucial to examine the interplay between Entry 52 – List I, Entry 24 – List II and Entry 8 – List II. Entry 24 – List I is a regulatory Entry which provides State Legislatures with the competence to legislate on “industries” subject to Entry 7 – List I and Entry 52 – List I. In effect, Entry 52 – List I enables the Union to take an industry out of the legislative competence of States and bring it within Entry 52 – List I. In the instant cases, the primary question is whether there is any overlap between Entry 52 – List I and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2133 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Entry 8 – List II. In other words, is there any conflict between the exclusive competence of State Legislatures under Entry 8 – List II and the regulation of industries the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest under Entry 52 – List I? 13.4.1 It is a settled law that the meaning of “industries” in Entry 52 – List I and Entry 24 – List II is coextensive. Therefore, what is out of Entry 24 – List II will also not be within Entry 52 – List I. In that context, it has been contended before us that Entry 8 – List II is a unique Entry as it is not limited to only the product of “intoxicating liquors” but also takes within its sweep the “industry” of “intoxicating liquors”. It was also submitted that Entry 8 – List II unlike Entry 24 – List II is not subject to Entries in List – I and therefore the industry of “intoxicating liquors” is the exclusive domain of State Legislatures. The import of such a position is that if Entry 8 – List II is held to be both an industry-based and product-based Entry, the Entry would empower States to legislate on both the product of “intoxicating liquors” and production of the product as well. Furthermore, as Entry 8 – List II is not subject to Entry 52 – List I, the industry of “intoxicating liquors” will be out of Entry 24 – List II, and therefore, coextensively under Entry 52 – List I the Union would not have the legislative competence to legislate on what lies exclusively within Entry 8 – List II.