11.3.2 The aforesaid definition categorically indicates that movable and immovable properties are mutually exclusive. Thus, if it is found that these items are not immovable properties, these invariably can be treated as movable properties under Section 3(36) of the General Clause Act and thus will be “goods” within the meaning of Section 2(7) of the 1564 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Sale of Goods Act, 1930 and hence may qualify as “capital goods” within the meaning of Rule 2(a)(A) subject to fulfilling other conditions mentioned therein. 11.3.3 As to what is immovable property has been explained under Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 which specifies that “immovable property does not include standing timber, growing crops or grass”. 11.3.4 It has been also defined under Section 3(26) of the General Clauses Act, though not exhaustively, but in an inclusive manner by providing that “immovable property” shall include “land, benefits to arise out of land and things attached to the earth, or permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth”. 11.3.5 Therefore, we have to consider whether these items are attached to the earth or are permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth, for if these are found to be so, these will be immovable properties and hence cannot be “goods” and consequently, cannot be “capital goods” within the scope of the CENVAT Rules. 11.4 As to what amounts to “attached to earth” as mentioned under Section 3(26) of the General Clauses Act, has been explained under Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 to mean as rooted in the earth, as in the case of trees and shrubs; imbedded in the earth, as in the case of walls or buildings; or attached to what is so imbedded for the permanent beneficial enjoyment of that to which it is attached. 11.5 For easy reference, the aforesaid definition clauses of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 and the General Clauses Act, 1897 as may be relevant are reproduced below. Section 3(36) of the General Clauses Act. “movable property” shall mean property of every description, except immovable property; Section 3(26) of the General Clauses Act. “immovable property” shall include land, benefits to arise out of land, and things attached to the earth, [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1565 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune or permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth. Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act. “immovable property” does not include standing timber, growing crops or grass. Under Section 3 of the Transfer of Properties Act, “attached to the earth” means: (a) rooted in the earth, as in the case of trees and shrubs; (b) imbedded in the earth, as in the case of walls or buildings; or (c) attached to what is so imbedded for the permanent beneficial enjoyment of that to which it is attached. 11.6 From the above, it is now clear that if these items, namely towers and parts thereof and prefabricated buildings/shelters are considered to be “goods”, these cannot be immovable properties.