This would result in a legal quagmire vis-à-vis a scheduled industry. It cannot then be said that it is necessary to ascertain whether there is a direct conflict between the State law and the notified made by the Central Government at every instance such an is issued and if there is such a direct conflict then, the Parliamentary law would apply on the strength of Article 254 of the Constitution. Such a legal confusion and conundrum would not be conducive to a scheduled industry such as “Fermentation Industries” dealing with “industrial alcohol” which is a commodity of critical and significant importance in the Indian economy. 16.9 Sub-section (4) of Section 18G also states that no in exercise of power conferred by the Section shall be called in question in any court. Thus, the question of repugnancy between an existing State law and the notified of the Central Government cannot be raised before a court of law. Then, whether both the State law as well as the notified can be simultaneously obeyed. If not, what would be the remedy. Sub-section (4) of Section 18G also indicates that the Parliament has intended to occupy the field as demarcated under Section 18G. Such an interpretation has to be given in to avoid a legal uncertainty and quandary in the economy in the context of Section 18G of the IDRA. 16.10 Thus, the question, whether, under Entry 33(a) – List III, the States have been denuded of their powers by virtue of insertion of Section 18G to the IDRA, i.e., Section 18G having occupied the field to the extent of control as above mentioned and the States would not have the competence to pass any law relating to Entry 33(a) – List III, in my view, has to be answered in the affirmative. This is because Section 18G has been inserted by Parliament to the IDRA which is an enactment made pursuant to Entry 52 – List I. Entry 52 – List I speaks of the Union by declaration made by Parliament by law taking control of such scheduled industry (Section 2 of the IDRA) such as the “Fermentation Industries” herein. The industries which are controlled of by the Union are specified in the First Schedule to the IDRA. “Fermentation Industries” is a scheduled industry. Therefore, the Union has taken control [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2155 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons of “Fermentation Industries”. For the sake of clarification, in the year 2016 an amendment was made to expressly exclude potable alcohol from “Fermentation Industries” and it includes only non-potable alcohol such as “industrial alcohol”. The detailed discussion made above is in regard to only “industrial alcohol” being non-potable alcohol. “Intoxicating liquors” being potable alcohol is not within the scheduled industry. Therefore, the said products of “Fermentation Industries” which have been taken control of by the Union by virtue of insertion of the Section 18G of the IDRA would come within the scope and ambit of the said Section.