These allegations, prima facie, do not reveal the commission of an offence under Section 18 of the 1967 Act. 33. KW-2 has found her to be present in the office of another co-accused Surendra, when he was being convinced by Surendra to join CPI (Maoist), but her mere presence on the spot, by itself, would not constitute an offence of recruiting any person or persons for a terrorist act, as specified in Section 18 thereof. As regards the statement of KW-3, he claims to have met the appellant in 2007-08 during her lectures on communist ideology and party-functioning of CPI (Maoist) at Nagpur. At that point of time, CPI (Maoist) had not been included in the First Schedule of the 1967 Act enumerating terrorist organisations. It came to be banned on 22.06.2009, as we have already specified. Kumarasai, i.e. KW-4 in his third statement recorded on 24.08.2020 has only stated she is an urban Naxal working for CPI (Maoist). On this thin thread, we cannot apply the rigors of Section 43D (5) of the 1967 Act against her. Apart from that, there is no evidence that she was a member of CPI (Maoist). There are no specific materials or statements produced by the prosecution which attribute acts of recruitment in banned organization by the appellant. Thus, at this 4 18. Punishment for conspiracy, etc.—Whoever conspires or attempts to commit, or advocates, abets, advises or incites, directs or knowingly facilitates the commission of, a terrorist act or any act preparatory to the commission of a terrorist act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. 300 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports stage, we cannot form an opinion that the accusation against her under Section 18-B5 of the 1967 Act is prima facie true. 34. So far as the allegation of prosecution of the appellant being member of frontal organisation of CPI (Maoist), reference has been made to RDF, IAPL, CPDR, AGMC and KKM. But apart from mere allegations that these are frontal organizations of CPI (Maoist), no credible evidence has been produced before us through which these organisations can be connected to the aforesaid banned terrorist organization. Thus, the offence under Section 20 of the 1967 Act relating to membership of a terrorist organisation which is involved in a terrorist act, cannot be made out against the appellant at this stage, on the basis of materials produced before us. Relying on the judgement of this Court in the case of Vernon (supra), we have already dealt with the position of the appellant vis-à-vis terrorist acts in the earlier paragraphs of this judgement and we prima facie do not think that Section 206 of the 1967 Act can be made applicable against the appellant at this stage of the proceeding based on the available materials. 35. The next set of allegations against her to bring her case within the bail restricting provisions relates to offences specified under Chapter VI of 1967 Act.