1) who was her brother-in-law (devar) and his wife Naeema (accused No.2). Naeem (accused No.3) is Naeema’s brother. The prosecution case is that, after the death of the husband of the deceased, the accused/appellants started pressuring her into entering the profession of immoral trafficking and prostitution. As the deceased did not concede to the same, she was physically and sexually assaulted and asked to vacate the house. On the day of the incident at about 01:30 pm, the accused/appellants caught hold of the deceased and poured kerosene on her. Pappi @ Mashkoor (accused No.1) and Naeema (accused No.2) ignited the matchstick and threw it at her. Thereafter, the accused/appellants surrounded her so that she could not escape. On being set ablaze, the deceased ran out of the house whereafter her neighbours put out the fire and informed her mother and brother namely, Islam @ Babli (PW-2) who took her to the hospital. This version of events was brought out in the complaint made by the deceased which was transcribed by Faisal Zamal (PW-3). On the basis of PW-3’s written report, bearing the thumb impression of the deceased, the FIR came to be registered at 08:15 pm on 1st December 2016. Thereafter, on the same day, between 08:48 pm and 09:15 pm, PW-5 recorded the dying declaration of the deceased (Ext. Ka-6) wherein she stated that there was an outstanding dispute between her and Pappi @ Mashkoor (accused No.1) with regards to the partition of their shared residence. On the date of the incident at about 12:30 pm, another quarrel broke out between the deceased and the accused/appellants, during which accused No.1 poured kerosene on the deceased and set her ablaze. He was accompanied and assisted by his wife Naeema (accused No.2) and Naeem, brother of Naeema (accused No.3). She was taken to the District Hospital, Moradabad by her brother Islam @ Babli (PW-2) and thereafter shifted to Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi, where she eventually succumbed to her injuries. 40 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2.3. After completion of the investigation, a charge-sheet came to be filed before the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Moradabad. Since the case was exclusively triable by the Sessions Court, the same came to be committed to the learned Sessions Judge. 2.4. Charges came to be framed by the learned Sessions Judge for the offences punishable under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC. The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 2.5. The prosecution examined 8 witnesses to bring home the guilt of the accused persons. While Papi @ Mashkoor (accused No.1) took the defence that he was absent from the spot of the incident at the relevant time and that the deceased had committed suicide since she was depressed after the death of her husband, Naeema (accused No.2) and Naeem (accused No.3) set up the defence of bare denial. The defence did not lead any evidence. 2.6. At the conclusion of the trial, the trial court found that the prosecution had proved the case against the accused/appellants beyond reasonable doubt and accordingly convicted them for offences punishable under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and sentenced them to undergo imprisonment for life along with fine.