As noted by this Court in In Re Natural Resources, Article 39(b) only lays down a restriction on the object of the distribution, i.e. that it must be to subserve the ‘common good’. However, there is no bar on the mode of distribution. 228. In some cases, the mere vesting of the resource in the hands of the government serves the ‘common good’, while in other cases, a resource may be distributed amongst private players to achieve this purpose. To illustrate, a large privately owned pond may be acquired and put in control of a governmental agency or a cooperative society so that the pond is preserved. Similarly, the material resource of spectrum may be auctioned to the highest bidder who may be a private company, who would then utilize the spectrum along with their technology to best subserve the common good. These are questions of economic and social policy which fall outside the ambit of judicial inquiry. As noted above, this Court must not tread into the domain of economic policy, or endorse a particular economic ideology while undertaking constitutional interpretation. To hold that the term “distribution” cannot encompass the vesting of a private resource would amount to falling into the same error as the Justice Krishna Iyer doctrine, i.e. to lay down a preference of economic and social policy. E. Conclusion 229. In a nutshell, the answers arrived at by this Court to the reference before us may be summarised in the following terms: a. Article 31C to the extent that it was upheld in Kesavananda Bharati v Union of India remains in force; b. The majority in Ranganatha Reddy expressly distanced itself from the observations made by Justice Krishna [2024] 11 S.C.R. 181 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Iyer (speaking on behalf of the minority of judges) on the interpretation of Article 39(b). Thus, a coequal bench of this Court in Sanjeev Coke erred by relying on the minority opinion; c. The single-sentence observation in Mafatlal to the effect that ‘material resources of the community’ include privately owned resources is not part of the ratio decidendi of the judgement. Thus, it is not binding on this Court; d. The direct question referred to this bench is whether the phrase ‘material resources of the community’ used in Article 39(b) includes privately owned resources. Theoretically, the answer is yes, the phrase may include privately owned resources. However, this Court is unable to subscribe to the expansive view adopted in the minority judgement authored by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy and subsequently relied on by this Court in Sanjeev Coke. Not every resource owned by an individual can be considered a ‘material resource of the community’ merely because it meets the qualifier of ‘material needs’; e. The inquiry about whether the resource in question falls within the ambit of Article 39(b) must be context-specific and subject to a non-exhaustive list of factors such as the nature of the resource and its characteristics; the impact of the resource on the well-being of the community; the scarcity of the resource; and the consequences of such a resource being concentrated in the hands of private players.