5.4. Following the investment, according to HSBC, the appellants ceased to provide any information regarding the contract with BBC, despite numerous follow-up attempts. At this stage, HSBC engaged their independent investigation agency, where it was discovered that the purported BBC Contract was non- existent and the invested amount was siphoned off to different Companies. 5.5. On 11.05.2012, HSBC invoked the arbitration clause under the SIAC Rules and claimed damages of US$ 60 million from the appellants. On 14.5.2012, SIAC Appointed Mr. Thio Shen Yi, SC as an Emergency Arbitrator. On 17.5.2012, the appellants’ challenge to the appointment of the Emergency Arbitrator was considered by SIAC & Rejected. On 28.05.2012 and 29.5.2012, the emergency arbitrator passed two interim Awards, in favour of HSBC inter alia, directing the appellants to refrain from disposing of/diminishing the value of their assets upto US$ 50 million. On 27.7.2012, the Emergency Arbitrator made an amendment to Interim Awards granting further relief to HSBC by rejecting to desist investigations against Avitel Dubai and Avitel Mauritius. 978 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 5.6. According to HSBC, the appellants made several attempts to delay and frustrate the proceedings. The arbitral tribunal consisted of three members. Mr. Christopher Lau, SC, was the Chairman, while Justice F.I. Rebello (retired) and Dr. Michael Pryles were members of the arbitral tribunal. On 27.09.2014, the tribunal rendered its final award and directed the appellants to pay US$ 60 million as damages for fraudulent misrepresentations. 5.7. The respondent had initiated proceedings under Section 9 of the Indian Arbitration Act before the Bombay High Court. A direction was issued to the appellants to deposit US$ 60 million for the purpose of enforcement of the Award. Aggrieved by the same, the appellants filed a Special Leave Petition before this Court where it was contended, inter alia, that the dispute is non-arbitrable under Indian law as it involved allegations of fraud which included serious criminal offenses such as forgery and impersonation. Settling the law on the arbitrability of fraud, this Court in the earlier round in Avitel Post Studioz v HSBC PI Holdings1, held that the dispute was arbitrable and that HSBC had a strong prima facie case in the enforcement proceedings, in the context of Section 9 proceedings in which HSBC had sought maintenance of the entire claim amount in Avitel’s bank account. 5.8. Since the appellants failed to abide by the direction given by this Court to deposit the amount, a contempt proceeding was initiated against them. On 11.07.2022, this Court found that Avitel had deliberately and willfully disobeyed its and hence, the appellants were directed to remain present before this Court. The Appellant Nos.2 to 4 however went abroad defying the direction given by this Court, as a result of which, warrants and look-out notices were also issued, with a further direction to the Ministry of External Affairs and Central Bureau of Investigation for issuance of Red-Corner Notice. Ultimately, appellant Nos.2 to 4 surrendered and despite tendering an unconditional apology, this Court refused to accept the same and for their conduct, appellant Nos.