111. The majority opinion, though extensive, seems to have created an existential impasse, akin to the Chakravyuh orchestrated by Dronacharya. While it is mentioned in paragraph 73 of the revised draft opinion that “Article 30(1) cannot extend to a situation where the minority community which establishes an educational institution has no intention to administer it”, it has been opined at paragraph 156 (could also be 155) that “In the preceding sections we have held that establishment by a minority is the only indicia for a minority educational institution”. To my mind, these two positions create an inherent contradiction which is as perplexing to solve as the Chakravyuh was for Abhimanyu, inasmuch as it lays out mutually exclusive positions of law which cannot possibly co-exist. In view thereof, a question comes to my mind that if a minority community establishes an educational institution and thereafter abandons its administration to rank outsiders, can such an institution be said to merit protection under Article 30(1), if establishment is the only indicium, as held in the majority opinion? From the paradoxical legal test laid out above, the answer remains elusive. 1904 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports entry 63 of lIst I 112. There is yet another issue that demands attention: what is the impact of including AMU in List I, Entry 6347 of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, and what are the implications of its designation as ‘institution of national importance’? 113. Apart from AMU, BHU also finds pride of place in Entry 63. Respect and honour, in equal measure, as well as equal status as institutions of national importance were bestowed on these two universities (having religious imprint in their respective titular description), which were established by the end of the second decade of the century in which India attained independence from colonial rule, mandating that it is Parliament which can exercise its legislative authority over them without any constraints or qualifications. 114. When the Constitution was being drafted, AMU was not remotely relatable to being considered as a minority institution. The framers of the Constitution proceeded on that basis and included AMU in Entry 63 of List I not only as an institution in respect whereof laws could be framed by the Parliament but also, by necessary implication, designated AMU as an institution of national importance. 115. A brief reference to the Constituent Assembly Debates would be apt at this stage. While deliberating on Entry 63 (originally Entry 40, List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Draft Constitution of India), Mr. Naziruddin Ahmad remarked: “I have slightly altered my amendment to suit the change introduced by Dr. Ambedkar in his own amendment. I submit that Dr. Ambedkar’s amendment would unduly enlarge the jurisdiction of the Centre and many things which would be otherwise cognizable by the Provinces would now, by virtue of the words which I seek to delete, be included within the jurisdiction of the Centre. The Banares Hindu University and the Aligarh Muslim University have been regarded from their very inception as institutions of a national character and importance and therefore they 47 63.