This Court has also articulated the right to self-determination in National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India.263 Choice and autonomy are the vocabulary in which self-determination is exercised. This court held that the right to self-determination which is protected under Article 21 of the Constitution includes the right of a person to determine their gender. The meaningful realisation of this right assumes that the underlying conditions in the society are feasible for its free exercise. This Court in NALSA (supra) has held that the right to self-determination is an integral part of personal autonomy and self-expression and falls within the realm of personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 181. A nine-Judge Bench of this Court in KS Puttaswamy (Privacy-9J) v. Union of India,264 held that the fundamental right to privacy connotes the right to spatial control, decisional autonomy, and information control. This Court held that privacy is an essential aspect of dignity and protects the ability to make choices for oneself. This Court has conclusively held that personal aspects of life, including family, marriage, procreation and sexual orientation are intrinsic to the dignity of an individual and enjoys protection under Article 21. From this emerges the ability of a person to retain autonomy of their body and mind. 182. The Court held that liberty enables the individual to have a choice of preferences on various facets of life including what and how one 263 [2014] 5 SCR 119 : (2014) 5 SCC 438 264 [2017] 10 SCR 569 : (2017) 10 SCC 1 at 298 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1605 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. will eat, the way one will dress, the faith one will espouse and a myriad other matters on which autonomy and self-determination require a choice to be made within the privacy of the mind. In Anuj Garg v. Hotel Association of India,265 a three-Judge Bench of this court held that the right to self-determination is an integral offshoot of gender justice discourse. Justice SB Sinha speaking for the Court held that the law and its enforcement strategies must reflect the right of women to freedom. 183. Despite the enactment of the PCMA, the abysmal number of prosecutions and the continued existence of the practice violates the essence of this Court’s holding. These rights and values are equally iterated in international law to which India owes an obligation. B. Right to health 184. The right to reproductive freedom which we have traced above is part of the constellation of rights in which the right to the health of a person also finds its place. Article 21 of the Constitution guarantees the right to life and personal liberty. Neither of these elements could be completely fulfilled without the ability of individuals to lead a healthy life. Our Constitution recognises the right to health as an inalienable aspect of the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21.266 Women who are married young are forced to bear children earlier in life.