86 According to Robert Alexy, the ‘Law of Balancing’ is as follows: “...the greater the degree of non- satisfaction of, or detriment to, one principle, the greater must be the importance of satisfying the other...” See Robert Alexy, A Theory of Constitutional Rights (Julian Rivers, trans. Oxford Univ. Press 2002). 87 For instance, in Canada, where the doctrine of proportionality is employed by courts, a cabinet directive requires the standard to be incorporated into law-making. These guidelines stipulate that prior to enactment of laws, the matter and its alternate solutions must be analysed, the relevant ministerial department should engage in consultation with those who have an interest in the matter, and they should analyse the impact of the proposed solution. See Cabinet Directive on Law-making in Guide to Making Federal Acts and Regulations (2nd edn, Government of Canada). [2024] 2 S.C.R. 588 Digital Supreme Court Reports determined. Nevertheless, many of the constitutional courts have employed the balancing stage ‘normatively’®® by examining the weight of the seriousness of the right infringement against the urgency of the factors that justify it. Examination under the first three stages requires the court to first examine scientific evidence, and where such evidence is inconclusive or does not exist and cannot be developed, reason and logic apply. We shall subsequently be referring to the balancing prong during our application of the test of proportionality. 34. In Germany, the courts enjoy a high judicial discretion. The parliament and the judiciary in Germany have the same goal, that is, to realise the values of the German Constitution.®® Canadian courts, some believe, in practice give wider discretion to the legislature when a restriction is backed by sufficient data and evidence. *° The constitutional court in South Africa, as per some jurists, collectively applies the four prongs of proportionality instead of a structured application.°' While proportionality is the predominant doctrine in Australia, an alternate calibrated scrutiny test is applied by a few judges. It is based on the premise that a contextual, instead of broad standard of review, is required to be adopted for constitutional adjudication. 35. Findings of empirical legal studies provide a more solid foundation for normative reasoning®? and enhance understanding of the relationship between means and ends. In our view, proportionality analyses would be more accurate when empirical inquiries on causal relations between a legislative measure under review and the ends of such a measure are considered. It also leads to better and more democratic governance. While one cannot jump from “is” to “ought”, to reach an “ought” conclusion, one has to rely on accurate knowledge of “is”, for “is” and “ought” to be united. While we emphasise the need 88 The first and second steps, legitimate aim and rational connection prong, and to some extent necessity prong, are factual. 89 See Article 1 and 20, Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany. 90 Niels Petersen, ‘Proportionality and judicial Activism: Fundamental Rights Adjudication in Canada, Germany and South Africa, (CUP 2017). 91 Ibid. 92 See Annexure A.