Reference can be made to Rohith Thammana Gowda v. State of Karnataka and others’ case (supra). It was held as under: “13. We have stated earlier that the question ‘what is the wish/desire of the child’ can be ascertained through interaction, but then, the question as to ‘what would be the best interest of the child’ is a matter to be decided by the court taking into account all the relevant circumstances. A careful scrutiny of the impugned would, however, reveal that even after identifying the said question rightly the High Court had swayed away from the said point and entered into consideration of certain aspects not relevant for the said purpose. We will explain the raison d’etre for the said remark.” 17. In the case in hand, vide dated 12.12.2023, we had called the child in Court. We had interacted with the child, the appellants and respondent No. 2 individually in chamber. We found the child to be quite intelligent, who could understand her welfare. She categorically stated that she is happy with the family where she has been brought up. She has other brother and sister. She is having cordial relations with them. She does not wish to be destabilized. 18. The in Tejaswani Gaud v. Shekhar Jagdish Prasad Tewari’s case (supra), relied upon by learned counsel for respondent No. 2 does not come to her rescue for the reason that age of the child in that case was merely five years. It is a case which lays down guidelines as to how custody of the child is to be handed over. 19. The fact that appellant No. 1, when custody of the child was handed over to her, was un-married and is now married having two children will also not be a deterrent for this Court to come to the conclusion that best interest of the child still remains with the appellant No. 2 22 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports as the child is living with her ever since she was 3-4 months old and is now about 14 years of age having no doubt in her mind that she wishes to live with them. 20. In view of our aforesaid discussions, we find that the welfare of the child lies with her custody with the appellants and respondent No. 10. This is coupled with the fact that even she also wishes to live there. Keeping in view her age at present, she is capable of forming an opinion in that regard. She was quite categoric in that regard when we interacted with her. She cannot be treated as a chattel at the age of 14 years to hand over her custody to the respondent No.2, where she has not lived ever since her birth. Stability of the child is also of paramount consideration. 21. The appeal is accordingly allowed. The impugned passed by the High Court is set aside, as a result of which the writ petition filed by respondent No. 2 in the High Court is dismissed.