(vi) The State Government had acquired 5,000 (five thousand) acres of land in various villages in Ranga Reddy District for Information Technology projects, Biotech Park, Apparel Park, Discovery City and Hardware Park etc. The landowners were poor agriculturists who were paid meagre amounts when their lands were acquired. The land is now being transferred to the privileged section of the society without a public auction, on payment of an amount which is much less than the market value. While the allottees will become rich overnight, the villagers and the agriculturists who were the erstwhile owners of the land, 1396 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports along with the general public and the society, will be denied the benefits of the surged land prices. (vii) Past allotments, if any, made contrary to law, would not justify allotments in the present date, if the same were in violation of the rule of law and Article 14 of the Constitution of India. While the State is entitled to frame and take policy decisions, such decisions cannot be arbitrary and violate the principles of equity and fairness. The Constitution of India does not vest absolute discretion with the Executive. Public interest is the paramount consideration. Land, including property, should be sold and disposed of by public auction or by inviting tender. It is the duty of the court, as a policy, to set the wrong right, and not allow perpetuation of the wrongdoing. (viii) Land in the concerned area is scarce, as is accepted by the Cooperative Societies, its members and others. This cannot be a reason to make preferential allotment to a select few who are the privileged or better off members of our society. Allotment of government land to such members is contrary to public interest, when a considerable portion of the population of the State lives below the poverty line, struggling for basic amenities, and is without shelter. The impugned land allotment policy is a cloaked attempt of the Executive at the aggrandisement of certain privileged groups such as bureaucrats, Judges, journalists etc. (ix) Allotment of individual housing plots to persons belonging to weaker sections of the society in Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy district was prohibited by the Government Memo dated 17.11.2004 on the ground that there is paucity and dearth of government land in those areas. Construction of only G+3 multi-storeyed flats was allowed. However, in case of the respondents, except for Respondent No. 1 – M/S Campaign for Housing and Tenural Rights (CHATRI) in C.A. No. 3792/2011, all Cooperative Societies have been allowed to make allotment of plots to its members. No principle has been followed and there is no justification for taking the said decision, which is without any rhyme or reason. (x) Reliance placed upon the 1975 Rules is misplaced as they do not have any application. Allotment of housing sites is governed by Assignment of House Sites in Villages & Towns in Telangana [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1397 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J.