Digital Supreme Court Reports contended that no such complaint was made in the last seven years about any such threats being administered and even on 18.03.2017 when the respondent no. 1 (PW-2) along with her brothers PW-3 and PW-4 were examined, no such complaint was made. The accused further averred that further investigation cannot be ed at the post cognizance stage either suo moto or at the instance of victims/complainants and it can only be done at the behest of the investigating agency. The accused further averred that after the section 311 Cr.P.C. petition, namely, Crl. O.P. (MD) No. 18701 of 2019 was dismissed even Section 313 Cr.P.C. examination had been concluded and thereafter the accused had concluded oral arguments and filed written arguments. So contending, they had prayed for the dismissal of the petition for further investigation. 20. The State also opposed the application stating that the case has been investigated properly and charge-sheet filed; that the respondent no. 1 has recorded her statement and her earlier application to examine additional witnesses has been dismissed and that the present application is only with an intent to drag the proceeding. 21. The trial court dismissed the petition for further investigation by its of 23rd July, 2020. The trial court held that the respondent no. 1 (PW-2) in her examination on 18.03.2017 in court did not speak anything as to about what she is mentioning now in the application. That final report was filed as early as on 11.07.2013 and if her contention is correct, she would have filed a petition for further investigation at that very time. The trial court further held that further investigation cannot be ed at the post cognizance stage either suo moto or at the instance of victims/complainants or at the instance of anyone else except the investigating agency and that the petition was only filed to prolong the proceeding. 22. The respondent No. 1 filed a criminal revision before the High Court to which the accused filed a counter reiterating the contentions. By the impugned , without any discussion whatsoever and holding the following in the operative portion, the High Court allowed the application: “10. It is seen that an opportunity to examine additional witness was not given by this Court on the ground that the petitioner has not filed a petition for further investigation. In the above circumstances, dening (sic.) a relief of further [2024] 10 S.C.R. 9 K. Vadivel v. K. Shanthi & Ors. investigation may cause prejudice to the petitioner. It is stated that P.W.1 turned hostile. This is a murder case. For the above reasons, it is decided that further investigation is necessary. The passed in Crl.M.P.No.40 of 2020 in S.C.No.61 of 2014 dated 23.07.2020 on the file of the learned Additional District Judge, Pudukottai is set aside. The investigation agency is hereby directed to take up the case for further investigation and to complete the investigation, after examining all the witnesses referred by the petitioner and to file a additional chargesheet within a period of three months.