2.5.3. In case of extension occurring due to reasons specified in clause 2.5.1 (a), any of the dates specified therein can be extended, subject to the condition that the Scheduled Commissioning Date would not be extended by more than 6 (six) months. … 2.5.6. As a result of such extension, the Scheduled Commissioning Date and the Expiry Date newly determined date shall be deemed to be the Scheduled Commissioning Date and the Expiry Date for the purposes of this Agreement. 2.5.7. Liquidated damages for delay in commencement of supply of power to BESCOMs. Subject to the other provisions of this agreement, if the SPD is unable to commence supply of power to BESCOM by the scheduled commissioning date, the SPD shall pay to BESCOM, liquidated damages for the delay in such commencement of supply of power as follows: (a) For the delay up to one month-amount equivalent to 20% of the performance security. (b) For the delay of more than one month up to three months-amount equivalent to 40% of the performance security. (c) For the delay of more than three months up to six months-amount equivalent to 100% of the performance security. For avoidance of doubt, in the event of failure to pay the above mentioned damages by the SPD, the BESCOM entitled to encash the performance Security.” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1041 Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited v. Hirehalli Solar Power Project LLP & Others Article 5: Rates and Charges: “5.1 Tariff payable: The SPD shall be entitled to receive the Tariff of Rs. 8.40 per kwh based on the KERC tariff S/03/1 dated 10.10.2013 in respect of SPD’s Solar PV projects in terms of this agreement for the period between COD and the Expiry Date. However, subject to Clause 2.5, if there is a delay in commissioning of the Project beyond the Scheduled Commissioning Date and during such period such period there is a variation in the KERC Tariff, then the applicable Tariff for the projects shall be the lower of the following: (i) Rs.8.40 per kwh (ii) varied tariff applicable as on the date of Commercial Operation…” Article 8: Force Majeure “8.3 Force Majeure Events: a) Neither Party shall be responsible or liable for or deemed in breach hereof because of any delay or failure in the performance of its obligations hereunder (except for obligations to pay money due prior to occurrence of Force Majeure events under this Agreement) or failure to meet milestone dates due to any event or circumstance (a “Force Majeure Event”) beyond the reasonable control of the Party affected by such delay or failure, including the occurrence of any of the following: i. Acts of God; ii. Typhoons, floods, lightning, cyclone, hurricane, drought, famine, epidemic, plague or other natural calamities; iii. Strikes, work stoppages, work slowdowns or other labor dispute which affects a Party’s ability to perform under this Agreement; iv. Acts of war (whether declared or undeclared), invasion or civil unrest; v. Any requirement, action or omission to act pursuant to any or of any court or judicial authority in 1042 [2024] 8 S.C.R.