Zahoor Ahmed was very much alive when the consolidation operation had commenced in the village. Though he filed objections and had the full opportunity to dispute the relinquishment deed, he did not do so. There was no evidence on record to show that execution of the relinquishment deed was ever disputed by Zahoor Ahmed. On the contrary, the stand of Zahoor Ahmed all along was that after the death of his father, he was brought up by his uncle Abdul Ghafoor; after attaining the age of majority, he might have executed the said relinquishment deed. In the writ proceedings, appellants had contended that they did not admit the genuineness and the binding nature of the relinquishment deed. But such contentions were rejected by the High Court on the ground that Zahoor Ahmed during his entire lifetime at no point of time had disputed the said relinquishment deed. Even otherwise also, the High Court found that said plots were exclusively recorded in the names of the respondents which would go to show that Abdul Shakoor had surrendered his right and title in favour of Abdul Ghafoor. In view of the above, High Court opined that the finding recorded by the Deputy Director of Consolidation in revision was justified and called for no interference. 14.8. As regards plot No. 115 of Khata No. 100, High Court noted that all the three authorities below had rejected the claim of the appellants holding that the said land belongs to the respondents exclusively. Learned counsel for the appellants also did not press the writ petition with regard to the said plot. That being the position, High Court found no merit in Civil Misc. Writ Petition No. 6635 of 1974 and the same was accordingly dismissed. 14.9. In so far Writ Petition No. 18 of 1975 filed by the respondents is concerned, the challenge was to the finding of co-tenancy recorded by all the authorities below with respect to Khata Nos. 1868 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 98 and 99 holding that Abdul Ghafoor had half share therein. Respondents (petitioners in Writ Petition No. 18 of 1975) placed reliance on a lease deed dated 07.05.1922 executed by Fateh Bahadur and Jagat Narayan Singh in favour of Abdul Ghafoor and Mohammad mentioning their respective shares : Abdul Ghafoor had 5/6 share and Mohammad had 1/6 share. On the death of Mohammad, his share devolved on Zahoor Ahmed to the extent of 1/12 share and the remaining 11/12 share devolved on the respondents. The said patta (lease) was rejected by the Consolidation Officer on the ground that at the relevant time, Zahoor Ahmed was a minor and that the lease had not seen the light of the day nor was it proved. In appeal, the appellate authority held that though the patta (lease) was executed by two persons, it was signed by only one person i.e. Fateh Bahadur. High Court considered the lease deed dated 07.05.1922 and noted that land was taken by two persons, viz, Abdul Ghafoor, son of Allah Bux and Mohammad, son of Satai.