Nothing is to be done which creates even a suspicion that there has been an improper interference with the course of justice. Speaking for myself, I accept the statements contained in the Justices’ affidavit, but they show very clearly that the deputy clerk was connected with the case in a capacity which made it right that he should scrupulously abstain from referring to the matter in any way, although he retired with the Justices; in other words, his one position was such that he could not, if he had been required to do so, discharge the duties which his other position involved. His twofold position was a manifest contradiction. In those circumstances I am satisfied that this conviction must be quashed, unless it can be shown that the applicant or his solicitor was aware of the point that might be taken, refrained from taking it, and took his chance of an acquittal on the facts, and then, on a conviction being recorded, decided to take the point. 172 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. In the case of R Vs. Camborne JJ, ex parte Pearce, (1955) 1 QB 41 the QB observed that ‘real likelihood was the proper test and that a real likelihood of bias had to be made to appear not only from the materials in fact ascertained by the party complaining, but from such further facts as he might readily have ascertained and easily verified in the course of his inquiries’ The question arose before the QB was “… ‘What interest in a judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding does the law regard as sufficient to incapacitate a person from adjudicating or assisting in adjudicating on it upon the ground of bias or appearance of bias?” After discussing various judgements, it was held that – “In the of this Court the right test is that prescribed by Blackburn, J., namely, that to disqualify a person from acting in a judicial or quasi-judicial capacity upon the ground of interest (other than pecuniary or proprietary) in the subject-matter of the proceeding, a real likelihood of bias must be shown. This Court is further of opinion that a real likelihood of bias must be made to appear not only from the materials in fact ascertained by the party complaining, but from such further facts as he might readily have ascertained and easily verified in the course of his inquiries.” In the present case, for example, the facts relied on in the applicant’s statement under RSC 59 Rule 3(2), might create a more sinister impression than the full facts as found by this Court, all or most of which would have been available to the applicant had he pursued his inquiries upon learning that Mr Thomas was a member of the Cornwall County Council, and none of these further facts was disputed at the hearing of this motion. The frequency with which allegations of bias have come before the courts in recent times seems to indicate that Lord Hewart’s reminder in Sussex JJ case [(1924) 1 KB 256: 1923 All ER Rep 233] that it is of fundamental importance that justice should not only be done, but [2024] 4 S.C.R.