mt. The High Court further held that it was not open to them to claim any damages, having accepted the smaller plot allotted to them under the varied scheme and the compensation for the shortfall of 974 sq. mts. @ ₹25/- per sq. mt. without protest. The High Court, accordingly, concluded that the cross-objection deserved to be dismissed. It is on this basis that [2024] 6 S.C.R. 607 Mrugendra Indravadan Mehta and Others v. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation the High Court allowed the first appeal filed by the Corporation and dismissed the cross-objection of the plaintiffs. 18. Before we proceed further, it would be apposite to take note of the statutory milieu pertinent to this case and the case law relevant thereto. Chapter 5 of the Act of 1976 is titled ‘Town Planning Schemes’ and comprises Sections 40 to 76. Section 40 deals with the making and the contents of a Town Planning Scheme and empowers the appropriate authority to make one or more Town Planning Scheme(s) for a development area. Section 40(3) states that a Town Planning Scheme may make provision for the matters enumerated in clauses (a) to (m) thereunder. Clause (jj) therein was, however, substituted with effect from 01.05.1999. Clause (a) refers to laying out or re- laying out of land, either vacant or already built upon, while clause (d) relates to the construction, alteration and removal of buildings, bridges and other structures. Clause (e) relates to the allotment or ear-marking of land for roads, open spaces, gardens, recreation grounds, schools, markets, green-belts, dairies, transport facilities and public purposes of all kinds. Section 41 requires the appropriate authority, in consultation with the Chief Town Planner, to declare its intention to make a Town Planning Scheme in respect of a particular area and, within 21 days from the date of such declaration, publish the same in the prescribed manner and dispatch a copy thereof to the State Government, along with a plan showing the area which it proposes to include in the Town Planning Scheme. A copy of such plan shall be open to public inspection at the office of the appropriate authority. Section 42 deals with the making and publication of a draft scheme and states that, within 9 months from the date of declaration of intention under Section 41, the appropriate authority shall make a draft scheme of the area in respect of which the said declaration was made and publish the same in the Official Gazette along with the draft regulations for carrying out the provisions of the scheme. Section 44 details the contents of the draft scheme and provides that it should contain the particulars enumerated under Clauses (a) to (h). Clause (a) pertains to the area, ownership and tenure of each original plot while clause (b) relates to the particulars of land allotted or reserved under Section 40(3)(e). Clause (c) relates to the extent to which it is proposed to alter the boundaries of the original plot and clause (e) requires a full description of all the details of the scheme under Section 40(3), as may be applicable.