Act be taken against the senior police officers who are responsible for the same……” 33. After recording thus, the learned Special Judge has given its findings in paragraph 50 which are reproduced hereinabove. It is thus clear that the learned Special Judge recorded the findings against the appellant as well as the other police officers without even issuing notice to them. 34. The facts in the present case are somewhat similar to the facts which fell for consideration before this Court in the case of State of West Bengal and Others v. Babu Chakraborthy.10 In the said case, the accused persons were convicted for an offence punishable under the NDPS Act. In the appeal preferred by them, while allowing the appeal, the High Court made several strictures and observations against two officers of the West Bengal Police in an IPS Cadre. In the said case also, the allegations against the said officers were with regard to violation of provisions of Section 42 of the NDPS Act. This Court, after considering various earlier s, observed thus: “30. Replying to the arguments of Mr Viswanathan, Mr Tapash Ray, learned Senior Counsel submitted that the operating portion of the impugned clearly brings out the perversity in the . According to him, the strictures that have been passed against the appellants by the Division Bench of the High Court are wholly unjustified and are liable to be expunged. He is right in his submission. In our view, the High Court was not justified and correct in passing observations/strictures against Appellants 2 and 3 without affording an opportunity of being heard, and it is in violation of a catena of pronouncements of this Court that harsh or disparaging remarks are not to be made against the persons and authorities whose conduct comes into consideration before courts of law unless it is really necessary for the decision of the case. 10 2004 INSC 492 : [2004] Supp. 4 SCR 17 : (2004) 12 SCC 201 1066 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Likewise, the directions issued by the High Court to the trial court to lodge a complaint to the Magistrate having jurisdiction for prosecuting Appellants 2 and 3 for having committed an offence under Section 58 of the Act read with Sections 166 and 167 of the Penal Code, 1860 is not warranted. The observations made by the High Court are liable to be expunged and accordingly, we expunge the same including the direction to lodge a complaint against Appellants 2 and 3. 31. As rightly pointed out by Mr Tapash Ray, the observations of the High Court in the impugned passing strictures against the appellants have been made while against the record of the case and penalise the two police officers who were discharging their official duties as per the law. The action taken by Appellants 2 and 3 has been taken in the case of discharging of their official duties. While discharging their duties, the official would have violated certain provisions. That does not, in our opinion, enable the court to pass strictures against the officials and compensation.