This harmony and balance between Fundamental Rights and the Directive Principles is an essential feature of the Basic Structure of the Constitution.” 40 In State of Kerala v. N.M. Thomas (1976) 2 SCC 310, Justice K. K. Mathew while concurring with the majority opinion blends equality in Article 14 and 16 with Part IV of the Constitution of India. What he says is extremely relevant: “Today, the political theory which acknowledges the obligation of Government under Part IV of the Constitution to provide jobs, medical care, old age pension, etc., extends to human rights and imposes an affirmative obligation to promote equality and liberty. The force of the idea of a State with obligation to help the weaker sections of its members seems to have increasing influence in constitutional law. The idea finds expression in a number of cases in America involving social discrimination and also in the decisions requiring the State to offset the effects of poverty by providing counsel, transcript of appeal, expert witnesses, etc. Today, the sense that Government has affirmative responsibility for elimination of inequalities, social, economic or otherwise, is one of the dominant forces in constitutional law. While special concessions for the underprivileged have been easily permitted, they have not traditionally been required. Decisions in the areas of criminal procedure, voting rights and education in America suggest that the traditional approach may 40 [1981] 1 SCR 206 : (1980) 3 SCC 625, para 56. 284 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not be completely adequate. In these areas, the inquiry whether equality has been achieved no longer ends with numerical equality; rather the equality clause has been held to require resort to a standard of proportional equality which requires the State, in framing legislation, to take into account the private inequalities of wealth, of education and other circumstances”.41 In State of Gujarat v. Mirzapur Moti Kureshi Kassab Jamat and others (2005) 8 SCC 534, this Court held that such restrictions which aim at fulfilling the Directive Principles are reasonable as long as they do not run in “clear conflict” with Fundamental Rights. A scholarly study on the decisions of Supreme Court of India on social rights divides the period so far in three phases. The initial phase in the 1950s, 60s and even early 70s was a time when by and large this Court treated Directive Principles as subservient to Fundamental Rights. The second phase is when this Court spoke about harmony between the two sets of rights and then the third phase beginning in the 80s and 90s was when some of the rights which fall in Part IV were read as part of fundamental right to life with dignity.42 18. In his acknowledged scholarly work (the three volumes on Constitution of India), H.M. Seervai holds Directive Principles of State Policy of little significance. In the Fourth Edition of his Book “Constitutional Law of India” he has this to say about the Directive Principles: “… To my knowledge, no one had been able to dispute the proposition that if directive principles had not been enacted, or are struck out, nothing would have happened, and, in my submission, it is incapable of being disputed.