Digital Supreme Court Reports Detaining Authority, the detention can be sustained by holding that the Detaining Authority would have arrived at such a subjective satisfaction even without such material. 43. In this respect, we may gainfully refer to the following observation of this Court in the case of A. Sowkath Ali (supra): “27. …Section 5-A applies where the detention is based on more than one ground, not where it is based on a single ground. Same is also the decision of this Court in the unreported decision of Prem Prakash v. Union of India [Crl. A. No. 170 of 1996 dated 7-10-1996 (see below at p. 163)] decided on 7-10-1996 relying on K. Satyanarayan Subudhi v. Union of India [1991 Supp (2) SCC 153 : 1991 SCC (Cri) 1013]. Coming back to the present case we find really it is a case of one composite ground. The different numbers of the ground of detention are only paragraphs narrating the facts with the details of the document which is being relied on but factually, the detention is based on one ground, which is revealed by Ground (1)(xvi) of the grounds of detention which we have already quoted hereinbefore. Thus on the facts of this case Section 5-A has no application in the present case”. [emphasis supplied] 44. In that view of the matter, we have come to a considered conclusion that non-supply of the statements of Preetha Pradeep has affected the right of the detenu to make an effective representation under Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India and as such, the detention is vitiated on the said ground. (b) As to whether non-receipt of the representation and the delay in deciding the representation by the Detaining Authority and the Central Government would also affect the right of the detenu under Article 22(5) of the Constitution. 45. It is undisputed position that the detenu has submitted his representation on 27th September 2023 to the Jail Authorities for onward transmission of the same to the Detaining Authority and the Central Government. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 341 Jaseela Shaji v. The Union of India & Ors. 46. It will be relevant to refer to certain averments made in the counter affidavit filed on behalf of respondents Nos. 1 and 2, which would show that how the representation of the detenu was dealt with. “The contents of the ground C taken in the instant petition are incorrect and denied. It is submitted that the office of Director General (DG), CEIB never received any representation from or on behalf of the detenu/the husband of the petitioner. However, after receipt of this petition, the office of the jail authorities was contacted. The jail authorities informed that three representations dated 27.09.2023 addressed to the Joint Secretary (COFEPOSA), Director General, CEIB and the Chairman, COFEPOSA Advisory Board were submitted by the detenu/the husband of the petitioner. The jail authorities sent the said representations to the concerned authorities through Ordinary Post. However, neither the Joint Secretary (COFEPOSA) nor the Director General, CEIB received the said representations.