43 NEERAJ SHARMA v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH Appearances: Sameer Shrivastava, Ms. Yashika Varshney, Mrs. Priyanka Shrivastava, Mrs. Sangeeta, Shivendra Dixit, Advs. for the Appellant. Sumeer Sodhi, Ms. Bhawana Mapwal, Advs. for the Respondent. / of The Supreme Court Sudhanshu Dhulia, J. Leave granted. 2. Both these appeals arise out of a common and dated 26.06.2018 passed by the High Court of Chhattisgarh at Bilaspur in Criminal Appeal No.200 of 2015, which has dismissed the Criminal Appeal of the present appellants, upholding the conviction and sentence of the trial court. The two appellants were convicted for offences under Sections 307/120B, 364-A and 392/397 and were sentenced, inter alia, for life imprisonment under Section 364A Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short ‘IPC’). The third accused in this case, called Ravi Kumar Dwivedi, was acquitted by the trial court. 3. The case of the prosecution is that appellants had abducted one Arjit Sharma (PW-6), a Class 12th student of KPS School, Durg. The abduction, as per the prosecution, was for ransom, and a dastardly attempt was also made by the accused to kill the victim, although the victim miraculously escaped, but not before sustaining grievous injuries, which eventually led to the amputation of his right leg. The complainant/victim (PW-6) was at the relevant time residing as a paying guest in the house of Smt. Seema Singh (PW-7) at Priyadarshni Nagar, Durg. The accused, Neeraj Sharma and complainant were known to each other and on 02.01.2013, the two decided to go on a motorcycle ride to Nehru Nagar and Yugandar College, Rajnandgaon. The complainant was picked from his guest house by the two accused i.e., Neeraj Sharma and Ashwani Kumar Yadav and the three took off on their motorcycle to a place called “Doundilohara”. At about 1:00 am in the night when the complainant was trying to ease himself, the two accused made an attempt to kill 44 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS him by throttling his neck by the clutch wire of the motorcycle. As a result, the complainant fell on the ground unconscious and the appellants thinking that the complainant had died, poured petrol on his body and set him on fire. As per the prosecution case the body was set on fire, but before setting the body on fire, the complainant/victim’s mobile phone and cash of Rs.5000/- (Rupees Five Thousand only) were looted from him, by the two accused Neeraj Sharma and Ashwani Kumar Yadav. 4. The complainant, however, was not dead, but as it turned out managed to escape from the scene and was later rescued by strangers whom he met on his way while escaping who helped him call an ambulance and he was taken to Doundilohara Hospital from where he was referred to Rajnandgaon and ultimately to Sector -9 Hospital, Bhilai. While he was at Doundilohara hospital, the doctor (PW-4) who had examined the complainant had also informed the Police and therefore a “Dehati Nalishi”1 (Ex.P/12) was recorded on 03.01.2013. The doctor PW-4 (Jai Kumar Chunarkar) who had examined the complainant/victim at Doundilohara hospital, notes the following burn injuries in his report (Ex.P/09).