Then they proceeded back to their house, where the police had reached before their arrival. This witness (PW-6) was also confronted with his previous statement (Exhibit-DB) wherein, the name of Kulwinder Singh was [2024] 4 S.C.R. 721 Kirpal Singh v. State of Punjab not mentioned. Many contradictions have been elicited in the cross examination of this witness(PW-6) with reference to his previous versions, as recorded by different investigating officers. In his cross examination, the witness(PW-6) even admitted that he did not remember the name of her mother’s brother, who met them on that day. He further stated that he and his mother took Balwinder Singh (deceased) to Civil Hospital, Dasuya. The Police Station, Dasuya falls in the way to the Civil Hospital, Dasuya but they did not go to the police station for lodging the report. This fact again indicates that the conduct of PW-5 and PW-6 was totally unnatural. Gurmeet Singh, elder brother of Daljit Singh(PW-6), was not examined by the prosecution. We find that Daljit Singh (PW-6) did not even utter a word that appellant was having a weapon with him when he saw him fleeing away from the crime scene. These inherent improbabilities and loopholes in the evidence completely destroy the fabric of the prosecution case which is full of holes and holes which are impossible to be stitched together. 26. This Court in the celebrated case of Vadivelu Thevar v. State of Madras1, has observed as follows:- “11.…Hence, in our opinion, it is a sound and well- established rule of law that the court is concerned with the quality and not with the quantity of the evidence necessary for, proving or disproving a fact. Generally speaking, oral testimony in this context may be classified into three categories, namely: (1) wholly reliable. (2) Wholly unreliable. (3) Neither wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable. 12. In the first category of proof, the court should have no difficulty in coming to its conclusion either way - it may convict or may acquit on the testimony of a single witness, if it is found to be above reproach or suspicion of interestedness, incompetence or subornation. In the second category, the court, equally has no difficulty in 1 [1957] 1 SCR 981 : AIR 1957 SC 614 722 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports coming to its conclusion. It is in the third category of cases, that the court has to be circumspect and has to look for corroboration in material particulars by reliable testimony, direct or circumstantial...”. 27. On going through the evidence of Sharan Kaur (PW-5) and Daljit Singh (PW-6), with reference to other evidence available on record, we are of the firm opinion that both these witnesses fall in the second category, i.e., wholly unreliable. No other tangible evidence was led by the prosecution to connect the accused appellant with the crime. 28. As we have noted above, the prosecution’s story of motive is very weak and rather far fetched so as to place implicit reliance thereupon. Two investigating officers conducted thorough investigation and found the entire case set up by the first informant-Sharan Kaur(PW-5) to be false.