Notably, the element of recovery is based on the same statement/confession of the appellant which, as observed above, fails to inspire the confidence of the Court. The Trial Court has rightly analyzed the evidence regarding the recovery of dead body and the High Court fell in an error in accepting the evidence on its face value, without addressing the reasonable doubts raised by the Trial Court. 21. The recovery of dead body from the well is not in question. However, the proof of such recovery to be at the instance of the appellant is essentially based on the disclosure statement made by the appellant. Again, the prime witness for proving the disclosure statement is PW-1, whose testimony has failed to inspire the confidence of the Court, in light of the contradictions, multiplicity of versions and material improvements. The other witness to prove the recovery is PW-2, the panch. Notably, PW- 2 was a waiter at a restaurant and he deposed that he had visited the police station himself. It is difficult to accept that PW-2 just happened to visit the police station on his own and ended up becoming a witness of recovery of the dead body. Firstly, his visit to the police station does not fit in the normal chain of circumstances as it is completely unexplained. A police station is not per se a public space where people happen to visit in the ordinary course of business and therefore, an explanation is warranted. Secondly, a normal person would generally be hesitant in becoming a witness to the recovery of a dead body. There is nothing on record to indicate that any notice to join investigation was given to PW-2 by the I.O./PW-16. In such circumstances, it would not be 404 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports safe to rely upon the testimony of PW-2 as he could reasonably be a stock witness of the I.O. 22. Furthermore, we deem it appropriate to note that the identity of the dead body recovered from the well is also not beyond question. The Trial Court had also noted the doubts regarding the identity of the dead body, however, the identity of the deceased was held to be established in light of the fact that the identification was done by PW- 1, father of the deceased. The Trial Court also relied upon the fact that the identification was not challenged by either side. Be that as it may, we consider it important to note that there exist serious doubts regarding the identity of the dead body recovered from the well. The description of the deceased given by PW-1 in his complaint Ex.P1 did not match with the description of the dead body. The clothes found on the dead body were substantially different from the clothes mentioned by PW-1 in his complaint. The presence of ornaments was not mentioned in the complaint. Furthermore, identification of the dead body by face was not possible as the body had started decomposing due to lapse of time.