The High Court after taking into consideration the submissions made by the learned Counsels for the parties and materials placed on record including the Chargesheet, allowed the said Appeals by the common impugned dated 19.10.2023, releasing the respondents on bail subject to the conditions mentioned therein. Being aggrieved by the said , the present set of appeals have been filed by the Union of India through NIA, Chennai Branch. 5. At the outset, the learned counsels for the respondents raising preliminary objection had submitted that the appellant having failed to mention about the SLP (Crl.) No.9384/2023 which was preferred by the appellant against the co-accused for cancellation of the bail arising out of the same FIR, the present appeal was liable to be dismissed under XXII, Rule 2(3) of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013. The said submission cannot be accepted. Rule 2(2) of XXII mandates inter alia that no petition shall be entertained by the Registry unless it contains a statement as to whether the petitioner had filed any petition for special leave to appeal against the impugned or earlier, and if so with what result. Rule 2(3) thereof states that the Court shall, if it finds that the petitioner has not disclosed the fact of filing a similar petition earlier and its dismissal by the Court, dismiss the second petition if it is pending. It may be noted that earlier no special leave to appeal has been filed against the impugned and dated 19.10.2023 passed by the High Court and hence question of filing Second Petition does not arise. Though, the SLP (Crl.) No. 9384/2023 was filed earlier by the appellant seeking cancellation of bail granted to the co-accused in 1016 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports respect of the same FIR, the same has already been referred to in the impugned by the High Court. This set of appeals cannot be treated as Second Petition as sought to be canvassed by the learned counsels for the respondents. 6. So far as the merits of the Appeals are concerned, the learned advocate Mr. Rajat Nair for the appellant has vehemently submitted that the High Court had miserably failed to comprehend the correct import of Section 18 read with the definition of terrorist act contemplated under Section 15 of the UAPA for releasing the respondents on bail who have been charged with very serious offences. According to him, the High Court had fallen into patent and manifest error in not appreciating the overt acts and commission of alleged offences by the respondents, as stated by the listed witnesses/protected witnesses. Mr. Nair placing heavy reliance on the statements of the protected witnesses/listed witnesses had taken the court to the said statements to show the role and involvement of each of the respondents in the commission of the alleged offences under the IPC and UAPA. According to him, though some of the witnesses whose statements were recorded under Section 161/164 Cr.P.C. and relied upon by the appellant, were the members of the PFI when it was not banned by the Government of India, they had not participated in the alleged unlawful activities, and hence their statements till they are rebutted or contradicted could be relied upon.