It is only the quantum of compensation that needs to be worked out by the Court. Time and again this Court has held that the compensation so awarded must be just and fair, and the criteria objective. However, this case has to be dealt with differently as the loss and suffering evident from the facts stated above surpass normal cases. Taking into account the totality of the facts of the case, we are of the view that compensation of Rs.50,00,000/- (Rupees fifty lakh only) to be paid by the State Government within two weeks from today, on proper identification, would meet the ends 888 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of justice. Coupled with the aforesaid relief, we deem it proper to further direct the State Government to provide the appellant with an employment under the State, if she wishes so and is inclined, and also to offer her government accommodation at a place of her choice, if she is willing to live in such accommodation. With the aforesaid direction, the appeals relating to compensation are disposed of.” The aforesaid s clearly indicate why this Court had transferred the investigation and trial to the CBI and to the State of Maharashtra respectively. 50.4. Such being the case, it was the State of Maharashtra which was the appropriate Government which had to consider the appellant for remission vis-à-vis respondent Nos.3 to 13 herein. Instead, being unsuccessful before the High Court of Gujarat, respondent No.3 surreptitiously filed the writ petition before this Court seeking a direction to consider his case for remission without disclosing the full and material facts before this Court. Relief was granted by this Court by conferring jurisdiction on State of Gujarat which it did not possess as per Section 432 (7) of the CrPC, in the guise of consideration for remission on the basis of the 09.07.1992 policy, which had also stood cancelled in the year 2013. Taking advantage of this Court’s dated 13.05.2022, all other convicts also sought consideration of their case by the Government of Gujarat for remission even in the absence of any such direction in their cases by this Court. Thus, the State of Gujarat has acted on the basis of the direction issued by this Court but contrary to the letter and spirit of law. We have already said that the State of Gujarat never sought for the review of the of this Court dated 13.05.2022 by bringing to the notice of this Court that it was contrary to Section 432 (7) and s of this Court. 50.5. Instead, the State of Gujarat has acted in tandem and was complicit with what the petitioner-respondent No.3 herein had sought before this Court. This is exactly what this Court had apprehended at the previous stages of this case and had intervened on three earlier occasions in the interest of truth and [2024] 1 S.C.R. 889 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others justice by transferring the investigation of the case to the CBI and the trial to the Special Court at Mumbai.