Digital Supreme Court Reports religion and other divisions that Part III articulates in four salient provisions : Article 15, Article 17, Article 23 and Article 24. The idea of fraternity occupying as crucial a place in the scheme of our nation’s consciousness and polity, is one of the lesser explored areas in the constitutional discourse of this Court. The fraternity assured by the Preamble is not merely a declaration of a ritual handshake or cordiality between communities that are diverse and have occupied different spaces : it is far more. …” 46. What the movement for disability justice shares with other social justice movements - such as the anti-caste movement, feminism and queer and trans justice - is that they call into question the fundamental arrangement of a society which has created prejudicial structures. Inaccessibility and non-inclusion are taken as suspect categories to question the prevalent social . In doing so these movements invite us to contribute to the national goal of fraternity and integration. Far from being interruptive in the national journey - calls for equal access and equal justice postulate a disruption in the of discrimination and prejudices so that we may carry on the journey of national progress. They do not only champion the group interest of a certain class of citizens but instead advocate for a larger vision of a justice oriented society. A society where discrimination and exclusion are addressed and eliminated will create a just and equitable system for all persons regardless of their identities. To be intersectional is to see the common goals across vectors of identities by eliminating systems of discrimination. It is a call to eschew from simplistic identity reductionism and to imagine meaningful remedies for marginalised groups and persons. It calls for a world with equity and justice where our uniqueness forms part of benign differences among people and lends vibrance to our diversity. The Constitution enables this project of fraternity by guaranteeing rights to life, dignity, freedom, equality and non-discrimination inter alia under Articles 21, 19, 14, and 15. 47. When reasonable accommodation is denied to a person with disability, it amounts to discrimination and violates the fundamental rights of the aggrieved person and the preambular virtue of fraternity along with justice, liberty and equality. Persons with disability are not objects of pity or charity but an integral part of our society and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2219 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. nation. The advancement of rights for persons with disabilities is a national project along with eradication of all forms of discrimination. A component of this project is the inclusion of persons with disabilities in all pursuits of life. 48. In Vikash Kumar (supra) this Court opined that the most significant loser of a rigid inaccessible system is the system itself. The Court resonated the idea of a generation of persons with disabilities who take it as their birthright to access the full panoply of entitlements. This Court has held as follows: “81.