In fact, the seems to us to expose precisely the mischief that is sought to be cured and addressed by Section 10-1A and the amended proviso. It is not permissible for a candidate to simply file an application and do nothing [2024] 2 S.C.R. 189 Sudhir Vilas Kalel & Ors. v. Bapu Rajaram Kalel & Ors. further. That application for a Validity Certificate must be properly filed and followed through. The mere filing of the application is not in sufficient compliance with the statute. The Validity Certificate has to be obtained within the time provided, whether by the original statute or by the Temporary Extension Act. Simply filing some sort of defective application with incomplete documents does not meet the statutory purpose. 33. Thus, if even the mischief rule of interpretation, the oldest interpretation doctrine by far, [Heydon’s case, 1584, 76 ER 637] is adopted for the purposes of the Maharashtra Village Panchayats Act, 1959 and the Temporary Extension Act, it is clear that defective or incomplete applications that result in a rejection are no different from a rejection on merits. Yet, Section 3(2)(b) of the Temporary Extension Act is thus an essential safeguard. 34. Viewed from either perspective, the Temporary Extension Act cannot come to Sudhir’s rescue. We note from the Ordinance, a copy of which is at pages 93 and 96, that it was necessitated because of the huge backlog of applications pending before the scrutiny committee.” 33. As was set out earlier, after obtaining his caste certificate on 03.02.2013, it was only on 30.12.2020 that is on the same day of the nomination that the Appellant No. 1 moved the Scrutiny Committee for obtaining the Validity Certificate. The elections were held on 18.01.2021 and the results were declared on 21.01.2021. He ought to have furnished the Validity Certificate by 20.01.2022. 34. After filing his application for the Validity Certificate on 30.12.2020, he undertook that he would file the declaration of the results within a week. Besides, this undertaking is legally backed by the in Mandakani Kachru Kokane (supra), which no doubt gave two weeks from the date of declaration of the result for communication of the declaration to the Scrutiny Committee. Admittedly, the appellant No. 1 did not submit the declaration either within one week as undertaken or within two weeks as provided in Mandakani Kachru Kokane (supra). In cases where there is due communication from the applicants, the Division Bench in Mandakani Kachru Kokane (supra) had obligated the Scrutiny Committee to decide 190 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the case within a maximum period of eight months from the date of communication. The Scrutiny Committee which is faced with a large number of applications can legitimately expect that the applicants who require disposal on priority basis should comply with the formalities required to enable the applicant to get priority in decision making. The Committee under Rule 17(3) is also entitled to reject incomplete applications by recording reasons. Under Section 17(2) it is also the obligation of the applicant to comply with removal of objections raised.