This design is intentional; the framers understood that rigid classifications could hinder the legislature’s ability to address emerging societal issues and adapt to the evolving needs of future generations. By avoiding specificity, the Constitution enables lawmakers to make laws on futuristic grounds which may arise with the struggles and challenges faced by the new generation.67 72. Therefore, this Court has taken the view that Article 14 allows for reasonable and fair classification but prohibits class legislation. Classifications based on the categories outlined in Articles 15 and 16 are acceptable as long as they have a rational connection to their intended objectives. These classifications—such as those pertaining to other backward classes, scheduled castes and tribes, and women and children—aim to fulfil the principle of equal ends. This approach accepts and accommodates the said difference. They adopt an anti- subordination approach, treating these groups differently to promote greater equality. In this manner, Articles 15 and 16 of the Constitution of India explicitly recognize the necessity for legislative measures aimed at uplifting certain disadvantaged sections to achieve equality. is not violated, and the classification does not result in indirect discrimination. 67 See Lawrence v. Texas, 539 US 558, which dealt with the 14th amendment to the United States Constitution, observes that the framers knew that times could blind them to certain truths and later generations could see the laws once thought necessary and proper, in fact, serve only the oppressed. The Constitution endures, a person of every generation can invoke its principles in search for greater freedom. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1417 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others 73. The substantive equality test will also fail in case the legislation or the policy, in its operation, results in indirect discrimination.68 The principle of indirect discrimination comes into play when legislation or policy applies equally to all but disproportionately disadvantages individuals or groups based on protected characteristics, which cannot be justified. It refers to inequality of results and outcomes. Substantive equality also encompasses equality of opportunity, addressing institutional discrimination and rejecting policies that promote imbalances rather than equalize starting points. Policies should not impose additional obstacles for those requiring protection, or who have faced historical discrimination or do so in the present. 74. Therefore, unless a law meets these criteria of substantive equality, it would violate Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 75. At this juncture, we will apply the law to the facts of the case. To quote from the GoM No. 242, the land allotment policy seeks to serve the following objective: “Providing shelter is amongst the top priorities of the Government. There are well defined schemes for providing housing for the poor. In so far as meeting the requirement of the other deserving sections of the society, there is no fixed policy and mechanism for alienation of land to such sections and Allotment was done case by case, for the land identified. Therefore, Government have decided to have a comprehensive policy of meeting housing requirement of targeted sections of society by creation of land bank and· accordingly the following...” We would like to emphasise that the policy, while not targeted towards the poor, is also aimed towards “other deserving sections of the society”, to meet their “housing requirement”.