IL&FS at that point in time, was a Company promoted by Public Financial Institutions to enable non-governmental investment in infrastructure development. In pursuance of the MoU, a Committee comprising representatives of the Government of India, the Government of NCT of Delhi, the State of UP and IL&FS was constituted on 08.06.1993 to take important decisions relating to the Project and its implementation (Steering Committee). 4.3. Thereafter, the Steering Committee on 08.04.1996 approved the incorporation of NTBCL by IL&FS in accordance with the Companies Act, 1956, which was contemplated to operate as a Special Purpose Vehicle for developing the DND Flyway on a Build, Operate, Own and Transfer (BOOT) basis. It was [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2007 Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. v. Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association and Others thereby intended that NTBCL would recover its investment in developing the DND Flyway infrastructural facility by imposing user fees on the commuters availing such services. 4.4. In pursuance thereto, the State of UP accorded approval for the implementation of the DND Flyway and constituted an Empowered Committee, tasked with negotiating the Concession Agreement with IL&FS. The draft Concession Agreement was approved by the State Cabinet and reviewed by multilateral agencies financing the project, including the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. This initiative was recognised as one of the pioneering projects in India developed under the Public Private Partnership model (PPP). 4.5. The Concession Agreement was executed on 12.11.1997, designating NOIDA and IL&FS as the ‘Sponsors’ and NTBCL as the ‘Concessionaire’. The aforesaid Concession Agreement expressly provided for the construction of the DND Flyway, from the Okhla Barrage in NOIDA to a location close to Maharani Bagh in Delhi. The project encompassed the development, establishment, financing, design, construction operation and maintenance of the DND Flyway, including the development, financing, design and construction of a flyover at Ashram Chowk. 4.6. In terms of Section 2.7 of the Concession Agreement, the State and the Government of NCT of Delhi entered into a State Support Agreement on 14.01.1998, which facilitated: (i) the execution of the Delhi Lands Lease Deed on 23.10.1998 between NTBCL and NOIDA; and (ii) the execution of the Ashram Flyover Site Lease Deed on 30.08.1999 between the Government of NCT of Delhi and NTBCL, for the construction of the Ashram Flyover. 4.7. The Project was thereafter initiated and completed, with the DND Flyway being opened for public use on 06.02.2001 (Commissioning Date). It consisted of: (i) the main bridge; (ii) three minor bridges; (iii) a 32-lane approach road with a 300-metre-wide toll plaza in NOIDA; (iv) an 11-lane toll plaza at Mayur Vihar; and (v) a flyover at Ashram Chowk. 4.8. Respondent No. 1 is an Association established to espouse the cause of NOIDA residents before the Public Authorities, 2008 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports particularly concerning civic issues. Nearly 15 years after the execution of the Concession Agreement, Respondent No. 1 approached the High Court (through a Writ Petition) purportedly in public interest seeking a direction to discontinue toll charged to the users of the DND Flyway.