Ltd. v. Berger Paints India Ltd.,4 he submits that an application under Section 29A(4) must be filed before the mandate of the Tribunal expires. It cannot be subsequently filed as the provision stipulates termination of the Tribunal’s mandate on expiry of the statutory and extendable period. 3 ibid. 4 2024 SCC OnLine SC 2494. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 855 M/s Ajay Protech Pvt. Ltd. v. General Manager & Anr. 6. Having heard learned senior counsel and the learned ASG, there are two issues that we must consider: i. Whether the application for extension can be entertained if it is filed after the expiry of the Arbitral Tribunal’s mandate? ii. If yes, do the facts and circumstances warrant an extension in the present case? 7. When must an application under Section 29A(4) be filed. The first issue is no longer res integra in view of a recent decision of this Court in Rohan Builders (supra). Despite Mr. Banerjee’s reliance on this decision, we find that it squarely covers the issue against him. Before dealing with this decision, it is necessary to take note of the text and wording of the relevant portion of Section 29A of the Act: “29A. Time limit for arbitral award.— (1) The award in matters other than international commercial arbitration shall be made by the arbitral tribunal within a period of twelve months from the date of completion of pleadings under sub-section (4) of section 23: Provided that the award in the matter of international commercial arbitration may be made as expeditiously as possible and endeavor may be made to dispose of the matter within a period of twelve months from the date of completion of pleadings under sub-section (4) of section 23. *** (3) The parties may, by consent, extend the period specified in sub-section (1) for making award for a further period not exceeding six months. (4) If the award is not made within the period specified in sub-section (1) or the extended period specified under sub- section (3), the mandate of the arbitrator(s) shall terminate unless the Court has, either prior to or after the expiry of the period so specified, extended the period: Provided that while extending the period under this sub- section, if the Court finds that the proceedings have been delayed for the reasons attributable to the arbitral tribunal, 856 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports then, it may reduction of fees of arbitrator(s) by not exceeding five per cent. For each month of such delay: Provided further that where an application under sub- section (5) is pending, the mandate of the arbitrator shall continue till the disposal of the said application: Provided also that the arbitrator shall be given an opportunity of being heard before the fees is reduced. (5) The extension of period referred to in sub-section (4) may be on the application of any of the parties and may be granted only for sufficient cause and on such terms and conditions as may be imposed by the Court.” (emphasis supplied) 8.