23. That apart, it appears that the devotees, all bearing the same family name ‘Birajdar’, who are raising objections seem to have a grievance with the very registration of the subject Trust, but their revision in that regard stood dismissed and appears to have attained finality. After such dismissal, in the capacity of being devotees of the Temple, they can have no legitimate grievance with regard to the succession to the post of Vahiwatdar of the subject Trust. More so, when the eldest male member in the founder’s family has no issue with it. 24. Though it has been contended before us on behalf of the devotees that the Trust is not taking proper care of the Temple, we are of the opinion that such an issue cannot be a ground for them to challenge the Change Reports relating to the Vahiwatdar and the Trustees 3 [2013] 9 S.C.R. 782 : (2013) 12 SCC 649 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 73 Shri Mallikarjun Devasthan, Shelgi v. Subhash Mallikarjun Birajdar & Ors. of the subject Trust. Separate machinery is provided in the Act of 1950 to address such issues and it is for them to take recourse to such statutory remedies, if so advised. Their repeated attempts to attack the Change Reports relating to assumption of office by the new administration of the Trust only indicates their inimical attitude thereto and to the family of the founder, Mallikarjun Mahalingappa Patil. All in all, much ado about nothing! 25. Viewed thus, we are of the opinion that the learned Judge of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay adopted a rather hypertechnical approach by attaching so much importance to the delay in the submission of the first Change Report. Much did not turn upon the same as it was a curable defect. In any event, it had no impact on the change that had been brought about in the subject Trust but which was informed to the authorities belatedly. 26. The common dated 27.08.2019 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Writ Petition Nos. 8570 and 8571 of 2019, therefore, cannot be sustained and is accordingly set aside. In consequence, acceptance of Change Report Nos. 899 of 2015 and 1177 of 2017 is confirmed. Both the civil appeals are allowed. Pending applications, if any, shall stand closed. Parties shall bear their own costs. Headnotes prepared by: Result of the case: Aandrita Deb, Hony. Associate Editor Appeals allowed. (Verified by: Abhinav Mukerji, Sr. Adv.)