[2024] 2 S.C.R. 538 Digital Supreme Court Reports 174 . Interms of Section 136 of the Companies Act, every shareholder ina company has a right to a copy of the financial statement which also contains the profit and loss account. The petitioners submitted that the non-disclosure of the details of the political contributions made by companies in the financial statement would infringe upon the right of the shareholders to decide to sell the shares of a company if a shareholder does not support the political ideology of the party to which contributions were made. This it was contended, violates Articles 19(1)(a), 19(1)(g), 21 and 25. We do not see the necessity of viewing the non-disclosure requirement in Section 182(3) of the Companies Act from the lens of a shareholder in this case when we have identified the impact of non-disclosure of information on political funding from the larger compass of a citizen and a voter. In view of the above discussion, Section 182(3) as amended by the Finance Act 2017 is unconstitutional. G. Challenge to unlimited corporate funding 175. The Companies Act 1956,'” as originally enacted, did not contain any provision relating to political contributions by companies. Regardless of the same, many companies sought to make contributions to political parties by amending their memorandum. In Jayantilal Ranchhoddas Koticha ५. Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd.,'”” the decision of the company to amend its memorandum enabling it to make contributions to political parties was challenged before the High Court of Judicature at Bombay. The High Court upheld the decision of the company to amend its memorandum on the ground that there was no law prohibiting companies from contributing to the funds of a party. Chief Justice M C Chagla, cautioned against the influential role of “big business and money bags’ in throttling democracy. The learned Judge emphasized that it is the duty of Courts to “prevent any influence being exercised upon the voter which is an improper influence or which may be looked at from any point of view as a corrupt influence.” Chief Justice Chagla highlighted the grave danger inherent in permitting companies to donate to political parties and hoped Parliament would “consider under what circumstances and under what limitations companies should be permitted to make these contributions”. 176 “1956 Act” 177 AIR 1958 Bom 155 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 539 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 176. Subsequently, Parliament enacted the Companies (Amendment) Act 1960 to incorporate Section 293A in the 1956 Act. The new provision allowed a company to contribute to: (a) any political party; or (b) for any political purpose to any individual or body. However, the amount of contribution was restricted to either twenty-five thousand rupees in a financial year or five percent of the average net profits during the preceding three financial years, whichever was greater. The provision also mandated every company to disclose in its profit and loss account any amount contributed by it to any political party or for any political purpose to any individual or body during the financial year to which that account relates by giving particulars of the total amount contributed and the name of the party, individual, or body to which or to whom such amount has been contributed.