Note, dated 28.02.2023, put up by the Member of Legislative Assembly, 29-Basar(ST) Assembly Constituency, having regard to the law laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Mohd. Masood Ahmad (supra). 20. In that view of the matter; I do not find any merit in this writ petition and the same is hereby dismissed.” 4. On filing writ appeal by the Respondent No. 5 the Division Bench of the High Court while setting aside the of learned Single Judge observed that the UO Note of the MLA was approved without application of mind and any remark of administrative exigencies by department to substantiate that it was in public interest or in exigency of the service. The relevant excerpt of the impugned reads as: “ 27. The appellant who was already under of transfer is having a legitimate expectation to join and continue in the transferred place of posting. However, his transfer was suddenly modified without any proposal being mooted by his employer but acting on the proposal of the Local MLA and in favour of respondent No.5. In the above backdrop, this court is of the considered opinion that such of transfer is neither issued in the exigencies of [2024] 3 S.C.R. 411 Sri Pubi Lombi v. The State of Arunachal Pradesh & Ors. service nor in public interest, rather the same is a result of arbitrary exercise of power. XXX XXX XXX 29. This Court cannot approve such kind of sheerly lackadaisical administrative procedure adopted in the decision-making process inasmuch as the proper administration under the Constitutional scheme of governance, every State action must be supported by reason. In the present case, the fact cannot be ignored that the appellant was already under of transfer and he was released on 19.04.2023 and he joined at the place of transfer on 20.04.2023 and therefore, in the present case, it was further necessary to have the decision impugned supported by reason in cancelling the earlier transfer that too when the proposal of transfer of respondent No. 5 was initiated not by the administrative department in public interest or in exigencies of services rather it was purely on the basis of U.O. Note given by local MLA. Therefore, in the considered opinion of this Court, the impugned cannot be said to be an of transfer in public interest or in exigencies of services.” 5. The of the Division Bench has been questioned before us, inter-alia, contending that in the matter of transfer scope of judicial review is limited, only when such transfer is in violation of the statutory provisions or due to malafide reasons. As a corollary, it is not open to the Court to interfere with the s of transfer on a post which is transferrable, in absence of any malafide alleged or infraction of any professed norms if such transfer is not detrimental. Further, it was canvassed that transfer on the instance of MP/MLA always would not per se vitiate the of transfer. 6. Per contra learned counsel appearing for respondent No.