“Fermentation Industries”, it is only the Central Government which has the powers to act under Section 18G of the said Act. So long as an industry is a scheduled industry under the IDRA and Section 18G of the said Act remains on the statute book, the State Legislatures are denuded of their powers to pass a legislation or to take any action in respect of the products of a scheduled industry under Entry 33(a) – List III. Effect of overruling Synthetics and Chemicals (7J): 31. The of this Court in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) has held the field since 1989 for three and a half decades. The doubts which have arisen regarding the said subsequently have led to the reference to a larger Bench. On re-considering the in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) in light of the arguments advanced before this nine-Judge bench and in the backdrop of the constitutional Entries in the three Lists, I find that except for a clarification and deletion of the words “both potable and” in paragraph 84 of AIR version of the Report, the said would not call for any intervention. The reasons for saying so can be stated as under: Firstly, the has held the field for three and a half decades on certain concrete ideas pertaining to liquors as part of “Fermentation Industries”, which is a scheduled industry, and that part which is excluded from the aforesaid scheduled industry. This is based on the interplay of Entries in Lists I and II. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2173 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons The in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) has crystallised the concepts of “intoxicating liquors” and “industrial alcohol” which are clearly distinguished in legislations of the State and in administration or governance for several decades on the basis of constitutional demarcation of legislative entries. Consequently, it held that “Fermentation Industries” is a controlled industry and I have now clarified that it does not take within its ambit “intoxicating liquors” or potable alcohol. The in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) correctly held on a conspectus reading of Entry 8 – List II, Entry 6 - List II and Article 47 that State Legislatures have the competence to ensure that “industrial alcohol” or non- potable alcohol is not diverted and misused as a substitute for potable alcohol. Secondly, the has correctly considered the significance of insertion of Section 18G to the IDRA which is a Parliamentary Law made under Entry 52 – List I and the consequences that follow in light of the doctrine of occupied field in the context of “Fermentation Industries”, a scheduled industry, by bearing in mind the first part of Article 254(1) of the Constitution. Thirdly, the reasons assigned in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) for invoking the doctrine of occupied field in the context of “Fermentation Industries” and in the context of Section 18G of the IDRA would equally apply to all other scheduled industries under the said Act. Any interference with the said legal position would have a cascading effect on other scheduled industries thereby giving legislative competence in respect of all scheduled industries to the States under Entry 33(a) – List III.