[2024] 8 S.C.R. 1123 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr. 33. I would only add a caveat with the observation and emphasise that while considering any application seeking pre-arrest bail, the High Court has to balance the two interests : i.e. that the power is not so used as to convert the jurisdiction into that under Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code, but that it is used sparingly and such s made in very exceptional cases where no prima facie offence is made out as shown in the FIR, and further also that if such s are not made in those classes of cases, the result would inevitably be a miscarriage of justice or abuse of process of law. I consider such stringent terms, otherwise contrary to the philosophy of bail, absolutely essential, because a liberal use of the power to grant pre-arrest bail would defeat the intention of Parliament.” 35. Thus, the decision in Prathvi Raj Chauhan (supra) makes it abundantly clear that even while upholding the validity of Section 18-A of the Act, 1989, this Court observed that if the complaint does not make out a prima facie case for applicability of the provisions of the Act, 1989 then the bar created by Sections 18 and 18-A(i) shall not apply and thus the court would not be precluded from granting pre-arrest bail to the accused persons. 36. Justice Ravindra Bhat, in his concurring , observed that while considering any application seeking pre-arrest bail in connection with an offence alleged to have been committed under the provisions of the Act, 1989, the courts should balance two interests – On one hand they should ensure that the power is not exercised akin to the jurisdiction under Section 438 of the CrPC while on the other hand they should ensure that the power is used sparingly in exceptional cases where no prima facie offence is made out as shown in the FIR or the complaint. It was observed that in cases where no prima facie materials exist in a complaint which would warrant the arrest of the accused, the court would have the inherent power to direct a pre-arrest bail. 37. The applicability of Section 438 of the CrPC to cases registered under the Act, 1989 was also dealt with by a two-Judge Bench of this Court in Vilas Pandurang Pawar and Another v. State of Maharashtra and Others reported in (2012) 8 SCC 795. The specific issue framed and answered by this Court was whether an accused charged with various offences under the IPC along with offences 1124 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under the Act, 1989 would be entitled for an anticipatory bail under Section 438 of CrPC. 38. It was observed by this Court that although Section 18 of the Act, 1989 creates a bar for invoking Section 438 of the CrPC yet the courts are entrusted with a duty to verify the averments in the complaint and to find out whether an offence under the Act, 1989 is prima facie made out or not.