According to learned counsel, the physical relationship between the two was on the basis of consent of the prosecutrix which was obtained under ‘misconception of fact’ on the false promise of marriage. Intention of the appellant was quite clear. He deceived the prosecutrix on the pretext of marriage to have and maintain a physical relationship. 10.2. He submitted that appellant had obtained a stamp paper dated 07.07.2017 wherein he expressed his desire to marry the prosecutrix. According to learned counsel for respondent No. 2 i.e. the prosecutrix, that was done with the malafide intention of procuring financial support for his ‘purported’ business investment from her because of which respondent No. 2 had handed over various articles to the appellant amounting to Rs. 90,000/-. 14 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10.3. Though respondent No. 2 continuously requested the appellant to solemnize their marriage but on one pretext or the other, the appellant evaded the same. At the same time he continued to physically exploit her. Initially, he had assured the prosecutrix that he would marry her after the marriage of his elder brother. But his malafide intention became obvious when he raised a demand of Rs. 15 lakhs saying that such amount was received by his elder brother in marriage. 10.4. In the course of his submissions, learned counsel also relied upon Section 90 IPC to buttress the point that consent of the prosecutrix was obtained on a ‘misconception of fact’. 11. In response to a query of the Court, learned counsel for the State, i.e., respondent No. 1 submitted on instructions that neither the photographs nor the mobile phone of the appellant have been seized. He also admits that the affidavit dated 28.09.2016 and the stamp paper dated 07.07.2017 have also not been seized. No jewellery as alleged by the prosecutrix to have been given to the appellant by her has been recovered or seized from the appellant. 12. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties have received the due consideration of the Court. 13. At the outset, let us examine the statement of the prosecutrix made before the police. In her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C., the prosecutrix stated that appellant was not only a friend of her younger brother Mukul Rana but also a distant brother of her brother-in-law Shailendra Rana. Appellant used to run a competition coaching centre at Dabra, which the prosecutrix used to attend alongwith her brother Mukul during the years 2015 and 2016. On the recommendation of the appellant, prosecutrix got a job of receptionist in a company. In the year 2016, appellant disclosed his affection towards the prosecutrix which was turned down by her on the ground that he was not only younger to her but also friend of her younger brother Mukul. However, they became friends. She stated that on one Monday in the month of Savan of that year, appellant took her to a forest outside Kitore village ahead of Gijorra where there was a temple of Doodhkho Shankar Ji.