[2024] 1 S.C.R. 621 Kusha Duruka v. The State of Odisha 19. It is further evident from the dated 17.01.2023 vide which bail application, BLAPL NO.11709 of 2022 of the co-accused Gangesh Kumar Thakur was allowed by the High Court by Judge ‘B’. Learned State Counsel did not point out the factum of pendency of another bail application filed by the co-accused arising out of the same FIR at that stage. The concerned investigating officer must be aware of this fact but had not pointed out the same before the court. 20. In our opinion, to avoid any confusion in future it would be appropriate to mandatorily mention in the application(s) filed for grant of bail: (1) Details and copies of (s) passed in the earlier bail application(s) filed by the petitioner which have been already decided. (2) Details of any bail application(s) filed by the petitioner, which is pending either in any court, below the court in question or the higher court, and if none is pending, a clear statement to that effect has to be made. This court has already directed vide passed in Pradhani Jani’s case (supra) that all bail applications filed by the different accused in the same FIR should be listed before the same Judge except in cases where the Judge has superannuated or has been transferred or otherwise incapacitated to hear the matter. The system needs to be followed meticulously to avoid any discrepancies in the s. In case it is mentioned on the top of the bail application or any other place which is clearly visible, that the application for bail is either first, second or third and so on, so that it is convenient for the court to appreciate the arguments in that light. If this fact is mentioned in the , it will enable the next higher court to appreciate the arguments in that light. (3) The registry of the court should also annex a report generated from the system about decided or pending bail application(s) in the crime case in question. The same system needs to be followed even in the case of private complaints as all cases filed in the trial courts are assigned specific numbers (CNR No. ), even if no FIR number is there. (4) It should be the duty of the Investigating Officer/any officer assisting the State Counsel in court to apprise him of the (s), if any, passed by the court with reference to different 622 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports bail applications or other proceedings in the same crime case. And the counsel appearing for the parties have to conduct themselves truly like officers of the Court. 21. Our suggestions are with a view to streamline the proceedings and avoid anomalies with reference to the bail applications being filed in the cases pending trial and even for suspension of sentence. 22. Though considering the conduct of the petitioner, one of the option available was to cancel his bail, however, we do not propose to take such an extreme step in the case in hand.