Highlighting the facts that the respondent herein had already earned five accelerated promotions in a span of about 23 years of service, learned counsel submitted that the date on which the respondent had completed his Kal Awadhi for promotion from the post of Under Secretary to Joint Secretary, i.e., on 29th July, 1997, there was no vacancy on the post of Joint Secretary till the actual date of his promotion i.e., 5th March, 2003 which fact has been completely overlooked in the impugned judgement. To fortify the aforesaid submission learned counsel cited decisions of this Court in Nirmal Chandra Sinha vs. Union of India and Others7 and Union of India and Another vs. Manpreet Singh Poonam and Another.8 16. Per contra, Mr. Amit Pawan, learned counsel for the respondent supported the impugned judgement and submitted that the respondent was rightly promoted to the post of Under Secretary with effect from 29th July, 1997 since he had already completed the Kal Awadhi on the said date, in terms of the Resolution dated 26th December, 1991 issued by the Board. He submitted that besides the fact that the respondent falls under the reserved category and is physically challenged, he was also the senior most member in the cadre of Under Secretary on the relevant date i.e., 29th July, 1997. Having completed the Kal Awadhi period as on the said date, the respondent was qualified and eligible for promotion and ought to have been immediately considered for promotion with effect from the said date. He therefore submits that the impugned judgement does not deserve interference. 7 [2008] 5 SCR 635 : (2008) 14 SCC 29 8 [2022] 2 SCR 764 : (2022) 6 SCC 105 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 771 Bihar State Electricity Board and Others v. Dharamdeo Das DISCUSSION ON THE LEGAL POSITION 17. We have perused the pleadings and the records and given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the parties. 18. It is no longer res integra that a promotion is effective from the date it is granted and not from the date when a vacancy occurs on the subject post or when the post itself is created. No doubt, a right to be considered for promotion has been treated by courts not just as a statutory right but as a fundamental right, at the same time, there is no fundamental right to promotion itself. In this context, we may profitably cite a recent decision in Ajay Kumar Shukla vs. Arvind Rai9 where, citing earlier precedents in Director, Lift Irrigation Corporation Ltd. vs. Pravat Kiran Mohanty and Others10 and Ajit Singh and Others vs. State of Punjab and Others,11 a three Judge Bench observed thus: 41. This Court, time and again, has laid emphasis on right to be considered for promotion to be a fundamental right, as was held by K. Ramaswamy, J., in Director, Lift Irrigation Corpn. Ltd. v. Pravat Kiran Mohanty and Others9 in para 4 of the report which is reproduced below: “4………..There is no fundamental right to promotion, but an employee has only right to be considered for promotion, when it arises, in accordance with relevant rules.