75 Section 12, Arbitration Act. [It reads: (1) When a person is approached in connection with his possible appointment as an arbitrator, he shall disclose in writing any circumstances,— (a) such as the existence either direct or indirect, of any past or present relationship with or interest in any of the parties or in relation to the subject-matter in dispute, whether financial, business, professional or other kind, which is likely to give rise to justifiable doubts as to his independence or impartiality; and (b) which are likely to affect his ability to devote sufficient time to the arbitration and in particular his ability to complete the entire arbitration within a period of twelve months. Explanation 1.—The grounds stated in the Fifth Schedule shall guide in determining whether circumstances exist which give rise to justifiable doubts as to the independence or impartiality of an arbitrator. Explanation 2.—The disclosure shall be made by such person in the form specified in the Sixth Schedule.] (2) An arbitrator, from the time of his appointment and throughout the arbitral proceedings, shall, without delay, disclose to the parties in writing any circumstances referred to in sub-section (1) unless they have already been informed of them by him. (3) An arbitrator may be challenged only if— (a) circumstances exist that give rise to justifiable doubts as to his independence or impartiality; or (b) he does not possess the qualifications agreed to by the parties. (4) A party may challenge an arbitrator appointed by him, or in whose appointment he has participated, only for reasons of which he becomes aware after the appointment has been made. (5) Notwithstanding any prior agreement to the contrary, any person whose relationship, with the parties or counsel or the subject-matter of the dispute, falls under any of the categories specified in the Seventh Schedule shall be ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator: Provided that parties may, subsequent to disputes having arisen between them, waive the applicability of this sub-section by an express agreement in writing.] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2217 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company doubts as to the independence or impartiality of arbitrators. Section 12(1) also mandates an arbitrator to disclose in writing any circumstances that are likely to affect the ability to devote sufficient time to the arbitration and in particular the ability to complete the entire arbitration within twelve months. The duty of disclosure is a continuing duty. Section 12(3) provides that an arbitrator may be challenged only if: (i) circumstances exist that give rise to justifiable doubts as to independence or impartiality; or (ii) the arbitrator does not possess the qualifications agreed to by the parties. 43. Before the 2015 amendment, this Court generally upheld arbitrator appointment clauses which gave one party “unfettered discretion” to appoint a sole arbitrator.76 It was also held that there was no bar under the Arbitration Act for an employee of a government or Public Sector Undertaking,77 which is a party to an arbitration agreement, to act as an arbitrator.78 However, it was observed that there could be justifiable apprehension about the independence or impartiality of an employee arbitrator who was the “controlling or dealing authority” regarding the subject contract or if the arbitrator was a direct subordinate to the officer whose decision was the subject-matter of the dispute.79 The Court suggested phasing out arbitration clauses providing for the appointment of serving officers as arbitrators to “encourage professionalism in arbitration.”80 76 Datar Switchgears Ltd. v. Tata Finance Ltd. (2000) 8 SCC 151 [23] [“23.