They will not apply to a situation as has arisen in this case. We are, therefore, of the opinion that Section 22(1) should be read down or understood as contended by the Revenue. The decision to the contrary by the High Court is unreasonable and unsustainable. We set aside the of the High Court and allow this appeal. There shall be no as to costs.” (Emphasis supplied) 79. The decision in Corromandal Pharmaceuticals (supra) was referred to and relied upon by a two-Judge Bench of this Court in Jay Engineering (supra) which set aside the of the High Court as it failed to consider that the liabilities of the appellant-sick company therein with respect to the creditor were indisputably a part of the revised rehabilitation scheme. This Court held that if the liabilities of the creditor were duly considered and made a part of the rehabilitation scheme, the bar under Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act would apply, notwithstanding the fact that the liabilities arose after the company was declared to be a sick one. The relevant observations of this court are extracted hereinbelow: “9. In the said scheme, the award made in favour of the respondents finds place in the category of “dormant creditors”. The liabilities of the appellant vis-à-vis Respondent 2 were, therefore, indisputably a subject- matter of the said scheme. The High Court, in our opinion, committed an error in proceeding on the premise that the awarded amount had not been included and could not be included in the sanctioned rehabilitation scheme, the same being part of transactions which took place 358 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports after 21-11-1997 ignoring the revised scheme made in the year 2003. xxx xxx xxx 18. The award of the Council being an award, deemed to have been made under the provisions of the 1996 Act, indisputably is being executed before a civil court. Execution of an award, beyond any cavil of doubt, would attract the provisions of Section 22 of the 1985 Act. Whereas an adjudicatory process of making an award under the 1993 Act may not come within the purview of the 1985 Act but once an award made is sought to be executed, it shall come into play. Once the awarded amount has been included in the scheme approved by the Board, in our opinion, Section 22 of the 1985 Act would apply. 19. If the liabilities of the appellant are covered by the scheme framed under Section 22 of the 1985 Act, the High Court was clearly in error in coming to the conclusion that the provisions thereof are not attracted only because the debt had been incurred after the Company was declared to be a sick one. xxx xxx xxx 22. The High Court has placed strong reliance on CTO v. Corromandal Pharmaceuticals [(1997) 10 SCC 649] wherein this Court was considering an exceptional situation by reason of the fact that the liability of the sick company for the first time arose after the date of sanctioned scheme and the sick industrial unit was enabled to collect tax due to the Revenue from the exporters thereafter but declined to pay it over to the Revenue wherefor recovery proceedings had to be taken.