2 to 4 preferred an application seeking anticipatory bail before the Patna High Court. The High Court, vide the impugned , allowed the application of respondent nos. 2 to 4 and granted them anticipatory bail. 7. The appellant-complainant is aggrieved by the dated 25.07.2023 and has submitted that such a grant of anticipatory bail by the High Court was unwarranted. 8. Notices in the instant matter were issued on 12.01.2024. However, despite service of notice, respondent nos. 2 to 4 had initially failed to put in appearance. Eventually, the respondents did put in appearance and sought time to file counter-affidavit which was recorded in the dated 04.11.2024. However, on 25.11.2024, we were apprised by Mr. Amitava Poddar, learned counsel appearing for the respondent- accused nos. 2 to 4 that the accused persons have instructed him not to appear on their behalf anymore. Therefore, we had directed for non-bailable warrants to be issued against respondent nos. 2 to 4 to ensure that they are taken into custody and be produced before this Court on the next date. 9. Pursuant to the abovementioned dated 25.11.2024, respondent nos. 2 to 4 are present in the Court today. 10. Mr. Arup Banerjee, Advocate-on-Record represents respondent nos. 2 to 4. Respondent no. 4 has been produced before us by Sub Inspector Mr. Sudhir Tiwari, East Champaran, Bihar. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2087 Shambhu Debnath v. The State of Bihar & Ors. 11. As the respondent no. 4 has been produced in custody and such non-bailable warrants were issued only for the purpose of appearance since the respondents were evading to enter appearance before this Court, she was directed to be released. 12. As for the matter with regard to grant of anticipatory bail to the respondents-accused, the law has been enunciated by this Court in Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi),2 wherein it was held that the following factors have to be considered while granting the relief of anticipatory bail, which are as follows: “92.4. Courts ought to be generally guided by considerations such as the nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the applicant, and the facts of the case, while considering whether to grant anticipatory bail, or refuse it. Whether to grant or not is a matter of discretion; equally whether and if so, what kind of special conditions are to be imposed (or not imposed) are dependent on facts of the case, and subject to the discretion of the court.” 13. Considering the above laid law and the fact that there are specific averments in the FIR against all the accused persons including the respondents herein that all of them had set the deceased on fire with an intention to kill him, we fail to understand as to how the High Court had granted relief of anticipatory bail to the respondents in an offence under Section 302 of the IPC. The High Court has erred in granting the relief in a cryptic and mechanical manner without considering the materials available on record including the chargesheet which stated that the case has been found true against all the accused persons of such a heinous offence of murder by pouring kerosene oil and setting the deceased on fire.