[Para 148] 5. Article 30(1) can be classified as both an anti-discrimination provision and a special rights provision – A legislation or an executive action which discriminates against religious or linguistic minorities in establishing or administering educational institutions is ultra vires Article 30(1) – This is the anti-discrimination reading of the provision – Additionally, a linguistic or religious minority which has established an educational institution receives the guarantee of greater autonomy in administration – This is the ‘special rights’ reading of the provision. [Para 160(b)] 6. Religious or linguistic minorities must prove that they established the educational institution for the community to be a minority educational institution for the purposes of Article 30(1). [Para 160(c)] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1655 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 7. The right guaranteed by Article 30(1) is applicable to universities established before the commencement of the Constitution. [Para 160(d)] 8. The right under Article 30(1) is guaranteed to minorities as defined upon the commencement of the Constitution – A different right-bearing group cannot be identified for institutions established before the adoption of the Constitution. [Para 160(e)] 9. The incorporation of the University would not ipso facto lead to surrendering of the minority character of the institution – The circumstances surrounding the conversion of a teaching college to a teaching university must be viewed to identify if the minority character of the institution was surrendered upon the conversion – The Court may on a holistic reading of the statutory provisions relating to the administrative set-up of the educational institution deduce if the minority character or the purpose of establishment was relinquished upon incorporation. [Para 160(f)] 10. The following are the factors which must be used to determine if a minority ‘established’ an educational institution: i. The indicia of ideation, purpose and implementation must be satisfied – First, the idea for establishing an educational institution must have stemmed from a person or group belonging to the minority community; second, the educational institution must be established predominantly for the benefit of the minority community; and third, steps for the implementation of the idea must have been taken by the member(s) of the minority community; and ii. The administrative-set up of the educational institution must elucidate and affirm (I) the minority character of the educational institution; and (II) that it was established to protect and promote the interests of the minority community. [Para 160(g)] 11. The question of whether AMU is a minority educational institution must be decided based on the principles laid down in this – The papers of this batch of cases shall be 1656 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports placed before the regular bench for deciding whether AMU is a minority educational institution. [Para 161] Held [per Surya Kant, J. ]: 1. The minority institutions established in the pre-Constitution era are also entitled to the protection conferred by Article 30. [Para 192(g)] 2. Educational institutions, with reference to Article 30 include universities as well. [Para 192(h)] 3. In to seek protection under Article 30 of our Constitution, the minority institution must satisfy the conjunctive test, namely that it was established by a minority community and has been/ is being administered by such a community.