We summarise our conclusions regarding the concept of the “Minutes of ” as follows: a) The practice of filing “Minutes of ” prevails in the Bombay High Court. As a courtesy to the Court, the advocates appearing for the parties to the proceedings tender “Minutes of ” containing what could be recorded by the Court in its . The object is to assist the Court; b) An passed in terms of the “Minutes of ” tendered on record by the advocates representing the parties to the proceedings is not a consent . It is an in invitum for all purposes; c) Before tendering the “Minutes of ” to the Court, the advocates must consider whether an , if passed by the Court in terms of the “Minutes of ,” would be lawful. After “Minutes of ” is tendered before the Court, it is the duty of the Court to decide whether an passed in terms of the “Minutes of ” would be lawful. The Court must apply its mind whether the parties who are likely to be affected by an in terms of the “Minutes of ” have been impleaded to the proceedings; d) If the Court is of the view that an made in terms of the “Minutes of ” tendered by the advocates will not be lawful, the Court should decline to pass an in terms of the “Minutes of ”; and [2024] 5 S.C.R. 171 Ajay Ishwar Ghute & Ors. v. Meher K. Patel & Ors. e) If the Court finds that all the parties likely to be affected by an in terms of the “Minutes of ” are not parties to the proceedings, the Court will be well advised to defer passing of the till all the necessary parties are impleaded to the proceedings. FINDINGS ON FACTS OF THE CASE 21. In the facts of the case, the senior district-level officials of the State had stated on oath that the construction of the compound wall, in respect of which relief was sought in the Writ Petition, would affect the rights of several third parties. However, the Court completely ignored the same. Even in clause 6 (iii) of the “Minutes of ”, there was enough indication that the compound wall, if not appropriately constructed, would affect the rights of owners of the other lands. Therefore, it was the duty of the Court to have called upon the 1st and 2nd respondents to implead the persons who were likely to be affected. The 1st and 2nd respondents could not have pleaded ignorance about the names of the concerned parties as they have referred to the owners of the other lands in the “Minutes of ”. However, the Division Bench of the High Court has failed to make even an elementary enquiry whether third parties will be affected by the construction of the compound wall under police protection. Hence, the dated 16th March 2022 passed in the Writ Petition in terms of the “Minutes of ” is entirely illegal and must be set aside.