8.9 We therefore find that the impugned s of the Central Government are in accordance with sub-section (5) of Section 6 read with Section 8 of the NIA Act. This is because on a reading of the impugned s, we find there is a connection, nexus and a link which has been brought out between the Scheduled Offences investigated by the NIA under Sections 17 and 18 of UAPA pursuant to dated 29.06.2020 and subsequently under the s dated 28.06.2021 and 12.10.2021 insofar as the offences alleged against the petitioner herein under the provisions of the NDPS Act are concerned. It is precisely for circumstances such as in the present case that Section 8 enables the NIA to investigate into even non-scheduled offences or any other offence of which an accused has been alleged to have been committed provided they are connected with any Scheduled Offence (Sections 17 and 18 of the UAPA in the instant case) vide Schedule to NIA Act. Hence, in this case, Annexures P-6 and P-9 have been issued by the Central Government by exercising power under sub- section (5) of Section 6 read with Section 8 of the NIA Act and in continuation of Annexure ‘P-4’. Therefore, we do not find any reason to quash the impugned s at Annexures P-4, P-6 and P-9 issued by respondent No.1. The writ petition is hence liable to be dismissed and is dismissed. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1789 Ankush Vipan Kapoor v. National Investigation Agency 8.10 In view of the aforesaid discussion, we find that the NIA was justified in seeking cancellation of bail granted to the petitioner herein by the High Court in respect of the offences alleged against him under the provisions of the NIA Act in the State of Punjab. This is because the said offences are now being investigated by the NIA and there is also transfer of the trial from the concerned Special Court in the State of Punjab to the Special Court in the State of Gujarat, to be tried along with Scheduled Offences under Sections 17 and 18 of the UAPA as per Section 14 of the NIA Act. Therefore, the special leave petition is also liable to be dismissed and is dismissed. The interim relief granted to the petitioner vide dated 07.03.2024 and extended from time to time stands vacated. Epilogue: The Ripple Effects of Illicit Drug Trade and Drug Abuse: 9. Before parting with these cases, although we are mindful that the present matter concerns cancellation of bail and challenge to the Central Government s directing the NIA to investigate certain offences under the provisions of NDPS Act against the petitioner here, we would like to record our earnest disquiet about the proliferation of substance abuse in India. 9.1 The ills of drug abuse seem to be shadowing the length and breadth of our country with the Central and every State Government fighting against the menace of substance abuse. The debilitating impact of drug trade and drug abuse is an immediate and serious concern for India.