The limitations of the Legislatures, in rendering questions of fact decided by the Court nugatory through a legislative device, would be decided by the regular bench. M.2 The Constitution and the question of surrender of rights 240. Once the amendments have been discussed, it is important to note the coming in to force of the Constitution and the effect it had on the rights claimed. The parties defending the of the High Court asserted, on the basis of Durgah Committee [supra], and the reliance placed in Azeez Basha [supra], that the right to administer was relinquished in 1920 itself and it cannot be revived subsequent to the advent of the Constitution, as it was complete at a juncture when fundamental rights were not operative. Further it was argued that the fundamental rights surrendered prior to the Constitution, cannot be revived after the advent of the Constitution [See Sri Jagadguru Kari Basava Rajendraswami of Govimutt v. Commr. of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, (1964) 8 SCR 252; Rabindranath Bose v. Union of India, (1970) 1 SCC 84; Guru Datta Sharma v. State of Bihar, (1962) 2 SCR 292]. 241. On the other hand, the parties challenging the of the High Court, placed reliance on St Xavier’s [supra] and KS Puttaswamy (Privacy-9 J.) v. Union of India, (2017) 10 SCC 1, to assert that the fundamental rights cannot be surrendered. It was also argued [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2025 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. that the events prior to 1920 and the establishment process which culminated in to the 1920 Act, could not have taken away the minority character in the name of legislative recognition as a University. 242. It is necessary to clarify at this juncture that it cannot be said that the fundamental rights can be surrendered by one generation for it to be extinguished from utilization by another generation. Fundamental rights are the bedrock of the Constitution and the Republic and must be perennial and continuing in nature. 243. Further, it is a well-established legal principle that fundamental rights do not possess retrospective effect, and actions that were concluded before the enactment of the Constitution cannot be revisited. In Keshavan Madhava Menon v. State of Bombay, (1951) SCR 228, it was noted as under: “As already explained, Article 13(1) only has the effect of nullifying or rendering all inconsistent existing laws ineffectual or nugatory and devoid of any legal force or binding effect only with respect to the exercise of fundamental rights on and after the date of the commencement of the Constitution. It has no retrospective effect and if, therefore, an act was done before the commencement of the Constitution in contravention of any law which, after the Constitution, becomes void with respect to the exercise of any of the fundamental rights, the inconsistent law is not wiped out so far as the past act is concerned, for, to say that it is, will be to give the law retrospective effect.… So far as the past acts are concerned the law exists, notwithstanding that it does not exist with respect to the future exercise of fundamental rights.” Similarly in Pannalal Binjraj v. Union of India, 1957 SCR 233 it was noted that : “It is settled that Article 13 of the Constitution has no retrospective effect and if, therefore, any action was taken before the commencement of the provisions of any law which was a valid law at the time when such action was taken, such action cannot be challenged and the law under which such action was taken cannot be questioned as unconstitutional and void on the score of its infringing the fundamental rights enshrined in Part III of the Constitution” 2026 [2024] 11 S.C.R.