The finding specifically states: “But if not so excluded, the provisions of Part I will also apply to all ‘foreign awards’. …” (Emphasis supplied) 34. Thus, the concept of “concurrent jurisdiction” in arbitration in India was further expanded in Venture Global (supra) inasmuch as by holding Part I of the Act, 1996 to be applicable to foreign awards as- well, this Court clarified that even after the arbitration has concluded and the award has been passed, the courts in India will continue to have jurisdiction in terms of Section 2(e) of the said Act. 35. Similarly, in Indtel Technical Services (P) Ltd. v. W.S. Atkins Rail Ltd., reported in (2008) 10 SCC 308, this Court reiterated that Part I of the Act, 1996 applies to both domestic and international arbitrations, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2(2) of the said Act and irrespective of whether the seat of arbitration is in India or not. It further observed that the courts of the country, whose substantive laws govern the arbitration agreement, are competent courts in respect of all matters arising under the arbitration agreement, and the jurisdiction exercised by the courts of the seat of arbitration is merely concurrent and not exclusive and strictly limited to the matter of procedure. Thus, an application under Section 11 for appointment of arbitrator in India was held to be maintainable though the seat of arbitration was in England. The relevant observations read as under: - 1184 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “16. The submissions made on behalf of Bhatia International were accepted by this Court upon a finding that, although, Section 2(2) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, provides that Part I of the Act would apply where the place of arbitration is in India, it did not provide that Part I would not apply where the place of arbitration is not in India. It was also held that it was nowhere provided that Part I of the aforesaid Act would not apply to arbitrations taking place outside India. … xxx 26. Referring to the decision in NTPC case [(1992) 3 SCC 551] which had also been referred to by Mr Gupta, Mr Tripathi submitted that in the said decision the views of jurists such as Dicey, Mustill and Boyd and Russell had been reiterated in support of the contention that the overriding principle is that the courts of the country, whose substantive laws govern the arbitration agreement, are competent courts in respect of all matters arising under the arbitration agreement, and the jurisdiction exercised by the courts of the seat of arbitration is merely concurrent and not exclusive and strictly limited to the matter of procedure. Mr Tripathi submitted that the decision in the aforesaid case supports the proposition that when the parties to the contract, do not express any choice with regard to the law governing the contract or the arbitration agreement in particular, a presumption has to be drawn that the parties intended that the proper law of the contract as well as the law governing the arbitration agreement would be the same as the law of the country which is the seat of arbitration.