Failure on the part of the Investigating Officer to comply with the provisions of Section 172 CrPC is a serious lapse on his part resulting in diminishing the value [2024] 2 S.C.R. 793 Shailesh Kumar v. State of U.P. (Now State of Uttarakhand) and credibility of his investigation. In this case the Investigating Officer neither entered the time of recording of the statements of the witnesses in the diary nor did he send the bloodstained clothes and earth seized from the place of occurrence for examination by a serologist. The High Court also adversely commented upon the lapses on the part of the Investigating Officer in not complying with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We, therefore, take it that, in fact, there was serious lapse on the part of the Investigation Officer in not observing the mandate of Section 172 CrPC while investigating the case which has given rise to this appeal. But the question that arises for consideration is, has any prejudice been caused to the accused in the trial by non-observance of rules by the Investigating Officer? The evidence on record before the Sessions Court and the appellate court does not show that due to the lapses on the part of the Investigating Officer in not sending the bloodstained clothes and earth seized from the place of occurrence for chemical examination and further not noting down the time of recording the statement of the witnesses in the diary has resulted in any prejudice to the defence of the accused. In the present case, the place of occurrence and the identity of the deceased are not disputed. Further, the testimony of the eyewitnesses which is consistent and does not suffer from infirmity, was believed by both the courts below. Once the eyewitnesses are believed and the courts come to the conclusion that the testimony of the eyewitnesses is trustworthy, the lapse on the part of the Investigating Officer in not observing the provisions of Section 172 CrPC unless some prejudice is shown to have been caused to the accused, will not affect the finding of guilt recorded by the Court. Neither before the High Court nor before this Court, it was pointed out in what manner the accused were prejudiced by non-observance of the provisions of Section 172 CrPC and the rules framed in this regard. We are, therefore, of opinion that s of the courts below do not suffer on account of omission on the part of the Investigating Officer in not sending the earth seized from the place of 794 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports occurrence for chemical examination or in not entering the time of recording of the statements of witnesses in the diary.” (emphasis supplied) 25. Manoj and Others v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2023) 2 SCC 353, “203. The scheme of the CrPC under Chapter XII (Information to Police and Powers to Investigate) is clear — the police have the power to investigate freely and fairly; in the course of which, it is mandatory to maintain a diary where the day-to-day proceedings are to be recorded with specific mention of time of events, places visited, departure and reporting back, statements recorded, etc.