Such assembly and erection was done either by the appellants or by the customer. Where it was done by the appellants, fabrication materials of the customer were used and the customer sent to the appellants debit notes in regard to their value. Where the assembly and erection was done by the customer, there was no occasion for it to send [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1585 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune to the appellants a debit note. The fact that there was no debit note in respect of one customer could not reasonably have led the Tribunal to conclude that in the case of that customer a complete mono vertical crystalliser had left the appellants’ factory and that, therefore, mono vertical crystallisers were marketable. The Tribunal ought to have remembered that the record showed that mono vertical crystallisers had, apart from assembly, to be erected and attached by foundations to the earth and, therefore, were not, in any event, marketable as they were.” 11.9.17 Relying on the aforesaid decisions, it has been contended by the Revenue that the tower once assembled and fixed to the earth/building, ceases to be marketable and hence cannot be said to be moveable. 11.9.18 However, as discussed above, the tower and PFBs, after being dismantled without being damaged, can be relocated or sold, thereby possessing the character of marketability. As such these decisions would not be applicable in the present case. For the same reason, the decision in T.T.G Industries Ltd. (supra) also relied upon by the Revenue will not help the cause of the Revenue. 11.9.19 The Revenue has also sought to rely upon a circular under F.No.137/315/2007-CX.4, dated 26.02.2008 issued by the Central Board of Excise and Customs, Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance specifying that angles, channels, beam of steel and prefabricated shelter, PUF panels are used by the cellular phone service providers for erecting towers and making housing/storage units and are used in making of products and cannot be called excisable goods, being attached to the earth and are not chargeable to excise duty. The circular further mentions that these inputs for civil structures are not used for providing taxable service and accordingly the circular clarified that credit of excise duty paid on such items is not available to the telecom service providers. 1586 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11.9.20 We are of the considered opinion that though the Revenue/ Department may issue any such circular based on their understanding of the matter and the Revenue authorities/ officers are bound to follow it, yet, in view of the findings arrived at by us in these proceedings, the said circular would be of no avail and to the extent the same is contrary to our findings in these proceedings would not be enforceable and would be liable to be withdrawn. 11.9.21 In Commissioner of Central Excise, Bolpur Vs. M/s Ratan Melting & Wire Industries (2008) 14 SCR 653, it was held that, “6. Circulars and instructions issued by the Board are no doubt binding in law on the authorities under the respective statutes, but when the Supreme Court or the High Court declares the law on the question arising for consideration, it would not be appropriate for the Court to direct that the circular should be given effect to and not the view expressed in a decision of this Court or the High Court.