b) The Collector apparently referred the said complaint dated 06.04.2021 to the Superintendent of Police of the District Janjgir- Champa for enquiry. The enquiry is alleged to be entrusted by the Superintendent of Police to the Station House Officer, Police Station Shakti, District Janjgir-Champa. The Station House Officer made detailed enquiries and also recorded the statements of the appellant, respondent no.6 and other persons who were sought to be referred to as witnesses and ultimately submitted the report to the Superintendent of Police on 25.07.2021. c) The report mentioned interesting facts, according to which, both the parties i.e. appellant and respondent no.6 were accusing each other of having extracted money for securing job for their relatives. As already stated, the appellant was trying to secure a job for his brother whereas, according to respondent no.6, the appellant had taken about Rs.4 lacs from her for securing a job for her daughter. In the enquiry it was also found that when no job was provided by the appellant to her daughter, the appellant returned some amount by depositing it in her bank account. Both the parties had alleged that false complaints were being made against each other. Interestingly when in the enquiry the Station House Officer required the appellant and respondent no.6 to produce the relevant documents and also the details of the call records and recorded conversations, they failed to provide any such material. Accordingly, it was recommended that the complaint deserves to be closed. 5. It appears that thereafter the respondent no.6 was successful in lodging an FIR against the appellant on 27.07.2022, a copy of which is filed as Annexure P-3. According to the contents of the FIR, an amount of Rs.4 lacs has been taken by the appellant and his brother, the other co-accused, for providing a job to the daughter 368 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of respondent no.6. The said amount was paid in April, 2019. The transaction is said to be purely in cash and there are no bank transactions. Before registering the FIR in this case also an enquiry was made and a report was submitted to the Sub-Divisional Officer, who directed for registration of an FIR. In this enquiry it was found that both parties have made allegations against each other of taking money for providing a job. 6. The appellant filed a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Chhattisgarh for quashing the FIR and the proceedings arising therefrom. The said petition has since been dismissed by the impugned giving rise to filing of the present appeal. 7. We have heard learned counsel for the parties. 8. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that on the earlier occasion upon a complaint submitted by the appellant to the Collector of the district, an enquiry was conducted in which similar allegations against each other were made by both the sides which were not found to be substantiated and, therefore, lodging of the impugned FIR after about one year of the said enquiry, is mala fide and an abuse of the process of law.