(concurring)] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.125 – Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Divorce) Act, 1986 – Provision (s.125, CrPC) is meant to achieve a social purpose: Held: A reading of Section 125 of the CrPC would indicate that the intention of the said provision is to provide for a speedy remedy and prevent vagrancy by compelling the husband to support the wife – The provision is meant to achieve a social purpose – The reason being, that after marriage, it is the duty of the husband to provide shelter and maintenance to the wife in the Indian context – Particularly, if she is unable to maintain herself – If he neglects or refuses to do so, the wife is legally entitled to enforce the said right by filing a petition under Section 125 of the CrPC irrespective of any other right created in favour of the wife under any other law – Therefore, the passing of the 1986 Act, cannot militate against or dilute the salutary nature of Section 125 of the CrPC – The object of this provision is to save a wife including a divorced woman from deprivation and destitution. [Para 8] [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J. (concurring)] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.127 – Cancellation of of maintenance: Held: The crux of these s (Fuzlunbi vs. K. Khader Vali and Mohd. Ahmed Khan vs. Shah Bano Begum) is that an under Section 127 ought to be a reasoned and shall only allow an for maintenance to be cancelled if a judge was satisfied that the divorced woman had received a sufficient amount of maintenance under any customary or personal law. [Para 16] [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J. (concurring)] Interpretation of Statutes – Non-obstante clause – Meaning of: Held: A non-obstante clause is usually appended to a Section in the beginning with a view to give the enacting part of the Section, in case of a conflict, an overriding effect over the provision or Act mentioned in the non-obstante clause – In other words, in spite of the provision or the Act mentioned in the non-obstante clause, the enactment following it will have its full operation or that the provisions embraced in the non-obstante clause will not be an impediment for the operation of the enactment – Thus, a 1244 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports non-obstante clause is a legislative device used by a Parliament or legislature sometimes to give an overriding effect to what has been specified in the enacting part of a section in case of a conflict with what is contained in the non-obstante clause as stated above. [Para 23] [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J. (concurring)] Interpretation of Statutes – Non-obstante clause, expression “subject to”, expression “notwithstanding anything in any other law”: Held: A non-obstante clause has to be distinguished from the expression “subject to” where the latter would convey the idea of a provision yielding place to another provision or other provisions to which it is made subject to – The expression “notwithstanding anything in any other law ” in a Section of an Act has to be contrasted with the use of the expression “notwithstanding anything contained in this Act ”, which has to be construed to take away the effect of any provision of that particular Act in which the section occurs but it cannot take away the effect of any other law.