Neither any proceedings were conducted nor any memo was prepared by the police officers for repacking the seized ganja bundles in new packaging. 20. The two independent panch witnesses i.e. Shareef Shah and Mithun Jana who were associated in the recovery proceedings, were 34 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not examined in evidence and no explanation was given by the prosecution as to why they were not being examined. 21. Sub-Inspector LW-10, who prepared three samples of ganja, as per the testimony of PW-5, was not examined in evidence. In addition thereto, the prosecution neither examined any witness nor produced any document to satisfy the Court regarding safe keeping of the samples right from the time of the seizure till the same reached the FSL. The official who collected the samples from the police station and carried the same to the FSL was not examined at the trial. From the quoted portion of the evidence of Seizure Officer(Inspector PW-1), it is clear as day light that he handed over one of the three samples to the accused. The witness also admitted that he did not mention about sealing of the samples in the panchnama. Contrary to the evidence of PW-1, PW-5 stated that three samples of ganja were taken out by Sub-Inspector LW-10 and were handed over to the witness who forwarded the same to the ACP for sending it to FSL. In cross-examination, the witness admitted that he did not file any document to show that the property was kept in malkhana. The malkhana register was not produced in the Court. The FSL report (Exhibit P-11) does not disclose about the panch chits and seals and signature of the accused on samples. The property deposited in the Court(muddamal) was not having any official seals. The witness also admitted that he did not take any permission from the Court for changing the original three packets of muddamal ganja to seven new bags for safe keeping. These glaring loopholes in the prosecution case give rise to an inescapable inference that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the required link evidence to satisfy the Court regarding the safe custody of the sample packets from the time of the seizure till the same reached the FSL. Rather, the very possibility of three samples being sent to FSL is negated by the fact that the Seizure Officer handed over one of the three collected samples to the accused. Thus, their remained only two samples whereas three samples reached the FSL. This discrepancy completely shatters the prosecution case. 22. Admittedly, no proceedings under Section 52A of the NDPS Act were undertaken by the Investigating Officer PW-5 for preparing an inventory and obtaining samples in presence of the jurisdictional Magistrate. In this view of the matter, the FSL report(Exhibit P-11) is nothing but a waste paper and cannot be read in evidence. The [2024] 3 S.C.R. 35 Mohammed Khalid and Another v. The State of Telangana accused A-3 and A-4 were not arrested at the spot.