Land Revenue Act, 1317 F had no relevancy or connection with a proceeding under the A.P. Forest Act concluded on 11.11.1971 – Thereafter, without any jurisdiction, an was passed u/s.87, A.P. Land Revenue Act, 1317 F – High Court had earlier given a clear finding that even at the time of declaration under the A.P. Land Revenue Act, 1317 F, these lands were not shown as private lands by the defendant – High Court which is expected to act within the statutory limitation went beyond and graciously gifted the forest land to a private person who could not prove his title – While disposing of the first appeal, the High Court exercised its power u/Or.XLI, r.22, CPC for partly reversing the trial court decree – Even otherwise, there were concurrent findings in so far as dismissal of the suit for injunction was concerned – High Court showed utmost interest and benevolence in allowing the review by setting aside the well merited in the appeal – Impugned set aside, rendered in appeal restored. [Paras 51, 54-56, 59] Andhra Pradesh Forest Act, 1967 – ss.15, 16 – Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317 F. – s.87 – Notification was published u/s.15 declaring the land being forest land, as reserved forest – Suit filed for declaration of title and permanent injunction – Maintainability: [2024] 5 S.C.R. 83 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. Held: Completion of the process as prescribed u/s.15 results in changing the character of land, including a forest land into a reserved forest – Thereafter, there shall be no question of raising any dispute on its character – Suit filed was not maintainable as the plaintiff had not challenged the proceedings u/s.15 which had become final and conclusive in view of the express declaration provided in s.16 – Rather, the plaintiff filed application for denotification before the Government which was rejected – Neither the State Government, which rejected the said application, nor the Forest Settlement Officer were made as party defendants in the suit, with the State arrayed as respondent represented by the Principal Secretary, Forest Department, at a later stage in the appeal – Though, the Forest Officer of the Forest Department may be an interested party, the authority who otherwise could answer was the Forest Settlement Officer – He was the one who concluded the proceedings – In any case, the said exercise was irrelevant as the Plaintiff could not prove his title nor does there lie any relevance to the action taken under the A.P. Land Revenue Act, 1317 F – Furthermore, there was no specific challenge to the concluded proceedings under the A. P. Forest Act – Plaintiff merely asked for declaration of title and permanent injunction restraining the Defendants from interfering with possession. [Paras 13, 57] Andhra Pradesh Forest Act, 1967 – Object – Discussed. Code of Civil Procedure 1908 – s.114; XLVII Rule 1 – “after the exercise of due diligence”; “on account of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record” – Review – Scope – Code of Civil Procedure, 1859 – ss.376, 378 – Code of Civil Procedure, 1877 – s.623: Held: The words “due diligence”, though one of fact, places onus heavily on the one who seeks a review – It has to be seen from the point of view of a reasonable and prudent man – Though an element of flexibility is given to any evidence or matter on its discovery, it has to be one which was not available to the court earlier – It could not have been produced despite due diligence, meaning thereby that it should have been available and, therefore, in existence at least at the time of passing the decree – Mistake or error apparent on the face of record would debar the court from acting as an appellate court in disguise, by indulging in a re-hearing – A decision, however erroneous, can never be a factor for review, but can only be corrected in appeal – Such a 84 [2024] 5 S.C.R.