In the plaint, neither the original plaintiff Joki Woler Ruzer nor the Gala’s have specifically claimed that they or their predecessor-in-interest were enjoying easementary right of use of the said rasta for over 20 years. They simply alleged that they have been using and managing the same since “last many years”. The use of the term “last many years” is not sufficient to mean that they have been enjoying the same for the last 20 years. Last many years would indicate use of the said rasta for more than a year prior to the suit or for some years but certainly would not mean a period of 20 or more years. Therefore, their pleadings fall short of meeting out the legal requirement of acquiring easementary right through prescription. 23. In this connection Shri Ahmadi, learned counsel for the appellants, relying upon “Ram Sarup Gupta (Dead) By Lrs. vs. Bishun Narain Inter College & Ors”2 submitted that the pleadings must be construed liberally and it is not necessary that the precise language or expression 2 [1987] 2 SCR 805 : (1987) 2 SCC 555 366 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports used in the statute should be used. The aforesaid decision lays down that pleadings should be liberally construed and need not contain the exact language used in the statutory provision but it does not mean that the pleadings even if fails to plead the essential legal requirement for establishing a right, the same be so construed so as to impliedly include what actually has not been pleaded more particularly when it happens to be an essential ingredient for establishing a right. Thus, the aforesaid pleadings cannot be treated to be of sufficient compliance of the statutory requirement. It is settled in law that a fact which is not specifically pleaded cannot be proved by evidence as evidence cannot travel beyond the pleadings. 24. The plaint was filed and verified by Joki Woler Ruzer who has not entered the witness box to substantiate the pleadings as to for how long he or his predecessor had been using the said rasta for egress and ingress to their land before the institution of the suit or to say that the easementary right, if any, attached to the said land, was also transferred or purchased by his predecessor. 25. On the contrary, the deposition of Sanjay Borkar (DW-1) who is from the family of the original owners of the land has categorically stated that the original plaintiff Joki Woler Ruzer was not having any right of way on his land and so also the Gala’s (plaintiff Nos.2-4), the subsequent holders of the land, rather they possess an alternative way to approach their land. 26. Navneet Liladhar Hariya (PW-1), the Power of Attorney holder of the Gala’s, stated that the road of 20ft. in width exists on Survey No.57 Hissa No.13A/1 which is being used as an approach road to Survey No.48 Hissa No.15. The said rasta was being used by predecessor-in-interest of the Gala’s but now the Ramani’s have started raising objection.