It includes risk identification (postulating risk scenarios); risk characterization (includes quantitative as well as qualitative assessment); ensuring the quality of data used in such assessment and risk evaluation. The risk assessor is obliged to search beyond the application to identify additional data and other information that will help in the completion of the risk assessment. (d) The next stage of Risk Management includes preparing a risk management plan; and monitoring/reviewing measures, if any, to assess the effectiveness of all steps in risk analysis, including post-release review. It further provides that in case of non-compliance of any condition considered necessary to manage the risk associated with the environmental release and imposed by the regulatory authorities, the Regulatory Authorities may investigate the nature and extent of such non-compliance. If proven, resort may be made to the EPA, 1986 which provides for a range of remedies, including provisions for criminal sanctions or large fines and/or imprisonment for failing to abide by the legislation, conditions or directions when significant damage occurs to health and safety of people or the environment. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1937 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (e) Another relevant aspect dealt in this document is Risk Communication which is a two-way process ‘to provide, share or obtain information and to engage in dialogue with stakeholders regarding the analysis of risk’ and Risk perception. This is based on a principle that Risk Assessment should be ‘in a scientifically sound and transparent manner’. It includes engagement of ‘internal and external stakeholders in the risk analysis process through dialogue’; informing so as ‘to foster understanding of the risks amongst different constituencies (e.g., authorized parties and others from the regulated community, as well as researchers, farmers, health workers, industry, consumers, interest groups and the general community)’; and building trust ‘to promote trust and credibility in the ability of the Regulatory Agencies and the Indian government to effectively regulate modern biotechnology’. (f) At this juncture, it becomes pertinent to refer to the Cartagena Protocol and the Risk Analysis Framework provided under Annex-III of the said Protocol. The General Principles that are required to be followed by the Parties in developing risk assessment are: “ ….. 3. Risk assessment should be carried out in a scientifically sound and transparent manner, and can take into account expert advice of, and guidelines developed by, relevant international organizations. 4. Lack of scientific knowledge or scientific consensus should not necessarily be interpreted as indicating a particular level of risk, an absence of risk, or an acceptable risk. 5. Risks associated with living modified organisms or products thereof, namely, processed materials that are of living modified organism origin, containing detectable novel combinations of replicable genetic material obtained through 1938 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the use of modern biotechnology, should be considered in the context of the risks posed by the non-modified recipients or parental organisms in the likely potential receiving environment. 6. Risk assessment should be carried out on a case-by-case basis. The required information may vary in nature and level of detail from case to case, depending on the living modified organism concerned, its intended use and the likely potential receiving environment.” (Emphasis supplied) (g) The steps provided under this Protocol for risk assessment: “8.