ii. US jurisprudence on unconscionability of arbitration agreements 149. Section 2 of the Federal Arbitration Act provides that an agreement in writing to submit to arbitration an existing controversy arising out of a contract shall be “valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any 269 ICOMM Tele (supra) [23] 270 ICOMM Tele (supra) [27] [“27. Deterring a party to an arbitration from invoking this alternative dispute resolution process by a pre-deposit of 10 per cent would discourage arbitration, contrary to the object of de-clogging the court system, and would render the arbitral process ineffective and expensive.”] 271 Lombardi (supra) [80] 272 Lombardi (supra) [83] [“83. The concept of “party autonomy” as pressed into service by the respondent cannot be stretched to an extent where it violates the fundamental rights under the Constitution. For an arbitration clause to be legally binding it has to be in consonance with the “operation of law” which includes the Grundnorm i.e. the Constitution. It is the rule of law which is supreme and forms parts of the basic structure. The argument canvassed on behalf of the respondent that the petitioner having consented to the pre-deposit clause at the time of execution of the agreement, cannot turn around and tell the Court in a Section 11(6) petition that the same is arbitrary and falling foul of Article 14 of the Constitution is without any merit.”] 2268 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports contract.”273 The US Supreme Court has held that issues concerning validity, irrevocability, and enforceability of arbitration agreements will be decided with reference to the state law grounds such as fraud, duress, and unconscionability.274 The doctrine of unconscionability has been codified by the Uniform Commercial Code and is now a part of American contract law. Section 2-302 of the Uniform Commercial Code allows courts to refuse enforcement of unconscionable contracts or limit the application of an unconscionable clause to avoid any unconscionable result.275 150. The doctrine of unconscionability has roots in equity. An unconscionable contract “is a contract which no man in his senses, not under delusion, would make, on the one hand, and which no fair and honest man would accept on the other.”276 Unconscionability has also been defined to include: (i) an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties; and (ii) unreasonable contractual terms favourable to one party.277 The unconscionability doctrine seeks to balance the freedom of contract with the values of protecting the weaker parties from imposition and oppression.278 151. Unconscionability focuses on abuses relating to the contract formation process (procedural unconscionability) and the substantive terms of the contract (substantive unconscionability).279 In determining procedural unconscionability, the court is concerned with factors such as the relative bargaining power of the parties and whether 273 Section 2, Federal Arbitration Act. [It reads: A written provision in any maritime transaction or a contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction, or the refusal to perform the whole or any part thereof, or an agreement in writing to submit to arbitration an existing controversy arising out of such a contract, transaction, or refusal, shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.