This is because of the unique manner in which Article 246 of the Constitution is worded and the division of legislative subjects between the Parliament and the State legislatures, having regard to the unique federal structure in India with the balance tipping in favour of the Union in certain niche areas of legislation and governance. Ninthly, the Amendment Act, 2016 has brought much needed clarity on the issue and is the correct position of law compatible with the scheme of legislative competence as under our Constitution. I have already held that merely because “industrial alcohol” can be easily manufactured into or misused to become “intoxicating liquors” would not grant States the competence to wholly regulate “industrial alcohol”. State legislatures only have legislative competence over what is “intoxicating liquors” as a beverage. Therefore, the in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) is good law and was most correct in postulating that State legislatures will only have the competence to prevent misuse in interest of public health. For the aforesaid reasons, I am of the view that although the in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) calls for only a clarification, it does not require any overruling. My answers to the questions formulated: 32. Consequently, the questions formulated are accordingly answered as under: Ques. 1. Does Section 2 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, have any impact on the field covered by Section 18G of the said Act or Entry 33(a) of List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution? Ans. : Entry 33(a) – List III has to be read in the context of Entry 52 – List I. IDRA is relatable to Entry 52 – List I. Section 2 of the IDRA has a nexus and is connected with Section 18G of the said Act. Therefore, Entry 33(a) – List III is impacted by Section 2 read with Section 18G of the IDRA. 2176 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Ques. 2. Does Section 18G of the aforesaid Act fall under Entry 52 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, or is it covered by Entry 33(a) of List III thereof? Ans. : Section 18G of the IDRA is directly relatable to Entry 52 – List I which has to be read in the context of Section 2 of IDRA. The doctrine of occupied field applies and the legislative field under Entry 33(a) – List III is covered by the said provision on the basis of doctrine of occupied field under first part of Article 254 of the Constitution. Ques. 3. In the absence of any notified by the Central Government under Section 18G of the above Act, is the power of the State to legislate in respect of matters enumerated in Entry 33 of List III ousted? Ans. : Yes, even in the absence of any notified by the Central Government under Section 18G of the IDRA, the power of the States to legislate in respect of matters enumerated in Entry 33(a) – List III is ousted on the basis of the doctrine of occupied field as aforestated.