Similarly, the expression “so distributed as best to subserve the common good” must be given the widest interpretation. Also, Article 39 (b) and (c) must be read in the context of Article 38 which Articles are meant to achieve economic justice. Sri Gopal Sankarnarayan contended that if “ownership and control of material resources of the community” excluded private ownership, there would be no challenge under Article 19 and the protection of Article 31C then be redundant. 5.2 With regard to the second issue the learned Chief Justice in paragraph 202 has raised the following two questions after an elaborate discussion of the relevant s on the subject: a. Do all privately owned resources fall within the ambit of “material resources of the community”? b. Is the acquisition of private resources by the State a form of distribution recognised by Article 39(b)? 5.3 It is observed by the learned Chief Justice that Article 39(b) is not a source of legislative power and the power to acquire private resources, in certain situations, continues to be traceable to other provisions in the Constitution, including the sovereign power of eminent domain, which is in Entry 42 - List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. Further, even if a law is in furtherance of Article 39(b) and protected by Article 31C, it is susceptible to a challenge to its constitutionality under other provisions of the Constitution including Article 300A. 5.4 In the backdrop of the above principles, the question whether all private properties are covered within the ambit of Article 196 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 39(b) has been considered. There can be no cavil with regard to the five significant elements emerging from Article 39(b), but the question considered is, whether, privately owned resources fall within the ambit of the phrase “material resources of the community”. In the context of the definition of the said expression, it is noted that four opinions, namely, of Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy; Chinnappa Reddy, J. speaking for the Bench in Sanjeev Coke; Fazl Ali, J. speaking for the Bench in State of Tamil Nadu vs. L. Abu Kavur Bai, (1984) 1 SCC 515 (“Abu Kavur Bai”) and Venkataramiah, J. speaking for the Bench in State of Maharashtra vs. Basantibai Mohanlal Khetan, (1986) 2 SCC 516 (“Basantibai”) are doubted in the reference before us. Therefore, the proposed of the learned Chief Justice considers the meaning of the expression “material”, “resources” and “community” independently to conclude that none of the definitions indicate that the phrase excludes “private property” from the provision. However, a distinction is sought to be made between the following two propositions: holding that “private property” may form part of the phrase “material resources of the community” on the one hand and that “all private properties” fall within the net of the phrase on the other hand. 5.5 It is observed by the learned Chief Justice that the opinion by Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy and the consequent observations in Sanjeev Coke by Chinnappa Reddy, J.fell into erroras the said s cast the net wide by holding that all resources which meet “material needs” are covered by the phrase.