2. Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 936 of 2021 arises from the passed by the High Court in Review Petition No. 5 of 2020 dated 10.07.2020 by which the High Court rejected the review application. 1468 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3. It appears from the materials on record that the petitioners herein (original plaintiffs) filed a civil suit against the respondent (defendant). The respondent herein had filed counter claim in the said suit. The civil suit came to be dismissed for default and the application for restoration moved by the petitioners herein was also ed to be dismissed for default. The counter claim of the respondent was allowed vide the and decree dated 17.01.2015 passed in the very same suit. 4. The petitioners herein being dissatisfied with the ex parte passed in the counter claim challenged the same before the first appellate court by way of an appeal. However, the appeal was time barred by 534 days. 5. The first appellate court condoned the delay of 534 days in preferring the appeal essentially on the ground that the litigant should not suffer on account of negligence on the part of the advocate and the court should adopt a liberal approach in condoning the delay. 6. The respondent herein being dissatisfied by the passed by the first appellate court condoning the delay challenged the same before the High Court. The High Court allowed the civil revision application by which the passed by the appellate court condoning the delay of 534 days came to be quashed and set aside. 7. In such circumstances, the petitioners are here before this Court with the present petitions. 8. We have heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties. 9. The High Court in its impugned observed as under:- “14. Thus, it is evidently clear that the respondents were not only fully aware of the pendency of the counter-claim on 22.3.2012, yet this fact has been deliberately and willfully concealed and not stated in the application for restoration. In fact the entire blame has been put on the earlier counsel that had been representing them. x x x x 22. Since the respondents had not approached the Court with clean hands and have rather suppressed. the material facts, that too, deliberately and intentionally regarding knowledge of pendency of the counter-claim atleast on [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1469 Rajneesh Kumar & Anr. v. Ved Prakash 22.03.2012 and thereby tried to gain an unfair advantage from the Court, that too, by casting serious allegations on the previous counsel(s), no indulgence much less discretion could have been exercised in favour of the respondents/ plaintiffs, that too, for condoning the delay of more than 534 days.” 10. It appears that the entire blame has been thrown on the head of the advocate who was appearing for the petitioners in the trial court. We have noticed over a period of time a tendency on the part of the litigants to blame their lawyers of negligence and carelessness in attending the proceedings before the court.