It is against this and in Second Appeal that the present civil appeal has been preferred. BACKGROUND FACTS 2. It would be necessary to advert to the facts underlying the present dispute. 3. On 10th July 1947, one Thayammal executed a settlement deed4 granting rights in her property to her two sons namely Raghavulu Naidu and Chinnakrishnan @ Munusamy Naidu5 for their lives and thereafter to the former’s two daughters namely Saroja and Rajalakshmi (present Respondent now represented through LRs). Saroja pre-deceased Thayammal as also her father and uncle, in 1951. 3.1 Subsequently, Raghavulu and Munusamy executed a Settlement Deed dated 31st July 19526 reverting the said interests in the properties back to their mother. 3.2 Thayamma, soon thereafter, executed a further Settlement Deed7 dated 18th August 1952, bequeathing absolute interest 1 “Trial Court” 2 “First Appellate Court” 3 “Impugned ” 4 “First Settlement Deed” 5 “Munusamy” 6 “Second Settlement Deed” 7 “Third Settlement Deed” [2024] 2 S.C.R. 331 Vasantha (Dead) Thr. Lr. v. Rajalakshmi @ Rajam (Dead) Thr.Lrs. in such properties only in favour of her two sons namely Raghavulu Naidu and Munusamy Naidu, with the consequence of extinguishing the rights, if any, of Saroja and Gopalakrishnan. 3.3 Munusamy had no children. His wife Pavunammal enjoyed life interest in the property bequeathed to her husband. They had an adopted daughter, Vasantha (present Appellant, now represented through LRs). 3.4 In 1993, during the lifetime of Pavunammal, Gopalakrishnan (Husband of Saroja) filed a suit, subject matter of the present lis, praying for a declaration as the owner of the properties since he was the sole heir of Saroja in terms of the First Settlement Deed. 4. It is in this brief background of facts that the dispute entered the courts. It would be useful to have a summary of family relations forming the backdrop of, and parties to, the dispute by way of a chart, as immediately hereunder:- ● Pounamma is also referred to as Pavanuammal at some places, as was so done by the Courts below. 332 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports PROCEEDING BEFORE THE TRIAL COURT A. PLAINT 5. Plaintiff (Gopalakrishnan) filed a suit for declaration and to establish his vested rights and interest in the property. 5.1 It was urged that only the First Settlement Deed had legal sanctity. Accordingly, the wife of Munusamy is only entitled to possession and enjoyment till her lifetime. There is no right of transfer in her favour. 5.2 The Second Settlement Deed is only for the lifetime of Thayammal, and the same would not impact the vested right created in favour of deceased Saroja, inherited by Gopalakrishnan, as her husband and sole heir. 5.3 The adoption of Vasantha is illegal. Also, the vested right in favour of Saroja was created prior to such adoption and, therefore, would not affect the rights of Gopalakrishnan. B. WRITTEN STATEMENT 6. The written statement is of denial of all claims made by Gopalakrishnan. 6.1 It is incorrect to state that the two sons Raghavulu and Munasamy, were in possession of suit properties according to the First Settlement Deed.