This ongoing dialogue between the courts and the executive branch contributed to the development of a more accountable and transparent administrative framework, paving the way for the exercise of judicial review even in the realm of contractual disputes to achieve a fine balance between efficiency and fairness in policy decisions on the one hand and the rights of individuals and overall public interest on the other. 45. In Mahabir Auto Stores & Ors. v. Indian Oil Corporation reported in (1990) 3 SCC 752, this Court expressed doubts over the correctness of the earlier position of law, that actions of the State in the private contractual field cannot be questioned in writ jurisdiction. This Court further held that even if the inter-se relation of parties with the State is governed purely by a contract, the method, motive and decision of the State would be subject to judicial review on the grounds of relevance and reasonableness, fair play, natural justice, equality and non-discrimination. The relevant observations read as under: - “12. [...] It appears to us that rule of reason and rule against arbitrariness and discrimination, rules of fair play and natural justice are part of the rule of law applicable in situation or action by State instrumentality in dealing with citizens in a situation like the present one. Even though the rights of the citizens are in the nature of contractual rights, the manner, the method and motive of a decision of entering or not entering into a contract, are subject [2024] 7 S.C.R. 563 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. to judicial review on the touchstone of relevance and reasonableness, fair play, natural justice, equality and non- discrimination in the type of the transactions and nature of the dealing as in the present case. 13. The existence of the power of judicial review however depends upon the nature and right involved in the facts and circumstances of the particular case. It is well settled that there can be “malice in law”. Existence of such “malice in law” is part of the critical apparatus of a particular action in administrative law. Indeed “malice in law” is part of the dimension of the rule of relevance and reason as well as the rule of fair play in action. xxx xxx xxx 20. [...] we are of the opinion that it would be appropriate to state that in cases where the instrumentality of the state enters the contractual field, it should be governed by the incidence of the contract. It is true that it may not be necessary to give reasons but, in our opinion, in the field of this nature fairness must be there to the parties concerned, and having regard to the large number or the long period and the nature of the dealings between the parties, the appellant should have been taken into confidence. Equality and fairness at least demands this much from an instrumentality of the State dealing with a right of the State not to treat the contract as subsisting.