The definition of instrument is provided under Section 2(l) of the Stamp Act, which is reproduced below: 346 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “(l) instrument” includes every document by which any right or liability is, or purports to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded, but does not include a bill of exchange, cheque, promissory note, bill of lading, letter of credit, policy of insurance, transfer of share, debenture, proxy and receipt.” 6. The first question that we now have to answer is whether the notice sent to the Registrar in Form No.5 is an “instrument” as defined under Section 2(l). Learned counsel for the appellants contends that Form No.5 records or purports to record the right or extension of the right of a company to increase its share capital as recorded in its Articles of Association and thus falls within the definition of an “instrument”. Share capital of a company refers to the amount invested in the company for it to carry out its operations while Articles of Association contain the prescribed rules and regulations that a company adopts for its internal management.2 When a company is incorporated it has to present certain documents, including its Articles of Association, to the Registrar under Section 33 of the Companies Act and if the Registrar is satisfied that all necessary requirements have been complied with, he then registers the documents submitted. This is because of the implication that provisions contained in the articles amount to a public notice to all those who deal with the company. 7. Section 2(2) of the Companies Act inter alia defines “articles” as the Articles of Association of a company as originally framed or as altered from time to time. A company is empowered to alter its Articles of Association by passing a special resolution in the manner provided in Section 31 of the Companies Act, which states that: “31. Alteration of articles by special resolution.— (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and to the conditions contained in its memorandum a company may, by special resolution, alter its articles: Provided that no alteration made in the articles under this sub-section which has the effect of converting a 2 Section 26 of the Companies Act, 1956. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 347 State of Maharashtra & Anr. v. National Organic Chemical Industries Ltd. public company into a private company, shall have effect unless such alteration has been approved by the Central Government. (2) Any alteration so made shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be as valid as if originally contained in the articles and be subject in like manner to alteration by special resolution. (2-A) … (3) …” (emphasis supplied) Any alteration in the share capital of a limited company is provided under Section 94 of the Companies Act, which reads as under: “94. Power of limited company to alter its share capital.— (1) A limited company having a share capital, may, if so authorised by its articles, alter the conditions of its memorandum as follows, that is to say, it may— (a) increase its share capital by such amount as it thinks expedient by issuing new shares; (b) … (c) … (d) … (e) … (2) The powers conferred by this section shall be exercised by the company in general meeting and shall not require to be confirmed by the Court.