The Court applied the test of whether the action of the member of Parliament which was being questioned bore on the core or essential function of the Parliament. Lord Phillip opined that: “47. The jurisprudence to which I have referred is sparse and does not bear directly on the facts of these appeals. It supports the proposition, however, that the principal matter to which article 9 is directed is freedom of speech and debate in the Houses of Parliament and in parliamentary committees. This is where the core or essential business of Parliament takes place. In considering whether actions outside the Houses and committees fall within parliamentary proceedings because of their connection to them, it is necessary to consider the nature of that connection and whether, if such actions do not enjoy privilege, this is likely to impact adversely on the core or essential business of Parliament.” (emphasis supplied) 144. Lord Rodger in the course of his concurring opinion further shed light on the issue being amenable to the contempt jurisdiction of the House 69 [2010] 3 WLR 1707 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 553 Sita Soren v. Union of India of Parliament. Lord Rodger held that this would be an overlapping jurisdiction and would not amount to an ouster of the court’s jurisdiction. In Makudi v. Baron Triesman of Trottenham,70 the Court of Appeal held that a statement made by a witness in public which repeated his testimony before a parliamentary committee would not attract immunity as it was an extra-parliamentary speech which was too remote to the utterance before the parliamentary committee. The Court also opined when the immunity may be attracted. The Court held that: “25. I accept, however, that there may be instances where the protection of Article 9 indeed extends to extra- Parliamentary speech. No doubt they will vary on the facts, but generally I think such cases will possess these two characteristics: (1) a public interest in repetition of the Parliamentary utterance which the speaker ought reasonably to serve, and (2) so close a nexus between the occasions of his speaking, in and then out of Parliament, that the prospect of his obligation to speak on the second occasion (or the expectation or promise that he would do so) is reasonably foreseeable at the time of the first and his purpose in speaking on both occasions is the same or very closely related. […]” 145. The courts in the UK have, overtime, advanced a narrower view than the earlier cases governing the field of privileges. They have interpreted a narrow scope for the nexus required for non-legislative activities to be immune. This has led to the holding that the jurisdiction of courts is not ousted by the immunity of members or the ability of the House to take contempt action against bribery. II. United States of America 146. Parliamentary privileges in the United States of America emanate from Section 6 of Article 1 in the Constitution. The relevant part of the provision, referred to as the Speech and Debate Clause, is influenced by Article IX of the English Bill of Rights 1689.