The further proviso sets out that if such person fails to produce the Validity Certificate within a period of twelve months from the date on which he is declared elected, his election shall be deemed to have been terminated retrospectively and the person was to be disqualified for being a member. 11. In pari materia provision exists in the Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Nagar Panchayats and Industrial Townships Act, 1965 in the form of Section 9A therein. 12. A raging legal debate arose in Maharashtra about the nature of these provisions – are they mandatory or are they directory? The issue was settled by a Full Bench of the Bombay High Court in the case of Anant H. Ulahalkar & Anr. Vs. Chief Election Commissioner & Ors. [2017 (1) Mh.L.J. 431]. This of the Full Bench was affirmed by this Court in the case of Shankar S/o Raghunath Devre (Patil) Vs. State of Maharashtra & Others. [ (2019) 3 SCC 220]. 13. There were earlier divergent views in the High Court. The parties contending that the provisions were “directory”, primarily argued that the time taken for disposal by the Scrutiny Committee was not in [2024] 2 S.C.R. 173 Sudhir Vilas Kalel & Ors. v. Bapu Rajaram Kalel & Ors. their control. According to them, as long as the Validity Certificate was produced within a reasonable time, the strict time limit provided in the statute should be construed as directory and that elections should not be invalidated for the said reason. On the other hand, the proponents of the theory that the provision was mandatory contended that the statute is couched in mandatory terms, with the use of the word ‘shall’ and that consequences had been provided for non-compliance. The Full Bench, after considering the statutory provision and the decided cases, in para 45 and 46 of the first held the following: “45. In case of Sujit Vasant Patil (supra), the Full Bench of this Court, in the context of inter play between similar Municipal Legislations and the Caste Act, 2000, has held that the legislature expects a person to claim benefit of contesting to a reserved post only after obtaining Validity Certificate from the Scrutiny Committee, though it also permits a person to claim such benefit on the basis of a tentative caste certificate issued by the Competent Authority, if such a person is willing to take the risk. Such reasoning is reflected in paragraphs 12A, 12B and 12C. Since paragraph 12B is most relevant, it is transcribed below for reference of convenience:— “12B. Thus the scheme is that a person who obtains a caste certificate has to himself apply to the Scrutiny Committee for scrutiny of his caste certificate, so that he can secure a valid certificate from the Scrutiny Committee, and it is only after the Scrutiny Committee issuing a valid certificate that the caste certificate issued in favour of the person by the Competent Authority becomes final. In our opinion, the scheme of subsection (2) of section 6 is that any candidate who desires to avail of any benefit available to backward class has to get a caste certificate as also the validity certificate before he makes a claim for the benefits.