1698 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports k. There are concerns about the potential misuse of minority status without a strict standard of actual establishment. The drafting history of fundamental rights under Articles 29 and 30 consistently uses “establish” and “administer” conjunctively and further expresses apprehensions about an over-expansive interpretation of these Articles; l. The genesis of an institution does not determine its minority status. Legislative enactments are the final authority on the establishment, as seen in legislations where the minority status is explicitly recognised; m. The reliance on St. Stephen’s (supra) is self-defeating since this Court applied the standard of administrative control as an indicia in that case. The involvement of the Government in AMU’s establishment, clear intent and specific provisions indicate the national and non-minority character of the institution; n. The Nation Commission for Minority Educational Institution Act 200418 and its Amendment in 2010 provide that an institution needs to be established and administered by minorities to be a minority educational institution. The said definition is not under challenge; and o. The consequence of recognising AMU as a minority educational institution is that seats cannot be reserved for the other categories of the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes/Socially and Educationally Backward Classes. 27. Mr Rakesh Dwivedi, learned senior counsel submitted that: a. For a community to be considered a “minority,” it must fulfil three criteria: i. It must be numerically lesser than the majority; ii. It cannot be the ruling group even if it is numerically smaller; and iii. The group itself should identify as a minority. b. Muslims were not recognized as a minority during British rule, as Hindus and Muslims were considered equals. Syed Ahmed 18 “NCMEI Act” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1699 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. Khan, the founder of Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental College, claimed in a letter that the Muslim community never considered itself as a minority and instead as rulers prior to the British government; c. s of this Court have held that Article 30(1) applies to institutions that were established before the commencement of the Constitution. However, these decisions dealt with colleges and schools and not a University. Article 30(1) does not apply to a University that was established before the commencement of the Constitution because a University before the enactment of the University Grants Commission 1956 could only have been established by the Government and not a person; and d. Azeez Basha (supra) was a standalone and statute-specific . Overruling it would disrupt the Union’s control over AMU, constituting “public mischief”. The precedent set by the case should only be overturned if there is a substantial risk to public interest, which is not the case here. 28. Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned senior counsel submitted that: a. The correctness or validity of Azeez Basha (supra) was not within the purview of the reference , which solely aimed to clarify the meaning of “established and administered” under Article 30; b. Parliament cannot deny a fact by creating legal fiction in a subsequent legislation.