The court observed that it is not necessary that the claim and cross-claim should arise on the same contract, albeit it should be a close and inseparable relationship or connection between the dealings and the transactions which give rise to the respective claims, such that it would offend one’s sense of fairness or justice to allow one’s claim to be enforced without regard to the other. The law relating to equitable set-off in India is explained in paragraph 9 supra. Claim for equitable set-off should arise out of the same transaction, or transactions that can be regarded as one transaction. There should be a connection 34 (1991) 171 CLR 609. 35 (2020) SGCA 09. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 157 BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED AND ANOTHER v. VIJAYKUMAR V. IYER AND OTHERS between the plaintiff’s claim for the debt and the defendant’s claim for set-off, which would make it inequitable to drive the defendant to a separate suit. 21. On the question of mutual dealings, Airtel entities have referred to the of the High Court of Kerala in Gokul Chit Funds and Trades Private Ltd. v. Thoundasseri Kochu Ouseph Vareed and Others36, which we believe allows set-off in terms of the Kerala Insolvency Act, 1955. In the context of mutual dealings, it observes that mutuality can exist when there are even several distinct and independent transactions, albeit between the same parties functioning in the same right or capacity. It is not necessary that the same should arise out of a single transaction. When the transactions between the parties, which are connected, give rise to reciprocal claims and demands on account of the parties acting on the same right or capacity, principle of mutuality will be satisfied. Thus, the contention that each kuri is a distinct and separate transaction was not accepted so as to defeat the mandatory right to set-off observing that rights and liabilities arising out of the different chit fund transactions should be allowed to be adjusted against each other. 22. In light of the aforesaid discussion, the expression ‘mutual dealings’ for the purpose of Regulation 29 of the Liquidation Regulations, is wider than the statutory set-off postulated under VIII Rule 6 of CPC, as well as, equitable set-off under the common law as applicable in India. Insolvency set-off applies when demands are between the same parties. There must be commonality of identity between the person who has made the claim and the person against whom the claim exists. Even when there are several distinct and independent transactions, mutuality can exist between the same parties functioning in the same right or capacity. Mutual dealings are not so much concerned with the nature of the claims, but with the relationship and apposite identity of the parties giving rise to the respective claims, such that it would offend one’s sense of fairness or justice to allow one to be enforced without regard to the other. 23. The relationship and the nature of identity of the Corporate Debtor undergo a change on the commencement of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process.