(2) Any such allowance for the maintenance or interim maintenance and expenses for proceeding shall be payable from the date of the , or, if so ed, from the date of the application for maintenance or interim maintenance and expenses of proceeding, as the case may be. (3) If any person so ed fails without sufficient cause to comply with the , any such Magistrate may, for every breach of the , issue a warrant for levying the amount due in the manner provided for levying fines, and may sentence such person, for the whole, or any part of each month’s allowance for the maintenance or the interim maintenance and expenses of proceeding, as the case may be, remaining unpaid after the execution of the warrant, to imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month or until payment if sooner made: Provided that no warrant shall be issued for the recovery of any amount due under this section unless application be made to the Court to levy such amount within a period of one year from the date on which it became due: Provided further that if such person offers to maintain his wife on condition of her living with him, and she refuses to live with him, such Magistrate may consider any grounds 1276 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of refusal stated by her, and may make an under this section notwithstanding such offer, if he is satisfied that there is just ground for so doing. Explanation.— If a husband has contracted marriage with another women or keeps a mistress, it shall be considered to be just ground for his wife’s refusal to live with him. (4) No wife shall be entitled to receive an allowance for the maintenance or the interim maintenance and expenses of proceeding, as the case may be, from her husband under this section if she is living in adultery, or if, without any sufficient reason, she refuses to live with her, husband, or if they are living separately by mutual consent. (5) On proof that any wife in whose favour an has been made under this section is living in adultery, or that without sufficient reason she refuses to live with her husband, or that they are living separately by mutual consent, the Magistrate shall cancel the .” 2. A reading of the aforesaid provision would indicate that in respect of four categories of persons of a family unable to maintain themselves, namely, wife, minor child, father and mother, if a person neglects or refuses to maintain them despite having sufficient means then a Magistrate of the first class (now, the family court in certain States) upon proof of such neglect or refusal may such person to make a monthly allowance for the maintenance of his wife or such child, father or mother, at such monthly rate, as such Magistrate thinks fit, and the person has to pay the same as directed. 3. Since the present case revolves around the expression “a wife who is unable to maintain herself”, it is relevant to dwell further on the definition of a wife under Section 125 of the CrPC.