There cannot be a partnership between the Regulator and the Developer which is invested in the HT mustard GMOs. Therefore, the submission was that the environmental release of DMH-11/GM mustard/HT mustard needs to be halted in line with the precautionary principle. 17.11 Learned senior counsel Sri Sanjay Parikh contended that one of the reliefs sought for in the writ petition is for the formulation of a National Policy on GM by a High-Powered Committee till a sound regulatory and monitoring system is put in place and till then there should be a moratorium on release of GM. Although, the Union of India in its counter affidavit, filed in November, 2004, attempted to justify the 1989 Rules, till date, there is no National Policy on GM food and “Inter-Ministerial Task Force” under the Chairmanship of Dr. M.S. Swaminathan, which has submitted a final report, is still under consideration. It was contended that in the absence of a National Policy, the regulatory system, at present, continues to be deficient. 17.12 It was also contended that while transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 is an HT crop, the Government of India has proceeded on the basis that it is not an HT crop. The question of the consequences, if transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 is indeed an HT crop, remains unanswered. The Union of India in its additional affidavit dated 09.11.2022 has acknowledged that transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 possesses HT through the inherited bar gene from both parents, making it fully HT. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2029 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Yet, the Government asserts that it cannot be officially labelled as such, and therefore, it should not be referred to as a HT crop. 17.13 The crucial inquiry remains regarding the impact of herbicide spraying on a transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 field — whether the crop will exhibit herbicide tolerance or succumb to the herbicide. The definition of an HT crop hinges on the introduction of a new trait, in this case, HT via the bar genes in the mustard plant. This trait specifically confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate ammonium, as also acknowledged in the approval letter number F.No.C-12013/35/2010-CSIII dated 25.10.2022. That despite GEAC imposing conditions and warning against unauthorized herbicide use, initiating legal action against farmers is impractical, given that farmers may use herbicides believing that DMH-11 is an HT crop. Consequently, the Government is unable to pursue legal action based on this misunderstanding amongst farmers. In the case of HT-Bt cotton, extensively grown nationwide since 2017 along with the unauthorized herbicide glyphosate, the Government has failed to undertake any legal or corrective measures against entities endorsing and facilitating its cultivation. The cultivation of Bt cotton has led to the development of resistance to the Bt toxin, giving rise to robust secondary pests. This, in turn, has resulted in an increased application of pesticides, contradicting the initial purpose of Bt cotton. Consequently, it is doubtful that control over herbicide use and the penalization of farmers employing herbicides will be effective in the case of DMH-11.