in to enjoy her or his rights on an equal basis in a particular context. Here, accessibility standards can be an indicator, but may not be taken as prescriptive. Reasonable accommodation can be used as a means of ensuring accessibility for an individual with a disability in a particular situation. Reasonable accommodation seeks to achieve individual justice in the sense that non-discrimination or equality is assured, taking the dignity, autonomy and choices of the individual into account. Thus, a person with a rare impairment might ask for accommodation that falls outside the scope of any accessibility standard. The decision to provide it or not depends on whether it is reasonable and whether it imposes a disproportionate or undue burden.” (Emphasis Supplied) 39. It is crucial to reiterate that accessibility is an ex-ante duty, meaning that the State is required to implement accessibility measures proactively, before an individual even requests to enter or use a place or service. This proactive responsibility ensures that accessibility is [2024] 11 S.C.R. 991 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. embedded in the infrastructure and services from the outset. The State must establish broad, standardised accessibility standards in consultation with disability organizations, ensuring that these standards are enforced by service providers, builders, and all relevant stakeholders. The state cannot negate its duty to accessibility by relying solely on existing standards or waiting for individual requests. For example, inaccessible information for a person with intellectual disabilities would require reasonable accommodation (such as a verbal explanation), whereas accessible information (e.g., in an easy- read format) would eliminate the need for such accommodation.41 40. In such cases, reasonable accommodation may be necessary only as a complementary measure to ensure equal access. The duty to accommodate plays an important role in enabling people with disabilities to challenge accessibility barriers in particular, individualised cases. Compliance with the reasonable accommodation duty for one individual with a disability can, in turn, enhance the overall accessibility of structures for all people. 41. In Vikash Kumar v. Union Public Service Commission,42 this Court also highlighted that reasonable accommodation must consider not only the benefit to the individual but also to others in similar situations in the future. Accessibility and reasonable accommodation require a departure from the status quo and that challenges in implementing such measures should not be seen as barriers to inclusion. Complications in implementation are inevitable, but they should not be used as an excuse to deny accommodations. 42. The RPWD Act and international frameworks such as the CRPD emphasize that accessibility should be built into systems and infrastructure from the outset. However, where this is not enough, reasonable accommodation comes into play to tailor solutions to individual needs. This dual approach ensures that all individuals, regardless of their impairments, have equal opportunities and access to participate fully in society. Both accessibility and reasonable accommodation must therefore be seen as interdependent and 41 There is a ‘close and mutually reinforcing relationship’ between reasonable accommodation and accessibility measures; See further Anna Lawson, ‘Reasonable Accommodation and Accessibility Obligations: Towards a More Unified European Approach?’, European Anti-Discrimination Law Review 11 (2011): 11–21.