The principle governing the doctrine of bias is that a member of a judicial body with a predisposition in favour of or against any party to a dispute or whose position in relation to the subject matter or a disputing party is such that a lack of impartiality would be assumed to exist should not be a part of a tribunal composed to decide the dispute.167 This principle is applicable to authorities who have to act judicially in deciding rights and liabilities and bodies discharging quasi-judicial functions. A quasi-judicial authority empowered to decide a dispute between opposing parties “must be one without bias towards one side or the other in the dispute.”168 A member of a 165 (1985) 4 SCC 417 166 Ashok Kumar Yadav (supra) [18]. [18. We do not think that the principle which requires that a member of a Selection Committee whose close relative is appearing for selection should decline to become a member of the Selection Committee or withdraw from it leaving it to the appointing authority to nominate another person in his place, need be applied in case of a constitutional authority like the Public Service Commission, whether Central or State. If a member of a Public Service Commission were to withdraw altogether from the selection process on the ground that a close relative of his is appearing for selection, no other person save a member can be substituted in his place. And it may sometimes happen that no other member is available to take the place of such member and the functioning of the Public Service Commission may be affected.] 167 Gullapalli Nageswara Rao v. State of A P, 1959 SCC OnLine SC 53 [6]; relied in Mineral Development Ltd. v. State of Bihar, 1959 SCC OnLine SC 49 [10] 168 Gullapalli Nageswara Rao v. A P State Road Transport Corporation, 1958 SCC OnLine SC 49 [30] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2239 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company tribunal which is called upon to try issues in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings must act impartially, objectively, and without bias.169 iii. Test of real likelihood of bias a. Automatic disqualification 89. Bias is generally classified under three heads: (i) legal interest, which means a judge is “in such a position that a bias must be assumed”; (ii) pecuniary interest; and (iii) personal bias.170 A pecuniary or proprietary interest, however small, automatically disqualifies a person.171 A person who has an interest in the outcome of an issue that is to be resolved would be acting as a judge in their own cause.172 The question is not whether a judge has some link with parties involved in a cause before the judge but whether the outcome of that cause could realistically affect the judge’s interest.173 This principle has been authoritatively stated by the House of Lords in Dimes v. Grand Junction Canal.174 In that case, the Lord Chancellor decreed in favour of a canal company in which he held substantial shares.