As per his version, the time of assault was around 4 P.M., whereas, as per the wound certificate Ex.P12, the time of injury was at night. Similar issue with respect to timing was noticeable in the post mortem report as well. 33. Notably, all these aspects have been carefully analysed and appreciated by the Trial Court, but the High Court rejected all the doubts by observing that PW-4 was an injured witness and there was no reason to disbelieve his testimony. The High Court omitted to take note of two material aspects – the fact that the statement of PW-4 was recorded after a period of one month from the date of incident and the factum of family relationship between the deceased and PW-4. The former aspect raises a grave suspicion of credibility, whereas the latter raises the suspicion of being an interested witness. In normal circumstances, where a testimony is duly explained and inspires confidence, the Court is not expected to reject the testimony of an interested witness, however, when the testimony is full of contradictions and fails to match evenly with the supporting evidence (the wound certificate, for instance), a Court is bound to sift and weigh the evidence to test its true weight and credibility. 34. Pertinently, the Trial Court had reached its decision after a thorough appreciation of evidence and we have no doubt in observing that the view taken by the Trial Court was indeed a legally permissible view. The High Court went on to reverse the decision by taking its own view on a fresh appreciation of evidence. Moreover, the High 306 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court did so without recording any illegality, error of law or of fact in the decision of the Trial Court. In our considered view, the same was not permissible for the High Court, in light of the law discussed above. Setting aside an of acquittal, which signifies a stronger presumption of innocence, on a mere change of opinion is not permissible. A low standard for turning an acquittal into conviction would be fraught with the danger of failure of justice. 35. So far as the question of independent appreciation of evidence by the High Court is concerned, be it noted that the High Court was fully empowered to do so, but in doing so, it ought to have appreciated the evidence in a thorough manner. In the present case, the High Court has not done so. Even the aspects discussed by the Trial Court have not been fully addressed and the High Court merely relied on a limited set of facts to arrive at a finding. The factors which raised reasonable doubts in the case of the prosecution were ignored by the High Court. For instance, the contradictions pertaining to time, which were carefully analyzed by the Trial Court, were not examined by the High Court at all. Similarly, the contradictions qua the nature of injuries were also not discussed. In an appeal, as much as in a trial, appreciation of evidence essentially requires a holistic view and not a myopic view.