And the then Mr. Justice …’s son also died, Mr. … (retired Judge) has been paralysed. Moreover, ACM … (the individual, who had tried to harass the humble Applicant) was not only himself paralysed, but his daughter also committed suicide and his son died in an air-crash. It is pertinent to mention that blatant and motivated abuse of their powers by certain public officials has occasioned miscarriage of justice against the ex-servicemen/servicemen, and their said acts are an open instigation to the ex-servicemen/ servicemen to abuse their powers, too in any case, this is a reason enough for lowering the morale of the Armed Forces personnel who may even refuse to fight against the intruders to save the lives of such corrupted individuals. Hence a copy of this Application is being sent to the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces.” (vii) Lastly, the High Court noted that in a matter where the appellant was appearing before a Division Bench of the High Court, the appellant sought an adjournment in the matter and requested listing the matter a day after the next day owing to an out- 1160 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports station matter. While granting an adjournment, the Bench listed the matter for the next day. The next day when the matter was called for hearing, it was again adjourned. It is the claim of the appellant that the same was done out of vengeance since one of the Judges on the Bench had a pre-existing tiff with the appellant. Findings of the High Court: 11. While analysing the conduct of the appellant, the High Court summarised his contemptuous acts in the following words: “(a) Use of undesirable language as afore-noticed with an intention to malign the Court and to lower the dignity of the Court. The intention is obvious i.e. transferring of the cases in which he is the petitioner himself or Counsel for the petitioner unless you are willing to pass favourable s only in those cases, failing which the threats were extended to the various Courts with dire consequences resulting from the curse written or otherwise of the said person. This amounts to apparent interference with the administration of justice and extending undesirable threats to the Courts. (b) Wild allegations are made in the transfer petitions filed by the said person without getting them signed from the petitioner concerned and in fact even without bringing it to the notice of the client as to what application was filed, obviously with an intention to hamper the administration of justice and making allegations in other cases, wherein he was not a petitioner, to browbeat the Courts and filing applications even without the knowledge and contents of the application being known to the petitioners in those cases. (c) Extending threats in presence of the Court to Ms. Rekha Palli, Advocate for the respondents of facing dire consequences in the case filed by the petitioner. This was done in presence of the Court and the threats extended were even overheard by a senior member of the Bar Mr. Deepak Bhattacharya (Refer to dated 17th August, 2006).” [2024] 1 S.C.R.