30. In Aligarh Municipal Board v. Ekka Tonga Mazdoor Union,27 this Court observed as follows: “5. *** Contempt proceeding against a person who has failed to comply with the Court’s serves a dual purpose: (1) vindication of the public interest by punishment of contemptuous conduct and (2) coercion to compel the contemner to do what the law requires of him. The sentence imposed should effectuate both these purposes. ***” 31. This Court in Jhareswar Prasad Paul v. Tarak Nath Ganguly,28 held that: 11. *** It is to be kept in mind that the court exercising the jurisdiction to punish for contempt does not function as an original or appellate court for determination of the disputes between the parties. The contempt jurisdiction should be confined to the question whether there has been any deliberate disobedience of the of the court and if the conduct of the party who is alleged to have committed such disobedience is contumacious. The court exercising contempt jurisdiction is not entitled to enter into questions which have not been dealt with and decided in the or , violation of which is alleged by the applicant. The court has to consider the direction issued in the or and not to consider the question as to what the or should have contained. At the cost of repetition, be it stated here that the court exercising contempt jurisdiction is primarily concerned with the question of contumacious conduct of the party, which is alleged to have committed 27 (1970) 3 SCC 98 28 [2002] 3 SCR 913 : (2002) 5 SCC 352 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1099 S. Tirupathi Rao v. M. Lingamaiah & Ors. deliberate default in complying with the directions in the or . (emphasis ours) 32. In Re: Vinay Chandra Mishra 29 is a decision where, referring to Article 129, this Court observed that the jurisdiction to take cognizance of the contempt as well as to award punishment for it being constitutional, it cannot be controlled by any statute. 33. Despite such a power being conferred by the Constitution, what would constitute contempt – civil and criminal – and also, what would be the procedure for initiating action and how to punish for contempt is provided by the Act. The source of power to enact the Act can be traced to Items 77 and 14 of Lists I and III, respectively, of the Seventh Schedule appended to the Constitution. 34. In L.P. Misra (Dr.) v. State of U.P.,30 this Court set aside the under challenge (punishing the appellant for criminal contempt committed on the face of the court but without extending to him any opportunity to show cause). In the process, a three-Judge Bench of this Court had the occasion to observe that it “is true that the High Court can invoke powers and jurisdiction vested in it under Article 215 of the Constitution of India but such a jurisdiction has to be exercised in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law”. 35. In Pallav Sheth (supra) too, a three-Judge Bench of this Court noticed L.P. Misra (Dr.) (supra) and reiterated that “the power under Article 129 and/or Article 215 should be exercised in consonance with the provisions of a validly enacted law”.