5. Until co-operative society is not formed, Millenium will provide no objection letter to AMP Group for transfer of their flats. SCHEDULE 8 DEEGEE EXIT In connection with Deegee Exit, the Parties have agreed the following: 1. JRS Group and SRG will exit from Deegee Software. AMP Group will discuss with Jabalpur Group and finalise on their exit. The total value of the property owned by Deegee Software is fixed at INR 141,00,00,000, which shall be used to pay off loans with proportionate interest to all lenders of Deegee Software. 2. The sale proceeds received by AMP Group from sale of shares as per Phase 1 of Millenium Exit, will be brought in Deegee Software by AMP Group. 3. AMP Group will bring further funds in Deegee Software to pay off entire loan provided by Millenium to Deegee Software along with interest at the rate of 14.50% p.a. compounded annually. 4. Simultaneously, with repayment of loans to Millenium as per paragraph 3 above, (i) Deegee Software to pay off entire loan provided by JRS Group and SRG along with interest at the rate of 14.50% p.a. compounded annually; and (ii) shares 908 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of Deegee Software held by JRS Group and SRG shall also be transferred to AMP Group. 5. The above exercise to be completed within 12 months from the execution of relevant documents in this regard.” (Emphasis supplied) 13. Post the execution of the FAA and in pursuance of the implementation thereof, the following communications were exchanged: • Vide emails dated 12.03.2020 and 13.03.2020 sent to the AMP Group, Mr. Pankaj Agarwal shared documents required for the due diligence of Deegee which were marked to Mr. Kalpesh Parmar and the latter email was additionally marked to the respondent No.9 of SRG Group. • Vide emails dated 24.04.2020 and 04.05.2020 sent to the AMP Group, the JRS Group lawyers shared the FAA Closing Tracker reflecting the status of implementation of the FAA which included the pending transfer of Deegee and Millenium. The same were marked to Mr. Kalpesh Parmar. • Vide email dated 08.05.2020 sent to a shareholder of BVC, Mr. Kalpesh Parmar acted as the representative of the SRG Group on discussions pertaining to the amendment of the Aurosagar lease deed. The said excerpt from the contents of the email are reproduced hereinbelow: “….On Aurosagar point, this email I am sending to put forward views of Samarjitsinh (SRG) and not JRS. SRG is clear that Millenium can give POA to AMP and his immediate family and as agreed in FAA draft, PL can work on language without disturbing the construct / concept. SRG is not going to honour any POA which is beyond what is stated in the draft of POA shared with him even though you find any logical point in AMP’s arguments. As per him AMP is neither trustworthy nor a reliable person, so he is not interested in dealing any further with him. He already had a very bad experience of similar nature when he had sealed a deal with TATAs, that time also [2024] 9 S.C.R.