24. Having been discharged from the services of the Indian Army at the prime age of 27, the appellant was robbed of the opportunity of further serving the nation for many more years on account of a most unfortunate turn of events, the responsibility for which can lie on no shoulders other than the respondents 2 to 4. It is also borne from the record that the appellant neither received his leave encashment, nor received reimbursement for the expenses incurred by him in medical tests. 25. We would be remiss in not recognising the particular circumstances of the appellant’s discharge from service which compounded the agony of the process, i.e., a wrongful diagnosis of AIDS and subsequent termination of services on the same ground. It is no secret that despite the enactment of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (Prevention and Control) Act, 2017, and the slew of awareness measures taken by Governments in recent times, the stigma and discrimination which lamentably accompanies an HIV+ve diagnosis is still an illness that afflicts the minds of society today. The discriminatory sentiment of deeming persons who are HIV+ve to be unfit for employment, is starkly evident from the way in which the appellant has been responded to and treated by the various authorities. By misdiagnosing the appellant with AIDS, the respondents indubitably subjected the appellant to further misery in not only combating social stigma against a disease which the appellant never suffered from but also from the dreadful thought of an imminent death resulting from an incurable disease. 26. In view of the extreme mental agony thus undergone by the appellant, in not only facing the apathetic attitude of the respondents 2 to 4 but 880 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in facing the concomitant social stigma and the looming large death scare that accompanied such a discharge from the armed forces, we deem it fit to award a lumpsum compensation of Rs.50,00,000/- (Rupees fifty lakh only) towards compensation on account of wrongful termination of services, leave encashment dues, non-reimbursement of medical expenses and the social stigma faced, to be paid by the respondents 2 – 4 to the appellant within eight weeks from the date of this without fail. In addition to the above, the appellant shall be entitled to pension in accordance with law as if he had continued in service as Havaldar and on completion of the required years of service retired as such, without being invalided. We make it clear that since the appellant had not continued in service beyond 26th December, 2001 and there was no occasion to assess his performance for securing a promotion, he shall not be entitled to raise any plea in relation thereto. However, in computing the quantum of pension payable to the appellant, the respondents shall take into account allowances / increments that the appellant would have been entitled to, had he continued in service till the date of his retirement as Havaldar. 27. For the reasons aforesaid, the impugned is set aside and the civil appeal stands allowed.