In a given case, a long passage of time may bring about a material change in circumstances. These grounds are not exhaustive. There can be other valid grounds for vacating an of stay. III. Whether an Interim can come to an end automatically only due to the lapse of time 16. Interim of stay can come to an end: - (a) By disposal of the main case by the High Court, in which the interim has been passed. The disposal can be either on merits or for default or other reasons such as the abatement of the case; or 966 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) by a judicial vacating interim relief, passed after hearing the contesting parties on the available grounds, some of which we have already referred to by way of illustration. Elementary principles of natural justice, which are well recognised in our jurisprudence, mandate that an of vacating interim relief or modification of the interim relief is passed only after hearing all the affected parties. An of vacating interim relief passed without hearing the beneficiary of the is against the basic tenets of justice. Application of mind is an essential part of any decision-making process. Therefore, without application of mind, an of interim stay cannot be vacated only on the ground of lapse of time when the litigant is not responsible for the delay. An interim lawfully passed by a Court after hearing all contesting parties is not rendered illegal only due to the long passage of time. Moreover, the directions issued in Asian Resurfacing1 regarding automatic vacation of interim s of stay passed by all High Courts are applicable, irrespective of the merits of individual cases. If a High Court concludes after hearing all the concerned parties that a case was made out for the grant of stay of proceedings of a civil or criminal case, the of stay cannot stand automatically set aside on expiry of the period of six months only on the ground that the High Court could not hear the main case. If such an approach is adopted, it will be completely contrary to the concept of fairness. If an interim is automatically vacated without any fault on the part of the litigant only because the High Court cannot hear the main case, the maxim “actus curiae neminem gravabit” will apply. No litigant should be allowed to suffer due to the fault of the Court. If that happens, it is the bounden duty of the Court to rectify its mistake. 17. In the subsequent clarification in the case of Asian Resurfacing1, a direction has been issued to the Trial Courts to immediately fix a date for hearing after the expiry of the period of six months without waiting for any formal of vacating stay passed by the High Court. This gives an unfair advantage to the respondent in the case before the High Court. Moreover, it adversely affects a litigant’s right to the remedies under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.