This set of allegations relates to being associated with a terrorist organization. We have already given our finding on such allegations and in our prima facie opinion, the allegations of the prosecution that the appellant is a member of a terrorist organisation or that she associates herself or professes to associate herself with a terrorist organization are not true, and at this stage, she cannot be implicated in the offence under Sections 387 of 1967 Act. Mere 5 18-B. Punishment for recruiting of any person or persons for terrorist act.—Whoever recruits or causes to be recruited any person or persons for commission of a terrorist act shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. 6 20. Punishment for being member of terrorist gang or organisation.—Any person who is a member of a terrorist gang or a terrorist organisation, which is involved in terrorist act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. 7 38. Offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation.— (1) A person, who associates himself, or professes to be associated, with a terrorist organisation with intention to further its activities, commits an offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation: Provided that this sub-section shall not apply where the person charged is able to prove— (a) that the organisation was not declared as a terrorist organisation at the time when he became a member or began to profess to be a member; and (b) that he has not taken part in the activities of the organisation at any time during its inclusion in the First Schedule as a terrorist organisation. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 301 Shoma Kanti Sen v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. meeting of accused individuals or being connected with them through any medium cannot implicate one in Chapter VI offences under of the 1967 Act, in the absence of any further evidence of being associated with a terrorist organisation. Such association or connection must be in relation to furtherance of terrorist act. It has been held by this Court in the case of Vernon (supra):- “32. “Terrorist act” as defined under Section 2(k) of the 1967 Act carries the meaning assigned to it in Section 15. This Section also stipulates that the expressions “terrorism” and “terrorist” shall be construed accordingly. This implies construction of these two expressions in the same way as has been done in Section 15. “terrorist organisation” has been independently defined in Section 2(m) to mean an organisation listed in the First Schedule or an organisation operating under the same name as an organisation so listed. But so far as the word “terrorist” is concerned, in this Section also, the interpretation thereof would be relatable to the same expression as used in Section 15. It is one of the basic rules of statutory construction that an expression used in different parts of a statute shall ordinarily convey the same meaning – unless contrary intention appears from different parts of the same enactment itself.