Persons exercising any profession, calling or vocation including Advocates in several places have to pay a licence fee, but there is no reason why there should be a taxation 15 Ibid 16 “1926 Act” 1508 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by the State at the time of enrolment of Advocates only. The Committee suggests that an Advocate at the time of his admission shall pay a sum of Rs. 500/- to the State Bar Council to which he makes his application and nothing should be payable to the State. This amount may be paid in a lump sum or an Advocate may elect to pay annual amounts of Rs. 50/- with an option to pay Rs. 500/- at any time, amounts already paid not being deducted. Those Vakils and Pleaders who according to the recommendations of the Committee become eligible to be enrolled as Advocates may pay Rs. 500/- in lump sum or an annual amount of Rs. 50/- with the option mentioned above. Each State Bar Council shall for the first five years contribute 40% of the enrolment fees received by it to the All-India Bar Council. At the end of the first 5 years the proportion of the contribution may be reconsidered.”17 (emphasis added) 17. The Committee was aware of the fact that the SBCs will require funds to carry out their functions and duties. Consequently, the Committee recommended that an advocate should pay an enrolment fee of Rupees five hundred to the SBCs “at the time of his admission”. The Committee suggested that this amount could either be paid as a lump sum or on a yearly instalment basis. In 1958, the Law Commission of India observed that the amount of Rupees five hundred proposed by the All-India Bar Committee was excessive. It instead suggested an enrolment fee of Rupees one hundred twenty-five.18 18. In 1959, the Legal Practitioners Bill 1959 was introduced in Parliament. The Bill was referred to a Joint Committee of Parliament 17 All-India Bar Committee (supra) 40 18 Law Commission of India, Fourteenth Report, Reform of Judicial Administration 1958 (Volume 1) 575. [It observed: “It appears to us that the amount of Rs. 500 proposed by the Committee is excessive. At present various State bar Councils are receiving payments which range from Rs. 50 to Rs. 100 from each entrant to the profession and so far we have been able to ascertain, not only are the amounts received sufficient to finance their activities but some of these Councils have accumulated out of these and other receipts substantial amounts which have been invested by them. The creation of the All India Bar Council envisaged by the Bar Committee will no doubt involve substantial additional expenditure. Considering all aspects of the matter, we suggest that an enrolment fee of Rs 125 may be charged by the State Bar Council from each entrant out of which Rs. 25 may be paid by the State Bar Council to the All India Bar Council.”] [2024] 7 S.C.R.