The suicide note and the FIR do not impress us at all. They cannot be depicted as expressing anything intentional on the part of the accused that the deceased might commit suicide. If the prosecutions are allowed to continue on such basis, it will be difficult for every superior officer even to work.” 28. In Netai Dutta’s case (supra) from the dead body a suicide note was recovered and on its basis the police registered a case against the appellant under Section 306, IPC. Paragraphs 5, in so far as it is relevant, and 6 of the said decision read thus: - “5. …An offence under Section 306 IPC would stand only if there is an abetment for the commission of the crime. The parameters of “abetment” have been stated in Section 107 of the Penal Code, 1860. Section 107 says that a person abets the doing of a thing, who instigates any person to do that thing; or engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, or the person should have intentionally aided any act or illegal omission. The Explanation to Section 107 1240 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports says that any wilful misrepresentation or wilful concealment of a material fact which he is bound to disclose, may also come within the contours of “abetment”. 6. In the suicide note, except referring to the name of the appellant at two places, there is no reference of any act or incidence whereby the appellant herein is alleged to have committed any wilful act or omission or intentionally aided or instigated the deceased Pranab Kumar Nag in committing the act of suicide. There is no case that the appellant has played any part or any role in any conspiracy, which ultimately instigated or resulted in the commission of suicide by deceased Pranab Kumar Nag.” 29. In short, applying the principles of the decisions referred above to the facts of the case on hand would reveal that the impugned of the High Court did not suffer from any legal infirmity, illegality or perversity and the conclusions are arrived at after a rightful appreciation of the complaint and the other materials on record, within the permissible parameters. 30. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, we do not find anything warranting any interference by this Court. The appeal is, therefore, dismissed. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeal dismissed.