However, in the present case, while Sushila Devi was elderly and illiterate, 2406 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports there is no evidence to suggest that she was physically or mentally incapacitated at the time of executing the Agreement to Sell and the General Power of Attorney. Unlike in Krishna Mohan Kul (supra), where the executant was over 100 years old, paralytic, and bedridden, Sushila Devi was capable of managing her affairs and had a history of independently conducting property transactions. 34.4. The respondents have also relied upon the in Vidyadhar Vishnupant (supra) to contend that the plaintiffs’ absence from the witness box prevents them from proving the execution of the Agreement to Sell dated 30.08.1990, as such execution must be attested by someone present at the time. In Vidyadhar Vishnupant (supra), this Court observed that when a party refrains from testifying and avoids cross- examination, it may lead to an adverse inference against that party’s case. However, the circumstances of the present case are significantly different. The plaintiffs’ interests were represented by their Power of Attorney holders, namely Shri K.D. Maheshwari and Shri Pankaj Maheshwari. Shri K.D. Maheshwari is himself one of the purchasers and a plaintiff in his own suit. He appeared as PW-1 in all the suits, either as the plaintiff or as the Power of Attorney holder for the other plaintiffs. He had personal, firsthand knowledge of the execution of the Agreement to Sell, being directly involved in the transaction and present at the time of its execution. His detailed testimony provided substantial evidence supporting the plaintiffs’ claims. Similarly, Shri Pankaj Maheshwari acted as the Power of Attorney holder for the plaintiff Bharat Kumar Lathi and also appeared as a witness. He had personal knowledge of the transaction and corroborated the execution of the Agreement to Sell and the payment of the consideration. Both Shri K.D. Maheshwari and Shri Pankaj Maheshwari were intimately connected with the transaction and were competent to testify about the facts in issue. Moreover, one of the plaintiffs did enter the witness box in his own suit, further reinforcing the plaintiffs’ case. Unlike in Vidyadhar Vishnupant (supra), where the defendant deliberately avoided the witness box, here the plaintiffs ensured that competent and directly involved witnesses testified on their behalf. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2407 Shyam Kumar Inani v. Vinod Agrawal & Ors. 34.5. The respondents have cited several other s to argue that the plaintiffs’ failure to personally testify is detrimental to their case. In Janki Vashdeo (supra), this Court held that a power of attorney holder cannot depose on behalf of the principal regarding matters within the principal’s personal knowledge. In Rajesh Kumar (supra), the Court reiterated that non-appearance of the plaintiff in the witness box can be fatal in specific performance suits. However, the circumstances in the present case are distinct as already discussed above. Therefore, the principles from the cited cases do not apply here, as the plaintiffs have adequately proved their case through competent witnesses with personal knowledge. 34.6.