Once they are not to be counted as members, there was no occasion to give them notice as such Non-issuance of notice to the Objectors would not vitiate the proceeding of the special meeting held on 08.09.2002. The argument raised by Mr. Hooda is to the effect that Hyderabad Karnataka Education Society (supra) would not apply to the present case and would be of no help to the appellant. This submission same cannot be accepted in view of the discussion made above and also for the reasoning given by this Court in the said . Even if we do not take into consideration the of this Court Hyderabad Karnataka Education Society (supra), we may record that a clear reading and interpretation of the proviso to Section 15 of the Registration Act would disentitle such defaulting 1080 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports members from being given any notice even if their membership was not terminated or ceased. Question nos. 2 and 3 are thus answered in favour of the appellants. 27. In so far as the fourth question is concerned with regard to the participation of invalid members in signing the requisition and being elected in the executive is concerned, the same have been duly explained by the appellants. The signatories at serial nos. 12 to 16 of the requisition dated 20.08.2002, had been duly admitted in the General Body Meeting on 11.11.2001. The said resolution of the meeting was never challenged. The same is on record as Exhibit 131 and one of the Objectors Dhanji Virji Shah was a signatory in the said proceeding. With respect to the objections relating to signatory nos. 4 to 7, the explanation is that were of the category of Employee Members. In due course they had retired from service. However, even after their retirement, they had continued to pay their subscription. As their membership(s) have continued, at this stage, objection(s) with regard to the validity thereof is not being examined in detail, given the lack of clarity and absence of material facts on this aspect. 28. Coming to the last question regarding locus of the contesting respondent which has been seriously pressed by Mr. Naphade, learned Senior Counsel no material has been placed before us by the respondent senior Counsel Mr. Hooda to establish their locus. 29. During the pendency of the appeal before the Joint Charity Commissioner all the seven objectors had died. The Joint Charity Commissioner decided in favour of the appellants and directed for accepting the Change Report. The contesting respondent preferred a petition before the District Judge. He was neither an objector before the Assistant Charity Commissioner nor a valid member of the Society. He would have no locus to maintain the petition before the District Judge. Although the contesting respondent claimed himself to be the Vice-President of the Society but has not been able to substantiate his claim. On this ground alone the District Judge ought to have dismissed the petition. 30. The s relied upon by Mr. Hooda referred to above are on issue which were not argued before the High Court even otherwise they relate to 15 days’ notice for convening a meeting which point could have been raised by a valid member and not by a suspended member.