The learned counsel for the appellant have relied upon Sushilaben Indravadan Gandhi v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd., (2021) 7 SCC 151, wherein it was observed that any exemption of liability clause in an insurance contract must be construed, in case of ambiguity, contra proferentem [2024] 4 S.C.R. 751 Mahakali Sujatha v. The Branch Manager, Future Generali India Life Insurance Company Limited & another against the insurer. In the said case reliance was placed on Export Credit Guarantee Corpn. (India) Ltd. v. Garg Sons International, (2014) 1 SCC 686, wherein this Court held as under : “39. … 11. The insured cannot claim anything more than what is covered by the insurance policy. “The terms of the contract have to be construed strictly, without altering the nature of the contract as the same may affect the interests of the parties adversely.” The clauses of an insurance policy have to be read as they are. Consequently, the terms of the insurance policy, that fix the responsibility of the Insurance Company must also be read strictly. The contract must be read as a whole and every attempt should be made to harmonise the terms thereof, keeping in mind that the rule of contra proferentem does not apply in case of commercial contract, for the reason that a clause in a commercial contract is bilateral and has mutually been agreed upon.” Having regard to the aforesaid discussion on contra proferentem rule, it is noted that the Queries 6.1 and 6.2 are not clear in themselves as we have discussed the same above. Therefore, the answer given by the deceased cannot be taken in a manner so as to negate the benefit of the policy by repudiation of the same on the demise of the insured. 41. At this stage, we may also dilate on the aspect of burden of proof. Though the proceedings before the Consumer Fora are in the nature of a summary proceeding. Yet the elementary principles of burden of proof and onus of proof would apply. This is relevant for the reason that no corroborative evidence to what has been deposed in the affidavit is let in by the insurance company in to establish a valid repudiation of the claim in the instant case. Section 101 of the Evidence Act, 1872 states that whoever desires any Court to give as to any legal right or liability dependent on the existence of facts which he asserts, must prove that those facts exist. When a person is bound to prove the existence of any fact, it is said that the burden of proof lies on that person. This Section clearly states 752 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that the burden of proving a fact rests on the party who substantially asserts the affirmative of the issue and not upon the party who denies it; for a negative is usually incapable of proof. Simply put, it is easier to prove an affirmative than a negative. In other words, the burden of proving a fact always lies upon the person who asserts the same.