116 As elaborated in paragraph 27] of this judgement, Anuradha Bhasin (supra) proposes a four sub-pronged inquiry at the necessity stage of proportionality, that is (MN1) to (MN4). To arrive at the conclusion of the necessity inquiry, this Court has proposed at (MN4) that: “...an overall comparison (and balancing exercise) must be undertaken between the measure and the alternatives. A must be made whether the government measure is the best of all feasible alternatives, considering both the degree to which it realises the government objective and the degree of impact upon fundamental rights (the comparative component).” [2024] 2 S.C.R. 595 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. India in a real and substantial manner and is also a less restrictive alternate measure in view of the disclosure requirements, viz. the right to know of voters. The Trust Scheme is in force and is a result of the legislative process. In a comparison of limited alternatives, it is a measure that best realises the objective of the Union of India in a real and substantial manner without significantly impacting the fundamental right of the voter to know. The ECIl, if required, can suitably modify the guidelines dated 06.06.2014. 52. | would now come to the fourth prong. | would begin by first referring to the cited by Hon’ble the Chief Justice in the case of Campv.b MeGM lLilmit ed’. This adopts double proportionality standard to adequately balance two conflicting fundamental rights. Double proportionality has been distinguished from the single proportionality standard in paragraph 152 of the authored by Hon’ble the Chief Justice. Campbell (supra) states that the single proportionality test and the principle of reasonableness are applied to determine whether a private right claim offers sufficient justification for the interference with the fundamental rights. However, this test may not apply when two fundamental rights are at conflict and one has to balance the application of one right and restriction of the other. 53. In Campbell (supra), Baroness Hale has suggested a three-step approach to balance conflicting fundamental rights, when two rights are in play. The first step is to analyse the comparative importance of the fundamental rights being claimed in the particular case. In the second step, the court should consider the justification for interfering with or restricting each of these rights. The third step requires the application of a proportionality standard to both these rights. 54. In a subsequent decision, the House of Lords (Lord Steyn) in In re.S"®, distilled four principles to resolve the question of conflict of rights as under: “17. (...) First, neither article has as such precedence over the other. Secondly, where the values under the two articles are in conflict, an intense focus on the comparative importance of the specific rights being claimed in the 117 [2002 A4C ]45 7. 118 [2001 A5C ]59 3. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 596 Digital Supreme Court Reports individual case is necessary. Thirdly, the justifications for interfering with or restricting each right must be taken into account.