The party which owned 1% share in the suit property has in his possession half portion of the ground floor in a three-story building. Whereas another set of persons who were owners to the extent of 15% of shares are in possession of another half on the ground floor. The first and second floors of the building were under the control of the defendant Nos.4 & 5 which were let out to the tenants. They have no objection to render accounts of the rent collected. 9. As far as defendant No.3(a)-S.C. Bhalla, who is owner to the extent of 1% share and in possession of half portion of the ground floor, is concerned even if he had not let out the property, still he is liable to make good the loss suffered by the other co-sharers. The reasoning given by the High Court to absolve him from rendering accounts cannot be legally sustained as he had purchased the property from the erstwhile owner defendant No.3-Bhupinder Singh and got the vacant physical possession. There is nothing on record to suggest that after purchasing the property, he litigated and got the possession from the tenants. 9.1. Insofar as another set of co-sharers to the extent of 15% shares is concerned, they are using half portion of the ground floor for their business, hence liable to pay for use and occupation of the property. They cannot, of their own, claim that the portion in their possession is to the extent of their ownership in the suit property. This is to be determined by the Court. In case they are found to be in possession of the property to the extent of their share and they do not contribute to the common kitty for use and occupation of the premises, they will not be entitled to any share out of the amount collected from the balance 85%. This exercise can very well be done at the time of passing of final decree. 10. Learned counsel for the respondents-defendant nos.15 to 19, set of co-sharers having 15% share in the property, submitted that they are in possession of only 9.48% of the property, on the ground floor. It was purchased during the pendency of litigation. There was no relief claimed for rendition of accounts qua them in the suit. There was no prayer made in the suit for a direction to the defendant Nos.15 to 19 to render accounts. They may be liable to render accounts if they are in possession of area more than their share. In fact, they 1424 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports are in possession of area less than their share. In the alternative, regarding the rate of rent to be calculated in such circumstances, it was submitted that in case the said defendants are required to render accounts, the rent should not be calculated at the market rate. In fact, the defendant No.3(a)-S.C. Bhalla is in possession of the area of the property more than his share. 11.