93. He observed that on a closer examination, it can be seen that clause (4) of Article 16 is an illustration of constitutionally sanctified classification. He observed that Article 16(4) need not be a saving clause but put in due to the over-anxiety of the draftsman to make matters clear beyond possibility of doubt. 94. It is observed that the “Reservation” based on classification of backward and forward classes, without detriment to administrative standards is an application of the principle of equality within a class and grouping based on a rational differentia, the object being advancement of backward classes consistently with efficiency. His Lordship further observed that Article 16(4) covers all backward classes. He however states that for earning the benefit of grouping under Article 16(1) based on Articles 46 and 335, the twin considerations of terrible backwardness of the type harijans endure and maintenance of administrative efficiency must be satisfied. 95. His Lordship also held that Articles 14 to 16 are a common code of guaranteed equality, the first laying down the broad doctrine, whereas the other two applying it to sensitive areas which are historically important and politically polemical in a climate of communalism and jobbery. 96. Fazal Ali, J. in his concurring observed thus: 9 [1964] 4 SCR 680 : AIR 1964 SC 55 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1501 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. “178. The concept of equality or equal opportunity as contained in Article 16 does not mean that same laws must be applicable to all persons under every circumstance. Indeed if this artificial interpretation is put on the scope and ambit of Article 16 it will lead to channelisation of legislation or polarisation of rules. Differences and disparities exist among men and things and they cannot be treated alike by the application of the same laws but the law has to come to terms with life and must be able to recognise the genuine differences and disparities that exist in human nature. Legislature has also to enact legislation to meet specific ends by making a reasonable and rational classification. In Morey v. Doud [354 US 457, 473] it was so aptly observed: “To recognise marked differences that exist in fact is living law; to disregard practical differences and concentrate on some abstract identities is lifeless logic.” 179. Coming now to Article 16 it may be analysed into three separate categories so far as the facts of the present case are concerned: Category I—clause (1) of Article 16 Category II—clause (2) of Article 16. Category Ill—clause (4) of Article 16. 180. Clause (1) of Article 16 clearly provides for equality of opportunity to all citizens in the services under the State. It is important to note that the Constitution uses the words “equality of opportunity for all citizens”. This inherently implies that the opportunity must be given not only to a particular section of the society or a particular class of citizens who may be advanced or otherwise more affluent but to all classes of citizens.