No mass malpractice has taken place. There were only isolated incidents of malpractice which have been identified and dealt with. Cancelling the exam and conducting a re-exam is not warranted and is contrary to public interest; b. In Godhra, the attempt to cheat was foiled by prompt action by the authorities. In Patna, the investigation is underway and the results of some candidates have been withheld. However, the preliminary number of candidates alleged to have cheated is miniscule compared to the total number of candidates; c. The high number of perfect scores and generally higher marks is because of a reduction in the syllabus by approximately 22-25% compared to last year. Further, the questions were prepared on the basis of universally accessible textbooks to ensure that those from disadvantaged socioeconomic backgrounds do not suffer and to reduce dependency on coaching centres. The top 100 candidates were from 95 different centres in fifty-six different cities in eighteen States or Union Territories; d. With reference to the question in controversy, the information bulletin released before the exam clearly states that if there are two correct answers, those who marked either one will be awarded marks. Therefore, candidates cannot claim that they did not answer this question because two correct answers were present; e. The report by the Director of IIT, Madras indicated that there was no evidence of mass malpractice or localized advantages in score distribution. It observed that there was an increase in marks, particularly in the range of 550 to 720, and attributed this to a 25% reduction in syllabus. Candidates achieving high scores were found across multiple cities and centres, suggesting minimal likelihood of malpractice; 66 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports f. There was no leak of the question paper via Telegram; g. The results of candidates suspected of malpractice have been withheld. Show cause notices have been issued to such persons. NTA will respond appropriately to any future cases of malpractice as well; h. A committee has been constituted to look into improvements to the exam; i. The reopening of the registration window did not lead to the facilitation of malpractice; and j. There is no conflict of interest with the Director of IIT, Madras analysing the data in this case because he is only an ex officio member. D. Issues 25. The following issues arose for consideration in this case: a. Whether the answer for the question in controversy ought to be revised by NTA; b. Whether there was a conflict of interest with the Director of IIT, Madras analysing the data in this case; and c. Whether the sanctity and integrity of the exam were compromised at a systemic level. E. Analysis i. Facts which have emerged during the course of the hearing a. Chain of custody of question papers as detailed by NTA 26. In its affidavits as well as during the course of hearing, NTA provided a comprehensive account of the chain of custody for the question papers, detailing their handling of the question paper, from its preparation to its distribution on the day of the exam.