The learned Single Judge held that 150 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the charge on the properties could be either created by operation of law or by agreement of the parties, and in this case, there was no such agreement. Therefore, the learned Single Judge held that the direction to create the charge was ex-facie without the jurisdiction. Thereafter, the learned Single Judge referred to the reliefs granted by the Arbitral Tribunal in clauses (c) to (l), (m) to (q), (t), (u) and (v) of paragraph 203 of the award. According to the learned Single Judge, some of the reliefs could have been granted only in the execution of the award. Further, the learned Single Judge held that under clauses (c) to (l) and (m) to (q) of paragraph 203 of the award, the appellant herein was directed to carry out various acts to obtain multiple permissions from the authorities within the prescribed time and based on such compliance, further directions were issued for the execution of multiple documents, etc. The authorities from whom the appellant was directed to obtain various permissions were admittedly not parties before the arbitral proceedings. The learned Single Judge also noted that the directions issued in the abovementioned clauses required continuous supervision by the Court. Therefore, in view of the provisions of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, such reliefs ought not to have been granted by the Arbitral Tribunal. 10. The learned Single Judge also held that though specific performance was sought in the claim made before the Arbitral Tribunal based on the Letter of Intent dated 7th March 2012, the Arbitral Tribunal granted specific performance based on the Letter of Intent of 2010. The learned Single Judge also held that the learned Arbitrator or the Court could not supervise whether the appellant can shift 107 PAPs in its other properties as directed under the award. Further, it was observed that the direction to construct the 6th to 22nd floors could be implemented only upon completing the entire chain of events, such as obtaining permissions, shifting of PAPs, etc. The learned Single Judge held that the grant of specific performance in the present case would be hit by Section 14 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, as the enforcement of such a contract involves continuous supervision by the Court. On perusing the material on record, the learned Single Judge also held that the respondent herein had not proved his readiness and willingness to perform his obligations. The learned Single Judge held that since the relief of specific performance is discretionary, the conduct of the respondent ought to have been taken into consideration by the Arbitral Tribunal. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 151 Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation Private Limited v. Samir Narain Bhojwani 11. The learned Single Judge dealt with the award of damages in the sum of Rs.53 crores for the period from 19th July 2016 till the date of the award on account of the alleged delay by the respondent. The learned Single Judge held that the evidence on record had been completely overlooked while granting the relief of damages in the sum of Rs.53 crores.