BC.12017/9/85 SC & BCD I dated 21.05.1985 (Exhibit P-8) to conclude that it leaves no manner of doubt that Chandigarh Administration instructed the Chandigarh Housing Board to keep the reservation for allotment of dwelling units as aforementioned. Thus, issuance of notification under Article 342 of the Constitution of India, pales into insignificance. That the appellant is also a Scheduled Tribe and holder of such certificate, even though from another State (Rajasthan) and was not debarred as per the contents of the letter. Hence, this appeal. 9. We have heard Mrs. Rachana Joshi Issar, learned counsel appearing for the appellant and Shri Shivendra Singh, learned counsel for respondent and perused the impugned as well as the material on record. 10. During the course of submissions, learned counsel for the appellant drew our attention to three Constitution Bench s of this Court in the case of Marri Chandra Shekhar Rao vs. Dean, Seth G. S. 376 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Medical College (1990) 3 SCC 130 (Marri Chandra Shekhar Rao); Action Committee on Issue of Caste Certificate to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the State of Maharashtra vs. Union of India (1994) 5 SCC 244 (Action Committee) and Bir Singh vs. Delhi Jal Board (2018) 10 SCC 312 (Bir Singh) in to contend that insofar as the Union Territory of Chandigarh is concerned, firstly, there is no specific Presidential issued insofar as Scheduled Tribes are concerned and secondly, that it is only by a Presidential issued under Article 342 of the Constitution of India that Scheduled Tribes could be recognized in an Union Territory or a State could be issued. Admittedly, no such Presidential with regard to Scheduled Tribes has been issued vis-a-vis the Union Territory of Chandigarh. In this regard, reliance was placed on Exhibit D-3 communication. Therefore, the applications inviting for the allotment of flats insofar as Scheduled Tribes were concerned, were sought to be clarified. That in the absence of there being any such Presidential insofar as Scheduled Tribes communities are concerned, the advertisement inviting applicants from the Scheduled Tribes was not at all correct. Further, it was contended that the respondent herein claims to belong to Scheduled Tribes category insofar as the State of Rajasthan is concerned. He had migrated to Union Territory of Chandigarh for his employment and, therefore, having regard to of this Court in the case of Marri Chandra Shekhar Rao followed by other s, respondent is not entitled to place reliance on his caste status insofar as the State of Rajasthan is concerned and enforce the same in the Union Territory of Chandigarh. It was further submitted that the High Court was not right in interpreting letters dated 21.09.1983 and 21.05.1985 by ignoring the fact that the caste status could be claimed insofar as the State or Union Territory of a person’s origin only and not carried to a State or Union Territory to which the person migrates. Therefore, the impugned s may be set aside and the suit filed by the respondent herein may be dismissed.