Before this action is taken, show-cause notice is to be issued under the provision of Section 124 of the said Act. This provision pertains to confiscation of goods and provides procedural safeguards inasmuch as there cannot be any of confiscating any goods or imposing any penalty on any person without complying with the procedure contained in Section 124. Section 124 mandates issuance of the show- cause notice before passing any such and contemplates two actions: first, relating to confiscating of the goods and second, pertaining to imposition of penalty. Pertinently, this action does not deal with payment of import duty at all. 10. It is not in dispute that show-cause notice in the instant case was issued under Section 124 of the Act. Once such a show-cause notice was issued and as can be seen from the proposed action which was contemplated in this provision (as has been taken note of above), it was also confined to confiscation of the imported machinery and imposition of penalty. Nothing was stated about the payment of duty. However, in spite of the fact that show- cause notice was limited to confiscation of the goods and imposition of penalty, the final which was passed included the direction to pay the customs duty as well. It is clear that when such an action was not contemplated, which even otherwise could not be done while exercising the powers under Section 124 of the Act, in the final there could not have been direction to pay the duty. 11. Notwithstanding the aforesaid position, as pointed out above, the Department is taking shelter under the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 125 of the Act. However, on a plain reading of the said provision, we are of the view that such a provision would not apply in case where option to pay fine in lieu of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1197 M/s Navayuga Engineering Co. Ltd. v. Union of India & Anr. confiscation is not exercised by the importer. Trigger point is the exercise of a positive option to pay the fine and redeem the confiscated goods. Only when this contingency is met, the duty becomes payable. In the present case, admittedly, such an option was not exercised and the confiscated machinery was not redeemed by the Institute. As a matter of fact, thus, no fine has been paid.” 8.7. This also explains the position when the Customs Department wants to recover duty through ways, other than confiscation at the Chapter XIV. Explaining the alternative modes of recovery of customs duty, the court observed as follows; “16. It is not that the Department is without any remedy. We have gone through the provisions of notification No. 64 of 1988 dated 01.03.1988. As pointed out above, importer would be exempted from payment of import duty on hospital equipment only when the conditions contained in the said notification are satisfied. Some of the conditions, as pointed out above, are to be fulfilled in future. If that is not done and the importer is found to have violated those conditions, show-cause notice could always be given under the said notification on payment of duty, independent of the action which is permissible under Section 124 and Section 125 of the Act.