and had prepared a seizure memo. He further stated that when the accused Vijaya Singh was arrested, he had found fresh abrasion injury marks on his face and Vijaya Singh had told him that he had sustained those injuries due to scorching. Similarly, accused Basanti Devi at the time of her arrest was found to have fresh abrasion mark on her forehead and she also stated that the said marks were due to scorching. He also stated that he had made arrangement for recording of statements of witnesses Kumari Saroj and Kumari Preeti under Section 164 Cr.P.C. before the Judicial Magistrate. In the cross-examination, he had admitted that he had not made any 916 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports arrangement for the medical examination of the injuries sustained by the accused Vijaya Singh and Basanti Devi. 22. The statements of the appellants were recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. Both of them denied the allegations made against them by the witnesses examined by the prosecution. The appellant no.1-Vijaya Singh further stated that the deceased was adamant to accompany him at Chandigarh, however, he had said that it would take one to two months and therefore, she committed suicide. The appellant no.2-Basanti Devi stated in her further statement that at the time of incident, she had gone to a flour mill which was located at the distance of 5 kms from her village along with her sister Pitambari Devi, and when they came back, the incident had already taken place. 23. The appellants had examined a defence witness Pitambari Devi. She had stated that on the date of incident in the morning, she along with Basanti Devi had gone to Dharat (Flour Mill) situated in Bajaira which was 5 kms away and had come back home together in the evening at about 5.00 PM by bus. She further stated that people told her that the incident of fire had taken place in the house of the accused, however, she had not seen the dead body of the deceased. 24. On a careful appreciation of the evidence on record, it could be seen that the appellant no. 1 was working in Chandigarh and used to visit his village once in 3-4 months. During these intervals, the deceased used to live alone with her in-laws in the village. The witnesses have invariably deposed that the deceased was desirous of going to Chandigarh along with her husband and appellant no. 2 had an objection regarding the same. The basis of that objection becomes clear from the testimony of PWs as the appellant no. 2 wanted the deceased to help with the domestic chores at home. 25. The story of the prosecution begins much before the commission of the alleged offence. PW-1 and PW-6 have deposed in no uncertain terms that the deceased used to share with them her agony at her matrimonial home. They have deposed regarding the desire of the deceased to go to Chandigarh as well as regarding the harassment caused by appellant no.