Thus, the two police statements referred to above if read closely reveals that the three appellants in their capacity as high-ranking officers of Hindustan Lever Ltd. had convened a meeting in Hotel 1492 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Amber with the employees of the company serving as salesmen. This meeting was convened to discuss about the sales of the company. On the next day, i.e., 03.11.2006, the meeting as alleged was convened only to harass those salesmen who were not ready to opt for VRS. In this meeting as alleged some of the salesmen including the deceased were issued letter to undertake the work of merchandising. This was not liked by all the employees. They felt that after putting in 23 years of service as salesmen, they could not have been asked to undertake the work of merchandising. Again, as alleged, this was done by way of punishment for refusing to voluntarily retire. It is not the case that just one person, i.e., the deceased was targeted & humiliated. 8. On the basis of the aforesaid statements, the police thought fit to file charge-sheet. The filing of the charge-sheet ultimately culminated in the criminal proceedings. 9. As the High Court declined to quash the proceedings, the appellants are here before this Court. 10. Before we proceed to say anything on the merits of the case, we should look into the line of reasoning assigned by the High Court in its impugned while rejecting the petition seeking quashing of the criminal proceedings. The High Court in its impugned in paragraphs 31, 39, 40 and 46 respectively has observed thus: "31. In the present case, the employees Sudhir Kumar Ojha and Jayant Kumar Ghatak have specifically stated the humiliation which was faced by the deceased due to the action of Z.I. Alvi, Nipun Aneja and Manish Kumar Sharma coupled with humiliation which was continuously being faced by the deceased due to the behavior of Rupendra Yadav and Kallol Chakaraborty. There is direct nexus between the deliberations that took place in the meeting and the suicide committed by the deceased just thereafter. xxx xxx xxx 39. Coming to the factual matrix of the present case, the statement of Sunita Jain wife of the deceased is relevant & attains importance with reference to the statements of Sudhir Kumar Ojha and Jayant [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1493 Nipun Aneja and Others v. State of Uttar Pradesh Kumar Ghatak. Sudhir Kumar Ojha and Jayant Kumar Ghatak have specifically stated that the deceased was humiliated in the meeting. He was given a letter to do the job on a lower cadre post in merchandising. Deceased was working in the establishment for the last about 23 years. Without any inquiry or leveling any charge against him, he was asked to work on a lower post, although it is true that it is a matter between the employer and employee, which is contractual obligation. 40. Learned counsel for the petitioners has contended that the contractual relationship between the employer and employee in the company was such that the employer could have asked the employees to work on any post.