That this would directly impact the economic prospects of a large section of the population that works in the agricultural sector and could further harm the country’s food security. Small and marginal farmers are to be the most disadvantaged in the aforesaid scenario. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1965 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 7.4 That the 1989 Rules were enacted owing to mounting evidence of the possible adverse effects of GMOs on agricultural ecosystems and the country’s biodiversity as well as on human and animal health. It is the petitioners’ case that the said Rules are riddled with lacunae that lead to them being applied arbitrarily and in violation of the Constitution. That the said Rules do not bear any mention as to the qualifications required to be eligible for membership in the various regulatory agencies constituted thereunder. This renders the functioning of these agencies largely ineffective as they often lack the necessary technical competence, particularly in the fields of Risk Assessment and Risk Management (RARM). 7.5 Further, the prescribed constitution of various agencies, in particular those of the Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation (RCGM), GEAC, the State Biotechnology Co- ordination Committees (SBCC) and District Level Committees (DLC), include representatives of various authorities who do not possess the necessary qualifications, technical expertise, competence, skills and knowledge to carry out the respective mandates of each agency. Majority of the members are only in ex-officio capacity and lack competence in the field of operation. 7.6 That, there is a complete lack of transparency at each stage of the regulatory process. The 1989 Rules do not allow for public to access information despite GMOs having possible adverse effects on human and animal health, socio-economic conditions as well as the environment which directly pertains to the public’s rights and interests. These Rules do not allow public to sufficiently participate in the decision-making at any stage, viz. grant of approval for research, field trials or commercial-scale cultivation of a GM crop. Public participation is needed to both accurately gauge the risks and benefits as well as to increase the confidence of public in GMOs. 7.7 That the 1989 Rules do not require taking prior informed consent from those farmers and Gram Sabhas which are located in the vicinity where a field trial would be conducted. This is in violation of the 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments which make the involvement of Gram Sabhas and Gram Panchayats in such decisions necessary and non-optional. 1966 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7.8 That the Rules envision a regulatory regime that lacks accountability and there is no indication as to who would bear the liability in case of an erroneous decision being made that has an adverse impact on human and animal health, the environment and the socio-economic conditions of the country. Such harm may take the form of personal injury, property damage or financial loss, however, the liability corresponding to each of these has not been considered in the 1989 Rules at all.