It provides for the identification of protected areas, recognition of customary rights over the forest areas, forest conservation with the involvement of the local community, and the need for regular surveys of forest resources. Similarly, the ‘National Action Plan’ was also recognised as having statutory flavour in Centre for Environment Law, World Wide Fund v. Union of India,14 The National Wildlife Action Plan, 201715 recognises the need to enhance the protected area network(broadly including national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, community reserves, etc), demarcate boundaries for protected areas, and involve local communities in the protection and sustainable management of protected areas. The NWAP highlights the need for wildlife conservation beyond protected areas, focusing on larger landscapes shaped by diverse land uses and human activities. It also emphasises in situ conservation of threatened species through immediate protection of critical habitats. 13 (2006) 1 SCC 1 14 (2013) 8 SCC 234 15 Hereinafter being referred to as ‘NWAP’ [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1855 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. (iii) inteRnational law 30. Learned Amicus Curiae submitted that India has been a signatory to the Convention on Biological Diversity, 1992, since 18.02.1994. Article 8, which pertains to in situ conservation, imposes an obligation on contracting parties to preserve and maintain the practices of indigenous communities and Article 10(c) provides that contracting parties shall, as far as possible, and as appropriate, protect and encourage customary use of biological resources in accordance with traditional cultural practices. 31. It was further submitted that the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP), which India endorsed at the General Assembly on 13.09.2007, recognizes several key rights of indigenous people. Article 5 of this declaration affirms their right to “maintain and strengthen their distinct political, legal, economic, social and cultural institutions, while retaining their right to participate fully, if they so choose, in the political, economic, social and cultural life of the State.” Article 12 ensures their “right to maintain, protect, and have access in privacy to their religious and cultural sites.” Article 18 provides that “Indigenous people have the right to participate in decision making in matter which would affect their rights, through representatives chosen by themselves in accordance with their own procedures, as well as to maintain and develop their own Indigenous decision-making institutions.” Further, Article 25 recognizes their “right to maintain and strengthen their distinctive spiritual relationship with their traditionally owned otherwise occupied and used lands, territories, waters and coastal seas and other resources and to uphold their responsibilities to future generations in this regard.” 32. It was further submitted that the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, 2006, acknowledges that the indigenous people and their communities and other local communities have a vital role in environmental management and development because of their knowledge and traditional practices. States should recognize and duly support their identity, culture and interests and enable their effective participation in the achievement of sustainable development. 33. Learned Amicus Curiae, concluded his submissions with the following suggestions: (i) Sacred groves should be managed through decentralized, bottom-up governance involving active participation from local 1856 [2024] 12 S.C.R.