The report further suggested clinical accommodations for the appellant to reduce the barriers he may encounter. The report determined the accommodations necessary for the appellant to be reasonable and in compliance with existing norms. The report formulated four questions and answered them as follows: "a) Would the proposed accommodation result in a failure to meet the NMC CBME’s inherent requirements? Not in my opinion b) Would the accommodation legitimately jeopardize patient safety? Not in my opinion c) Would the proposed accommodation result in the improper waiver of a core requirement of the CBME? Not in my opinion [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2197 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. d) Would the proposed accommodation pose an undue hardship on the medical college (budgets wise)? Not in my opinion” 12. In stark contrast to the approach of the two AIIMS reports, when Dr Satendra Singh assessed the appellant on the request of this Court, he carried out a functional assessment. The process to determine the clinical accommodation for the appellant involved having a frank conversation with him about the barriers he faces - physical, educational and attitudinal. The approach adopted was not whether the appellant would succeed in a medical college but was rather to ensure that the appellant has equal opportunity and can start at the same level playing field as his classmates. After determining the accommodations needed by the appellant through an interview process, some questions were posed to him. These questions were as follows: "i. How does muscular dystrophy impact you in daily life? ii. How have you mitigated this impact in an educational setting (Class X,XII)? iii. What, if anything, exacerbates or worsens your disability? iv. Do you anticipate needing to receive treatment such that you may need to “step out” of the curriculum at some point to attend to disability-related needs? v. Have you ever seen a clinical setting, or do you anticipate additional barriers during the clinical portion of your MBBS? (prompted with example competencies) vi. Have you reviewed the MBBS curriculum? If not, we can do this together to identify any potential barriers. vii. Have you ever used assistive technology to mitigate the impact of your disability? viii. Are you aware of adaptive equipment used to navigate the clinical environment. ix. What are your biggest concerns about entering the MBBS program? 2198 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports x. What is your understanding of reasonable accommodation which you repeatedly mentioned in your affidavit.” 13. Based on the preliminary conversation, the report noted that the appellant is concerned about the differential treatment which was meted out to him by previous Disability Assessment Boards despite him having successfully navigated with the disability for his entire life. The appellant was surprised that he was being doubted and his accomplishments questioned without being afforded an opportunity with simulation labs and reasonable accommodations. 14. The appellant was then made to undergo a functional assessment which included being given various instruments which he would be required to use in his course and profession.