At the time of his examination u/s 313 Cr.P.C when the memory of the appellant was shattered by putting question about issuance of cheque bearing no. 997309 amounting to Rs. 8,45,000/- from his account maintained at Chattered Bank, NS Road, Kolkata, he admitted about such issuance of cheque but placed another story about such issuance of that cheque as loan security. As I have already held, throughout the trial the accused/ appellant never bothered to prove anything to substantiate his proposition that there was any agreement between him and the complainant/ respondent about his taking loan for any purpose or that he received the amount vide cheque no. 951764 on behalf of the company i.e. Shilabati Nursing Home Private Ltd. In this regard I would like to refer to the observation of Hon’ble Apex Court as reported in 2015 AIR SCW 4015 and as relied upon by the side of respondent. It has been observed by Hon’ble Apex Court that: “Negotiable Instruments Act (26 of 1881), S. 138- Dishonour of cheque- Liability Cheque drawn by respondent in his personal capacity and not by company of which he is Managing Director Company is not liable even if it is for discharging dues of company Respondent being drawer of cheque is alone liable for offence under S. 138,” “Presumptions are [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1965 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. devices by use of which the Courts are enabled and entitled to pronounce on an issue notwithstanding that there is no evidence or insufficient evidence. Under the Evidence Act all presumptions must come under one or the other class of the three classes mentioned in the Act, namely, (1) ‘may presume (rebuttable), (2) ‘shall presume (rebuttable) and (3) ‘conclusive presumptions’ (irrebuttable). The term ‘presumptions’ is used to designate inference, affirmative or dis-affirmative of the existence of a fact, conveniently called the ‘presumed fact drawn by a judicial tribunal, by a process of probable reasoning from some matter of fact, either judicially noticed or admitted or established by legal evidence to the satisfaction of the tribunal. Presumptions literally means ‘taking as true without examination or proof....” (2009) 2 SCC 513. To disprove the presumption, the accused should bring on record such facts and circumstances, upon consideration of which, the Court may either believe that the consideration and the debt did not exist or there non existence was so probable that a prudent man would under the circumstances of the case, act upon the plea that they did not exist. Something which is probable has to be brought on record for getting the burden of proof shifted to the complainant. In the present case in hand the appellant at the time of adducing evidence as DW 1, denied the fact of taking the cheque amount of Rs. 7,00,000/- and liquid cash of Rs. 1,45,000/- totaling Rs. 8,45,000/- In his personal capacity, but by producing D.W 2, the branch manager of UBI, Raghunathpur branch, he tilted the entire case in support of the prosecution/complainant as because said DW 2 admitted on going through the documents (Exbt.