1973 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. such payment, must compensate the drawer for any loss or damage caused by such default.” 38. The proviso (b) to Section 138 provides that the payee or the holder of the cheque which has been dishonoured must give a written notice to the drawer of the cheque within 30 days of the receipt of information from the bank that the cheque has been returned as unpaid. Further proviso (c) provides that if the drawer of the cheque makes the payment of the amount mentioned in the cheque within 15 days of receiving the notice mentioned in proviso (b), then he cannot be held liable under Section 138. 39. What invariably follows from a perusal of the aforesaid provisions is that it is only the drawer of the cheque who can be held liable under Section 138. Section 141 is an exception to this scheme of the NI Act and provides for vicarious liability of persons other than the drawer of the cheque in cases where the drawer of the cheque under Section 138 is a corporate person. 40. The question as to whether a person who was not the drawer of the cheque upon an account maintained by him could be held to be liable for an offence under Section 138 of the NI Act fell for the consideration of this Court in the case of P.J. Agro Tech Ltd. and Others v. Water Base Ltd. reported in (2010) 12 SCC 146. The Court construed the provision strictly and answered the question in the negative. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “11. From the submissions made on behalf of the respective parties, it is quite apparent that the short point for decision in this appeal is whether a complaint under Section 138 of the 1881 Act would be maintainable against a person who was not the drawer of the cheque from an account maintained by him, which ultimately came to be dishonoured on presentation. xxx xxx xxx 13. From a reading of the said section, it is very clear that in to attract the provisions thereof a cheque which is dishonoured will have to be drawn by a person on an account maintained by him with the banker for payment of any amount of money to another person from out of 1974 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports that account for the discharge, in whole or in part of any debt or other liability. It is only such a cheque which is dishonoured which would attract the provisions of Section 138 of the above Act against the drawer of the cheque. 14. In the instant case, the cheque which had been dishonoured may have been issued by Respondent 11 for discharging the dues of Appellant 1 Company and its Directors to Respondent 1 Company and the respondent Company may have a good case against Appellant 1 Company for recovery of its dues before other fora, but it would not be sufficient to attract the provisions of Section 138 of the 1881 Act.