20. He further submitted that in view of Section 30 of the POCSO the High Court was legally obliged to presume the existence of a culpable mental state on the part of the accused for having committed any offence under the Act that requires such a mental state. 21. In the last, Mr. Phoolka submitted that a conjoint reading of Section 67B of the IT Act, Section 15, and Section 30 of the POCSO leaves no manner of doubt as regards the culpability of persons in possession of child pornography. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 185 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. ii. Submissions on behalf of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). 22. Ms. Swarupama Chaturvedi, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), submitted that there was a serious lapse on the part of the State in failing to register the FIR for the offence punishable under Section 15 of the POCSO, 2012, as the possession of pornographic material involving a child in any form by itself is an offence under Section 15(1) of the Act. It was also argued that the State as a Prosecuting agency failed in its duty to bring it to the notice of the High Court that chargesheet was ultimately filed for the offence under Section 15(1) of the POCSO & not Section 14. 23. She further submitted that the accused had downloaded pornographic material involving a child onto his mobile phone, retained possession of it, and failed to take any steps to delete the same for two years, as mandated under Section 19 of the POCSO, 2012. 24. She contended that the High Court failed to appreciate the mandate of Section 30, which raises a presumption of a culpable mental state on the part of the accused for any offence under the Act that necessitates such a mental state. The provision, therefore, shifts the burden of proving the absence of a culpable mental state onto the accused. 25. She would further submit that Section 19 of the POCSO imposes mandatory reporting of an offence under the Act if there was an apprehension that such offence is likely to be committed or knowledge that such an offence has been committed. It was pointed out that the failure to discharge this obligation by itself is punishable under Section 21 of the POCSO. She pointed out that the social media platforms claim to report such instances to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), a US-based NGO, which then reports them to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). However, Section 19 mandates reporting such cases to the Special Juvenile Police Unit (SJPU) or the Special Police. Therefore, reporting to an NGO cannot absolve the social media platforms of its liability under Section 21 of the POCSO. 26. In the last, it was submitted that the issue as regards the plight of minors involved or used in child pornography is a matter of serious 186 [2024] 10 S.C.R.