[2024] 7 S.C.R. 707 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India 2. Police (including railway and village police) subject to the provisions of entry 2A of List I.” 5. Entries 1 and 2 of List II, the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India thus prescribe that public and the police are exclusive subject matters of the concerned State. Further Entry 80, List I, ensures that the Union/ Center does not transgress into the jurisdiction of the State without permission of the concerned State. 6. The CBI which draws its powers under the DSPE Act has acted in violation of the aforementioned Constitutional provisions and the DSPE Act. The DSPE Act, as its preamble provides, was enacted to make provisions for the constitution of a Special ‘Police Force’ in Delhi for the investigation of certain offences in the Union Territory, for the superintendence and administration of the said Force and for the extension of its powers and jurisdiction in regard to the investigation of the said offences. Section 2 of the DSPE Act provides for constitution of the force, Section 3 thereof prescribes the offence which are to be investigated by CBI; Section 5 of DSPE Act provides extension of power and jurisdiction of CBI into any area (including a railway area) in a State; Section 6 thereof expressly provides that the force/CBI is required to obtain the consent of the concerned State in case of exercise of such power in terms of Section 5 of the DSPE Act. 7. Section 6 of the DSPE Act is the statutory recognition of the principle of federalism which forms a part of the basic structure of the Constitution of India, as also protected under Entry 80, List I and Entries 1 and 2, List II, Constitution of India. In absence of Section 6 in the statute book, the piece of legislation would have attracted the vice of unconstitutionality. 8. Any act of the CBI in violation of Section 6, DSPE Act, strikes at the roots of federalism, which this Hon’ble Court in S.R. Bommai v. Union of India, 1994 SCC (3) 1, has held to be a part of the Constitution’s basic structure. 708 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Therefore, the CBI’s exercise of powers by violating Section 6, DSPE Act, subverts the basic structure of the Constitution. 9. Under the Constitution, a threefold distribution of legislative power by the three Legislative Lists in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India has been conceptualized (vide Article 246). List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India is the part and parcel of a single constitutional instrument envisaging a federal scheme. It thus confers plenary power on the State to legislate on certain exclusive subject matters which includes “public ” and “police” in a State. 10. Section 6 of the DSPE Act is a component of such federalism that provides for a prior approval of the State in case Centre wishes to transgress in the territory of the State and usurping the powers of the police force of the State.