[2024] 1 S.C.R. 413 : 2024 INSC 47 Raja Gounder and Others v. M. Sengodan and Others (Civil Appeal No. 600 of 2024) 19 January 2024 [M.M. Sundresh and S.V.N. Bhatti*, JJ.] Issue for Consideration A civil suit was filed by respondent Nos. 1 and 2 for partition and separate possession of plaint schedule properties. During the pendency of the suit, appellants were impleaded. The Trial Court recorded a categorical finding that appellant no.2 and respondent no.2 were not wives of MG, propositus of parties, and consequently, the status of the children through the extended family as coparceners was rejected. The issue for consideration is as to entitlement of share to the children of void or voidable marriage. Headnotes Partition – Partition and separate possession of plaint schedule properties – The Trial Court held that respondent No. 4 herein admittedly is the first and legally wedded wife of MG – Appellant No. 2 and respondent No. 2 did not produce evidence to prove the factum of the marriage with MG – The evidence adduced by the appellants or respondent Nos. 1 and 2, does not inspire the confidence of the Court to accord to them the status as wives of MG – The Trial Court records a categorical finding that appellant No. 2 and respondent No. 2 are not the wives of MG, and consequently, the status of the children through the extended family as coparceners was rejected – High Court accepted the view of the Trial Court – Propriety: Held: A mere perusal of the preface to Ex. B-6, mortgage deed, would show that MG treated appellant No. 1, respondent No. 1 and respondent No. 3 as his sons – The document was executed for himself and on behalf of his minor sons – The statement was made by MG during the subsistence of his interest in the property mortgaged – The appellants also rely on the patta dated 27.04.1984 (Ex. B-3) standing in the name of MG and * Author 414 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports his sons; the voters lists, viz., Exs. B-4 and B-5, to show that MG and his sons lived as a family – By applying ss.17 and 18 of the Evidence Act, it is convincing that MG made a statement describing appellant No. 1 and respondent No. 1 as his sons and treated as an admission by record – This statement satisfies the ingredients of s.18 of the Evidence Act – Further, in the absence of contrary evidence and withdrawal of admission or explained through admissible evidence, the admission in the mortgage deed, viz., Ex. B-6, coupled with the joint patta and voters lists, declares the status of appellant No. 1, respondent No. 1, along with respondent No. 3 as the sons of MG – At this juncture, the status derived through an admission in Ex. B-3 vis-à-vis appellant No.1 as a natural corollary could be extended to appellant No.3 as a child/daughter of MG – This is an inescapable consequential conclusion which the Court has to record – Once the status of the parties, other than respondent No.