Since Laxmi Narayan had no issue, he executed a will in favour of the sons of Satya Narain. Shree Dev and his sons, including the appellant, were unable to come to terms with this development. They were highly agitated which led to filing of several cases by and between them. This was the real intention behind the plot to kill Satya Narain. 13.2. Learned counsel for respondent No. 1 submits that the appellant was very much a part of the unlawful assembly as one of the persons at the place of occurrence which was mentioned in [2024] 9 S.C.R. 43 Nitya Nand v. State of U.P. & Anr. the FIR itself. That apart, in their evidence, PW-1 and PW-2, categorically stated that appellant was carrying a country-made pistol from which he fired in the air with the intent to frighten the informant and others who tried to come to the rescue of the deceased. Taking advantage of the situation, the accused persons escaped from the crime scene. 13.3. The evidence of PW-1 and PW-2 in this regard is unflinching. Therefore, non-recovery of the country-made pistol or any cartridge fired therefrom cannot be fatal to the prosecution case. 13.4. The very act of the appellant in firing from his country-made pistol to enable the accused persons to escape is clearly an overt act whereby he became part of the unlawful assembly with a common object to cause the death of the deceased. The evidence on record clearly provides that appellant was part of the unlawful assembly having the common object to kill the deceased. 13.5. Learned counsel for respondent No. 1 State submits that it is a case of direct evidence which clearly establish the involvement of the appellant in the killing of Satya Narain. The ocular evidence is fully supported by the medical evidence. That apart, the post incident conduct of the appellant is also a significant factor. Laxmi Narain, who could have been an important eyewitness, was killed on 25.10.1993. In that case, appellant herein along with others were named as accused. Therefore, it was not possible for the prosecution to present Laxmi Narain as a prosecution witness. 13.6. He, therefore, submits that there is no merit in the criminal appeal which should be dismissed. 14. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties have received the due consideration of the Court. 15. Question for consideration is whether the prosecution could establish the culpability of the appellant in the murder of Satya Narain beyond any reasonable doubt? In other words, whether the prosecution could prove the charges against the appellant under Sections 148 and 302/149 IPC beyond any reasonable doubt? 16. To answer the aforesaid question it is necessary to briefly analyse the evidence on record. PW-1 is Shri Sarwan Kumar S/o Late Satya 44 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Narain. He is the informant in the case. In his examination in chief, PW-1 stated that his father Late Satya Narain was one of the three brothers, Shree Dev being the eldest and Laxmi Narain alias Daroga being the younger.