We are affirmatively of the view that the answer to this question must be in the negative for more than one reason. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 197 Ashok Kumar Sharma & Ors v. Union of India 7. First any grant of relief in the present proceedings is presaged on the submission of the petitioners in regard to the conduct of an independent sovereign nation namely, Israel in the conduct of its operations in Gaza. The sovereign nation of Israel is not and cannot be made amenable to the jurisdiction of this Court. Hence, for this Court to consider the grant of the reliefs as sought, it would inevitably become necessary to enter a finding in regard to the allegations which have been leveled by the petitioners against the State of Israel. Absent jurisdiction over a sovereign State, it would be impermissible for this Court to entertain the grant of reliefs of this nature. 8. The second aspect of the matter which requires to be noticed is that the petition seeks a cancellation of the existing licences and prohibition on the issuance of new licences for the export of arms and military equipments by Indian companies. Some of these licenses may be governed by contracts with international entities, including within the State of Israel. The grant of injunctive relief by this Court would necessarily implicate a judicial direction for breach of international contracts and agreements. The fall out of such breaches cannot be appropriately assessed by this Court and would lay open Indian companies which have firm commitments to proceedings for damages which may affect their own financial viability. 9. Third, the statutory provisions of our law confer sufficient power on the Union Government if it decides to act in such cases. For instance, prohibitions can be imposed by the Union of India under the Foreign Trade (Regulation and Development Act) as well as under the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962. Whether in a given case, any such action is warranted is a matter which has to be decided by the Union Government bearing in mind economic, geo-political and other interests of the nation in the conduct of international relations. In taking an appropriate decision, the Government bears into account all relevant considerations including the commitments of the nation at the international level. 10. The danger in the Court taking over this function is precisely that it would be led into issuing injunctive reliefs without a full and comprehensive analysis or backdrop of the likely consequences of any such action. The self-imposed restraint on Courts entering into areas of foreign policy is, thus, grounded in sound rationale which has been applied across time. 198 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. For the above reasons, we have come to the conclusion that the reliefs which have been sought in these proceedings are not amenable to the exercise of judicial remedies under Article 32 of the Constitution. 12. We clarify that the observations which have been made in the earlier part of this are not intended to reflect any opinion by this Court either in the conduct of foreign policy by the Government of India, or for that matter, by any sovereign nation which is not subject to the jurisdiction of this Court.