[2024] 3 S.C.R. 1137 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. 126. Thus, prima-facie it appears that under both; the Old Distance Table and the New Distance Table, the actual engineering difference was being taken into consideration, and the only difference between the two methodologies lies in the rounding-off. Under the old methodology, the actual engineering distance for every station was being rounded-off to the next kilometre, whereas under the new methodology this was done away, and only the cumulative distance is being rounded-off only once at the very end to the next kilometre. 127. Thus, when calculating the chargeable distance for a specific route under the old methodology, each station that exists in-between the route would at best add 1 km each. Thus, the extent to which the cumulative chargeable distance for a route would get inflated will roughly correspond to the number of stations it has in its route, with each intervening station increasing the chargeable distance by a maximum of 1 km. 128. This is further evinced from the fact that, the Ministry of Railway’s letter dated 07.04.2004 by which the new methodology was introduced, itself in the subject uses the words “Rounding off of Chargeable Distance: Rationalization of fares and freight”. This indicates that both methodologies utilized actual engineering distance with the only underlying difference between both of the them being in respect of rounding-off and nothing more. 129. Furthermore, in the letter dated 05.07.2005 issued by the Chief Goods Supervisor (CGS), Northern Railway, whereby the chargeable distance from Refinery Baad to Hisar was reduced from 444 km to 334 km, it is nowhere mentioned that the same was done pursuant to the new methodology of “Rationalization of Rounding Off” or by virtue of the Ministry of Railway’s letter dated 07.04.2004 whereby the new methodology was introduced for the first time. 130. The aforesaid letter dated 05.07.2005 of the CGS only goes so far as to say that the old distance tables were “critically reviewed” and that now the chargeable distance should be 334 km. In fact, the aforesaid letter further instructs CGS Baad that “the other disputed distance should also be corrected as per the new junction table and the correct distance should be charged”. The use of the words “disputed” and “corrected” used in the said letter clearly indicates that the distance of 444 km was incorrect in itself, and that the change in the chargeable distance had nothing to do with the new methodology of ‘Rounding Off’. 1138 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 131. We are conscious of the fact that in the aforesaid letter dated 05.07.2005, it was indicated that the chargeable distance of 444 km was being levied as per the old distance table, and that the same was corrected as per the revised distance table. However, it must be borne in mind, that merely because the chargeable distance of 444 km was correct as per the old distance table will not ipso-facto make the chargeable distance of 444 km correct.