Similarly, Section 1034 of German Code of Civil Procedure stipulates that if in the arbitration agreement, one of the parties has a preponderant right in so far as composition of the arbitral tribunal is concerned, thereby putting the other party at a disadvantage, then such latter party can request the court to appoint an arbitrator in derogation of the appointment procedure agreed upon. Article 15(2) of Spanish Arbitration Act, 2003, though enables the parties to freely agree on the procedure for the appointment of arbitrator, makes the same subject to an obligation to ensure that there is no violation of principle of equal treatment. 44. The Estonian Code of Civil Procedure, vide Section 721 also in similar terms provides that if in the arbitration agreement, one party has been given economic or other advantage in the formation of an arbitral tribunal which is materially damaging to the other party, such party may make a request to the court for the appointment. 45. Article 3, Annexure 1 of ‘European Convention Providing a Uniform Law on Arbitration’ states that an arbitration agreement is invalid if it gives one party a privileged position in matters of appointment. 46. The analysis of foreign legislations shows that while party autonomy is recognised in appointment and composition of an arbitral tribunals, certain national laws explicitly prohibit unilateral appointments that 92 Perry v. Thomas, 482 US 483 (1987); Harold Allen’s Mobile Home Factory Outlet, Inc. v. Butler, 825 So.2d 779,783-85 (Ala. 2002) 93 Geneva Protocol on Arbitration Clauses, Sept. 24, 1923, 27 L.N.T.S. 158. 2320 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports disadvantage one party. Where legislatures saw it fit to ban such appointments, they have done so explicitly, embedding unilaterality as a vitiating factor in the statute, not leaving it to judicial interpretation. This legislative clarity ensures that unilaterality is a codified breach of an arbitral tribunal’s integrity, removing any ambiguity or scope for discretionary . 47. Judicial pronouncements of certain foreign jurisdictions. Judicial pronouncements across jurisdictions have adopted differing views. Gary Born94 has surveyed numerous foreign precedents in this regard and has referred to decisions of the Swiss Federal Tribunal95 and Paris Cour d’Appel96 (Paris Appellate Court), which hold that the composition of the arbitral tribunal is a matter of party autonomy and the appointment, removal, and replacement of arbitrators must be as per the agreement. The Court of Cassation (France), in one of its decisions,97 has upheld an arbitration agreement where one party provides a list of potential arbitrators from which the other party must choose an arbitrator. 48. However, at the same time, there are pronouncements which frown upon unilaterality in matters of appointment of arbitrator/arbitral tribunal. For instance, in one Swiss decision,98 it has been held: “The Federal Tribunal…has developed principles, under which conditions an arbitral tribunal sufficiently safeguards impartial and independent adjudication. The most important of these principles….is that no party may have a preponderant influence on the appointment of the tribunal.” (emphasis supplied) 49. American Courts have also dealt with this issue.