Opportunity to administer poison. 11. According to the case of the prosecution, the illicit relationship that existed between Darshan Singh and Rani Kaur served as the key motive for them to jointly eliminate the deceased. The fact that they were in an illicit relationship has been sufficiently proved from the testimony of PW 2, PW 3 and PW 4. This circumstance, therefore, has been cogently established. 12. The most important circumstance, among all, must be the circumstance of the appellant and Rani Kaur having been present in the appellant’s house on the intervening night of 18.05.99 and 19.05.99 and they having been seen leaving the house in the early hours of the day. For, the proof of presence has the effect of triggering into operation, 2 (1984) 4 SCC 116 258 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS Section 106 of the Evidence Act and the principle laid down in the case of Trimukh Maroti Kirkan v. State of Maharashtra. Even the circumstance that the appellant had the ‘opportunity’ to administer poison was strongly linked to aspect of proving the presence of the appellant and Rani Kaur in the appellants house. 13. In Trimukh’s case, it has been held: i. “If an offence takes place inside the privacy of a house and in such circumstances where the assailants have all the opportunity to plan and commit the offence at the time and in circumstances of their choice, it will be extremely difficult for the prosecution to lead evidence to establish the guilt of the accused if the strict principle of circumstantial evidence, as noticed above, is insisted upon by the Courts……………………Where an offence like murder is committed in secrecy inside a house, the initial burden to establish the case would undoubtedly be upon the prosecution, but the nature and amount of evidence to be led by it to establish the charge cannot be of the same degree as is required in other cases of circumstantial evidence. The burden would be of a comparatively lighter character. In view of Section 106 of the Evidence Act there will be a corresponding burden on the inmates of the house to give a cogent explanation as to how the crime was committed. The inmates of the house cannot get away by simply keeping quiet and offering no explanation on the supposed premise that the burden to establish its case lies entirely upon the prosecution and there is no duty at all on an accused to offer any explanation” 14. In Trimukh (supra), this Court has pointed out that there are two important consequences that play out when an offence is said to have taken place in the privacy of a house, where the accused is said to have been present. Firstly, the standard of proof expected to prove such a case based on circumstantial evidence is lesser than other cases of circumstantial evidence. Secondly, the appellant would be under a duty to explain as to the circumstances that led to the death of the deceased.