Many of them were plying their contract carriages having taken loans of considerable sums of money from the various financiers on hire-purchase system, for whom also Mr A.K. Sen appeared and argued before us. They would not only be paupers but huge liability will remain on their shoulders if the interpretation put by the High Court were to be correct. Mr Lal Narayan Sinha, learned Counsel for the appellants, took a very just and proper attitude in advancing an argument before us which would take away the basis of the High Court in this regard. With respect to each and every relevant section on the question of payment of the amount in lieu of the property [2024] 11 S.C.R. 107 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. acquired he suggested such a reasonable, harmonious and just construction by the rules of interpretation that we found no difficulty in accepting his argument — rather, were glad to do so. The other side on the interpretation so put, which we are going to mention hereinafter, felt satisfied to a large extent. Mr Sinha also advanced some argument with reference to the valid part of Article 31-C read with clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 but very wisely did not choose to heavily rely upon it. On the interpretation of the statute as canvassed by him, there hardly remained any necessity of it. 27. On the interpretations aforesaid which we have put to the relevant provisions of the Act, it was difficult — rather impossible — to argue that the amount so fixed will be arbitrary or illusory. In some respects it may be inadequate but that cannot be a ground for challenge of the constitutionality of the law under Article 31(2). The respondents felt quite satisfied by the interpretations aforesaid and could not pursue their attack on the vires of the Act on that ground.” (emphasis supplied) 89. Justice Untwalia also expressly clarified that the majority opinion does not express any opinion on whether the Act has a reasonable nexus with Articles 39(b) and (c) and Article 31-C is applicable. Further, the learned judge observed that while Justice Krishna Iyer has rendered a separate opinion specifically dealing with the Article 39(b) and (c) question, the majority must not be understood to be in agreement with those findings. Justice Untwalia observed: “37. At the end we may also indicate that under sub- section (6) of Section 19 all sums deducted by the State Government under sub-section (3) of Section 10 which include the sums payable to the secured creditors stand transferred to the Corporation which is obliged to credit the sums transferred to the appropriate funds. The said provision would take within its ambit the liability of the Corporation to pay forthwith the sum found due to the secured creditors. Since we have upheld the constitutional validity of the Act on merits by repelling 108 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the attack on it by a reasonable and harmonious construction of the Act, we do not consider it necessary to express any opinion with reference to Article 31-C read with clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution.