v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons quantity of rectified spirit had to be produced but instead there was a shortfall and therefore, notice was issued and penalty was imposed on the premise that the respondents therein had diverted the molasses towards manufacturing either country liquor or liquor which was fit for human consumption. Assailing the same, writ petitions were filed before the High Court which had allowed the said writ petitions. Therefore, the State had appealed before this Court. 9.13 This Court noted that molasses is a by-product of sugar and mainly used as raw material for manufacture of spirit, including alcohol for human consumption. The respondents in the said case were engaged in the manufacture of rectified spirit from molasses and penalty was imposed owing to a loss of revenue by reason of loss of wastage of molasses while carrying on manufacture of such rectified spirit. One of the contentions raised was that the State has power to impose duty only on the spirit which is for human consumption and the respondents therein had not carried out any activities in relation to manufacture of potable liquor from the molasses. It was observed that the in Modi Distillery applied to the said case and therefore, no penal duty could be imposed on rectified spirit. Reliance placed on Bihar Distillery was not gone into inasmuch as it was observed that it was unnecessary to go into the question of the correctness of the observations made in Bihar Distillery. However, the observations of the High Court therein were that in view of the of this Court in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), the State had no legislative competence even in relation to potable liquor, (which is fit for human consumption), was not correct. Vam Organic II: 9.14 In Vam Organic II, a notification dated 13.01.1990 whereby licence fee of 15 paise per litre was sought to be imposed on the quantity of specially denatured spirit (STS) obtained from distilleries in the State of Uttar Pradesh under Rule 3(a) of the UP Licences for the Possession of Denatured Spirit and Specially Denatured Spirit Rules, 1976 was assailed before the Allahabad High Court. The writ petitions were allowed, and the State had filed appeals before this Court. Section 3 (13) of the UP Excise Act, 1910 (for short, “1910 Act”) had defined the word 2106 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “intoxicant” as meaning “any liquor or intoxicating drug”. The word “liquor” in turn was defined in Section 3(11) as meaning “intoxicating liquors and includes spirits of wine, spirit, wine, tari, pachwai, beer and all liquid consisting of or containing alcohol, also any substance which the State Government may by notification declare to be liquor for the purposes of the Act.” In paragraph 6 of the , it was observed that “industrial alcohol” is not liquor nor is it potable as such. However, it may be utilized to produce a kind of liquor if it is denatured. “Denatured” in Section 3(9) of the Act was defined to mean “rendered unfit for human consumption in such manner as may be prescribed by the State Government by notification in this behalf”.