In this connection, it would be apt to refer to the observations of this Court in the case of Manish Sisodia Vs. CBI, Criminal Appeal No. 3296 of 2024, decided on 09.08.2024: 32. It could thus be seen that this Court had granted liberty to the appellant to revive his prayer after filing of the chargesheet. Now, relegating the appellant to again approach the trial court and thereafter the High Court and only thereafter this Court, in our view, would be making him play a game of “Snake and Ladder”. The trial court and the High Court have already taken a view and in our view relegating the appellant again to the trial court and the High Court would be an empty formality. In a matter pertaining to the life and liberty of a citizen which is one of the most sacrosanct rights guaranteed by the Constitution, a citizen cannot be made to run from pillar to post. 37.1 Manish Sisodia is a co-accused in the same CBI case and the ED case. His second bail application was rejected by the trial court on 30.04.2024 after taking about three months’ time to decide the same. When Sisodia moved the High Court for bail, the same also came to be rejected on 21.05.2024. It was thereafter that Manish Sisodia approached this Court in the second round. In the hearing which took place on 04.06.2024, the learned Solicitor General for India made a statement before the Court that investigation would be concluded and final complaint as well as chargesheet would be filed in both the ED and CBI cases on or before 03.07.2024. On the basis of the above statement of the learned Solicitor General, this Court disposed of the two criminal appeals of Shri Manish Sisodia with liberty to him to revive his prayer afresh after filing of final complaint and chargesheet. When Shri Sisodia approached this Court for bail after the complaint and the chargesheet were filed, Mr. Raju learned Additional Solicitor General of India appearing for the ED as well as the CBI contended that Shri Sisodia should again approach the trial court for regular bail as in the interregnum, the complaint and the chargesheet were 722 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports filed. Such submission of Mr. Raju was rejected by this Court. Adverting to the earlier of this Court dated 04.05.2024, this Court in Manish Sisodia observed as under: 33. ……..It will be a travesty of justice to construe that the carefully couched preserving the right of the appellant to revive his prayer for grant of special leave against the High Court , to mean that he should be relegated all the way down to the trial court. The memorable adage, that procedure is a hand maiden and not a mistress of justice rings loudly in our ears. 38. Court in Gudikanti Narasimhulu Vs. Public Prosecutor,7 had highlighted that bail is not to be withheld as a punishment. The requirement as to bail is merely to secure the attendance of the prisoner at trial.