basic ingredient of Section 67-B, prima facie, are applied to the facts of the case on hand, it would show beyond doubt that the act of the accused is squarely covered within the ambit of Section 67-B of the I. T. Act. In my view, in the teeth of the allegations against the accused and the material collected during the course of investigation and compiled in the charge-sheet, it would be very difficult to accept the contention of the accused persons. It is true that the applicants are young. They are students. They are from reputed family. However, while deciding the discharge application this could not be the consideration. If this submission is accepted on this ground then this would be nothing short of showing misplaced sympathy to the persons who are prima facie accused of the commission of offence.” (Emphasis supplied) 67. In Shantheeshlal T. v. State of Kerala reported in 2024 KER 35968, during investigation certain pornographic videos involving a child had been recovered from the device of the accused thereunder. Accordingly, chargesheet was submitted against the accused therein for the offences punishable under Section(s) 15(1) of the POCSO and 67B of the IT Act. The accused thereunder preferred a quashing petition before the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam, wherein the learned Single Judge quashed the aforesaid chargesheet and the criminal proceedings taking the view as under: - (i) First, the learned Single Judge held that in to attract the provision of Section 15(1) of the POCSO there must be a storage or possession of child pornographic material and further such material should be shown to have been shared or transmitted by the person accused. Mere possession or storage of pornographic material by itself is not an offence under Section 15(1) of the POCSO unless it is shown that the accused person had indeed shared or transmitted such material. In other words, to constitute an offence under Section 15(1) there must be an actual act of transmission or sharing of the pornographic material depicting a child in a sexually explicit act or conduct that was found to be stored or in possession of the accused. The relevant observation reads as under: - 208 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “9. Reading the provision, it is emphatically clear that storing or possessing pornographic materials in any form involving a child and failure to delete or destroy or report the same to the designated authority, as may be prescribed, with an intention to share or transmit child pornography, shall be an offence. So mere storing or possessing pornographic material is not an offence under Section 15(1) of POCSO Act, if the said storing or possession is without any intention to share or transmit the same. Therefore, mere storing or possessing pornographic materials by itself is not an offence. Thus, in to attract an offence under Section 15(1) of the POCSO Act, the stored or possessed pornographic materials should be shared or transmitted. In the instant case, there is no material available to hold that the accused either shared or transmitted pornographic materials, though storing of the same was detected.