Digital Supreme Court Reports “16.21 Establishment of Tiger Safari, interpretation and awareness centres under the existing component of ‘co-existence agenda in buffer and fringe areas’, and management of such centres through the respective Panchayati Raj Institutions (creation - Non-Recurring; maintenance - Recurring). The Tiger Safaris may be established in the buffer areas of tiger reserves which experience immense tourist influx in the core/critical tiger habitat for viewing tiger. The interpretation and awareness centres would also be supported in such buffer areas to foster awareness for eliciting public support. The management of such centres would be through the respective Panchayati Raj (PR) institutions.” 56. In 2016, the NTCA notified the Guidelines to Establish Tiger Safaris in Buffer and Fringe Areas of the Tiger Reserves (hereinafter referred to as “2016 Guidelines”). These guidelines provide for the basic criteria, and procedure required to be followed in the buffer and fringe areas of tiger reserves for dealing with the establishment, management, and administration of the ‘Tiger Safaris’ after following the due procedure prescribed under the law and the 2012 Guidelines. Clause 8 thereof provides that, tourism activities in the tiger reserves are regulated by the normative guidelines on tourism issued by the NTCA as well as by the prescriptions on eco-tourism as contained in the TCPs of the tiger reserves. It provides that the last three years’ average visitation will be taken into consideration while determining the need for a tiger safari. It provides that, if the carrying capacity is 100% utilized, then a proposal for establishing a tiger safari can be placed before the NTCA. 57. Clause 9 of the 2016 guidelines is very important. It provides that no tiger shall be obtained from the zoo exhibit. Wild tigers that are from the same landscape as that of the area where the tiger safari is established, falling under the categories of (a) injured tigers (after suitable treatment); (b) conflict tigers; and (c) orphaned tiger cubs which are unfit for re-wilding and release into the wild shall be selected. It further provides that no visibly injured or incapacitated tiger shall be put on the safari. It further provides that recovered/ treated animals shall be put on display only after assessment by the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 237 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal NTCA. Further, no healthy wild tiger or any other animal shall be sourced from the wild as per provisions of the National Zoo Policy. 58. Clause 10 of the 2016 guidelines further provides that the location of the tiger safari shall be identified preferably in the buffer (not falling in notified National Parks and/or Wildlife Sanctuary)/peripheral area of the tiger reserve based on the recommendations of a committee comprising of members from the NTCA, CZA, Forest Department of State concerned, an experienced tiger biologist/scientist/ conservationist and a representative, nominated by the Chief Wildlife Warden of the concerned State. It also provides that tiger dispersal routes shall be avoided in all circumstances. The area of a Safari Park should be as large as possible; however, the minimum area of a tiger safari should be 40 hectares, extendable as per requirements.