13. Shri Puneet Jain, learned counsel representing the appellant advanced the following pertinent submissions and urged that the Division Bench erred in law in dismissing the appeal preferred by the appellant affirming the of the learned Single Judge and restoring the and decree of the Revenue Court. (i) That Smt. Nandkanwarbai had no interest, either limited or otherwise, in the suit land which could fructify into absolute ownership under section 14(1) of the Succession Act and the Division Bench erred in treating “Charge over property towards Maintenance” as possession over the property. (ii) It was contended that in to attract Section 14(1) of the Succession Act, there must be a “Property possessed by the [2024] 6 S.C.R. 305 Mukatlal v. Kailash Chand (D) Through Lrs. and Ors. Hindu Women” but in the present case, the suit for possession and title filed by Smt. Nandkanwarbai was dismissed and hence she was never in possession, either legal or actual, over the suit property. iii) That the civil suit for title and possession filed by Smt. Nandkanwarbai having been dismissed, the of the civil Court operated as res judicata and hence the relief could not have been granted to her adopted son[Kailash Chand(plaintiff)] in the subsequent partition suit filed in the Revenue Court. iv) While placing reliance on the decision of this Court in Ram Vishal (dead) by LRs. And Others v. Jagannath and Another1, it was contended that since Smt. Nandkanwarbai was never in possession of the suit property which were agricultural lands’ either by inheritance or in lieu of maintenance, as a consequence, Section 14(1) of the Succession Act could not be applied so as to confer proprietary rights upon her adopted son [Kailash Chand (plaintiff)]. v) Learned counsel, Shri Jain further contended that reliance placed by the learned Single Judge on the decision of Vasant and Anr. v. Dattu & Ors.2, is ex-facie erroneous as the said deals with issues related to properties held by the joint Hindu family having several surviving coparceners and not that of a sole surviving coparcener. He thus, implored the Court to accept the appeal and set aside the impugned s. 14. E-converso, Shri Bishwajit Bhattacharya, learned senior advocate representing the respondents, vehemently and fervently opposed the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the appellant and contended that the issue in the present case regarding the ambit of the rights of a female Hindu on the undivided joint Hindu family estate under Section 14(1) of the Succession Act has been settled by this Court in the case of Munni Devi alias Nathi Devi(Dead) Thr LRs & Ors. v. Rajendra alias Lallu Lal(Dead) Thr LRs & Ors.3 1 (2004) 9 SCC 302 2 (1987) 1 SCC 160 3 [2022] 3 SCR 876 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 643 306 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports He placed reliance on the pertinent observations (reproduced infra) made by this Court in Munni Devi (supra) and implored the Court to dismiss the appeal and affirm the impugned s. 15.