[2024] 12 S.C.R. 1946 : 2024 INSC 1024 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. (Criminal Appeal No. 5556 of 2024) 20 December 2024 [J.B. Pardiwala* and R. Mahadevan, JJ.] Issue for Consideration The dishonoured cheque in question was signed by respondent- accused, in his capacity as Director and Authorised Signatory of the Company Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd., on the account maintained by the Company with Standard Chartered Bank. By the impugned , the High Court acquitted respondent-accused of offence punishable u/s.138 of Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 holding that in absence of the company being arraigned as an accused, the complaint against the respondent-accused was not maintainable; whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned is the question for determination. Headnotes† Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 – ss.138, 139 and 141 – Dishonour of Cheque – Cheque issued on behalf of company by its authorised signatory – Whether prosecution could not proceed against such authorised signatory, unless the company was arraigned as an accused – Whether prosecution could proceed against the accused in his personal capacity – Whether benefit of exception embodied in doctrine of lex non cogit ad impossibilia could be extended to the complainant: Held:1. Although it can be understood that the complainant had no occasion to believe that the cheque was drawn upon the bank account of Shilabati Hospital as the debt was one which was taken by the accused in his personal capacity, yet a bare perusal of the cheque shows that the cheque was signed by the accused in the capacity of the Director of the Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd. as the same bears both the stamp of the director as well as the hospital – In case of a cheque issued on behalf of a company by its authorised signatory, prosecution cannot proceed against the such authorised signatory or other post-holders of the company as described under *Author [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1947 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. Section 141 of the NI Act, unless the company who is the drawer of the cheque is arraigned as an accused in the complaint case filed before the magistrate – Further, vicarious liability can only be affixed against the directors, authorised signatories, etc. of the company after the company is held liable for the commission of offence under Section 138. [Paras 49, 50] 2.1. It is the case of the complainant that the cheque was issued in discharge of the personal liability of the accused towards the complainant, and hence there was no occasion for it to implead the company as an accused – However, even if the cheque might have been issued for the discharge of personal liability of the accused towards the complainant, had the company Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd. been arraigned as an accused in the complaint case before the Trial Court, it would have remained open to the complainant to establish with the aid of the presumption under Section 139 that the cheque issued by the company was in discharge of a legally enforceable debt – However, in the absence of the drawer of the cheque having been arraigned as an accused, it was rightly held by the High Court that no prosecution could have proceeded against the accused in his personal capacity – The only way by which the accused could be held liable was under Section 141 of the NI Act, however the same could not have been done in the absence of the company being arraigned as an accused.