The question is whether the delay in commissioning falls within the ambit of this clause. Article 8.3(a) (vi) is the most relevant force majeure event that would apply to the facts here. It reads: 18 [2017] 3 SCR 153 : (2017) 14 SCC 80 19 Section 32 reads: “32. Enforcement of contracts contingent on an event happening.—Contingent contracts to do or not to do anything if an uncertain future event happens, cannot be enforced by law unless and until that event has happened. If the event becomes impossible, such contracts become void.” Section 56 reads: “56. Agreement to do impossible act.—An agreement to do an act impossible in itself is void. Contract to do act afterwards becoming impossible or unlawful.—A contract to do an act which, after the contract is made, becomes impossible, or, by reason of some event which the promisor could not prevent, unlawful, becomes void when the act becomes impossible or unlawful. Compensation for loss through non-performance of act known to be impossible or unlawful.— Where one person has promised to do something which he knew, or, with reasonable diligence, might have known, and which the promisee did not know, to be impossible or unlawful, such promisor must make compensation to such promisee for any loss which such promisee sustains through the non- performance of the promise.” 20 Energy Watchdog (supra), para 47. 21 ibid, para 45. 1044 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “vi. Inability despite complying with all legal requirements to obtain, renew or maintain required licenses or Legal Approvals” Article 8.3(b)(iv) disentitles a party from claiming force majeure when the event was caused by its own negligence, intentional act, or omission. It reads: “b) The availability of the above item (a) to excuse a Party’s obligations under this Agreement due to a Force Majeure Event shall be subject to the following limitations and restrictions: … (iv) The Force Majeure Event was not caused by the non performing Party’s negligent or intentional acts, errors or omissions, or by its negligence/failure to comply with any material Law, or by any material breach or default under this Agreement…” 10.3 When these clauses are read together, it is clear that the SPD would be entitled to the benefit of Article 8.3(a)(vi) when it is unable to secure the necessary approvals and licenses required under the PPA, provided that there is no negligence or intentional act or omission on its part that caused this situation. 10.4 The entire dispute before the KERC and the APTEL revolves on a question of fact – whether the respondents were negligent or not diligent in securing approvals and hence, is the delay in commissioning attributable to them. The KERC’s appreciation of the evidence has led it to the conclusion that the delay in commissioning was due to the respondents’ delay in making the applications, despite the approval of the PPA. However, the APTEL has taken note of certain additional factors affecting the time taken to secure the approvals that were not considered by the KERC.