3.11. Meanwhile, in State of Haryana v. GD Goenka Tourism Corporation Ltd.,8 it was argued that since Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and Shailendra (supra) were decided by a bench of equal strength, the matter should be referred to a larger bench. This Court deferred the hearing to a later date and held that pending a final decision on referring the matter to a larger Bench, the High Courts shall not deal with any case relating to the interpretation of Section 24 of the 2013 Act. Subsequently, two different benches of this Court issued even date s on 22.02.2018 in Indore Development Authority v. Shyam Verma9 and State of Haryana v. Maharana Pratap Charitable Trust (Regd. ),10 referring the matter to a larger bench. 3.12. Eventually, a five-judge bench decided these questions of law in Indore Development Authority v. Manoharlal 11 and held, inter alia, that the term “or” in Section 24(2) of the 2013 Act shall be read as “and”, such that for land acquisition proceedings to lapse under this Section, neither the compensation must have been paid nor the possession must have been taken. With respect to payment of compensation, it was held that the term “paid” means tendering of payment and the term “deposit” in Section 24 of the 2013 Act includes deposit both with the government treasury and the Reference Court. Hence, land acquisition proceedings cannot be deemed to have lapsed if compensation was tendered to the landowner and later deposited in the Treasury. With respect to possession, the Constitution Bench held that the period of stay granted in favour of landowners ought to be excluded. Consequently, Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and Sree Balaji 8 (2018) 3 SCC 585, para 9. 9 (2020) 15 SCC 342, para 3. 10 (2018) SCC Online SC 3600, para 1. 11 [2020] 3 SCR 1 : (2020) 8 SCC 129, para 366. 1238 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Nagar Residential Association (supra) were overruled. This Court also overruled Shailendra (supra), since the question of reading the conditions under Section 24(2) conjunctively (i.e., reading “or” as ‘and’) was not considered by that case. Subsequently, in light of the decision in Manoharlal (supra), the in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) was recalled. 3.13. After the dust stood settled finally in Manoharlal (supra), the appellants filed another batch of appeals against such s of the High Court of Delhi which had relied on Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Association (supra) to declare the acquisition proceedings as having lapsed. Similarly, Review Petitions and Miscellaneous Applications were filed against the s of this Court dismissing the SLPs filed previously. 3.14. To simplify, the present batch of matters before us can broadly be classified into the following three categories: (a) First, cases filed before Shailendra (supra). Most of the SLPs in this category were dismissed by this Court after granting leave, on the strength of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Association (supra), but a few were deferred to a later date and are still pending; (b) Second, cases filed after Shailendra (supra), on the ground that Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Association (supra) has been overruled and Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) has been held to be per incuriam; and (c) Third, cases filed after Manoharlal (supra) which overruled both Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Association (supra), with a plea that the High Court decisions deserve to be revisited given the principles enunciated in Manoharlal (supra).