Therefore, the said Rule 9(5) is liable to be struck down as unconstitutional being opposed to public policy and principles of fair play and unreasonableness. 33. In such circumstances referred to above, it was prayed on behalf of the respondent that there being no merit in the appeals, the same may be dismissed. E. ANALYSIS (Points for Determination) 34. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the following questions fall for our consideration: - I. Whether, the underlying principle of Section(s) 73 & 74 respectively of the 1872 Act is applicable to forfeiture of earnest- money deposit under Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules? In other words, whether the forfeiture of the earnest-money deposit under Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules can be only to the extent of loss or damages incurred by the Bank? II. Whether, the forfeiture of the entire amount towards the earnest- money deposit under Rule 9(5) of the Rules amounts to unjust enrichment? In other words, whether the quantum of forfeiture under the SARFAESI Rule is limited to the extent of debt owed? III. Whether a case of exceptionable circumstances could be said to have been made out by the respondent to set aside the of forfeiture of the earnest money deposit? i) Legislative History and Scheme of the SARFAESI Act 35. Till early 1990s, the civil suits were being filed for recovery of the dues of banks and financial institutions under the Act 1882 and the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (“CPC”). Due to various difficulties the [2024] 2 S.C.R. 35 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu banks and financial institutions had to face in recovering loans and enforcement of securities, the Parliament enacted the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (for short, the “RDBFI Act”). 36. On account of lack of infrastructure and manpower, the regular civil courts were not in a position to cope up with the speed in the adjudication of recovery cases. In the light of recommendations of the Tiwari Committee the special tribunals came to be set up under the provisions of the RDBFI Act referred to above for the recovery of huge accumulated NPA of the Bank loans. 37. On the continuing rise in number of Non-Performing Assets (NPA) at banks and other financial institutions in India; a poor rate of loan recovery and the failure of the existing legislation in redressing the difficulties of recovery by banks; the Narasimham Committee I & II and Andyarujina Committee were constituted by the Government for examining and suggesting banking reforms in India. These Committees in their reports observed that one out of every five borrower was a defaulter, and that due to the long and tedious process of existing frame work of law and the overburdening of existing forums including the specialised tribunals under the 1993 Act, any attempt of recovery with the assistance of court/tribunal often rendered the secured asset nearly worthless due to the long delays.