[2024] 8 S.C.R. 345 : 2024 INSC 590 Allarakha Habib Memon Etc. v. State of Gujarat (Criminal Appeal Nos. 2828-2829 of 2023) 08 August 2024 [B.R. Gavai and Sandeep Mehta,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration As per the FIR (Exhibit-79) there were two eyewitnesses to the incident, PW-12-Police Constable and PW-11-the first informant who was deceased’s cousin brother. PW-12 claiming to be an eyewitness to the incident had reported at the police station with the crime weapons however, he did not lodge any complaint of the incident. FIR was registered on the basis of the oral statement of PW-11. Testimony of the aforesaid witnesses, if was trustworthy and reliable. In view of inconsistencies and contradictions in the evidences, whether the conviction of the accused-appellants under Section 302 read with Section 120B, Penal Code, 1860 and their sentence was justified. Headnotes† Penal Code, 1860 – ss.302 r/w s.120B – Concurrent conviction of the accused-appellants – Various inconsistencies and contradictions in evidences – Guilt of the accused appellants if proved beyond doubt: Held: No – First informant-PW-11 was not present at the crime scene – Evidence of PW-12-an independent witness makes the very presence of PW-11 at the crime scene doubtful – Testimony of PW-11, the star witness of prosecution is thus, not trustworthy and reliable as the same was contradicted on material aspects by numerous material facts and circumstances – Testimony of the Police Constable-PW-12 also does not help the prosecution in linking the accused-appellant with the crime – It is improbable and totally unacceptable that a police constable had seen the incident and also brought the crime weapons to the police station and yet his statement would not be recorded and the factum of presentation of weapons would not be entered in the daily diary (roznamcha) of the police station – Non-production of the daily * Author 346 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports diary is a serious omission on part of the prosecution – Further, on facts, identification of the accused by PW-12 for the first time in the dock is unbelievable and unacceptable – Also, on a careful perusal of the complaint (Exhibit P-79) filed by PW-11 which was subsequently registered as the FIR, it is manifest that no time of recording was mentioned thereupon – There was no endorsement as to the date and time on which the said FIR reached the Court concerned – Going by the testimony of PW-11, the actual complaint filed by him at the police station seems to have been withheld and the FIR was a post investigation document and seems to have been created at a later point of time – Furthermore, neither the disclosure statements made by the accused were proved as per law nor the same resulted into any discovery which could be accepted as incriminating inasmuch as the requisite link evidence was never presented by the prosecution so as to establish that the recovered articles remained in the self-safe condition from the date of the seizure till the same reached the FSL – Prosecution failed to lead convincing evidence establishing the guilt of the accused appellants beyond doubt so as to hold the appellants responsible for the crime – Impugned s quashed and set aside – Appellants acquitted by giving them the benefit of doubt.