Learned counsel for the parties seek and are granted time to inspect the original record and make further submissions. 3. An officer of the Irrigation Department is present along with some latest photographs of the site. However, he has not brought the original record regarding fixation of blue line by the Irrigation Department in purported exercise of its power under the Maharashtra Regional & Town Planning Act, 1966. 4. Mr. Uday B. Dube, learned counsel for the respondent Corporation undertakes to produce such record.” 31. Pursuant to the said , a duly sworn affidavit of 2nd April, 2024 has been filed by the Assistant Director of Town Planning (Branch Office, District Akola) which reveals certain telling facts. The affidavit states that its contents are confined to marking of flood lines in the city Akola and the maps thereof. It avers that the land in question in these Appeals was situated outside the Municipal Council of Akola which fact, however, is disputed by the appellant. Be that as it may, the affidavit acknowledges that under Section 14(j) of the MRTP Act, the proposals for irrigation, water supply and hydro-electric, works, flood control and prevention of river pollution are the constituents of the regional plan. It further avers that as per the provisions of Section 22(j) of the MRTP Act, the proposals for flood control and prevention of river pollution are constituents of the development plan. 32. Digressing a bit from the affidavit, it may be pointed out herein that under the MRTP Act, Section 2(25) defines regional plan to mean a plan for the development or redevelopment of a region which is approved by the State Government and has come into operation under the Act. Under Section 21, development plan is defined to mean a plan for the development or redevelopment of the area within the jurisdiction of a planning authority and includes revision of a development plan and proposals of a special planning authority for development of land within its jurisdiction. Section 14 which deals with the contents of the regional plan along with sub-clauses - a and j are extracted herein below: “14. Contents of Regional Plan Subject to the provisions of this Act and any rules made thereunder for regulating the form of a Regional Plan and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2263 Kazi Akiloddin v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. the manner in which it may be published, any such Regional plan shall indicate the manner in which the Regional Board propose that land in the Region should be used, whether by carrying out thereon development or otherwise, the stages by which any such development is to be carried out, the network of communications and transport, the proposals for conservation and development of natural resources, and such other matters as are likely to have an important influence on the development of the Region; and any such plan in particular, may provide for all or any of the following matters, or for such matters thereof as the State Government may direct, that is to say- (a) allocation of land for different uses, general distribution and general locations of land, and the extent to which the land may be used as residential, industrial, agricultural, or as forest, or for mineral exploitation; xxx xxx (j) proposals for irrigation, water supply and hydro-electric works, flood control and prevention of river pollution;” 33.