As the narrative would reveal, my view diverges from the other 2 (two) Judges in the minority. 8. Since it was revealed in the aforesaid meeting that my view did not align with the majority, my draft opinion warranted certain changes and such changes have been incorporated in this final opinion without changing the core foundation thereof. the reference 9. This Constitution Bench of 7 (seven) Judges has been constituted by the HCJI pursuant to a reference made by a bench of 3 (three) Judges of this Court vide dated 12th February, 20197 in Aligarh Muslim University vs. Naresh Agarwal and Ors.8 Though the said is ostensibly the referral necessitating constitution of this Bench, in reality, the reference has its roots in an dated 6 majority opinion, hereafter 7 Civil Appeal No. 2286/2006 8 (2020) 13 SCC 737 1860 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 26th November, 1981 passed by a bench of 2 (two) Judges of this Court in Anjuman-e-Rahmania and Ors. vs. Distt. Inspector of School and Ors.9. I am inclined to the view, based on my reading of the s in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) and Aligarh Muslim University (supra), that the former could well qualify as the referral for the reference and the latter the re-referral for the re-reference (to be referred hereafter as such for clarity). The reasons, therefor, are not far to seek and would unfold as one proceeds to read this opinion. 10. At the outset, I find it significant to record that this Bench has been addressed by at least half a dozen senior counsel/counsel on why the decision in Azeez Basha (supra) ought to be reconsidered and overruled. In the context of the decision dated 5th January, 200610 rendered by the High Court of Judicature of Allahabad11 in an intra- court appeal12, the issue assumes some importance and it is indeed essential to consider whether Azeez Basha (supra) should at all be reconsidered merely because of the two referral s coupled with the fact that the issues are before a Constitution Bench of 7 (seven) Judges of which the HCJI is the presiding Judge. If the s of reference are found to be ex facie flawed and non-est, as the learned Solicitor General and other senior counsel who addressed the Bench on behalf of the respondents have urged us to hold, the re-reference would be plainly incompetent. 11. In the cacophony of dissonant notes, one ought not to forget that the hallmark of a judicial pronouncement is its stability and finality. I am reminded of what the HCJI speaking for the bench in Supertech Ltd. vs. Emerald Court Owner Residents Association13 said, - “judicial verdicts are not like sand dunes which are subject to the vagaries of wind and weather”.There cannot be any doubt that this Court has extensive powers to correct an error or to review its decision, but such correction / review ought not to be at the cost of the doctrine of finality. An issue of law can be overruled by a subsequent decision but a decision on questions of fact should not be reopened once it 9 Writ Petition (Civil) Nos.