35. Section 64 deals with owner’s right to deal with warehoused goods. Section 64, as it stood at the relevant point of time, read as under: 64. Owner’s right to deal with warehoused goods.- With the sanction of the proper officer and on payment of the prescribed fees, the owner of any goods may either before or after warehousing the same- (a) inspect the goods; (b) separate damaged or deteriorated goods from the rest; (c) sort the goods or change their containers for the purpose of preservation, sale, export or disposal of the goods; (d) deal with the goods and their containers in such manner as may be necessary to prevent loss or deterioration or damage to the goods; (e) show the goods for sale; or (f) take samples of goods without entry for home consumption, and if the proper officer so permits, without payment of duty on such samples. 904 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 35.1. Thus, this section provided that the owner of any goods with the sanction of the proper officer and on payment of the prescribed fees may either before or after warehousing the same, deal with the goods and their containers in such manner as may be necessary to prevent loss or deterioration or damage to the goods. 36. Section 67 deals with removal of goods from one warehouse to another. It says that the owner of any warehoused goods may with the permission of the proper officer, remove them from one warehouse to another subject to such conditions as may be prescribed for the due arrival of the warehoused goods at the warehouse to which removal is permitted. 37. Heading of Section 68 is ‘Clearance of warehoused goods for home consumption’. This section, as it stood at the relevant point of time, provided that the importer of any warehoused goods may clear those goods from the warehouse for home consumption if – (a) a bill of entry for home consumption in respect of such goods has been presented in the prescribed form; (b) the import duty leviable on such goods and all penalties rent, interest and other charges payable in respect of such goods have been paid; and (c) an for clearance of such goods for home consumption has been made by the proper officer. 38. There is an embargo provided in Section 71 from taking out goods from a warehouse. As per Section 71, no warehoused goods shall be taken out of a warehouse except on clearance for home consumption or re-exportation or for removal to another warehouse or as otherwise provided by the Customs Act. 39. Section 71 is followed by Section 72 which deals with goods improperly removed from warehouse, etc. As per sub-Section(1)(b) where any warehoused goods have not been removed from a warehouse at the expiration of the period during which such goods are permitted under Section 61 to remain in a warehouse, the proper officer may demand and the owner of such goods shall forthwith pay, the full amount of duty chargeable on account of such goods together with all penalties, rent, interest and other charges payable in respect of such goods.