But such cases cannot be decided solely by interpreting legal provisions. It is a humane problem and is required to be solved with human touch. A Court while dealing with custody cases, is neither bound by statutes nor by strict rules of evidence or procedure nor by precedents. In selecting proper guardian of a minor, the paramount consideration should be the welfare and well-being of the child. In selecting a guardian, the Court is exercising parens patriae jurisdiction and is expected, 13 [2008] 11 SCR 1111 : (2008) 9 SCC 413 20 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports nay bound, to give due weight to a child’s ordinary comfort, contentment, health, education, intellectual development and favourable surroundings. But over and above physical comforts, moral and ethical values cannot be ignored. They are equally, or we may say, even more important, essential and indispensable considerations. If the minor is old enough to form an intelligent preference or , the Court must consider such preference as well, though the final decision should rest with the Court as to what is conducive to the welfare of the minor. xx xx xx 55. We are unable to appreciate the approach of the Courts below. This Court in catena of decisions has held that the controlling consideration governing the custody of children is the welfare of children and not the right of their parents.” [Emphasis supplied] 14. This Court has consistently held that welfare of the child is of paramount consideration and not personal law and statute. In Ashish Ranjan v. Anupam Tandon and another14, this Court held as under: “19. The statutory provisions dealing with the custody of the child under any personal law cannot and must not supersede the paramount consideration as to what is conducive to the welfare of the minor. In fact, no statute on the subject, can ignore, eschew or obliterate the vital factor of the welfare of the minor. 15. This Court in Roxann Sharma v. Arun Sharma15, opined that the child is not a chattel or ball that it is bounced to and fro. Welfare of the child is the focal point. Relevant lines from para-No. 18 are reproduced hereunder: “18........There can be no cavil that when a court is confronted by conflicting claims of custody there are no rights of the parents which have to be enforced; the child 14 [2010] 14 SCR 961 : (2010) 14 SCC 274 15 [2015] 2 SCR 572 : (2015) 8 SCC 318 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 21 Shazia Aman Khan and Another v. The State of Orissa and Others is not a chattel or a ball that is bounced to and fro the parents. It is only the child’s welfare which is the focal point for consideration. Parliament rightly thinks that the custody of a child less than five years of age should ordinarily be with the Mother and this expectation can be deviated from only for strong reasons” 16. Another principle of law which is settled with reference to custody of the child is the wish of the child, if she is capable of.