3.15. We note that a factor common to most of the matters mentioned in paragraph 3.14 above is that they were filed after the expiration of the period of limitation. The quantum of delay differs in each case, and while it is less in the cases filed in [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1239 Delhi Development Authority v. Tejpal & Ors. the first category, it is significantly long in the second and third categories. Hence, at this stage, it is important to first examine at length the prayer for condonation of delay and the maintainability of these petitions, before delving into the merits of each case. B. Contentions of parties 4. The appellants were represented by Ld. Attorney General for India, Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, Ld. Additional Solicitor General, and Senior Advocates, including Ms. Rachna Srivastava, Mr. Sanjay Poddar, Mr. Sanjib Sen, and Mr. Kailash Vasdev. From the side of Respondents, we were assisted by an array of Senior Advocates, including Mr. Dhruv Mehta, Mr. Gopal Sankaranarayanan, Mr. Jayant Bhushan, Mr. Jayant Mehta, Ms. Vibha Datta Makhija, and Mr. Vikas Singh, and Ms. Bansuri Swaraj, Advocate. 5. The appellants argued that they had sufficient cause for not filing the appeals and applications within the prescribed time. Substantiating this, they made the following submissions: (a) The respondent-landowners had suppressed certain material facts from the High Court. Once the appellants discovered these fraudulent claims, they filed the present appeals. In Commissioner of Customs v. Candid Enterprises,12 this Court held that fraud vitiates the delay that occurred before its discovery. The discovery of the facts suppressed by the respondents before the High Court, gives rise to a fresh cause of action and, hence the period preceding the revelation of such fraud deserves to be excluded while calculating the limitation period. (b) The appellants were disabled from filing appeals within the prescribed limitation period because the governing law during such period as laid down in Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Association (supra), would have caused the dismissal of their petitions. Since the question of law was finally decided in their favour in Shailendra (supra) and Manoharlal (supra), their cause of action stood revived to enable them to approach this Court. Further, a case is applied retrospectively unless the 12 (2002) 9 SCC 764, para 6. 1240 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports expressly recites otherwise, as held in CIT v. Saurashtra Kutch Stock Exchange Ltd.13 Since Manoharlal (supra) did not restrict its applicability prospectively, all the cases decided before thereto deserve to be re-decided based on the principles enunciated in it. (c) The Court should take a liberal approach regarding condonation of delay and allow leeway to the government authorities, who, on account of their impersonal character, multiple chains of approval, processing of a large number of files, and lack of resources, unintentionally cross the prescribed limitation timeline and suffer bureaucratic delay. (d) The delay caused by the COVID-19 pandemic deserves to be condoned as the restrictions on movement during the lockdown, defuncted the appellants who did not have a well-equipped technological infrastructure in place to meet such unexpected and newer challenges.