10/- each at par in the Transferee Company in lieu thereof by way of consideration for transfer of such Commercial Expertise as mentioned above and holding such shares under lock in for minimum period of 3 years. The Transferor shall then assign and transfer all the Transferor’s right, title and interest in all the Commercial Expertise for the entire world and for entire period during which this Commercial Expertise subsists to and unto the Transferee absolutely. xxx xxx xxx 4. COVENANTS OF THE TRANSFEROR 4.1 The Transferor ensures that he shall continue in the employment of the Transferee for minimum period of three years effective from 1st January 2011. […] [2024] 12 S.C.R. 117 Aslam Ismail Khan Deshmukh v. Asap Fluids Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. 4.3 If at any time after a minimum period of 3 years as locking of shares the transferee wish to sell his share to the transferee he must first offer for sale to management, all (and not only some unless management agrees otherwise) of the shares owned by him (“the Sale Shares”) at a price as mutually agreed with him and the management at the relevant time.” xxx xxx xxx 10. TERM OF THE AGREEMENT […] 10.2 The term for this Agreement will start on Allotment of Shares by the Transferee to the Transferor and the such allotted Shares will be under Lock in for a period of three years from the date of its Allotment and the Transferor shall not leave the services with the Transferee for a period of three years from the date of Allotment of Shares in the Company as per terms of this Agreement” (Emphasis supplied) 9. Upon certain other issues arising between the parties, the petitioner tendered his resignation as the Director in respondent no. 1 and its Dubai subsidiary. The resignation was accepted by the Dubai subsidiary vide Director’s Resolution dated 18.07.2013. 10. The petitioner was concerned with the failure of respondent no.2 in transferring 2,00,010 shares in respondent no.1 which belonged to the petitioner despite confirmation of the same vide letter dated 22.09.2011 and also the non-issuance of the share certificates evidencing allotment of additional 2,00,010 shares in the name of the petitioner by respondent no. 1. The petitioner further contended that despite holding 4,00,000 equity shares in respondent no.1 as per the Shareholders Agreement, respondent no.1 failed to issue duly stamped, signed and sealed share certificates evidencing such an allotment to the petitioner. 11. It is the case of the petitioner that he had requested respondent no.1 on several occasions to either issue the share certificates evidencing allotment of 4,00,000 equity shares or in the alternate, return the amount equivalent to such shares. The petitioner alleged that, since the share certificates were not issued to him, he was unable to send 118 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports an ‘offer notice’ to sell his portion of equity shares to respondent no.2 who has the “Right of First Refusal” under Clause 6 of the Shareholders Agreement.