Both the accused and Tejashree were found to be talking. After taking water I went to my home. I informed my house by around 7.00 hrs in the evening that I am going to super market. Later I came back by 7 .25 hrs at that time Sun News was under broadcast when I parked my vehicle and climbed stairs Durairaj came behind me. When I placed the articles in home within 5 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 93 P. Sasikumar v. The State Rep. by the Inspector of Police minutes I heard the sound of Durairaj. Immediately I went to Durairaj House. After tearing the cloth he was shouting from the place where his daughter was lying. I told Durairaj that 2 person came and went half an hour prior to that. I told Durairaj that they both kept Tejashree sitting and was talking with her. Immediately call was made to ambulance…” PW-5 is said to have identified the accused later when both the accused were apprehended by the police and were in the hospital. In other words, while these two accused persons were in the custody of the police this particular witness PW-5 was taken to the hospital where he had identified the two accused. This so-called identification, on which much reliance has been placed by the prosecution, was made by PW-5 in the hospital by way of a statement to the police, and it can only be read as a statement under Section 162 of the Criminal Procedure Code which can only be used for the limited purpose as provided under Section 162 of the CrPC itself. The case of the prosecution is that both the accused were apprehended on 15.11.2014 near the Salem-Coimbatore bye pass fly over. The recovery of incriminating material such as motor bike, weapon, the monkey cap, helmet, clothes etc. were made on the same day. In other words, when the accused were in judicial custody, there is nothing on record to suggest that the investigating officer or the investigating team had taken any permission from the Magistrate for the release of the accused for these recoveries. These recoveries therefore, have no relevance. At this juncture, we must reiterate that our observation in this case and our finding and conclusions are based only on the evidences and the material which is available against the present appellant, it should not be construed in any manner as a finding or a comment on the case of accused no. 1 who is not before us and evidently against whom the prosecution has some more material, including motive. There is also no motive against the present appellant. In fact, the Pulsar bike which has been recovered on pointing out of accused no.1 does not belong to the appellant but was purchased by a person named ‘Satish’ from the showroom and this person ‘Satish’ has never been questioned by the police or produced as a prosecution witness during the trial. 10. The admitted position in this case is that the test identification parade (hereinafter referred to as ‘TIP’) was not conducted.