However, no such document was produced. It is true that respondent No.8 was not crossexamined by respondent No.1 or respondent Nos.5 and 6. Still, it is to be noted that best evidence in the form of documentary evidence was available with the respondent No.8, but he chose not to produce the best evidence and relied only on his oral testimony. Even though respondent No.8 contended that the documents are not traceable he has nowhere stated that the records were lost or destroyed. There is no satisfactory clarification as to why the records are not traceable. When the best evidence, which is expected to be available with him, has not been produced, the Court may draw an inference that if such record would be produced, it would go against his claim. Therefore, his contention that the amount of Rs.25 lakh each payable to respondent Nos. 5 and 6 has been [2024] 3 S.C.R. 303 Suman L. Shah v. The Custodian & Ors. actually repaid partly by cheque and partly by adjustment of the price of material supplied to them cannot be accepted. Therefore, I hold that the respondent No.8 is liable to pay amount of Rs.25 lakh to respondent No.5 and Rs.25 lakh to respondent No.6. 27. It was fervently contended by learned counsel for the appellants that the impugned s do not stand to scrutiny inasmuch as the onus of proof has been shifted on to the appellants without any justification and contrary to the principles enshrined in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872(hereinafter being referred to as the ‘Evidence Act’). He thus, implored the Court to accept the appeals and set aside the s passed by the Special Court. 28. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that the bald statements of the appellants herein in their affidavits that the amount borrowed from respondent Nos. 6, 7 and 8 i.e. the benami companies of the notified person i.e. respondent No.2- Pallav Sheth had been returned by way of adjustment towards material supplied was rightly discarded by the Special Court because such statements were not supported by any tangible proof, either oral or documentary. He urged that the appellants claim to be reputed businessmen and thus, it is wholly unbelievable that accounts of business had not been maintained by them so as to substantiate the plea of repayment being made to respondent Nos. 6, 7 and 8 by way of adjustment of material supplied. He thus, implored the Court to affirm the impugned s and dismiss the instant appeals. 29. We have given our anxious consideration to the submissions advanced at the bar and have perused the material available on record. 30. For adjudicating the issues raised in these appeals, few admitted facts need to be noted. The miscellaneous applications were filed by the respondent-Custodian in the year 2008 seeking to recover the amounts of Rs.50 lakhs from appellant Suman L. Shah towards the dues of respondent Nos. 6 and 7 and amount of Rs.25 lakhs from appellant Laxmichand Shah towards the dues of respondent No.8.