This is how we have read our constitutional text, and this is how we have built our precedents on the basis of our preambular objective to secure justice.9 5 Sir Clive Lewis, Judicial Remedies in Public Law (5th edn, Sweet and Maxwell 2015). 6 HWR Wade and CF Forsyth, Administrative Law (11th edn, Oxford University Press 2014) 596-597. 7 Peter Cane, ‘Damages in Public Law’ (1999) 9(3) Otago Law Review 489. 8 Henry Woolf and others, De Smith’s Judicial Review (8th edn, Sweet and Maxwell 2018) 1026-1027. 9 The Preambular goals are to secure Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity for all citizens. 418 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 20. In public law proceedings, when it is realised that the prayer in the writ petition is unattainable due to passage of time, constitutional courts may not dismiss the writ proceedings on the ground of their perceived futility. In the life of litigation, passage of time can stand both as an ally and adversary. Our duty is to transcend the constraints of time and perform the primary duty of a constitutional court to control and regulate the exercise of power or arbitrary action. By taking the first step, the primary purpose and object of public law proceedings will be subserved. 21. The second step relates to restitution. This operates in a different dimension. Identification and application of appropriate remedial measures poses a significant challenge to constitutional courts, largely attributable to the dual variables of time and limited resources. 22. The temporal gap between the impugned illegal or arbitrary action and their subsequent adjudication by the courts introduces complexities in the provision of restitution. As time elapses, the status of persons, possession, and promises undergoes transformation, directly influencing the nature of relief that may be formulated and granted. 23. The inherent difficulty in bridging the time gap between the illegal impugned action and restitution is certainly not rooted in deficiencies within the law or legal jurisprudence but rather in systemic issues inherent in the adversarial judicial process. The protracted timeline spanning from the filing of a writ petition, service of notice, filing of counter affidavits, final hearing, and then the eventual delivery of , coupled with subsequent appellate procedures, exacerbates delays. Take for example this very case, the writ petition was filed against the action of the respondent denying appointment on 22.05.2017. The writ petition came to be decided by the Single Judge on 24.01.2018, the Division Bench on 16.10.2018, and then the case was carried to this Court in the year 2019 and we are deciding it in 2024. The delay in this case is not unusual, we see several such cases when our final hearing board moves. Appeals of more than two decades are awaiting consideration. It is distressing but certainly not beyond us. We must and we will find a solution to this problem. 24. It is in this reality and prevailing circumstance that we must formulate an appropriate system for preserving the rights of the parties till the final determination takes place.