The doctrine of comparative hardship has been thus statutorily recognized in India. However, mere [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1207 Parswanath Saha v. Bandhana Modak (Das) and Anr. inadequacy of consideration or the mere fact that the contract is onerous to the defendant or improvident in its nature, shall not constitute an unfair advantage to the plaintiff over the defendant or unforeseeable hardship on the defendant. The principle underlying Section 20 has been summed up by this Court in Lourdu Mari David v. Louis Chinnaya Arogiaswamy [(1996) 5 SCC 589 : AIR 1996 SC 2814] by stating that the decree for specific performance is in the discretion of the Court but the discretion should not be used arbitrarily; the discretion should be exercised on sound principles of law capable of correction by an appellate court. 30. Chitty on Contracts (27th Edn., 1994, Vol. 1., at p. 1296) states: “Severe hardship may be a ground for refusing specific performance even though it results from circumstances which arise after the conclusion of the contract, which affect the person of the defendant rather than the subject- matter of the contract, and for which the plaintiff is in no way responsible.” 38. It may not be out of place to state at this stage that in K. Narendra (supra) there is a reference with approval to Chitty on Contracts (27th Edn., 1994, Vol.1 at p.1296), where the passage quoted clearly indicates that one of the grounds for refusing specific performance, though they arise from circumstances post-contract, are factors which affect the person of the defendant rather than the subject-matter of the contract, and to which the plaintiff is in no way a contributory. It is these personal circumstances of the defendant, which this Court has alluded to in the earlier part of this while dwelling upon the issue of hardship under Section 20(2)(b) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. The discretion there being wide, it is certainly not limited to what is illustratively mentioned in the statute. At the cost of some repetition, it, therefore, deserves emphasis that circumstances of the plaintiff also are very relevant in the exercise of discretion to grant specific performance, based on the parameters of hardship to the defendant. 39. Even if we go by what Chitty as said in his Book Chitty on Contracts, 27th Ed. 1994 referred to above, there is nothing which the defendants 1208 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports have been able to bring on record that the suit property is the only shelter available to them. 40. It appears from the evidence on record that Late Prabha Ranjan Das was not getting along well with his wife and son. His wife and son, i.e., the defendants were residing separately. It appears that they were residing at the parental home of the defendant No. 1. It is only when Prabha Ranjan Das passed away that the defendants tried to take over the suit property. 41. The learned counsel appearing for the respondents (Original defendants) vehemently submitted that the Trial Court failed to frame any issue whether the plaintiff was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract.