No other officer can be assigned the functions of the proper officer under Section 28. (ii) Secondly, the was rendered in connection with officers of the Customs (Preventive), who were not assigned the powers and duties of a proper officer, and no notifications to this effect were produced or brought to the notice of this Court. 38. It was pointed out by him that Sayed Ali (supra) did not deal with DRI officers who were indeed vested with the powers of proper [2024] 12 S.C.R. 231 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. officers vide the Circular No. 437/9/98-Cus.IV dated 15.02.1999 issued by the Board in terms of Section 2(34). Under Section 2(34), the power of assigning functions of a proper officer to an officer of customs vests with the Board or the Commissioner of Customs. Since the Board issued this assignment, the DRI officers became proper officers with effect from 15.02.1999. As a result, the decision rendered in Sayed Ali (supra) which was with reference to only Customs (Preventive) would have no application to the DRI and DGAE officers. The circular dated 15.02.1999 is reproduced hereinbelow: “F. No. 437/9/98-Cus.IV Circular No. 4/99-Cus Dated 15/2/1999 Government of India Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) Central Board of Excise & Customs, New Delhi Subject: Issuance of Show Cause Notice by the Officers of directorate of Revenue Intelligence -regarding- A doubt has been recently raised as to whether the Officers of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence could issue show cause notices in cases investigated by them – a practice started last year apparently in tune with the practice of the Directorate General of Anti Evasion. The matter has been examined in the Board. 2. It has been observed that in terms of Customs Notification No. 19/90-Cus (NT. ), dated 26.4.90, as amended from time to time, the Officers of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence of different categories have been notified and appointed as Commissioners of Customs, Deputy Commissioners of Customs or Assistant Commissioners of Customs for the are specified. These officers, therefore, can legally be entrust with discharge of functions normally performed by Commissioners, Deputy Commissioners or Assistant Commissioners of Customs in their jurisdiction, as the case may be. Board can no doubt subject these powers/functions 232 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to certain restrictions/limitations as may be imposed, as provided under section 5(1) of the Customs Act. 3. Directorate of Revenue Intelligence Officer are, therefore, to undertake investigations of cases detected by them, and to issue the Show Cause Notices on completion of investigations. In line with the instructions issued (vide F.No. 208/23/97-CX-8, dated 20.1.98) in respect of Officers of Directorate General Anti Evasion, Board has decided that in impact of cases investigated by the Directorate General of Revenue intelligence, the officers of said Directorate will be competent to and may issue show cause notices in cases investigated by them – though these will continue to be adjudicated by the concerned jurisdictional Commissioners, Additional Commissioners, Deputy Commissioners or Assistant Commissioners of Customs, as the case may be.