… We must not thus overlook the cardinal position that in that jurisdiction may be exercised, there must be a case legally before the Court and a hearing as well as a determination. A pronounced by a Court without jurisdiction is void, subject to the well-known reservation that when the jurisdiction of a Court is challenged, the Court is competent to determine the question of jurisdiction, though the result of the enquiry may be that it has no jurisdiction to deal with the matter brought before it. *** 540 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Besides the cases mentioned therein, reference may particularly be made to the of Srinivas Aiyangar, J., in Tuljaram v. Gopala [32 Mad. L.J. 434; 21 Mad. L.J. 220 (1916).] , where the true rule was stated to be that if a Court has jurisdiction to try a suit and has authority to pass s of a particular kind, the fact that it has passed an which it should not have made in the circumstances of that litigation, does not indicate total want or loss of jurisdiction so as to render the a nullity.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 34. Hirday Nath Roy (supra) found approval in Official Trustee v. Sachindra Nath Chatterjee15, a co-ordinate Bench decision of this Court. The relevant observations of this Court in Sachindra Nath Chatterjee (supra) are reproduced below: “12. It is plain that if the learned judge had no jurisdiction to pass the in question then the is null and void. It is equally plain that if he had jurisdiction to pronounce on the plea put forward before him the fact that he made an incorrect or even an illegal cannot affect its validity. … 15. *** it is clear that before a Court can be held to have jurisdiction to decide a particular matter it must not only have jurisdiction to try the suit brought but must also have the authority to pass the s sought for. It is not sufficient that it has some jurisdiction in relation to the subject-matter of the suit. Its jurisdiction must include the power to hear and decide the questions at issue, the authority to hear and decide the particular controversy that has arisen between the parties. …” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 35. The essence really is that a court must not only have the jurisdiction in respect of the subject matter of dispute for the purpose of entertaining and trying the claim but also the jurisdiction to grant relief that is sought for. Once it is conceded that the jurisdiction on both counts 15 AIR 1969 SC 823 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 541 Asma Lateef & Anr. v. Shabbir Ahmad & Ors. is available, it is immaterial if jurisdiction is exercised erroneously. An erroneous decision cannot be labelled as having been passed ‘without jurisdiction’. It is, therefore, imperative that the distinction between a decision lacking in inherent jurisdiction and a decision which suffers from an error committed in the exercise of jurisdiction is borne in mind.