Section 47 of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940, reads thus: “47. Act to apply to all arbitrations.—Subject to the provisions of Section 46, and save insofar as is otherwise provided by any law for the time being in force, the provisions of this Act shall apply to all arbitrations and to all proceedings thereunder: Provided that an arbitration award otherwise obtained may with the consent of all the parties interested be taken into consideration as a compromise or adjustment of a suit by any court before which the suit is pending.” 17. [...] By reason of Section 9(b), the 1961 Act does not apply to any award made on an arbitration agreement governed by the law of India. The 1961 Act, therefore, does not apply to the arbitration agreement between the appellant and the first respondent. The 1940 Act applies to it and, by reason of Section 14(2) thereof, the courts in India are entitled to receive the award made by the second respondent. We must add in the interests of completeness that it is not the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1175 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze case of the appellant that the High Court at Bombay lacked the territorial jurisdiction to do so.” (Emphasis supplied) (ii) Secondly, it reiterated that, where the parties have chosen both the law governing the arbitration agreement i.e., lex arbitri and the law governing the arbitrator’s procedure and conduct thereof i.e., the curial law, it would confer concurrent jurisdiction whereby the competent courts under the curial law will have jurisdiction to administer the procedure of arbitration and the competent courts under the law governing the arbitration agreement will have jurisdiction to administer the performance of such agreement and the arbitrability of the dispute including the enforcement or setting aside of an award pursuant to such agreement. It further observed that the court administering the curial law will only have the jurisdiction to administer the conduct of such arbitration or reference. As soon as the arbitration concludes the curial law ceases and with it the jurisdiction of the courts to administer it ceases as well. The relevant observations read as under: - "11. The conclusion that we reach is that the curial law operates during the continuance of the proceedings before the arbitrator to govern the procedure and conduct thereof. The courts administering the curial law have the authority to entertain applications by parties to arbitrations being conducted within their jurisdiction for the purpose of ensuring that the procedure that is adopted in the proceedings before the arbitrator conforms to the requirements of the curial law and for reliefs incidental thereto. Such authority of the courts administering the curial law ceases when the proceedings before the arbitrator are concluded.” (Emphasis supplied) (iii) Lastly, this court added that, when it comes to the courts administering the law governing the arbitration agreement / the reference to arbitration, they will continue to exercise concurrent jurisdiction when it comes to the performance of the arbitration 1176 [2024] 11 S.C.R.