That seems to be the ordinary and natural meaning of the words “shall be substituted”. This part could not become effective without the assent of the Governor-General. The State Governor’s assent was insufficient. It could not be inferred that, what was intended was that, in case the substitution failed or proved ineffective, some repeal, not mentioned at all, was brought about and remained effective so as to create what may be described as a vacuum in the statutory law on the subject matter. Primarily, the question is one of gathering the intent from the use of words in the enacting provisions seen in the light of the procedure gone through. Here, no intention to repeal, without a substitution, is deducible. In other words, 76 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports there could be no repeal if substitution failed. The two were a part and parcel of a single indivisible process and not bits of a disjointed operation.” (emphasis supplied) This extracted paragraph has several strands of important reasoning that build on the decisions of Laxmibai and Mulchand Odhavji. First, the Court cast doubt on whether substitution always entails two distinct steps of repeal and enactment as outlined in Koteswar Vittal Kamath. Second, the Court reiterated that this two-step approach, where repeal is given effect to but insertion is not given effect to, can result in an unintended legislative vacuum. Third, the Court highlighted that it was necessary to examine whether there was any intention to repeal without insertion. This is relevant because there may exist cases where a legislature independently seeks to repeal a provision and also enacts another provision. In such cases, it may be appropriate to differentiate the two steps if there is cogent evidence to demonstrate that independent of the enactment step, the legislature would have nonetheless repealed the provision in question. In the words of Justice Beg, is there an “intention to repeal, without a substitution”? However, absent clear legislative intent to independently repeal without substitution, where the legislature engages in substitution, it is in fact a single indivisible process and the effect of a court invalidating the amended text is to bring back the unamended text. This is because, in the case of substitution, an inference can be made that the legislature would never have repealed the unamended text without simultaneously inserting the new amended text. Thus, to invalidate the amended text but also refuse to give effect to the unamended text would be to give effect to a third outcome that could lead to absurd consequences and was never intended by the legislature. Thus, where the intent is substitution and the inserted or amended text is declared invalid, the result is to invalidate the combined exercise of repeal and enactment and the pre-amendment provision continues in force. 58. The above approach was also adopted by a two-Judge Bench of this Court in DK Trivedi & Sons v State of Gujarat.60 The case concerned three notifications issued by the state government of 60 [1986] 1 SCR 479 : (1986) Supp SCC 20 [2024] 11 S.C.R.