Since the appellants/ petitioners had filed petitions or were agitating their claims for appointment, around the same time as those who secured relief in the WP (C) No.815 of 2011, these claimants in our opinion, also deserve similar consideration. 20. Next, we have to consider those who are not before the Court but are in the category of job seekers, who responded to the notification dated 12.09.2006, succeeded in the written test and also appeared in the interview segment. When the select list is being revised in terms of High Court’s dated 6.10.2015, new names are bound to figure in the revised select list, as per the respective performance of the candidates, in the recruitment test. The question is whether all aspirants whose names find place in the revised select list, pursuant to the course correction process, will secure appointment against the notified 1423 posts of Primary Teachers, irrespective of whether they were litigating for appointment. Should this Court deny relief to them by considering that there is an element of acquiescence by those, who did not move Court? For answer, we may benefit by [2024] 10 S.C.R. 33 Khunjamayum Bimoti Devi v. The State of Manipur & Ors. referring to the ratio in State of Uttar Pradesh and Others vs. Arvind Kumar Srivastava and Others, reported in (2015) 1 SCC 347 where the following was said: “22. The legal principles which emerge from the reading of the aforesaid s, cited both by the appellants as well as the respondents, can be summed up as under. 22.1. The normal rule is that when a particular set of employees is given relief by the court, all other identically situated persons need to be treated alike by extending that benefit. Not doing so would amount to discrimination and would be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. This principle needs to be applied in service matters more emphatically as the service jurisprudence evolved by this Court from time to time postulates that all similarly situated persons should be treated similarly. Therefore, the normal rule would be that merely because other similarly situated persons did not approach the Court earlier, they are not to be treated differently. 22.2. However, this principle is subject to well recognized exceptions in the form of latches and delays as well as acquiescence. Those persons who did not challenge the wrongful action in their cases and acquiesced into the same and woke up after long delay only because of the reason that their counterparts who had approached the court earlier in time succeeded in their efforts, then such employees cannot claim that the benefit of the rendered in the case of similarly situated persons be extended to them. They would be treated as fence-sitters and laches and delays, and/or the acquiescence, would be a valid ground to dismiss their claim. 22.3. However, this exception may not apply in those cases where the pronounced by the court was in rem with intention to give benefit to all similarly situated persons, whether they approached the court or not.