(2) A High Court or Court of Session may direct that any person who has been released on bail under this Chapter be arrested and commit him to custody.” Section 437(3) reads thus: “437. When bail may be taken in case of non-bailable offence.— (1) ………………………………………………… (2)………………………………………………… (3) When a person accused or suspected of the commission of an offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to seven years or more or of an offence under Chapter VI, Chapter XVI or Chapter XVII of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or abetment of, or conspiracy or attempt to commit, any such offence, is released on bail under sub-section (1), the [Court shall impose the conditions,— (a) that such person shall attend in accordance with the conditions of the bond executed under this Chapter, 104 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) that such person shall not commit an offence similar to the offence of which he is accused, or suspected, of the commission of which he is suspected, and (c) that such person shall not directly or indirectly make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or to any police officer or tamper with the evidence, and may also impose, in the interests of justice, such other conditions as it considers necessary.] (4) …………………………………………” 4.1 In this case, we are concerned with the offences under the NDPS Act which are punishable with imprisonment of seven years or more. The provision relating to bail is contained in Section 37 of the NDPS Act, which reads thus: “37. Offences to be cognizable and non-bailable.— (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974),— (a) every offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable; (b) no person accused of an offence punishable for [offences under Section 19 or Section 24 or Section 27-A and also for offences involving commercial quantity] shall be released on bail or on his own bond unless— (i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to oppose the application for such release, and (ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the application, the court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. (2) The limitations on granting of bail specified in clause (b) of sub-section (1) are in addition to the limitations under the Code of Criminal Procedure, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 105 Frank Vitus v. Narcotics Control Bureau & Ors. 1973 (2 of 1974), or any other law for the time being in force on granting of bail]” Under Section 37 of the NDPS Act, the Court’s power to grant bail is constrained by Sub-section 1(b)(ii). However, once a case is made out for a grant of bail in accordance with Section 37, the conditions of bail will have to be in terms of Section 437(3) of the CrPC.