5 who was Writ Petitioner before the High Court submits that the malafide is of two kinds: - one malice in fact and the second malice in law, in the peculiar facts of this case the Division Bench has rightly set aside the which do not warrant interference. 7. Conversely, learned counsel for the State has supported the contention of the appellant and urged that after consideration of the UO Note of the MLA, modified of transfer has been passed in 412 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports public interest after due application of mind, and the Division Bench has committed an error in setting aside the well-reasoned of learned Single Judge. 8. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and first we wish to appreciate the law and principles laid-down in the matter of transfer persuading judicial review. 9. In the case of Union of India and others v. S.L. Abbas; (1993) 4 SCC 357, it is clearly observed by this Court that the scope of judicial review is only available when there is a clear violation of statutory provision or the transfer is persuaded by malafide, non-observation of executive instructions does not confer a legally enforceable right to an employee holding a transferable post. The relevant paragraph reads as under: “7. Who should be transferred where, is a matter for the appropriate authority to decide. Unless the of transfer is vitiated by mala fides or is made in violation of any statutory provisions, the court cannot interfere with it. While ing the transfer, there is no doubt, the authority must keep in mind the guidelines issued by the Government on the subject……..” 9.1 Further, following the footsteps of S.L. Abbas (supra) this Court in the case of Union of India and another v. N.P. Thomas; 1993 Supp (1) SCC 704 held that the interference by the Court in an of transfer on the instance of an employee holding a transferrable post without any violation of statutory provision is not permissible. 9.2 This Court further curtailed the scope of judicial review in the case of N.K. Singh v. Union of India and others; (1994) 6 SCC 98 holding that the person challenging the transfer ought to prove on facts that such transfer is prejudicial to public interest. It was further reiterated that interference is only justified in a case of malafide or infraction of any professed norm or principle. Moreover, in the cases where the career prospects of a person challenging transfer remain unaffected and no detriment is caused, interference to the transfer must be eschewed. It is further held that the evidence requires to prove such transfer is prejudicial and in absence thereof interference [2024] 3 S.C.R. 413 Sri Pubi Lombi v. The State of Arunachal Pradesh & Ors. is not warranted. The law reiterated by this Court is reproduced, in following words: - “9. Transfer of a public servant from a significant post can be prejudicial to public interest only if the transfer was avoidable and the successor is not suitable for the post.