837 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others 32.1. Sub-section (1) of Section 432 is an enabling provision which states that when any person has been sentenced to punishment for an offence, the appropriate Government may, at any time, without conditions or upon any condition which the person sentenced accepts, suspend the execution of his sentence or remit the whole or any part of the punishment to which he has been sentenced. The pertinent provision involved in this case is sub-section (2) which deals with an application made to the appropriate Government for the suspension or remission of a sentence and the appropriate Government may require the Presiding Judge of the Court before or by which the conviction was had or confirmed, to state his opinion as to, whether, the application should be granted or refused, together with his reasons for such opinion and also to forward with the statement of such opinion a certified copy of the record of the trial or of such record thereof as exists. Sub-section (3) deals with cancellation of the suspension or remission in the event of there being any non-fulfilment of any condition imposed by the appropriate Government whereupon the person in whose favour the sentence has been suspended or remitted, may be arrested by the police officer, without warrant and remanded to undergo the unexpired portion of the sentence, if such a person is at large. Sub-section (4) states that the condition on which a sentence is suspended or remitted under this section may be one to be fulfilled by the person in whose favour the sentence is suspended or remitted, or one independent of his will. The appropriate Government may, by general rules or special s, give directions as to the suspension of sentences and the conditions on which petitions should be presented and dealt withvide sub-section (5) of Section 432 of the CrPC. The proviso to sub-section (5) states that in the case of any sentence (other than a sentence of fine) passed on a male person above the age of eighteen years, no such petition by the person sentenced or by any other person on his behalf shall be entertained, unless the person sentenced is in jail, and it is presented through the officer in-charge of the jail; or where such petition is made by any other person, it contains a declaration that the person sentenced is in jail. Sub-section (6) of Section 432 states that the provisions of 838 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports this Section would apply to any passed by a Criminal Court under any section of the CrPC or of any other law which restricts the liberty of any person or imposes any liability upon him or his property. 32.2. The expression “appropriate Government” used in Section 432 as well as in Section 433, is defined in sub-section (7) of Section 432. It expresses that in cases where the sentence is for an offence against, or the referred to in sub-section (6) is passed under, any law relating to a matter to which the executive power of the Union extends, the Central Government; and in other cases, the Government of the State within which the offender is sentenced or the said is passed.