STATUS OF AGREEMENT 17.01 Nothing in this Agreement shall constitute a partnership between the parties hereto or constitute the Franchisee an agent of the Franchisor for any purpose whatsoever and the Franchisee shall have no authority or power to bind the Franchisor or to pledge its credit. 17.02 This Agreement shall not be deemed to confer any right on the Franchisee and the license granted by this Agreement shall be personal to the Franchisee only and shall not be capable of being or be assigned by the Franchisee to any other person. 17.03 This Agreement shall in no way create a contractual relationship between the students and the Franchisor and the Franchisee shall, at all times, be wholly liable and responsible for any claims related to and arising out of the Licensed Business and the conduct of the Courses. The Franchisee undertakes to ensure that the students are made aware at the time of enrolling in the Course that Franchisee is entirely responsible for the conduct of the Courses and, that the students shall have no claim whatsoever against the Franchisor. xxx xxx xxx 21. ARBITRATION AND GOVERNING LAWS In the event of any dispute or difference arising between the parties hereto, including the events of termination, the same shall be settled through conciliation between the parties. In the event the parties are unable to arrive at a settlement, the matter will be referred to arbitration. The party raising the dispute shall serve a notice upon the other party advising that a dispute or difference has arisen and nominate on that notice its own arbitrator. The party receiving the notice shall, within 30 days after receiving such notice, nominate its arbitrator by advising 86 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the party raising the dispute and the name of the arbitrator appointed by the other party. The arbitrators so appointed shall appoint a third arbitrator. The award of the majority arbitrators shall be final, conclusive and binding upon the parties hereto. The venue of arbitration shall be MUMBAI and the arbitration proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the UNCITRAL Model Rules. If arbitration process fails both the parties shall submit to the jurisdiction of the Mumbai courts. 22. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the Indian laws.” 7. Pursuant to the signing of the aforesaid agreement, proposals were invited by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations, Azad Bhavan, Indraprastha Estate, New Delhi – 110002 (for short, “the ICCR”) in 2016 for the execution of a short-term course for training in English for students from Afghanistan who were selected to pursue degree courses in Indian Universities in the academic year 2017-18 under the scholarship scheme of the Government of India (for short, “the course”). The proposal of the respondent was accepted by the ICCR vide Sanction No. SSSAN-2017-18 dated 10.10.2016. The sanction prescribed the schedule for the conduct of the course, submission of progress report to the Embassy of India in Kabul (for short, “EOI, Kabul”) etc.