was the basis for granting of-site expenses. 2. Awarded Rs. Award set aside, as Awarded Uneconomic 61,22,000 for Arbitrator did not claim no. utilization of deploying plant account for wastage 2, thereby plant and and machinery of 135 days by the reversing machinery on all 200 wasted appellant itself. decision by days as required the District under the Judge. Contract. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 621 Pam Developments Private Limited v. The State of West Bengal & Anr. 3. Labour Arbitrator granted Award upheld by the Set aside, Charges for 3% of the District Court. because it is uneconomical contract amount contrary to stoppage of Rs.5,80,500/- as the Special work per the Hudson’s Terms and formula. Conditions of the Contract. 4. Interest Awarded Rs. Award upheld by the Set aside on delayed 54,84,024/- on District Court. because payment the ground monthly bills of Running of interest on raised by Account Bills blocked capital appellants and Escalation (when amount were paid Bills exceeded Rs.1 without crore) @12% pa. delay. As per clauses 7-9, no claim for interest arises. 5. Escalation Awarded Award upheld by the Affirmed the Bill Rs.11,51,198/- as District Court. Award and respondent has decision of already paid part the District of such amount. Judge. The claimant is entitled to the balance. 6. Interest Arbitrator Award upheld by Modified. awarded interest the District Judge. Only interest @12% on pendent amount of claims lite and w.e.f 12.04.2016 post award to the date of payable. Award and further No interest interest @9.25% for pre- p.a. from date of reference award till actual period. payment. 622 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7. Cost Awarded Rs.4 Lakhs towards legal and administrative expenses. 6. Mr. Saurav Agarwal, counsel for the appellant, confined his submissions to claim no. 3, 4 and 6 awarded by the Arbitrator and upheld by the District Judge but set aside/modified by the High Court. We will deal with each of these claims. 7. Re claim no. 3: This claim relating to loss caused due to idle labour, machinery, etc. 7.1 On this count, the Arbitrator accepted the claim of loss on the ground of on-site establishment ‘as permissible’ to the extent of 3% of the contract amount by the Hudson’s formula for expenses of engineers, supervisors, etc. It was his considered view that the appellant maintained such an establishment to execute the work and the same has not been disputed by the Respondent. Therefore, he awarded claim no. 3 in favour of the appellant for Rs.5,80,500. 7.2 The challenge to the Award made by the Respondent was dismissed by the District Judge under Section 34, holding that the findings of the Arbitrator cannot be held to be irrational, insensible or unrealistic and also that they are not in conflict with public policy. We may state at this very stage that this common reasoning of the District Court while upholding the Award for claim nos. 3, 4, 5 and 6. The standard reasoning of the District Court for these claims is as follows: “I have gone through the observation of the learned Arbitrator in respect of claim Nos.