120. […] Economic logic establishes that alienation/ allocation of natural resources to the highest bidder may not necessarily be the only way to subserve the common good, and at times, may run counter to public good. Hence, it needs little emphasis that disposal of all natural resources through auctions is clearly not a constitutional mandate.” 200. Notably, this Court relied on the decisions in L Abu Kavur Bai and the decision of Ranganatha Reddy to arrive at the above propositions. In essence the decision in Special Reference No. 1 does two things. Firstly, it restates the wide interpretation of ‘distribution’ and holds that no single mode of distribution is mandated by Article 39(b). Secondly, it interprets the phrase ‘common good’ to have a wide import and clarifies that revenue maximisation by the government is not always the only way to subserve the common good. Importantly, this was not a decision where Article 39(b) was invoked to prevent a challenge under Article 14 but to interpret the constitutional mandate about the distribution of natural resources, in light of the ‘negative’ right to equality in Article 14 and the ‘positive’ mandate in Article 39(b). In a sense, this is an example of harmoniously construing fundamental rights (Article 14) and the Directive Principles (Article 39(b)) to understand underlying constitutional principles and mandates. 201. The broad precepts which emerge from these decisions may be summarised thus: a. The purpose behind Article 39(b) is to allow the state to carry out a ‘restructuring of the economy’. The goal of the article is to prevent the concentration of wealth in a few hands; b. The term “material resources of the community” refers to things capable of producing wealth for the community and includes all resources– natural and man made, private and public. The resources of the individual are the resources of the community and thus, privately owned property is covered by the phrase; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 169 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. c. The nationalisation of privately owned resources may give effect to Articles 39(b) and (c). The expression ‘distribution’ must be given a wide construction so as to include the acquisition of private resources by the state; and d. The decisions which advance the above precepts ground their interpretation of Article 39(b) in the observations of Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy and the subsequent affirmation in Sanjeev Coke and Abu Kavur Bai. 202. In view of the above, the following questions fall for the consideration of this Court: a. Do all privately owned resources fall within the ambit of ‘material resources of the community’? b. Is the acquisition of private resources by the state a form of distribution recognised by Article 39(b)? vi. Correctness of the above interpretation of Article 39(b) 203. Article 39(b) is not a source of legislative power. The inclusion or exclusion of ‘privately-owned resources’ from the ambit of the provision does not impact the power of the legislature to enact laws to acquire such resources.