The Constitution does not bar the allocation of a percentage of seats to a caste since every caste is a class. However, the State must have sufficient material to prove inter-se backwardness between each of the castes. The State must with the submission of cogent material prove that there is a rationale principle which distinguishes the groups included and those excluded from the class. However, the rational principle will have nexus with the object only when the principle can identify the inter-se social backwardness of the class. For example, if the State allocates a separate percentage of seats for the dhobi caste and the barber caste, it must prove that these two castes suffer from differing levels of social backwardness. It is not merely sufficient for the State to base the classification on the difference in the traditional occupation of the two castes. Rather, the State must on the basis of quantifiable data prove that the castes suffer from different levels of social backwardness. The State must also back this with the submission of data on effective representation of the caste in the services of the State. 195. Though sub-categorization based on each caste is permissible, we are of the opinion that there can never be a situation where seats are allocated for every caste separately. Though each caste is a separate unit, the social backwardness suffered by each of them is not substantially distinguishable to warrant the State to reserve seats for each caste. If the social backwardness of two or more classes is comparable, they must be grouped together for the purposes of reservation. 242 “It must not be forgotten that a caste is also a class of citizens and if the caste as a whole is socially and educationally backward, reservation can be made in favour of such a caste on the ground that it is a socially and educationally backward classes within the meaning of Article 15(4).” 243 (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 [859] 1436 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ix. Scope for judicial review 196. The scope of judicial review of reservation policies was laid down in Indra Sawhney (supra). Justice Jeevan Reddy observed that a class for meriting reservations must be both backward and inadequately represented in the “services under the State”. In Nagaraj (supra), this Court held that backwardness must be based on objective standards whereas inadequacy of representation must factually exist. The Court held that the State must submit quantifiable data to prove backwardness and inadequacy of representation. This standard applies for classifying groups for the purpose of reservations and would, equally apply for sub-classification within a group because it is premised on the same principle of difference and inequality. 197. Two prominent considerations arise while discussing the scope of judicial review of sub-classification of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. First, whether the State must prove inter-se backwardness given the position of law laid down in Indra Sawhney (supra) that the backwardness of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes is not required to be proved.