The conduct of the first informant is unworthy of reliance, when we consider the fact that she tried to implicate Kulwinder Singh by filing various petitions while the investigation was still ongoing and even in her testimony during the trial. However, even in the FIR (Exhibit-PG/2), which was admittedly registered on the basis of her own statement, the first informant-Sharan Kaur(PW-5) did not name the said Kulwinder Singh, as co-assailant with the accused appellant herein. Even in the petition i.e. Crl. Misc. Petition No. 2053-M-1998 filed before the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, the name of the said Kulwinder Singh was not mentioned. 29. The spade allegedly used to assault the deceased was found lying at the crime scene. On going through the entire set of prosecution witnesses, we find that no weapon of crime was recovered at the instance of the accused appellant and thus, there is no corroborative evidence so as to lend credence to the wavering and unreliable testimony of Sharan Kaur (PW-5) and Daljit Singh (PW-6). 30. Lajpal Singh(DW-3), DIG (Operation), Punjab was examined by the defence, who in his cross examination stated that in his investigation, he found the accused to be innocent. 31. Having given our thoughtful consideration to the entirety of the material available on record, we are of the firm view that evidence of Sharan Kaur (PW-5) and Daljit Singh (PW-6) is wholly unreliable, does not inspire confidence in the Court so as to affirm the conviction of the appellant. It may be reiterated that no corroborative evidence was [2024] 4 S.C.R. 723 Kirpal Singh v. State of Punjab led by the prosecution so as to lend credence to the testimony of these two witnesses. 32. Consequently, the appellant deserves to be acquitted by giving him the benefit of doubt. Resultantly, the s of the trial Court and the High Court dated 26th July, 2003 and 28th February, 2008 respectively are hereby quashed and set aside. The appellant is acquitted of the charges. The sentence awarded to the appellant was directed to be suspended by this Court on 12th August, 2011, during the pendency of this appeal and he is on bail. He need not surrender and the bail bonds are discharged. 33. The appeal is accordingly, allowed. 34. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeal allowed.