In this context, we may refer to the weighty observation in the decision of this Court in State of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley & Co. (Madras) Ltd. [AIR 1958 SC 560 : 1959 SCR 379] that a term of well-recognised import in the general law should be accepted as confining the meaning in interpreting the Constitution. If the expression “undischarged insolvent” has acquired a special meaning under the law of insolvency, we must understand that that is the meaning that is sought to be attributed to the expression used in Article 191(1) (c) of the Constitution.” 138. The aforesaid contention of the petitioner deserves to be rejected for two good reasons: - (1) First, the observations in the said case have been made in the context of a technical meaning used in a statute. In the present case, the term ‘Merit- cum-Seniority’ as it appears in the 2005 Rules has been imported verbatim from the decision in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra) and thus has to be assigned the meaning as given to it in the said case. Thus, it cannot be 1144 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports said that ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ should be assigned the same meaning as understood in other decisions of this Court, or as assigned to it in different statutory provisions. (2) Secondly, the term ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’, as elaborately discussed hereinabove, is a term of flexible meaning and the exact contours of it depend on the context and the policy in furtherance of which it is used. 139. In Malik Mazhar Sultan & Anr. (3) (supra) this Court directed the High Courts to be practical in matters of promotion to the cadre of District & Sessions Judges and held that the 65% promotion quota of the cadre of District & Sessions Judges should be filled on the basis of the principle of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’. This Court further held that seniority should have a predominant role in giving promotions to Civil Judge (Senior Division) and that the High Court may deny only in case the judicial officer is not suitable for being promoted. The relevant observations read as under: - “3. We see large number of vacancies of District Judges are lying vacant as the promotion of these posts are not being done timely by the High Court. Considering the large number of vacant posts of District Judges, the High Court should take timely action to fill up these vacancies keeping in mind the principle of seniority-cum-merit. The High Court may deny promotion to a Civil Judge (Senior Division) only in case he/she is not suitable for being promoted and the seniority should always have a predominant role in giving promotion to the Civil Judge (Senior Division) to the post of District Judge. If the posts of District Judges are not filled up in time it is likely that sessions cases may not have timely trial, thereby delaying the whole procedure of justice delivery system. We request the High Court to be practical in the matter of promotion and filling up the posts of the District Judges.