(2019) 239. 51 Subhash C. Kashyap, Parliamentary Procedure—Law, Privileges, Practice and Precedents, 3rd ed., Uni- versal Law Publishing Co, 502. 518 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports are available to members only when they are functioning in their capacity as members of Parliament and performing their parliamentary duties.” (emphasis supplied) 79. The understanding which unequivocally emerges supports the claim that the privileges which accrue to members of the House individually are not an end in themselves. The purpose which privileges serve is that they are necessary for the House and its committees to function. Therefore, we may understand parliamentary privileges as those rights and immunities which allow the ly, democratic, and smooth functioning of Parliament and without which the essential functioning of the House would be violated. 80. The framers of the Constitution intended to establish a responsible, responsive and representative democracy. The value and importance of such a democracy weighed heavily on the framers of the Constitution given the history of an oppressive colonial government to which India had been subjected. The history of parliamentary democracy shows that the colonial government denied India a responsible government where initially Indians were kept out of legislating on laws which would be enforced on its diverse social tapestry. Even when Indians were allowed in legislatures, a responsive government which could be accountable to the people in a meaningful way was yet a distant reality in the colonial period. The ability of the legislature in turn to scrutinise the actions of the executive was effaced and despite the statutory guarantee of freedom of speech for members of the House in the Government of India Act 1919, the guarantee remained illusory to the extent that many subjects were restricted from being discussed in the legislatures. 81. In that sense, the foundations of a deliberative democracy premised on responsibility, responsiveness, and representation sought to ensure that the executive government of the day is elected by and responsible to the Parliament or Legislative Assemblies which comprise of elected representatives. These representatives would be able to express their views on behalf of the citizens and ensure that the government lends ear to their aspirations, complaints and grievances. This aspect of the functioning of the House is essential to sustain a meaningful democracy. This necessitates that members of the House be able to attend the House and thereafter speak their [2024] 3 S.C.R. 519 Sita Soren v. Union of India minds without fear of being harassed by the executive or any other person or body on the basis of their actions as members of the House in the exercise of their duties. In the absence of this feature Parliament and the state legislatures would lose the essence of their representative character in a democratic polity. 82. The privileges enshrined under Article 105 and Article 194 of the Constitution are of the widest amplitude but to the extent that they serve the aims for which they have been granted. The framers of the Constitution would not have intended to grant to the legislatures those rights which may not serve any purpose for the proper functioning of the House.