Their only plea is that the respondent no.1 did not qualify for being appointed as a Shikshan Sevak and that the appellants were well entitled to fill up the post in terms of the advertisement issued. 11. Once the respondent no.1 had acquired the requisite qualification in the course of his service with the respondent no. 3-School, and the relevant GR which was ultimately incorporated in the Act of 1977, permitted appointment of a non-teaching employee in a school as a Shikshan Sevak subject to the employee acquiring the requisite educational qualifications and further, subject to such a post being available, the appellants cannot be heard to state that the respondent no.1 being a part of the non-teaching staff, was not entitled for being considered for appointment to the subject post. In fact, the language used in the regulation dated 10th June, 2005, itself makes it clear that the employee was not required to take any steps by making a representation for being appointed to the post of a Shikshan Sevak and an obligation was cast on the appellants to ensure that on a permanent vacancy being available to the post of Shikshan Sevak, a member of the non-teaching staff, who would have acquired the educational qualification required for such a post, ought to be appointed directly. 12. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we are of the opinion that the impugned is well reasoned and does not deserve any interference. 13. Now coming to the aspect of molding the relief. Though the appellants have duly impleaded the private respondents no. 4 and 5 in this appeal, being necessary and proper parties, they have not entered appearance. Respondent No.5 was issued an appointment letter to the post of a Shikshan Sevak, in terms of the letter dated 24th August, 2009, issued by the appellants. He had executed a consent/ guarantee letter stating inter alia that in the event the respondent no.1 succeeds in his Writ Petition, he shall not claim any right to the subject post. Additionally, a consent letter was also executed by the Secretary of the appellant no.1 on behalf of the appellant no.1 and the appellant no.3-School stating inter alia that in the event the judgement in the Writ Petition filed by the respondent [2024] 5 S.C.R. 531 Sant Bhagwan Baba Shikshan Mandal & Ors. v. Gunwant & Ors. no.1 goes against the Society, then the entire responsibility shall be that of the Society. The respondent no.3-Education Officer had also approved the appointment of the respondent no.5 to the post of Shikshan Sevak subject to the outcome of the Writ Petition filed by the respondent no.1. 14. The records reveal that while issuing notice in the present appeal on 18th December, 2009, operation of the impugned was stayed. As a result, the respondent no.5 has been continuing to discharge his duties in the respondent no.3-School as a Physical Education teacher, on the post of an Assistant Teacher. As noticed above, the respondent no.5 was duly served in the present appeal but he has elected not to appear or participate in the proceedings.