The Verification Roll started with three sets of warnings that are extracted below : “Warning 1. The furnishing of false information or suppression of any factual information in the verification Roll would be a disqualification and is likely to render the candidate unfit for employment under the Government. 2. If detained, convicted, debarred etc. subsequent to the completion and submission of this Form the details should be communicated immediately to the authority to whom the Verification Roll has been sent earlier failing which it will be deemed to be a suppression of factual information. 3. If the fact that false information has been furnished or that there has been suppression of any factual information in the Verification Roll comes to notice at any time during the service of a person, his services [2024] 7 S.C.R. 921 Union of India and Others v. Shishu Pal @ Shiv Pal would be liable to be terminated.” At the end of the Verification Roll, the employee was required to reply in the affirmative or in the negative to specific queries as extracted below: “(a) Have you ever been arrested? (b) Have you ever been prosecuted? (c) Have you ever been kept under detention? (d) Have you ever been bound down? (e) Have you ever been fined by a court of law? (f) Have you ever been convicted by a Court of Law for any offence? (g) Have you ever been debarred from any examination or rusticated by any University or any other educational Authority /institution? (h) Have you ever been debarred /disqualified by any Public Service Commission/Staff Selection Board for any of its examination /selection? (i) Is any case pending against you in any court of law at the time of filling up this Verification Roll? (j) Is any case pending against you in any University or any other Educational Authority/Institution at the time of filling up this Verification Roll? (k) Whether discharged/expelled/withdrawn from any Training Institution under the Government or otherwise? If the answer to any of the above mentioned questions is ‘Yes’ given full particulars of the case/ arrest/ Detention / fine/ conviction/sentence/punishment etc. and/or the nature of the case pending in the Court/ University/Educational Authority etc. at the time of filling up this Form.” 16. The respondent herein filled up the Verification Roll on 30th November, 2011 and in response to the specific queries posed in the last two pages, elected to reply in the negative. Subsequently, when a private party submitted a written complaint to the appellants that the 922 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports respondent had deliberately withheld material information in relation to two criminal cases registered against him at PS, Barnhal, District Mainpuri, U.P. under several sections of the IPC and the U.P. Goondas Act, a show cause notice dated 03rd May, 2013 was issued to the respondent enclosing therewith all the relevant information to which he responded on 13th May, 2013, specifically denying the fact that no case was registered against him or was pending trial or that he had never been arrested by the police or detained in judicial custody.