1432 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. In the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra,1 which is a locus classicus on circumstantial evidence, this Court laid down five principles. Paragraph 153 reads thus: “153. A close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established: (1) The circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned “must or should” and not “may be” established. There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between “may be proved” and “must be or should be proved” as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra [(1973) 2 SCC 793 : 1973 SCC (Cri) 1033 : 1973 Crl LJ 1783] where the observations were made: [SCC para 19, p. 807: SCC (Cri) p. 1047] “Certainly, it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between ‘may be’ and ‘must be’ is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.” (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.” (emphasis added) 1 [1985] 1 SCR 88 : (1984) 4 SCC 116 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1433 Randeep Singh @ Rana & Anr. v. State of Haryana & Ors. CCTV footage is one of the circumstances in the chain of circumstances relied upon by the prosecution. Even if one of the circumstances forming part of the chain is not proved, the prosecution case cannot be held as established. 13. Now, what remains is the evidence of recovery of the parts of the dead body of the deceased. It must be noted here that the recovery of the torso and other body parts was made on 9th July 2013. The recovery cannot be said to be at the instance of the accused. The reason is PW-27 stated that he received an information that one dead body was found without head, hands and legs near village Dhalla. This information was given to him on telephone by MHC, Police Station at Mahesh Nagar. The evidence of recovery at the instance of the accused is of the Maruti car used in the offence, the weapon used in the offence and recovery of articles of the deceased such as a driving licence.