This was particularly concerning in light of the testimony of Dr. Bhargava, as the contents of his testimony were “not merely slippages due to oversight or human error but indicative of collusion of the worst kind”. By its very composition, GEAC does not have regular existence and meets monthly only when some decisions are to be taken. It is also a sad reality that modern biotechnology being a nascent discipline in the Country, we have a serious dearth of scientists of eminence in sufficient numbers, therefore, more or less the same set of people sit on both the sides, i.e., to develop technologies and products, as also to assess, evaluate and approve them. vi. The Committee noted that Article 246 of the Constitution of India, read with Entry 14, List II, assigns “agriculture, including agricultural education and research, protection against pest and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1997 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. prevention of plant diseases” to the States. However, it observed that for a thing as crucial as field trials, the State Governments were not even consulted till recently. vii. The Committee concluded that in a regulatory set-up where the promoter has an overwhelming say and presence in the regulatory mechanism, an element of subjectivity in assessment and evaluation is unavoidable. The entire system, therefore, reflects a pro-DBT/pro-industry tilt which is best avoided. Apart from this major shortcoming, the Committee’s examination has revealed that the extant system is grossly inadequate and antiquated to face the typical challenges a population-intensive, agrarian economy (primarily) like India poses when the question of introduction of such modern technologies in the agriculture sector crops up. Parliamentary Standing Committee (PSC) on Science and Technology, Environment and Forests’ Report titled “Genetically Modified Crops and its impact on Environment” - 2017: 12. The aforesaid Report has been perused by us. The salient observations and recommendations of the said Committee are encapsulated in the following paragraphs: i. The Committee considered the legal and administrative architecture for the regulation of biotechnology and GE techniques and the extant process of health and environmental safety assessment. ii. It observed that as a party to several International Conventions, India should ensure the safe usage of GM crops through the “Precautionary Approach”. In line with the same, India ratified International Protocols like the CBD, the CPB and the Nagoya Kuala Lumpur Supplementary Protocol on Liability and Redress (NKSPLR). iii. The Committee took note of the divergent views on the efficacy of the existing regulatory mechanism. It expressed certain apprehensions about the stance of the MoEF&CC that the existing regulatory regime left no scope for any non-adherence. It also observed that the MoEF&CC and GEAC’s casual 1998 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports approach indicated indifference towards the environmental safety and health hazards of humans and animals. Specifically, it concluded that the regulatory agencies had turned a blind eye to the negative impact of GM crops on the environment. It was observed that the existing regulatory mechanism was susceptible to manipulation, due to the following processual infirmities and substantive deficiencies: a.