33.1. The contentions raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022 as well as the arguments of learned ASG appearing for Union of India as well as State of Gujarat on this aspect need not be reiterated. 33.2. The expression “appropriate Government” no doubt has been defined in sub-section (7) of Section 432 to mean that in cases where the sentence is for an offence against, or the referred to in sub-section (6) is passed under, any law relating to a matter to which the executive power of the Union extends, the Central Government; in other cases, the Government of the State within which the offender is sentenced or the said 840 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is passed. The expression “appropriate Government” also finds place in sub-section (1) of Section 432 which, as already discussed above, states that when any person has been sentenced to punishment for an offence, the appropriate Government may, at any time, without conditions or upon any condition which the person sentenced accepts, suspend the execution of his sentence or remit the whole or any part of the punishment to which he has been sentenced. 33.3. Sub-section (1) of Section 432 of the CrPC deals with a power vested with the appropriate Government which is an enabling power. The discretion vested with the appropriate Government has to be exercised judiciously in an appropriate case and not to abuse the same. However, when an application is made to the appropriate Government for the suspension or remission of a sentence such as in the instant case by a convict, the appropriate Government may seek the opinion of the Presiding Judge of the Court before or by which the conviction was had or confirmed and on considering the reasons for such opinion, may consider the application for remission vide sub-section (2) of Section 432 of the CrPC. 33.4. On a combined reading of sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 432, it is apparent that the conviction and sentence of the Court which had tried the case assumes significance and the appropriate Government may have to seek the opinion of the Presiding Judge of the Court before which the conviction took place, before passing an of remission. This is particularly so when an application is filed by or on behalf of a convict seeking remission. Therefore, logically the expression appropriate Government in clause (b) of sub-section (7) of Section 432 also states that the Government of the State within which the offender is sentenced or the said is passed which is the appropriate Government. The aforesaid consistency is significant inasmuch as the intent of the Parliament is, it is only the Government of the State within which the offender was sentenced which is competent to consider an application for remission and pass an remitting the sentence of a convict. This clearly means that the place of occurrence of the incident or place of imprisonment of the convict are not relevant considerations and the same have been excluded [2024] 1 S.C.R.