The other components form part of the service conditions of judicial officers. 50. We find reason and justification for the addition of the two components. All the components which have been suggested by the SNJPC are integral to the proper performance of the duties by judicial officers and are accordingly accepted. 13. Leave Travel Concession(LTC)/Home Travel Concession(HTC) 51. The FNJPC recommended that LTC should be provided once in a block of four years to any place in India. However, it laid down a threshold of a completion of five years of service before availing of LTC. The FNJPC also recommended that HTC be extended once in two years and the entitlement for the journey would be according to the rules of the respective States. The recommendation was accepted in 2002 by the decision in the All India Judges Association case by this Court. 52. The JPC, while reiterating these recommendations, proposed two modifications: [2024] 1 S.C.R. 357 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors (i) A judicial officer may be permitted to avail of LTC on completion of two years of service and on completion of probation (thereby relaxing the requirement of five years of minimum service); and (ii) The restriction on the availing of LTC in the last year of service was dispensed with. 53. While reiterating the recommendation for HTC, the JPC suggested an additional HTC if a judicial officer was subjected to two or more transfers in the same cadre from one end of the State to another for administrative reasons. 54. The SNJPC considered the views of the High Courts and of the Associations. On considering all aspects of the matter, the SNJPC made the following recommendations: “i. Payment of one month’s salary for not availing the LTC is unwarranted and it would defeat the objective of LTC. ii. Encashment of 10 days earned leave while availing LTC (not HTC) (subject to the maximum of 60 days) can continue. The same will be in addition to encashment of 300 days at the time of retirement and 30 days in a block of two years. iii(a). As regards frequency of LTC, the Judicial Officers may be permitted to avail one LTC and one HTC in a block of 3 years. (b) As far as fresh recruits are concerned, the HTC shall be allowed 2 times in the first block of 3 years. However, the block of 3 years will commence on completion of the period prescribed for probation (not necessarily declared). iv(a). The Judicial officers irrespective of their rank shall be allowed to travel by air and the reimbursement shall be made subject to the condition that the tickets have been purchased either directly from the Airlines or from the agents authorized, namely, Ashoka Travels, Balmer and Lawrie and IRCTC by the Central/State Government subject to further addition or deletion of the authorized agent by the Central/State Government. 358 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) The other details such as class of travel, advance etc.