It is contended that the present case is not a case of withdrawal of resignation from a future effective date, rather it is a case where, by mutual understanding resignation was accepted by the management and the controversy [2024] 2 S.C.R. 623 Dr. Mrs. Suman V. Jain v. Marwadi Sammelan through its Secretary and Others was put to rest. Learned counsel contends that in fact both parties have mutually agreed and the controversy was put at rest by accepting the resignation. Further, the doctrine of “locus poenitentiae” or the opportunity for withdrawal of resignation by change of mind is of no help to the appellant because the letter dated 08.04.2003 was not objected for quite some time. According to the learned counsel, from the correspondence between the appellant and the respondent it is clear that the management intended to initiate departmental inquiry and to avoid that inquiry, appellant submitted her resignation from the prospective date, which was accepted as irrevocable, final and binding. Thus, the findings recorded by the College Tribunal, learned Single Judge and the Division Bench against the appellant according to learned counsel warrants no interference. In support of the contentions, reliance has been placed on “BSES Yamuna Power Limited Vs. Ghanshyam Chand Sharma and Others, (2020) 3 SCC 346”, “B.L. Shreedhar and Others Vs. K.N. Munireddy and Others, (2003) 2 SCC 355”, Air India Express Limited (supra), Gopal Chand Misra (supra), Balram Gupta (supra) and The Rev. Oswald (supra) and it has been submitted that this appeal deserves to be dismissed. 7. Learned counsel for the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 submits that the College was run by the Trust affiliated by “Shreemati Nathibhai Damodar Thackersey Women’s University” (hereinafter referred to as “SNDT University”). As per Clause 8(3)(d) of SNDT Women’s University Statute, the Governing Body of the management is empowered to accept the resignation on giving six months’ notice or payment of salary and the government has no role to play in refusal or acceptance of the resignation. However, in the facts of the case, once the resignation has been accepted by the Governing Body, the findings as recorded by the Tribunal and High Court did not warrant any interference. 8. In view of the findings recorded by the three fora, and the arguments advanced by learned counsels for the parties in the facts of this case, the following questions arise for determination before this Court – A. Whether in the facts of the case, withdrawal of resignation dated 25.03.2003 submitted by the appellant prior to the effective date, i.e., 24.09.2003 ought to have been permitted? 624 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports B. Whether in the facts of the case, letter of the Management dated 08.04.2003 accepting the resignation was final, binding and irrevocable; and the rejection of the request for withdrawal of such resignation was in accordance with law? C. Whether in the facts of the case, what relief could be granted to the Appellant? DISCUSSION ON QUESTIONS (A) AND (B) 9. For the sake of convenience and since the discussion on the facts and legal issues are common, questions (A) and (B) are taken up together and dealt with simultaneously.