On a specific query by the Court during the hearing, counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner did not present any additional evidence. The acceptance of a professional brief by a lawyer in 2007 cannot be construed to reflect “bias” or even a “likelihood of bias” in 2023. There is an absence of proximity both in terms of time (the alleged appearance was sixteen years ago) and subject matter. There was also no justifiable reason for the petitioners to wait until the expert committee submitted its report. 48. Similarly, the allegations against Mr OP Bhatt and Mr Kamath have not been adequately substantiated by the petitioner. With regard to Mr OP Bhatt, the petitioner has alleged that he is presently working as the Chairman of a leading renewable energy company, which is working in partnership with the Adani group on certain projects. Additionally, the petitioner has also raised vague accusations against Mr OP Bhatt and Mr Kamath in relation to unconnected misconduct by Mr Vijay Mallya and the ICICI Bank, respectively. 200 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 49. The petitioner has not established the link between these unsubstantiated allegations and the appointment of Mr Bhatt and Mr Kamath to the committee. Here too, the petitioner has only annexed newspaper reports published after the appointment of the committee by this Court, without any attempts to verify their authenticity or supplement them with independent research. 50. Therefore, the allegations of conflict of interest against members of the Expert Committee are unsubstantiated and do not warrant this Court’s serious consideration. F. Other recommendations by the Expert Committee 51. The Expert Committee met on 17 March 2023 and noted that it would require specific factual briefings from SEBI on all four aspects within the remit of the Committee. It further sought inputs from market participants with regard to (i) suggestions and measures to strengthen investor awareness; (ii) strengthen the statutory and regulatory framework; and (iii) secure compliance with the existing framework. We have discussed the committee’s analysis on the issue of whether there was a regulatory failure above. The other observations and recommendations of the Expert Committee report are discussed below. i. Volatility and short selling 52. The Court in its dated 10 March 2023 expressed concern over the impact of volatility in the securities market on Indian investors. It therefore empowered the Expert Committee with the remit to enquire into and assess the volatility in the market. The enquiry was to give a sense of direction to increase investor awareness, address deficiencies in the regulatory framework and enable the Committee to make any other suggestions to avoid unanticipated volatility which would adversely impact the interests of investors. 53. Market forces act on the assessment of available information and its anticipated impact. This behaviour creates volatility in the market. However, such volatility is an inherent feature of the market and becomes a matter of concern when it has wide ramifications. The stocks of the Adani group witnessed volatility in the aftermath of the publication of the Hindenburg Report.