Thus, notwithstanding the statement of the developers and its implicit acceptance by GEAC, DMH-11 does meet the definition of an HT crop. The answers to two questions show this. Is DMH-11 herbicide tolerant? Yes. Is it a crop? Yes. The intent of the developer on how it is actually likely to be used, especially if that usage appears to confer obvious advantages.” (iv) It was contended that as DMH-11 is an HT crop, all hybrids produced therefrom will also be HT crops and the TEC appointed by this Court has in its detailed report submitted to this Court recommended a complete ban on all HT crops. 20.2 It was further submitted that the report titled, “Biology of Brassica Juncea (Indian mustard)” prepared by the MoEF&CC and DRMR, Bharatpur under United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP)/ Global Environment Facility (GEF) supported the regions of South Western China and North Western Himalayas, which constitute two secondary centres where there is enormous diversity in Brassica Juncea forms; that there is evidence for the existence of two geographical races of Brassica Juncea, the Chinese pool and the Indian [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2045 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. pool. Further, five countries share nearly 60% of Brassica germplasm holdings led by China (17%) and followed by India (15%), United Kingdom (UK) (10%), USA (9%) and Germany (8%). India presents a rich diversity of rapeseed- mustard group of crops. 20.3 It was next submitted that glufosinate is banned for all other uses except for tea plantations and is specifically banned for use on DMH-11 by farmers; this is because glufosinate causes toxicity which would lead to resistance. However, glufosinate is otherwise available to farmers who have access to it. 20.4 That, the TEC report has pointed to the acute toxicity and health concerns such as carcinogenicity, reproductive and developmental toxicity, and endocrine disruption. That, long term studies show that an exposure to glufosinate would have adverse effects, which may not be evident in short term studies. That, even as per the information made available by Bayer, BASTA containing glufosinate ammonium is neurotoxic and has adverse effect on aquatic life. 20.5 It was reiterated that in the biosafety dossier of HT mustard, the primary data dossier, is, in fact, not in the public domain. The biosafety dossier contains the primary data on the basis of which the AFES Report was prepared. However, the biosafety dossier containing 3251 pages was only available for physical inspection at the MoEF&CC headquarters and in response, petitioner’s counsel had written to GEAC requesting the dossier to be put on the website so that it could be examined by independent experts. It was replied that in no country with functional regulatory system is the full dossier made available publicly due to reasons of protection of intellectual property. 20.6 That, in fact Dr. P.M. Bhargava, in his critique of the AFES Report, had pointed out that it was not possible to evaluate the statements made in the said Report as the primary data had not been provided in the Report.