It was in this context that the seven-judge bench expressed doubts about the view and referred the question to this bench of nine judges. 110. The counsel for the appellants contend that the observations in Mafatlal on this point constitute obiter dicta and do not bind this bench of coequal strength. On the other hand, the counsel for the respondents have advanced the view that the issue arose directly in the case and the observations are binding on this bench. 111. Not every observation in a judgement of this Court is binding as precedent. Only the ratio decidendi or the propositions of law that were necessary to decide on the issues between the parties are binding.109 Observations by the judge, even determinative statements of law, which are not part of her reasoning on a question or issue before the court, are termed obiter dicta. Such observations do not bind the Court. More simply, a case is only an authority for what it actually decides.110 112. A Constitution Bench of this Court (speaking through Chief Justice Khare) in Islamic Academy of Education v. State of Karnataka111pithily observed: “2. […] The ratio decidendi of a has to be found out only on reading the entire . In fact, the ratio of the is what is set out in the itself. The answer to the question would necessarily have to be read in the context of what is set out in the and not in isolation. In case of any doubt as regards any observations, reasons and principles, the other part of the 109 HALSBURY, 2nd Edn, Vol 19, para 556. 110 Secundrabad Club v. CIT, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1004 [13] : 2023 INSC 736 111 [2003] Supp. 2 SCR 474 : (2003) 6 SCC 697 [2] : 2003 INSC 391 118 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports has to be looked into. By reading a line here and there from the , one cannot find out the entire ratio decidendi of the . […]” 113. In Secunderabad Club v. CIT,112 this Court, speaking through one of us (Justice BV Nagarathna), had occasion to delineate how to cull out the ratio decidendi of a judgement and identify the principles which have precedential value. This Court observed: “14. […] According to the well-settled theory of precedents, every decision contains three basic ingredients : (i) findings of material facts, direct and inferential. An inferential finding of fact is the inference which the judge draws from the direct or perceptible facts ; (ii) statements of the principles of law applicable to the legal problems disclosed by the facts ; and (iii) based on the combined effect of (i) and (ii) above. For the purposes of the parties themselves and their privies, ingredient (iii) is the material element in the decision, for, it determines finally their rights and liabilities in relation to the subject-matter of the action. It is the that estops the parties from reopening the dispute. However, for the purpose of the doctrine of precedent, ingredient (ii) is the vital element in the decision.