Over time, these departments have expanded to include various disciplines, such as Islamic systems of medicine, Philosophy (with a focus on Islamic Philosophy), and a Center for Quranic Studies, reflecting the university’s continued emphasis on Islamic scholarship and education. vii. AMU has historically accommodated female students to observe purdah (veiling) as per Islamic tradition. Photographs documenting these accommodations provide tangible evidence of the university’s efforts to create an inclusive and supportive environment for its female students while respecting their religious beliefs and practices. 199. On the contrary, the parties defending the in Azeez Basha [supra] and the of the High Court, have sought to highlight their own version of events prior to the establishment of the AMU in make a case that while the minority community was involved in the process, the establishment of the University was at the primary will and decision of the British Indian Government. The following aspects were highlighted : i. In 1873, Sir Syed Ahmad Khan proposed substituting the term “college” with “university” in the name of MAO College. However, the government responded by stating that if a “Mohammedan University” were to be established, no financial aid would be provided. ii. It was brought to the fore that contributions from various sources, including government officials and dignitaries, as well as the donation of land by Lt. Governor Sir John Strachey, underscored the national character of MAO College. 2008 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports iii. The college, initially dependent on government funds, struggled with significant debt around the time of Sir Syed’s death in 1898. iv. Efforts to establish a university at Aligarh continued, with suggestions from individuals like Prof. Dr. Zia-ud-din, Justice S. Amir Ali, Theodore Morison, Theodore Beck, and Maulvi Rafi-u’d-din, aiming to model it after European universities and offering a blend of Western and Oriental learning. However, despite proposals for a predominantly minority university, the demands were not fully accepted. v. The Imperial Government insisted on substantial secular control over the university’s establishment, as indicated in correspondences between officials such as JP Hewitt, the Secretary of State, and Sir Harcourt Butler. Despite proposals for affiliating colleges outside Aligarh, such plans were rejected to prevent potential overgrowth and competition with future institutions. vi. During meetings and conferences, the government’s proposal for a university along the lines of the Benares Hindu University was met with disappointment and protest, highlighting the community’s desire for autonomy. Eventually, the Muslim University Association voted to accept the government’s proposal, aligning the university’s setup with that of the Benares Hindu University. vii. Discussions regarding government recognition of degrees and control over examinations emphasized the need for government oversight to maintain standards. Members of the Regulations Committee agreed to government veto power over the appointment of the University Vice Chancellor, citing the university’s envisioned All India character and the desire to avoid local prejudice. viii. On October 10, 1917, H. Sharp, the Secretary of the Department of Education in the Government of India, outlined several key principles to consider regarding the organization of the proposed university’s constitution.