The constitution of the Expert Committee was not to divest SEBI of its powers or responsibilities in continuing with its investigation. The Court observed: “12. …SEBI shall apprise the expert committee (constituted in paragraph 14 of this ) of the action that it has taken in furtherance of the directions of this Court as well as the steps that it has taken in furtherance of its ongoing investigation. The constitution of the expert committee does not divest SEBI of its powers or responsibilities in continuing with its investigation into the recent volatility in the securities market.” 6. On 6 May 2023, in compliance with the above interim , the Expert Committee submitted its report to this Court. In its dated 17 May 2023, this Court directed that copies of the report shall be made available to the parties and their counsel to enable 182 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS them to assist the Court in the course of further deliberations. This Court also granted SEBI an extension of time till 14 August 2023 to submit its status report about its investigation. 7. SEBI filed an interlocutory application on 14 August 2023 intimating this Court about the status of the twenty-four investigations which were undertaken by them. Further, SEBI submitted a status report dated 25 August 2023 providing details about the twenty-four investigations. Both SEBI and the counsel for the petitioners have also filed their responses to the Expert Committee’s report. 8. In the above background, this matter came up for hearing before this Court on 24 November 2023. We heard Mr Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel and other counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners and Mr Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of SEBI. 9. Mr Prashant Bhushan, appearing on behalf of the petitioner broadly pressed his case for two directions: firstly, a direction to constitute an SIT to oversee the SEBI investigation into the Adani group and that all such investigations be court-monitored; and second, a direction to SEBI to revoke certain amendments made to the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investments) Regulations, 20143 and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.4 Mr Bhushan made the following submissions: a. The Hindenburg Report and certain newspaper reports allege that some Foreign Portfolio Investments5 in Adani group stocks in the Indian stock market are owned by shell companies based outside India, which have close connections with the Adani group. Such investments in Adani stocks allow the Adani group to maintain financial health and artificially boost the value of stocks in the market, in violation of Indian law; b. The investments by FPIs violate Rule 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957 which requires a minimum 25% public shareholding in all public-listed companies; 3 “FPI Regulations” 4 “LODR Regulations” 5 “FPIs” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 183 VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS c. The investigative findings of the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project6, published by two newspapers, indicate price manipulation by the Adani group through two Mauritius-based funds.