2 [1989] 3 SCR 488 : (1989) 4 SCC 187 1338 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 41. Equally pertinent to note here is that this Court had granted leave and thereafter dismissed the Civil Appeal by way of a brief reasoned . Consequently, the High Court dated 06.05.2002 stood merged with the dated 08.12.2010 of this Court. In legal parlance, the High Court lost its entity and was subsumed in the passed by this Court. 42. The doctrine of merger although has its roots in common law principles, but has been deeply interspersed in Indian jurisprudence, through a series of decisions. This Court in Kunhayammed (supra) elucidated this doctrine which has been further affirmed and reiterated in Khoday Distilleries Ltd. (now known as Khoday India Ltd.) & Ors. v. Sri Mahadeshwara Sahakara Sakkare Karkhane Ltd., Kollegal (Under Liquidation) represented by the Liquidator.3 In Kunhayammed (supra), this Court has expressly laid down as follows: “ 42. “To merge” means to sink or disappear in something else; to become absorbed or extinguished; to be combined or be swallowed up. Merger in law is defined as the absorption of a thing of lesser importance by a greater, whereby the lesser ceases to exist, but the greater is not increased; an absorption or swallowing up so as to involve a loss of identity and individuality. (See Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol. LVII, pp. 1067-68.) 44. To sum up our conclusions are: (i) Where an appeal or revision is provided against an passed by a court, tribunal or any other authority before superior forum and such superior forum modifies, reverses or affirms the decision put in issue before it, the decision by the subordinate forum merges in the decision by the superior forum and it is the latter which subsists, remains operative and is capable of enforcement in the eye of law. (ii) The jurisdiction conferred by Article 136 of the Constitution is divisible into two stages. First stage 3 [2019] 3 SCR 411 : (2019) 4 SCC 376 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1339 State of Uttar Pradesh and Anr. v. Virendra Bahadur Katheria and Ors. is up to the disposal of prayer for special leave to file an appeal. The second stage commences if and when the leave to appeal is granted and special leave petition is converted into an appeal. (iii) Doctrine of merger is not a doctrine of universal or unlimited application. It will depend on the nature of jurisdiction exercised by the superior forum and the content or subject-matter of challenge laid or capable of being laid shall be determinative of the applicability of merger. The superior jurisdiction should be capable of reversing, modifying or affirming the put in issue before it. Under Article 136 of the Constitution the Supreme Court may reverse, modify or affirm the -decree or appealed against while exercising its appellate jurisdiction and not while exercising the discretionary jurisdiction disposing of petition for special leave to appeal. The doctrine of merger can therefore be applied to the former and not to the latter.