181 Smt. Shanno Devi v. Mangal Sain [1961] 1 SCR 576 182 Premium Granites v. State of T.N. (1994) 2 SCC 691. 1110 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 270. Hence, the words ‘ordinarily resident in Assam’, as contained in Section 6A (2) and (3), cannot be seen to suffer from the vice of vagueness, keeping in view the fact that the judicial officers constitute the Foreigners Tribunals; their s are subject to review by superior courts; and there are civil administration officers aiding the Tribunals, all of whom are well conversant with the nuances of the procedure contemplated under Section 6A. 271. When proceeding to apply the second limb of the test of vagueness, i.e., from the perspective of persons regulated by the impugned law, the relevant class of persons for consideration would be the immigrants who came to Assam from erstwhile East Pakistan before the cut-off date of 25.03.1971. 272. Such an analysis would indicate that an immigrant from East Pakistan of ordinary intelligence, who has come before 25.03.1971 to Assam and who is not versed in law, when confronted with the plain meaning of the words ‘ordinarily resident since the date of his entry in Assam’, would readily be able to understand the scope or sphere or application of the words. The emphasis here is whether a person of ordinary intelligence can understand the meaning simpliciter and gain a basic idea of the scope or sphere of application of the same within the context of the impugned law, and not a nuanced or exact legal understanding. On application of such a threshold with respect to the persons being regulated, it would be difficult to hold that such persons would be unable to understand the simpliciter contour and indicative meaning of the phrase ‘ordinarily resident’, and would find it so vague as to be unable to the meaning of the words. This observation is further bolstered by the fact that none from the affected class of immigrants has contended before us that they found the term ‘ordinarily resident’ to be vague or evasive. 273. We thus hold that Section 6A does not suffer from manifest arbitrariness because: (a) there is application of mind behind the incorporation of the cut-off dates; (b) the process under Section 6A is not arbitrary; (c) Section 6A does not violate Part II; and (d) the term ‘ordinary residence’ is not vague enough to be void. vii. Article 29 and Section 6A 274. The Petitioners have attempted to claim endogamous community rights through the route of Article 29 of the Constitution. They [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1111 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 contended that there has been a drastic demographic change in the State of Assam due to the influx of illegal migrants from erstwhile East Pakistan, which has resulted in Assamese culture being lost. They further argued that the right under Article 29(1) is absolute and provides a group the freedom to shape their cultural identity. This, they argue, gets jeopardized when there is a forcible imposition of a foreign culture, as is happening through the unchecked migration of Bangladeshi immigrants into Assam.