On further enquiry made at different junctions, it was gathered that during the period 15-4-1986 to 28-11-1986 and 5-1-1987 to 28-2-1987, a large quantity of imported coal booked from Visakhapatnam to Bondamunda had in fact been carried, not by the rationalised route but by the shorter route. On coming to know about the aforesaid fact, alleges the plaintiff, it lodged a demand for refund of the differential amount of Rs. 1,32,87,749/-, but the same was turned down. [...] xxx xxx xxx 13-A. The word “overcharge” has not been defined in the Act. Therefore, the common parlance meaning has to be taken to explain its meaning. In common parlance, the 1096 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports simple meaning of “overcharge” is anything charged in excess of what is actually to be charged for a particular thing. Taking this to be the meaning of “overcharge”, it has to be seen as to whether the claim of the respondent is or is not for refund of overcharge. Admittedly, the goods were booked for being carried over the rationalised route which covers a distance of 1082 kilometres. It is neither the respondent’s case nor the appellants’ case that what was charged towards freight was in excess of what was payable for the distance of 1082 kilometres. In other words, the respondent was not “overcharged” because no freight in excess of what was payable for 1082 kilometres was realised. 14. To appreciate the meaning of “overcharge”, as illustration from the facts of the present case would, I feel, be appropriate. Say for example, ‘A’ had booked the coal for being carried by the shorter route covering a distance of 667 kilometres but freight was charged from him for the longer route covering a distance of 1082 kilometres. Here, since the coal was booked to be carried by the shorter route, freight ought to have been determined accordingly. So, any amount recovered from ‘A’ towards freight in excess of what was legally payable for the distance of 667 kilometres would be an ‘overcharge’ because what was recovered from him was over and above what was actually payable for the distance of 667 kilometres over which goods were booked. Alternatively, if ‘A’ had booked the goods over the longer route covering a distance of 1082 kilometres and freight was charged for such distance but carriage was over the shorter route covering distance of 667 kilometres, in such a situation, if ‘A’, on coming to know that though he had booked the goods to be carried over the longer route and had paid the freight accordingly yet as the goods were carried over the shorter route, claims for a refund, this claim would not be one for “overcharge” for the simple reason that he had booked the goods by a particular route and paid the freight that was payable for that distance. The claim of the respondent in the present case is of a like nature. Thus, under no stretch [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1097 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. of imagination can it be said that its claim is for refund of over-charge.