The Bonds uphold the right to privacy of donors by providing confidentiality. Further, donating money to one’s preferred political party is a matter of self-expression by the donor. Therefore, revealing the identity invades the informational privacy of donors protected by the Constitution.” The identity of the donor can be revealed in exceptional cases, for instance on directions of a competent court, or registration of a criminal case by any law enforcement agency.” (ili) The Scheme, by incentivising banking channels and providing confidentiality, checks the use of black or unaccounted money in political contributions.” (iii) The Scheme is an improvement to the prior legal framework. It has inbuilt safeguards such as compliance of donors with KYC norms, bearer bonds having a limited validity of fifteen days and recipients belonging to a recognised political party that has secured more than 1% votes in the last general elections. 24. Hon'ble the Chief Justice has rejected the Union of India’s submissions by applying the doctrine of proportionality. This is a principle applied 70 This is equally important from the perspective of the test of proportionality. 71 See K.S. Putlaswamy and Anr. v. Union of India and Ors. (9J) (Privacy), (2017) 10 SCC 1. 72 Paragraph 7(4) of the Scheme. 73 See Arun Jaitley, ‘Why Electoral Bonds Are Necessary’, Press Information Bureau, 2018. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 583 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. by courts when they exercise their power of judicial review in cases involving a restriction on fundamental rights. It is applied to strike an appropriate balance between the fundamental right and the pursued purpose and objective of the restriction. 25. The test of proportionality comprises four steps: (i) The first step is to examine whether the act/measure restricting the fundamental right has a legitimate aim (legitimate aim/ purpose). (ii) The second step is to examine whether the restriction has rational connection with the aim (rational connection). (iii) The third step is to examine whether there should have been a less restrictive alternate measure that is equally effective (minimal impairment/necessity test). (iv) The last stage is to strike an appropriate balance between the fundamental right and the pursued public purpose (balancing act). 26. In Modern Dental College & Research Centre and Others v. State of Madhya Pradesh and Others,” this Court had applied proportionality in its four-part doctrinal form’® as a standard for reviewing right limitations in India. This test was modified in K.S. Puttaswamy (Retired) and Anr. (Aadhar) v. Union of India and Anr. (9०), ” where this Court adopted a more tempered and nuanced approach.” The Court, inter alia, imposed a stricter test for the third and fourth prongs, namely necessity and balancing stages of the test of proportionality, as reproduced below. “155. ...1In to preserve a meaningful but not unduly strict role for the necessity stage, Bilchitz proposes the 74 See Aharon Barak, “Proportionality - Constitutional Rights and their Limitations”, Cambridge University Press, 2012. 75 [2031 S6CR ]57 9 : (2016) 7 SCC 353.