In other words, it is the contention of the appellant that as no arbitrable disputes remained after a full and final settlement was arrived at, there was nothing left to be referred to the arbitrator and hence the appointment of arbitrator being an exercise in futility, should not have been undertaken by the High Court. 45. To answer the aforesaid contention of the appellant, the question that needs to be considered is whether the “full and final settlement” of claims arising under a contract, is by itself sufficient to preclude any future arbitration in respect of such settled claims? 46. It is indeed so that once a contract has been fully performed, it can be said to have been discharged by performance. Once the contract has been discharged by performance, neither any right to seek performance, nor any obligation to perform remains under it. 47. However, whether there has been a discharge of contract or not is a mixed question of law and fact, and if any dispute arises as to whether a contract has been discharged or not, such a dispute is arbitrable as per the mechanism prescribed under the arbitration agreement contained in the underlying contract. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 865 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning a. Whether the arbitration agreement contained in a substantive contract survives even after the underlying contract is discharged by “accord and satisfaction”? 48. Arbitration for the purpose of resolving any dispute pertaining to any claim which has been “fully and finally settled” between the parties can only be invoked if the arbitration agreement survives even after the discharge of the substantive contract. 49. The arbitration agreement, by virtue of the presumption of separability, survives the principal contract in which it was contained. Section 16(1) of the Act, 1996 which is based on Article 16 of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, 1985 (hereinafter, “Model Law”) embodies the presumption of separability. There are two aspects to the doctrine of separability as contained in the Act, 1996: - i. An arbitration clause forming part of a contract is treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract. ii. A decision by the arbitral tribunal declaring the contract as null and void does not, ipso facto, make the arbitration clause invalid. 50. The doctrine of separability was not part of the legislative scheme under the Arbitration Act, 1940. However, with the enactment of the Act, 1996, the doctrine was expressly incorporated. This Court in National Agricultural Coop. Marketing Federation India Ltd. v. Gains Trading Ltd. reported in (2007) 5 SCC 692, while interpreting Section 16 of the Act, 1996, held that even if the underlying contract comes to an end, the arbitration agreement contained in such a contract survives for the purpose of resolution of disputes between the parties. 51. The fundamental premise governing the doctrine of separability is that the arbitration agreement is incorporated by the parties to a contract with the mutual intention to settle any disputes that may arise under or in respect of or with regard to the underlying substantive contract, and thus by its inherent nature is independent of the substantive contract.