8. While the application under Section 482 CrPC was pending before the High Court, on a police report, cognizance was taken by CJM on 20.02.2020 and processes were issued under Section 204 CrPC. Consequently, respondent nos. 2 and 3 (original accused) sought amendment in their prayer before the High Court so as to include the prayer to quash the cognizance . 4 Non-bailable Warrant 5 First Information Report [2024] 10 S.C.R. 897 Somjeet Mallick v. State of Jharkhand & Others 9. The High Court vide impugned quashed the of cognizance and all further proceedings in the case concerned while leaving it open to the original complainant to take recourse to civil remedies. Reasoning of the High Court 10. The High Court reasoned thus: a. There is no allegation of entrustment in the FIR, therefore, offence of criminal breach of trust, punishable under Section 406 IPC,6 is not made out. b. Admittedly, one month rent was paid, therefore, dishonest intention from the very beginning was not there. The application is only for recovery of rent, which can be realised by taking recourse to appropriate civil proceeding. Hence, no offence punishable under Section 420 IPC is made out. 11. Aggrieved by the of the High Court, original complainant is before us. 12. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and have perused the materials on record. Submissions on behalf of Appellant 13. On behalf of the appellant, it was submitted: a. The FIR did disclose that after making payment of one month rent, no rent was paid despite false assurances. In such circumstances, a case for investigation was made out. b. The High Court did not consider the materials collected during investigation which resulted in filing of charge sheet. As charge sheet was submitted, the High Court ought to have considered the materials collected during investigation before concluding whether offence has been committed or not. c. The High Court failed to consider that whereabouts of the Truck was not known. Otherwise also, since the Truck was not returned, it could be taken that it has been misappropriated or disposed of by the accused in violation of the agreement, thereby disclosing commission of an offence of criminal breach of trust. 6 The Indian Penal Code, 1860 898 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Submissions on behalf of Accused-respondents 14. On behalf of accused respondent(s), it was submitted: a. The FIR did not disclose commission of any offence, therefore the High Court was justified in quashing the entire proceeding. b. There was no specific allegation in the FIR regarding disposal or misappropriation of the Truck, hence no case of criminal breach of trust was made out. c. The offence of cheating is not made out inasmuch as dishonest intention from the very beginning is not disclosed by the averments in the FIR. d. The High Court was justified in quashing the cognizance and further proceedings. Submissions on behalf of State 15. On behalf of State, it is submitted through an affidavit that the original complainant had informed that as per agreement between the parties, the Truck/Trailor was rented to the accused for plying.