Hindustan Motors had sold the offending vehicle to M/s. Vaibhav Motors (i.e., the dealer)? If not, whether the dealer can be held liable for the compensation, jointly and severally, with M/s. Hindustan Motors? 6. As regards issue of ownership of the vehicle, the Tribunal held that on the day of accident, M/s. Hindustan Motors was the owner of the vehicle though Vaibhav Motors was in possession of the vehicle as its dealer. Based on that, the Tribunal held M/s. Hindustan Motors as well as M/s. Vaibhav Motors (the appellant) jointly and severally liable for the compensation awarded. 7. Aggrieved by quantum of the compensation awarded, the claimants (R-1 to R-4) preferred Miscellaneous Appeal (Civil) No. 1147/2017 before the High Court; whereas vide Miscellaneous Appeal (Civil) 2 M.V. Act [2024] 9 S.C.R. 21 Vaibhav Jain v. Hindustan Motors Pvt. Ltd. No. 1306/2007, the dealer (i.e., the appellant herein) questioned the award to the extent it made him jointly and severally liable for payment of the compensation. 8. Both the aforesaid appeals were heard simultaneously and disposed of by the impugned . The claimants’ appeal was allowed, and the compensation was enhanced. However, the appellant’s appeal was dismissed. 9. We have heard Shri Arup Banerjee for the appellant and Ms. Purti Gupta for M/s Hindustan Motors; and have also perused the materials on record. Submissions on behalf of the appellant 10. The learned counsel for the appellant submitted: (i) On the date of accident, the owner of the offending vehicle was its manufacturer M/s. Hindustan Motors (R-6) in whose name the vehicle was temporarily registered and there was no evidence that the vehicle was transferred to the appellant. (ii) The driver of the vehicle and the deceased were both employees of M/s Hindustan Motors and they took the vehicle from the dealership for a test drive, therefore, the vehicle, at the time of accident, was in the control and possession of M/s Hindustan Motors through its employees. (iii) The liability for compensation is of the owner of the vehicle including the driver. Section 2(30) of the M.V. Act defines the “owner” as a person in whose name a motor vehicle stands registered, and where such person is a minor, the guardian of such minor, and in relation to a motor vehicle which is the subject of a hire-purchase agreement, or an agreement of lease or an agreement of hypothecation, the person in possession of the vehicle under that agreement. (iv) The Dealership Agreement between the appellant and M/s. Hindustan Motors is neither an agreement of hire-purchase nor of lease or hypothecation, therefore, even if the dealer is taken to be in constructive possession of the vehicle, the dealer would not be its owner within the meaning of Section 2(30) of the M.V. Act. 22 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (v) Clauses 3 (b) and 4 of the Dealership Agreement, relied to fasten liability on the appellant, are in respect of defects in the vehicle and not in respect of any claim for compensation arising from an accident involving the vehicle.