It has four Parts. Part I deals with professional misconduct in relation to Chartered Accountants in practice. Part II deals with professional misconduct in relation to members of the Institute in service. Part III deals with professional misconduct in relation to members of the Institute generally. Part IV deals with other misconduct in relation to members of the Institute generally. Part I of the Second Schedule speaks about professional misconduct in relation to Chartered Accountants in practice while Part II deals with professional misconduct in relation to members of the Institute generally. Part III thereof refers to other misconduct in relation to members of the Institute generally. 7.8 The First Schedule has to be read as part of Sections 21(3), 21A(3) and 22, while the Second Schedule has to be read as part of Sections 21(3), 21B(3) and 22. In particular, what is relevant is with regard to a member of the Institute, whether in practice or not, contravening any of the provisions of the Act or the regulations made thereunder or any Guideline issued by the Council, who shall be deemed to be guilty of professional misconduct. What falls for interpretation in this batch 830 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of cases is the expression “any Guidelines issued by the Council”. The Institute issued, inter alia, the Guidelines by Notification dated 08.08.2008. 7.9 According to the petitioners, the object of ensuring quality of audits would be served better by frequent reviews by the Quality Review Board established under Section 28A. The said section is reproduced as under: “28A. Establishment of Quality Review Board (1) The Central Government shall, by notification, constitute a Quality Review Board consisting of a Chairperson and ten other members. (2) The Chairperson and members of the Board shall be appointed from amongst the persons of eminence having experience in the field of law, economics, business, finance or accountancy. (3) Five members of the Board shall be nominated by the Council and other five members shall be nominated by the Central Government.” 7.10 Section 30 gives the Council of respondent-Institute the power to make regulations to fulfil its functions and duties. For ease of reference, relevant portions of Section 30 read as under: “30. Power to make regulations (1) The Council may, by notification in the “Gazette of India”, make regulations for the purpose of carrying out the objects of this Act. (2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters :− (a) the standard and conduct of examinations under this Act; (b) the qualifications for the entry of the name of any person in the Register as a member of the Institute; [2024] 6 S.C.R. 831 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others (c) the conditions under which any examination or training may be treated as equivalent to the examination and training prescribed for members of the Institute; (d) the conditions under which any foreign qualification may be recognised; (e) the manner in which and the conditions subject to which applications for entry in the Register may be made; (f) the fees payable for membership of the Institute and the annual fees payable by associates and fellows of the Institute in respect of their certificates; x x x (k) the regulation and maintenance of the status and standard of professional qualifications of members of the Institute; x x x (t) any other matter which is required to be or may be prescribed under this Act.