6. Thereupon, the Respondent moved a Reply Notice dated 11.11.2013 whereby he claimed that the accusations made by the Appellant are false and bereft of pertinent details of the loan transaction, inter alia, the date and time of advancement of the said debt, which as claimed, was never advanced. 7. Unsatisfied with the response of the Respondent through the said Reply Notice, Appellant moved a Private Complaint No. 991 of 2013 under Section 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as “CrPC 1973”). The said complaint came to be registered as CC/468/2014 before Judicial Magistrate First Class at Gulbarga. As part of the proceedings before the Trial Court, the Appellant examined himself as PW-01, while the Respondent examined himself as DW-01. However, the latter did not mark any documents from his side. It was the Respondent’s plea that the concerned cheque was issued in favour of one Mr Mallikarjun in the year 2012 for security purposes, however, he did not return the same to the Respondent, and instead had left the village. While dealing with the said contention, the Trial Court observed that the Respondent had failed to explain as to how the cheque landed in the hands of the Appellant, and for what purpose was the cheque issued to Mr Mallikarjun. 8. It was also revealed as part of the statement during cross-examination of the Appellant that the cheque was originally, not given to the Appellant as security cheque. Instead, the same was allegedly given to the Appellant after the Respondent had thereby failed to repay his liability as existing against the Appellant after a period of six months. The Court further observed that the Agreement marked by the Appellant to assist his case does not include signature of the Respondent as against the terms of the agreement, but a signature is made by the Respondent on the stamp paper itself, and the same is not sustainable in the eyes of law. The Court also went on to scrutinize the Income Tax Returns of the Appellant, from where it was revealed that the Appellant failed to declare the alleged loan transaction as part of his returns to the Income Tax Department. 128 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Accordingly, vide its dated 18.10.2019, the Trial Court adjudicated in favour of the Respondent, resultantly dismissing the complaint moved by the Appellant and acquitting the Respondent. 9. Aggrieved by the decision of Trial Court, the Appellant moved the High Court of Karnataka in Criminal Appeal No. 200139 of 2019, which went on to observe that, admittedly, there was a contradiction in the statement of the Appellant as to when the cheque was issued in his favour. Furthermore, as was laid down in the decision of this Court in Rangappa v. Sri Mohan,1 the presumption under Section 139 of the NI Act 1881 is a rebuttable one. The contention of the Respondent as to the financial capacity of the Appellant to grant a loan in his favour was to be discharged by him, and being unable to do so, it shall be presumed that a loan transaction had not taken place.