This Court may, no doubt, in appropriate cases overrule the view previously taken by it but that should only be for compelling reasons. ***” (emphasis supplied) Sadly, these are dicta which very few tend to remember not to speak of applying the same. 13. I have noted that as per the draft opinion of the HCJI, the question as to whether AMU “is a minority educational institution must be decided based on the principles laid down in this ”. In view of such proposed , and since it is also the majority opinion now and thus final, it is a foregone conclusion that history would be rewritten and declaration of AMU by this Court as a minority educational institution is only a matter of time. 14. Not only is Azeez Basha (supra) a judicial verdict more than half a century old on the status of AMU vis-à-vis minority rights, but it has a strong foundational basis and is anchored in robust legal reasoning. It has withstood, so to say, the vagaries of wind and weather and stands tall as a pyramid in the desert. The decision was rendered by Judges of the pre-independence era who, apart from being no less knowledgeable than us, were people having grown up while India was struggling for independence and (must have) witnessed such struggle from close quarters. I cannot lay claim to match their wisdom and experience; but without being unduly overawed by the stature of the Judges on the bench and viewing the reasons assigned in Azeez Basha (supra) for not declaring AMU as a minority educational [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1863 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. institution, a University which was established in 1920 and whose status from inception till the Constitution came into effect has remained unchanged, I consider it prudent to say that the view taken therein, in the given facts and circumstances, is indeed a plausible view which demands due deference rather than the view being overruled at this distance of time. A relook at it for recasting of the opinion cannot be resorted to, as I presently propose to demonstrate,without throwing asunder all the established doctrines in the wake of referral s which themselves bear the mark of invalidity on their foreheads. 15. However, before I venture to consider the s of reference/re- reference, a glance at what Azeez Basha (supra) decided would not be inapposite. 16. In Azeez Basha (supra), this Court considered the legal sustainability of the 1951 and 1965 amendments to the Aligarh Muslim University Act, 192015. These amendments were challenged as violative of the Fundamental Rights enumerated, inter alia, under Articles 26 and 30 of the Constitution. In such decision, it was held by this Court both on facts as well as law that AMU cannot be declared a minority institution. It was held that AMU was not established by a minority community, as it was the creature of a statute. The right under Article 30(1) was interpreted so as to give the linguistic and religious minorities the right to administer the institutions which were established by the minority community.