Section 218 provides that separate trials shall be conducted for distinct offences alleged to be committed by a person. Sections 219-221 provide exceptions to this general rule. If a person falls under these exceptions, then a joint trial for the offences which a person is charged with may be conducted. Similarly, under Section 223, a joint trial may be held for persons charged with different offences if any of the clauses in the provision are separately or on a combination satisfied. 51.2. While applying the principles enunciated in Sections 218-223 on conducting joint and separate trials, the trial court should apply a two-pronged test, namely, (i) whether conducting a joint/separate trial will prejudice the defence of the accused; and/or (ii) whether conducting a joint/separate trial would cause judicial delay. 51.3. The possibility of conducting a joint trial will have to be determined at the beginning of the trial and not after the trial based on the result of the trial. The appellate court may determine the validity of the argument that there ought to have been a separate/joint trial only based on whether the trial had prejudiced the right of accused or the prosecutrix. 51.4. Since the provisions which engraft an exception use the phrase “may” with reference to conducting a joint trial, a separate trial is usually not contrary to 65 [2021] 13 SCR 566 : (2022) 2 SCC 89 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 377 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. law even if a joint trial could be conducted, unless proven to cause a miscarriage of justice. 51.5. A conviction or acquittal of the accused cannot be set aside on the mere ground that there was a possibility of a joint or a separate trial. To set aside the of conviction or acquittal, it must be proved that the rights of the parties were prejudiced because of the joint or separate trial, as the case may be.” The case of appellant, as is evident from the record, falls under the latter category, i.e., multiple persons in the same trial (appellant is A-17 out of a total of 20 accused persons). It has been held that joint or separate trial is a decision to be taken by the learned trial Judge at the beginning of the trial considering (a) the possibility of prejudice; and b) causing judicial delay, if any. Further, the language of Section 223 is directory in nature, signified by the use of word ‘may’. 45. Naseeb Singh (supra) holds that a separate trial would not be contrary to law unless a miscarriage of justice can be demonstrated. Similarly, we are of the view that a joint trial, if held, after having considered the two factors given above, cannot be said to be ipso facto prejudicial to the parties. 46. It is alleged that Dinesh Gope (A-6), who is the Chief of PLFI, extorts money from various persons and that this company (A-20) of which the present appellant is a director, is used to legitimise the proceeds of such unlawful actions.