Minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018 did not extend limitation of counterclaims (d) and (e) 130. In these circumstances, the question that falls for our consideration is whether the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018 extended the period of limitation for counterclaim(s)120 (d) and (e) as it did for the claim as well as counterclaims (a) (b) and (c). The contention on behalf of the appellant(s) is that the claim and the counterclaim arose out of same contractual relationship, therefore, if the acknowledgment dated 19 April 2018 extends limitation of one part of the claim/ counterclaim, it would automatically extend limitation of the remaining part of the claim / counterclaim. Per contra, learned counsel for Enexio (R-1) contended that there could be multiple claims arising out of the same contract, if the acknowledgment extending limitation under Section 18 of 1963 Act relates to only few, limitation for the rest would not get extended. Thus, the Tribunal committed no such error which may warrant interference under Section 34 of the 1996 Act. 131. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the rival submissions. The minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018 was drawn within three years of accrual of the cause of action for the claim, whether we count limitation from 19 March 2016 (as determined by us) or 21 September 2015 (as determined by the Tribunal). Therefore, the crucial question, which we must consider and decide, is whether those minutes could be considered as an acknowledgment of subsisting liability qua counterclaims (d) and (e). 132. The minutes121 of meeting dated 19 April 2018 incorporates a table giving specific description of the items and their corresponding value on which parties, purportedly, admitted their respective liabilities. Interestingly, the balance amount payable to the contractor (Enexio - R-1) finds mention there and so does contractor’s liability towards 120 For description of counterclaims (a) to (e), see paragraph 126 of this . 121 Extracted in paragraph 7 of this [2024] 9 S.C.R. 597 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. liquidated damages, customs duty, dismantling – TG Building and ACC Duct fabrication, which have all been addressed on merits in the Award. But, there is no mention of items referable to counterclaims (d) and (e), which have been held time barred. Further, the minutes do not state that parties acknowledge, or are willing to settle, any other, or all their rights/ obligations, arising from, or under, the contract. Thus, the acknowledgment is specific and in respect of certain items only. 133. In J.C. Budhraja (supra) this Court held that a writing to be an acknowledgement of liability must involve an admission of a subsisting jural relationship between the parties and conscious affirmation of an intention of continuing such relationship regarding existing liability. The Court added that the admission need not be in respect of any precise amount nor by expressed words. However, it was clarified that any admission of jural relationship in regard to a certain sum due, or a pending claim, cannot be an acknowledgement for a new additional claim for damages.122 That apart, in J.C. Budhraja (supra), this Court rejected an argument that if there was acknowledgment of any liability in regard to a contract, then one was at liberty to make any claim in regard to the contract.