The Court has imposed upon itself certain restrictions in the exercise of this power. (See Whirlpool Corpn. v. Registrar of Trade Marks) And this plenary right of the High Court to issue a prerogative writ will not normally be exercised by the Court to the exclusion of other available remedies unless such action of the State or its instrumentality is arbitrary and unreasonable so as to violate the constitutional mandate of Article 14 or for other valid and legitimate reasons, for which the Court thinks it necessary to exercise the said jurisdiction.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 7 S.C.R. 571 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. 53. In Noble Resources Ltd. v. State of Orissa reported in (2006) 10 SCC 236 this Court for the purposes of judicial review of contractual disputes recognized a distinction between a matter where the contract is at the threshold and at the stage of breach. It held that at the threshold, the court’s scrutiny is more intrusive & expansive while at the stage of breach it is discretionary except where the action is found to be arbitrary or unreasonable. The relevant observations read as under: - “15. It is trite that if an action on the part of the State is violative of the equality clause contained in Article 14 of the Constitution of India, a writ petition would be maintainable even in the contractual field. A distinction indisputably must be made between a matter which is at the threshold of a contract and a breach of contract; whereas in the former the court’s scrutiny would be more intrusive, in the latter the court may not ordinarily exercise its discretionary jurisdiction of judicial review, unless it is found to be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. While exercising contractual powers also, the government bodies may be subjected to judicial review in to prevent arbitrariness or favouritism on their part. Indisputably, inherent limitations exist, but it would not be correct to opine that under no circumstances a writ will lie only because it involves a contractual matter.” (Emphasis supplied) 54. The law on the subject with which we are dealing was laid down exhaustively by this Court in its decision in Joshi Technologies International Inc. v. Union of India & Ors. reported in (2015) 7 SCC 728, and the position was summarised as under: - “69. The position thus summarised in the aforesaid principles has to be understood in the context of discussion that preceded which we have pointed out above. As per this, no doubt, there is no absolute bar to the maintainability of the writ petition even in contractual matters or where there are disputed questions of fact or even when monetary claim is raised. At the same time, discretion lies with the High Court which under certain circumstances, it can refuse to exercise. It also follows that under the following 572 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports circumstances, “normally”, the Court would not exercise such a discretion: 69.1.