These rules, inter alia, are: (i) The Karnataka Excise (Arrack Vend Special Conditions of Licenses) Rules, 1967 (“the 1967 Rules” hereinafter); (ii) The Karnataka Excise (Lease of the Right of Retail Vend of Liquors) Rules, 1969 (briefly “the 1969 Rules” hereinafter); (iii) The Karnataka Excise (Manufacture and Bottling of Arrack) Rules, 1987 (“the 1987 Rules” hereinafter). 4.2. In the year 1993, the state government discontinued private bottling units from engaging in the manufacture or bottling of arrack and instead decided as a policy to restrict those operations in the hands of state government companies or undertakings, such as, Mysore Sales and Mysore Sugar Company Limited (appellant in Civil Appeal No. 2169/2007 which was dismissed for non-prosecution by this Court on 12.10.2023). Thus, Mysore Sales and Mysore Sugar were entrusted with the task of bottling arrack and marketing it on behalf of the state government. Mysore Sales was entrusted with the above task for the northern districts of the State of Karnataka while for the rest of the state, Mysore Sugar was [2024] 7 S.C.R. 293 The Excise Commissioner Karnataka & Anr. v. Mysore Sales International Ltd. & Ors. entrusted with the responsibility. It is the case of the appellant that the job entrusted i.e. bottling of arrack and marketing it on behalf of the state was in the nature of works contract. 4.3. Once arrack is manufactured and bottled, it becomes the property of the State of Karnataka in as much as the property vests with the state. The Excise Commissioner determines the amount realizable by the appellant from the excise (liquor) vendors or contractors taking into consideration the cost incurred by the appellant. The excise contractors are required to remit the requisite amount of excise duty into the state government treasury and then secure permit on production of which, appellant delivers arrack to them. The State of Karnataka controls the entire operation including the amount realizable by the assessee in terms of the Excise Act. 4.4. Successful excise contractors secure arrack from Mysore Sales and Mysore Sugar depending upon the areas allotted to them. The lease for the right to retail vend of liquor provides auctioning of such right with reference to a designated area. The retail sale price is fixed by the state government in terms of the 1967 Rules. The margin would depend upon various factors. 4.5. Section 206C was inserted in the Income Tax Act by the Finance Act, 1988 with effect from 01.06.1988. It casts an obligation on the “seller” of alcoholic liquor etc. of deducting tax at source (TDS) at the time of payment by the “buyer”. As per Explanation(a), certain persons were not included within, rather excluded from, the definition of “buyer”. 4.6. A circular came to be issued by the Excise Commissioner of Karnataka on 16.06.1998 to which an addendum was also issued. The circular clarified that since arrack was not obtained through auction and since the selling price of arrack was fixed by the Excise Commissioner, there was no question of recovery of TDS from the excise (liquor) vendors or contractors.