1610]: - “an exaction, impost, or incumbrance beyond what is just and right or beyond one’s authority or power.” 46. The Law Lexicon has defined the term “overcharge” as “a charge of a sum, more than is permitted by law”. [See, P. Ramanatha Aiyar on ‘The Law Lexicon’, 2nd Edn., 1997 at Pg. 1389]. 47. The term “overcharge” as used in Section 78B of the Act, 1890 (now Section 106 of the Act, 1989) was first interpreted by the Gujarat High Court in Shah Raichand Amulakh (supra) to mean any charge in excess of what is prescribed or permitted or due by law. It was further held, that for a sum to be an overcharge, it must be of the same character as the charge itself or of the same genus of charge. Accordingly, the High Court held that the demurrage and wharfage charges that had been levied on a consignment in excess of what was permissible under the law was an overcharge under Section 78B. The relevant observations read as under: - “2. [...] “Overcharge” is not a term of Article It is an ordinary word of the English language which according 1092 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to its plain natural sense means any charge in excess of that prescribed or permitted by law. To be an overcharge, a sum of money must partake of the same character as the charge itself or must be of the same genus of or class as a charge; it cannot be any other kind of money such as money recovered where nothing is due. Overcharge is simply a charge in excess of that which is due according to law.” (Emphasis supplied) 48. In yet another decision of the Gujarat High Court in Union of India v. Mansukhlal Jethalal reported in (1974) SCC OnLine Guj 12 the scope of Section 78B of the Act, 1890 (now Section 106 of the Act, 1989) came to be examined. In the said case, the Railway besides the freight was levying new charge in the form of shunting charges etc. It was contended that since, the freight encompassed the terminal charges for shunting, the additional charges being levied was arbitrary and illegal. The High Court held that since the additional charges were not being levied in excess of the prescribed charges, but were an altogether a different charge, the same could not be termed as an overcharge and thus, Section 78B of the Act, 1890 was not attracted and no notice of claim was required. The relevant observations read as under: - “2. The trial Court has held that it has got jurisdiction to entertain this suit. It is also held that no claim notice as contemplated under Section 78-B of the Indian Railways Act, 1890 (which will be hereinafter referred to as “the Act”), was necessary as it was not a case of recovery of over charges. Non-giving of such a notice, therefore, was not fatal to the suit. The material averments made in the plaint are, that the plaintiff booked salt from Kuda Salt Siding Station, on the line of Western Railway Administration, owned and represented by the Union of India (original defendant), to salt merchants at Dhrangadhra and at various other stations.