There is no dispute on the fact that each of the appellants herein fall within this category. These Government circulars clearly stipulate that individuals who secured employment based on the Caste Certificates issued under the erroneous Government circulars/s would no longer be entitled to claim future benefits under such certificates and would henceforth be treated as General Merit category candidates for all practical purposes. 28. The Ministry of Finance, Government of India, while referring to the Government of Karnataka’s circular dated 29th March 2003, clarified and recommended that in cases where a Scheduled Caste employee(s) has been de-scheduled after an appointment in the Bank, the concerned employee(s) may be treated under the General [2024] 8 S.C.R. 881 K. Nirmala & Ors. v. Canara Bank & Anr. Merit category, and any disciplinary cases pending against him/her should be withdrawn, and such employee(s) would have to surrender the original Caste certificate to the Competent Authority. 29. There cannot be any two views on the proposition that with the issuance of the Government of Karnataka’s circulars dated 11th March, 2002 and 29th March, 2003, the Scheduled Caste Certificates held by the appellants herein stood automatically revoked and they were brought under the unreserved category with effect from 12th March, 1987. 30. In the case of Milind (supra), this Court was dealing with the issue regarding the State’s power to amend the Presidential . It was held that the State has no jurisdiction to tinker with the Presential s issued under Article 341 of the Constitution of India. It was not even urged by the learned counsel for the appellants that the certificates held by the appellants based on the erroneous list of inclusion issued by the State Government were valid or should be protected. Their only prayer was to protect the services of the appellants while conceding that their Caste Certificates would be deemed invalid and that they would not be entitled to any future benefits under the reserved category. 31. Even in the case of Milind (supra), while concluding the , this Court saved the services of the respondents therein in the following manner:- “38. Respondent 1 joined the medical course for the year 1985-86. Almost 15 years have passed by now. We are told he has already completed the course and may be he is practising as a doctor. In this view and at this length of time it is for nobody’s benefit to annul his admission. Huge amount is spent on each candidate for completion of medical course. No doubt, one Scheduled Tribe candidate was deprived of joining medical course by the admission given to Respondent 1. If any action is taken against Respondent 1, it may lead to depriving the service of a doctor to the society on whom public money has already been spent. In these circumstances, this shall not affect the degree obtained by him and his practising as a doctor. But we make it clear that he cannot claim to 882 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports belong to the Scheduled Tribe covered by the Scheduled Tribes .