That is to say, according to the Constitution as put forward before the Constituent Assembly and as it emerged from the Constituent Assembly, the quantum of compensation or the principles governing compensation would be decided by the legislature. This was made perfectly clear. Now, it is obvious that those who framed the Constitution failed in giving expression to their wishes accurately and precisely and thereby the Supreme Court and some other Courts have interpreted it in a different way. The Supreme Court is the final authority for interpreting the Constitution. All I can say is that the Constitution was not worded as precisely as [2024] 11 S.C.R. 311 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. the framers of the Constitution intended. What the framers of the Constitution intended is there for anyone to see. All that has been done now is to make that wording more precise and more in accordance with what the framers of the Constitution at that time meant and openly said. That is the only thing.” 68 In other words, the Government of the day was of the view that the framers of the Constitution never intended that compensation be ‘just equivalent’ to what owners are deprived of and in any case, compensation was to be the sole domain of the legislatures and Courts cannot go into that aspect. The decisions of this Court, however, go against this view that Courts are altogether precluded from going into the question of adequacy of compensation. 39. A Five-Judge bench of this Court in Vajravelu v. Special Deputy Collector, 1964 SCC OnLine SC 22 dealt with the scope of the Fourth Constitutional Amendment qua Article 31(2).69 In this case, this Court declared the Land Acquisition (Madras Amendment) Act, 1961 as unconstitutional on the grounds of violation of Article 14. Justice Subba Rao observed that though the law fixing the amount of compensation or laying down principles governing such fixation cannot be questioned on the grounds of adequacy, yet the legislature cannot play fraud on the Constitution by determining compensation on irrelevant principles or making the compensation illusory. This is what was said: “To illustrate: a law is made to acquire a house; its value at the time of acquisition has to be fixed; there are many modes of valuation, namely, estimate by an engineer, value reflected by comparable sales, capitalisation of rent and similar others. The application of different principles may lead to different results. The adoption of one principle may give a higher value and the adoption of another principle may give a lesser value. But nonetheless they are principles on which and the manner in which compensation 68 lOk saBha deBates (Part ii- PrOceedinGs Other than QuestiOns and answers), vOl-iii, Pgs. 4833-4834. 69 See State of Madras v. D. Namasivaya Mudaliar 1964 SCC OnLine SC 169, Union of India v. Metal Corporation of India 1966 SCC OnLine SC 15. But also see State of Gujarat v. Shri Shantilal Mangaldas & Ors., AIR 1969 SC 634.