[2024] 2 S.C.R. 1121 : 2024 INSC 175 Vedanta Limited v. The State of Tamil Nadu & Ors (Special Leave Petition (Civil) Nos. 10159-10168 of 2020) 29 February 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI, J. B . Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Impugned s passed by the High Court directing closure of the copper smelter operated by the petitioner at the industrial complex in Tamil Nadu for violations of numerous environmental norms, if justified. Headnotes Environmental Laws – Environmental pollution and degradation – Copper smelter operated by the petitioner at the industrial complex in Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu – Closure of, for violations of numerous environmental norms by the High Court – Interference with: Held: Industrial establishment was not exculpated of its liability for environmental violations – Closure of the industry is undoubtedly not a matter of first choice – Nature of the violations and the repeated nature of the breaches coupled with the severity of the breach of environmental norms left neither the statutory authorities nor the High Court with the option to take any other view unless they were to be oblivious of their plain duty – Unit, has been contributing to the productive assets of the nation and providing employment and revenue in the area – The Court has to be mindful of the principles of sustainable development, the polluter pays principle, and the public trust doctrine which underscore the importance of balancing economic interests with environmental and public welfare concerns – While the industry has played a role in economic growth, the health and welfare of the residents of the area is a matter of utmost concern – State Government is responsible for preserving and protecting their concerns – All persons have the right to breathe clean air, drink clean water, live a life free from disease and sickness, and for those who till the earth, have access to uncontaminated soil – These rights are not only recognized as essential components of human rights but are also enshrined in various international treaties and agreements – They must be protected and upheld by governments and institutions 1122 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports – Without these basic rights, increased revenue and employment cease to have any real meaning – Thus, interference u/Art. 136 not warranted – High Court justified in making the observations in regard to the lack of alacrity on the part of the Pollution Control Board in discharging its duties, thus the observations not to be expunged or obliterated from the record. [Paras 22-25, 28, 29, 32] Constitution of India – Art. 136 – Exercise of power u/Art.136, when: Held: Is to be exercised sparingly and only when exceptional circumstances exist which justify the exercise of its discretion – On facts, as regards the challenge to the passed by the High Court directing the closure of the copper smelter operated by the petitioner at the industrial complex in Tamil Nadu, this Court to apply the principles of judicial review bearing on whether the findings arrived at by the High Court are borne out from the record or conversely, are based on misappreciation of law and fact.