Lex Regis Law Offices, Mrs. Vaijayanthi Girish, Rajesh Mahale, Kunal Verma, Mukesh Kumar Maroria, Mrs. Shraddha Deshmukh, Shailesh Madiyal, T. S. Sabarish, Chandra Prakash, Ms. A. Sumathi, Sanjeev Kapoor, Aakash Bajaj, Avirat Kumar, Ms. Aarushi Yadav, Gurmeet Singh Makker, Kanu Agrawal, Ms. Suhasini Sen, S.K. Singhania, Ms. Bina Madhavan, S. Udaya Kumar Sagar, Eeshan D Khaire, M/s. Lawyers Knit & Co, S. S. Shroff, Ms. Hetu Arora Sethi, Pulkit Tare, Rituraj Biswas, Sameer Rohatgi, Ms. Nidhi Jaswal, Ms. Sonali Gaur, Ashwin Garg, Kartikey, Ms. Rohini Musa, Abdul Azeem Kalebudde, Mahesh Thakur, Mrs. Anuparna Bordoloi, Ms. Anusha R, Ms. Mythili Srinivasamurthy, Shivamm Sharrma, Amrish Kumar, Ashwin Kumar D. S., Ishan Roy Chowdhury, Advs. for the appearing parties. / of the Supreme Court 1. The present applications relate to mining activities being undertaken in Districts - Bellary, Chitradurga and Tumkur in Karnataka. 2. In 2009, the petitioner - Samaj Parivartana Samudaya had filed a writ petition praying for this Court’s intervention on grounds of the illegality of such mining activities and consequent harm caused to the environment. This Court intervened and has passed several directions and s. 1296 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3. To avoid prolixity, we will not be referring to the catena of s passed by this Court in depth and detail. However, to appreciate the present applications, we have summarized the relevant developments below: ● The genesis of the Central Empowered Committee1 goes back to this Court’s dated 09.09.2002 in “T.N. Godavarman Thirumalpad v. Union of India & Ors.”, where the Court was concerned with the rampant pilferage and illegal extraction of natural resources, particularly iron ore, and the environmental degradation and disaster that may have resulted from unchecked intrusion into the forest areas. ● The CEC was constituted to monitor the situation, implement this Courts’ s, and delineate the steps to be taken. ● On 19.11.2010, the CEC was directed by this Court to submit a report with respect to certain mining leases granted by the State of Karnataka in District – Bellary. ● The initial reports of CEC indicated large-scale illegal mining being undertaken. ● On 06.05.2011, this Court constituted a ‘Joint Team’ to determine the boundaries of the specific mines since a large number of mining lessees were carrying out operations beyond the lease boundaries, thereby causing environmental degradation. ● On 29.07.2011, this Court imposed a temporary ban on mining operations in District – Bellary.2 ● On 26.08.2011, this Court extended the temporary ban on mining operations to Districts – Chitradurga and Tumkur.3 ● On 05.08.2011 and 26.08.2011, this Court directed the Indian Council of Forest Research and Education4 to conduct a macro-level environmental impact assessment, in collaboration with domain experts to determine the extent of environmental degradation due to illegal mining. 1 For short, “CEC”. 2 See State of Andhra Pradesh v. Obulapuram Mining Company (P) Ltd, 2011 (12) SCC 491. 3 See Samaj Parivartana Samudaya v. State of Karnataka, (2013) 8 SCC 209. 4 For short, “ICFRE”. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1297 Samaj Parivartana Samudaya & Ors.