465 Shabna Abdulla v. The Union of India & Ors. June 2022. It is, therefore, submitted that the detention is liable to be quashed on this short ground. 5. Mr. Nachiketa Joshi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Union of India, submits that the learned Division Bench of the High Court has rightly distinguished the decision of the Coordinate Bench of the same High Court in the cases of Nushath Koyamu (supra) and other connected matters. He, therefore, submitted that no inference with the impugned and is warranted. 6. The material placed on record would reveal that the grounds of detention insofar as the present detenue and Mr. Biju V. Joy and other two detenus, whose detention has been held to be illegal by the and 3rd June 2022 passed by the Coordinate Bench of the same High Court in the cases of Nushath Koyamu (supra) are almost identical. 7. It will be relevant to refer to the following ground of detention: "1. Mr. Biju V. Joy, G card holder of M/s The Mercantile and Marine services was summoned on 03.08.2021 and his voluntary statement was recorded under Section 108 of Customs Act, 1962 wherein he, inter alia, reiterated that his previous statements dated 20.04.2021 and 28.04.2021 were true and correct. He further submitted printouts of WhatsApp chats between him and Mr. Abdul Raoof i.e. you containing the passport details of passenger Mr. Althaf Moosan Mukri and details of previous consignments which were cleared on behalf of Mr. Abdul Raoof i.e. you; that he signed on the printouts of same and confirmed that they were retrieved from his mobile phone.” 8. Undisputedly, the said WhatsApp chats refer to the detenue in the present appeal as well as said Biju V. Joy. 9. In the cases of Nushath Koyamu (supra) and other connected matters, the Coordinate Bench of the same High Court has recorded the submissions of the petitioner(s) therein with regard to non-supply of the WhatsApp chats. The same reads thus: “15. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that in W.P. (Crl) No. 107 of 2022, the detenue had filed Ext. 466 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports P12 request for supply of the documents mentioned therein, particularly, a screen shot taken from the detenus phone which was relied upon by the detaining authority. It is mentioned in Ext. P12 that there were at least six voice messages visible on the screen shot which were relied on and those messages appear to be of 19th April 2021, a day before the detenus in this case were taken into custody by the DRI. It is the contention that from the screen shot, the contents of the whatsapp chat cannot be understood and unless the chats in electronic form is provided, an effective representation cannot be made. Thus, the whatsapp chat in electronic form which was to be given on a pen drive or such other media to facilitate them to hear them and understand the content and offer the explanation has been deprived offending the right under Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India.” 10.