The findings and observations in the impugned , except the finding on the applicability of Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC, cannot be sustained. EXERCISE OF PLENARY POWERS TO QUASH THE OF CONVICTION 20. Now, coming to the conviction of the offences punishable under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and Section 376(2)(n) of the IPC, the Division Bench proceeds on the footing that the said offences have been established. However, the Court purported to exercise its “plenary powers” under Section 482 of the Cr.PC coupled with Article 226 of the Constitution of India to set aside the conviction of the accused. In short, as we can see from the last few paragraphs of the impugned , the High Court was swayed away by the following aspects: (a) There was a “non-exploitative” consensual sexual relationship between the two consenting adolescents; (b) The ground reality was that after the birth of the child, the accused is taking care of the victim and the infant/small child; 594 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (c) The victim has no support from her parents, and (d) A humane view is required to be taken to do complete justice. 21. On a plain reading of “sixthly” in Section 375 read with Section 376(2) (n) of the IPC, notwithstanding the consensual sexual relationship, the offence punishable under clause (n) of sub-section (2) of Section 376 of the IPC, was made out. One of the objectives of the POSCO Act is to effectively address sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children, as both offences are very heinous. To give effect to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Children ratified by India on 11th December 1992, the POCSO Act has been enacted. As noted earlier, in the facts of the case, the accused was not an adolescent, but his age was about twenty-five years on the date of the commission of the offence, and the victim was only fourteen years old. When such offences of rape and aggravated penetrative sexual assault are committed, by exercising its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and/or Section 482 of the Cr.PC, the High Court cannot acquit an accused whose guilt has been proved. 22. Perhaps the consideration of sympathy and the so-called welfare of the victim and her child prevailed on the Judges of the High Court. The Court was influenced by the fact that the victim’s parents did not support her, and therefore, by sending the accused to jail, she and her child would be miserable as the accused and his family were taking care of them. 23. There are various decisions of this Court holding that the High Court can exercise jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Cr.PC to quash a prosecution on the grounds of settlement or by consent. One such is in the case of Gian Singh v. State of Punjab & Anr.1 Paragraph 58 of the said decision reads thus: “58. Where the High Court quashes a criminal proceeding having regard to the fact that the dispute between the offender and the victim has been settled although the offences are not compoundable, it does so as in its opinion, continuation of criminal proceedings will be an exercise in futility and justice in the case demands that the dispute between the parties is put to an end and peace is restored; 1 [2012] 8 SCR 753 : (2012) 10 SCC 303 [2024] 8 S.C.R.