15.1 Under Section 115(1) of the amended Act a local cess at the rate of 45 paisa on every rupee of land revenue payable to the Government in respect of any land for every fasli was envisaged. An Explanation to the said Section was added and was deemed always to have been incorporated by the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1964 (Amending Act) which provided as under: “Explanation- In this section and in Section 116, “land revenue” means public revenue due on land and includes water cess payable to the Government for water supplied or used for the irrigation of land, royalty, lease amount or other sum payable to the 1784 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Government in respect of land held direct from the government on lease or licence, but does not include any other cess or the surcharge payable under Section 116, provided that land revenue remitted shall not be deemed to be land revenue payable for the purpose of this section.” (emphasis by me) Sub-section 2 of Section 115 of the amended Act provided that the local cess shall be deemed to be a public revenue due on all the lands in respect of which a person is liable to pay local cess and all the buildings upon the said land and their products shall be regarded as security for the local cess. Section 116 of the amended Act reads as follows: “116. Every panchayat union council may levy on every person liable to pay land revenue to the government in respect of any land in the panchayat union a local cess surcharge at such rate as may be considered suitable as an addition to the local cess levied in the panchayat development block under Section 115 provided that the rate of local cess surcharge so levied shall not exceed two rupees and fifty paise on every rupee of land revenue payable in respect of such land.” (emphasis by me) 15.2 A writ petition was filed in the Madras High Court by the appellant therein, which was dismissed by a learned Single Judge holding that cess levied under Section 115 of the amended Act was a tax on land and as such, fell under Entry 49 - List II-State List and was within the competence of the State legislature. Reliance was placed on a decision of this Court in HRS Murthy. Against the of the learned Single Judge, a writ appeal was filed before the Division Bench of the High Court, which was also dismissed by holding that local cess authorised by Section 115 of the amended Act “was not land revenue but is a charge on the land itself and Section 115 merely qualified the basis of quantum of the land revenue.” The Division Bench of the Madras High Court held that the meaning of the Explanation added to Section 115 was that the cess was levied as a tax on land and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1785 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr.