But that is not to say that wherever the word “shall” has been used in the Rules under Schedule I, it attains a mandatory nature. The Rule could still be construed as purely procedural if its infraction does not entail any serious or prejudicial consequence. Much will depend on the connotation and the textual context of the Rule. 35.11 In view of the analysis undertaken above, Rule 12 would have to be treated as mandatory in character for the reason that it contemplates a consequence in the event of non-payment of the balance sale consideration by the highest bidder within the stipulated timeline of 90 days, which is cancellation of the sale by the Liquidator. To that extent, there is substance in the submission made on behalf of the appellant that since the second proviso under Rule 12 contemplates a consequence of cancellation of the auction on non-payment of the balance sale consideration within 90 days, the Liquidator was not empowered to extend the timeline. 35.12 Reliance placed by learned counsel for the Liquidator on the decision in Pioneer Urban Land and Infrastructure Limited and Another v. Union of India and Others53 to contend that the timeline prescribed under Schedule 1 of the IBBI Regulations 2016 are directory and not mandatory in character, is misplaced. The said decision holds that timelines available to operational creditors under the IBC are directory and not mandatory because no consequence is provided if the period is not extended or after the extension expires and it is in this context that the following observations have been made: “58. This Court, while dealing with timelines provided qua operational creditors, in Surendra Trading Co. 53 [2019] 10 SCR 381 : (2019) 8 SCC 416 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1311 V.S. Palanivel v. P. Sriram, CS, Liquidator, Etc. [Surendra Trading Co. v. Juggilal Kamlapat Jute Mills Co. Ltd., (2017) 16 SCC 143 : (2018) 2 SCC (Civ) 730], held that the timelines contained in the provisos to Sections 7(5), 9(5) and 10(4) of the Code are all directory and not mandatory. This is for the obvious reason that no consequence is provided if the periods so mentioned are exceeded. Though this decision is not in the context of the 14-day period provided by Section 7(4), we are of the view that this would apply squarely on all fours so that the period of 14 days given to NCLT for decision under Section 7(4) would be directory. We are conscious of the fact that under Section 64(1) of the Code, NCLT President or the Chairperson of Nclat may, after taking into account reasons by NCLT or Nclat for exceeding the period mentioned by statute, extend the period of 14 days by a period not exceeding 10 days. We may note that even this provision is directory, in that no consequence is provided either if the period is not extended, or after the extension expires. This is also for the good reason that an act of the court cannot harm the litigant before it.