The protection under Article 105 and Article 194 guarantees that the vote of an elected member of Parliament or the state legislature, as the case may be, cannot be the subject of proceedings in court. It does not guarantee a “secret ballot”. In fact, even when elected members of Parliament or of the state legislature vote on Bills during a sitting of the House, which undisputedly falls within the ambit of Articles 105 and 194, they are not assured of a secret ballot. While voting is ordinarily carried out by a voice vote, members of the legislature can seek what is referred to as a “division vote.” In such a case the division of votes, i.e. which member voted in favour or against the motion is visible to the entire House and the general public. It cannot be gainsaid that the purpose of parliamentary privilege under Article 194(2) is not to provide the legislature with anonymity in their votes or speeches in Parliament but to protect them from legal proceedings pertaining to votes which they cast or speeches which they make. That the content of the votes and speeches of their elected representatives be accessible to citizens is an essential part of parliamentary democracy. 580 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 184. Mr Raju Ramachandran, senior counsel on behalf of the appellant has argued that the observations in Kuldip Nayar (supra) do not constitute the ratio decidendi of the and are obiter. It is trite law that this Court is only bound by the ratio of the previous decision. There may be some merit to this contention. However, in any event, this being a combination of seven judges of this Court, it is clarified that voting for elections to the Rajya Sabha falls within the ambit of Article 194(2). On all other counts, the decision of the Constitution bench in Kuldip Nayar (supra) remains good law. 185. Interestingly, Kuldip Nayar (supra) is yet another case where the Court relied on the minority in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) to strengthen the proposition that while interpreting the Constitution, the Court should adopt a construction which strengthens the foundational features and the basic structure of the Constitution. Applying this proposition of law to the question of whether voting to the Rajya Sabha is covered within the ambit of Article 194(2) also brings us to a similar conclusion. 186. One of us (DY Chandrachud, J) in K.S. Puttaswamy (Aadhaar- 5J.) v. Union of India,91 had occasion to reflect on the significance of the Rajya Sabha and bicameralism on the “foundations of our democracy”. It was observed that: “1106. The institutional structure of the Rajya Sabha has been developed to reflect the pluralism of the nation and its diversity of language, culture, perception and interest. The Rajya Sabha was envisaged by the Makers of the Constitution to ensure a wider scrutiny of legislative proposals. As a second chamber of Parliament, it acts as a check on hasty and ill-conceived legislation, providing an opportunity for scrutiny of legislative business.