Therefore, this Court may quash the remission s passed under Section 432 of the CrPC if they appear to be poorly reasoned. (vii) that there is a need to situate the crimes committed in the larger context of sectarian and communal violence that was ensuing in the 2002 riots in Gujarat State. That the crimes were specifically targeted at the victim on the basis of her religion and gender. That these heinous crimes constitute crimes against humanity. It was submitted that the nature of the crime is important to consider while deciding whether to grant remission. The heinousness of the crimes committed by respondent Nos.3 to 13, the communal motivation of the crimes and the context in which those took place are contended to have not been considered by the State while granting remission. Reliance was placed on Sanaboina Satyanarayana vs. Government of Andhra Pradesh, (2003) 10 SCC 78 (“Sanaboina Satyanarayana”), wherein a certain Government issued by the State of Andhra Pradesh that excluded from the scope of remission those prisoners who had committed crimes against women and were sentenced to life imprisonment was upheld by this Court considering the nature of the offences. (viii) that the Executive is bound not merely by provisions of the CrPC but also by the overarching spirit of the Constitution that seeks to promote the upliftment of women, children, and minorities and to protect these groups from further vulnerability and marginalization. That the policies and actions of the State must be guided by this vision. 800 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ix) that, in accordance with the aforementioned constitutional principles, grant of remission to those persons sentenced to life imprisonment and accused of crimes under the Scheduled Castes and Schedules Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, the Explosive Substances Act and the Indian Arms Act, as well as crimes against women under Sections 376 and 354 of the IPC must not be permissible. Factors such as the opinion of the Presiding Judge, public interest, potential for recidivism, impact on the victims and on society and the nature of the offence must be borne in mind by the State, as held in Epuru Sudhakar, Sanaboina Satyanarayana and Zahid Hussain vs. State of West Bengal, 2001 (3) SCC 750 (“Zahid Hussain”). That the non-consideration of these factors proves the mala fide, arbitrary and unreasonable manner in which the impugned s were passed. (x) that the 1992 Policy of remission of the State of Gujarat does not contain any substantive guidelines pertaining to remission and merely deals with procedural formalities. That the 2014 Policy is thus the first instance at which categories of crimes for which remission may not be granted was outlined. As such, it is the 2014 Policy that would apply to the question of remission for respondent Nos.3 to 13. (xi) that the grant of remission to the respondent Nos.3 to 13 is in violation of India’s obligations under international law, specifically instruments such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women.