Despite the appellant’s allegation that the release of the said accused on bail from the police station was done hurriedly, almost immediately after arrest, in to conceal the identity of the person who was released and that an unconnected stranger might have been released from the police station, no other material which substantiates the bona fides of respondent nos. 3, 4 and 5 have been made available before us at the present moment. 82. It is the case of the IO at Dakshin, Firozabad that sanction for prosecution of the accused respondents was not granted by the D.I.G., Gwalior citing the pendency of Case No. 15003 of 2007 in Case Crime No. 967 of 2007 registered for the offence under the Excise Act before the CJM, Gwalior. However, those proceedings have been stayed by the High Court of Madya Pradesh vide dated 25.08.2009 and therefore, the question of sanction can be re-visited, if found necessary. 83. As far as respondent no. 1 is concerned, it is made clear that there would be no requirement for sanction since he was not acting in the discharge of his official duty by virtue of not being posted at Murar Police Station, Gwalior at the relevant time when the alleged false case was registered. As a consequence, the extent of the involvement of respondent no. 1 in the alleged conspiracy to murder can be determined by the Trial Court upon a further examination of the evidence adduced before itself. However, so far as the respondent nos. 3, 4 and 5 respectively are concerned, if the case of the prosecution that they had also played a dubious role in registering a false case is correct then the requirement of sanction would not be a sin qua non for proceeding further with the criminal proceedings. However, the defence must be given an opportunity to rebut the same by leading appropriate evidence. 84. At this juncture on a prima facie examination of the materials adduced before us, we are of the opinion that the criminal proceedings pending before the CJM, Firozabad as Case Nos. 67 of 2008 and 67A of 2009 should not have been quashed at such a preliminary stage. In cases where there is a legitimate doubt as regards whether sanction for prosecution under Section 197 CrPC is required or not, the progress of the trial must not be hampered or unnecessarily delayed. Therefore, the CJM, Firozabad had rightly taken cognizance of the two charge sheets vide its s dated 24.11.2008 and 10.08.2009 respectively. The High Court committed an error in failing to consider this aspect 836 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports while quashing the proceedings in Case No. 67 of 2008 and 67A of 2009 respectively vide its impugned . 85. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the Trial Court is directed to proceed with the trial and at any stage of the trial if the evidence suggests that the acts complained of were indeed done or purported to be done in the discharge of official duty by respondent nos.