It was of the opinion that it was ill-conceived to allow for a legal structure where the States would step in only after alcohol was made potable as this would either result in a lacuna in regulation or permit the Union to regulate a field which it was not empowered to in terms of the Seventh Schedule. The three-Judge Bench held that the line of demarcation should be drawn at the stage of clearance or removal of rectified spirit. Put differently, the Bench held that the purpose for which the rectified spirit was manufactured would determine whether the Union or the States would tax and control it. It elaborated that: a. Industries which manufactured rectified spirit exclusively for supply to industries other than those which manufactured potable liquor would be under the total and exclusive control of the Union including for the purpose of levying excise duty. This extended to denatured alcohol as well. The power of the States with respect to this category was limited to ensuring that such alcohol was not illegally diverted to create potable alcohol. The States could levy regulatory fees to defray the costs of the staff deployed for this purpose; [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2035 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons b. Industries which manufactured rectified spirit exclusively for the purpose of manufacturing potable alcohol would be under the total and exclusive control of the States in all respects and at all stages including levying excise duty; and c. The power to permit the establishment of industries which manufactured rectified spirit for both the purposes delineated above as well as the regulation of such industries would be exclusively with the Union. The Union could levy excise duty on rectified spirit which was cleared or removed for supply to industries and the States could levy excise duty on rectified spirit which was cleared or removed for manufacturing potable alcohol. The removal or clearance of alcohol would be under the joint supervision of the Union and the States to ensure that excise duty was not evaded. 129. In Bihar Distillery (supra), the issue before this Court was whether the State has the competence to regulate raw material (“rectified spirit”) for the preparation of “intoxicating liquor” which was interpreted to only mean potable liquor. Justice Jeevan Reddy, writing for the three-Judge Bench, saw it fit to draw a purpose based delineation because rectified spirit could be used to prepare both potable alcohol and other products. The shortcoming of this reasoning is evident in the manner in which the Bench deals with composite industries, that is, industries which manufacture both rectified spirit for the purpose of potable alcohol and the production of other products. The regulation of such composite industries was held to be with the Union though there was no constitutional basis for such a division. This Bench, having expounded on the meaning of “intoxicating liquor” to include variants of alcohol which are prone to be misused, the interpretations of Synthetics (7J) summarised in paragraph 126 of this are overruled.