It is to be noted that none appeared for the appellant in the appeal. Subsequently, the appellant filed CMP No.10107 of 2017 in OSA No.189 of 2011, praying therein to “set aside” the First Impugned and for restoration of the main appeal for fresh hearing. The appellant contended that his erstwhile counsel (Mr. V. Manohar) was authorized only to appear in the MP filed to condone the delay [MP No.1 of 2011] and that there was no notice issued to him after registering of the appeal. The Division Bench vide the Second Impugned dismissed the CMP. SUBMISSIONS BY THE APPELLANT-PLAINTIFF: 11. At the outset, the learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the Division Bench of the High Court gravely erred in holding that the plaint averments were not sufficient to conclude that there was a valid mortgage entitling him to sue for a mortgage decree. It was submitted that the plaint, read as a whole, alongwith the Agreement, the Proof Affidavits and evidence of PW-1/appellant and DW1/respondent clearly evince the fact that a loan was secured by the respondent by mortgaging the schedule property. The amount in the Agreement pertains to loan transactions for which the mortgage was created by the Respondent. It was submitted that in such circumstances, the findings in the First Impugned are highly erroneous. 12. It was submitted by learned counsel that the Single Judge has rightly arrived at the conclusion that the present case is one where the respondent agreed to create a mortgage by depositing the title deed. There was an actionable debt and the respondent had fully intended that the deed ought to be the security for the debt. The Single Judge had also noted that the respondent in his evidence as DW1, had agreed to deposit the title deed to create an “equitable mortgage” for the loan amount obtained by him from the appellant. Thus, the Single Judge had rightly decreed the appellant’s suit and passed preliminary decree of mortgage. 13. It was further submitted that the Division Bench in the First Impugned had erred in holding that there was no stipulation to pay interest in the Agreement and that therefore the rate of interest as granted by the Single Judge could not have been so granted. It was submitted that various loans were advanced by the appellant to the 1008 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports respondent categorically stipulating interest at the rate of 36% p.a. on repayment. Once this contractual rate of interest was agreed upon by the parties, there was no scope for the Division Bench to state that there was no stipulation to pay interest in the Agreement. The Agreement had to be read in conjunction with various promissory notes and documents evidencing the mortgage and repayment of the loan with interest. Learned counsel contended that the Division Bench erred in holding that there was no prayer for grant of a personal decree against the respondent. It was submitted that the prayer clause of the plaint would show to the contrary.