54 of 2013. 8. Thus, Complainant has challenged the impugned of granting bail on primary ground that the accused persons are dreaded criminals as initially they have committed two murders and later co- accused Chandra Kumar and Rishi Kumar, the sons of co-accused Arvind Kumar killed a Police Constable Ajay Kumar while he was on duty during the course of trial. Therefore, Complainant fears that after being released from jail, they will hatch another conspiracy for eliminating the complainant and his family members. 9. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material on record. 10. The High Court has granted bail taking into consideration the following two factors: i) Period of incarceration; ii) Two other co-accused have been granted bail. 566 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. It appears that before the High Court, the fact relating to the murder of Ajay Kumar Police Constable in whose custody the accused Chandra Kumar and Rishi Kumar were produced before the Trial Court at Mainpuri and further, the fact that they had absconded after throwing the dead body of deceased Constable Ajay Kumar and later on arrested by Special Task Force (STF) from Maharashtra and during their arrest also they had resisted and opened fire on the police party for which a separate case was registered. Such facts have not been placed before the High Court. These were relevant facts which ought to have been placed before the High Court. The parity mentioned by the High Court in the impugned relating to Adesh Kumar and Pramod Kashyap was clearly distinguishable not only with respect to their role in the case in hand but also, they were not involved in the murder of Ajay Kumar Police Constable. 12. In our considered opinion, two accused respondents namely Chandra Kumar and Rishi Kumar despite their period of incarceration of more than 10 years would not be entitled to grant of bail for their subsequent conduct for which they are facing separate trial. 13. Insofar as Arvind Kumar is concerned, he is not charge sheeted in the murder case of Ajay Kumar as such we are not inclined to interfere with the of the High Court granting bail to him i.e. Arvind Kumar. However, insofar as the other two accused Rishi Kumar and Chandra Kumar are concerned, their bail deserves to be cancelled. 14. Accordingly, the appeal against Arvind Kumar is dismissed, and other two appeals i.e. against Chandra Kumar and Rishi Kumar are allowed. The impugned of the High Court granting bail to Rishi Kumar and Chandra Kumar is set aside. They may surrender within two weeks failing which the High court will take appropriate steps for taking them into custody using coercive measures as are permissible under law. Headnotes prepared by: Result of the case: Harshit Anand, Hony. Associate Editor Appeals disposed of. (Verified by: Shadan Farasat, Adv.)