In our opinion, the key distinction between Section 19(1) and Section 45 is the authority undertaking the exercise, in each case. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2399 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement Under Section 19(1), it is the designated/authorised officer who records in writing, their “reasons to believe” that the arrestee is ‘guilty’ of an offence under the PML Act. Thus, the arrest is based on the opinion of such officer, which opinion is open to judicial review, however not merits review, in terms of the well-settled principles of law. Contrastingly, under Section 45, it is the Special Court which undertakes the exercise. The Special Court independently examines pleas and contentions of both the accused and the DoE, and arrives at an objective opinion. The Special Court is not bound by the opinion of the designated/authorised officer recorded in the “reasons to believe”. A court’s opinion is different and cannot be equated to an officer’s opinion. While the Special Court’s opinion is determinative, and is only subject to appeal before the higher courts, the DoE’s opinion is not in the same category as it is open to judicial review. 45. In Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), the three Judge Bench has in paragraph 131 referred to the decision in Ranjitsing Brahmajeetsing Sharma v. State of Maharashtra and another,40 a case of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999,41 which observes as under: “44. The wording of Section 21(4), in our opinion, does not lead to the conclusion that the court must arrive at a positive finding that the applicant for bail has not committed an offence under the Act. If such a construction is placed, the court intending to grant bail must arrive at a finding that the applicant has not committed such an offence. In such an event, it will be impossible for the prosecution to obtain a of conviction of the applicant. Such cannot be the intention of the legislature. Section 21(4) of MCOCA, therefore, must be construed reasonably. It must be so construed that the court is able to maintain a delicate balance between a of acquittal and conviction and an granting bail much before commencement of trial. Similarly, the Court will be required to record a finding as to the possibility of his committing a crime after grant of bail. However, such an offence in futuro must be 40 [2005] 3 SCR 345 : (2005) 5 SCC 294 41 For short, “MCOCA”. 2400 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports an offence under the Act and not any other offence. Since it is difficult to predict the future conduct of an accused, the court must necessarily consider this aspect of the matter having regard to the antecedents of the accused, his propensities and the nature and manner in which he is alleged to have committed the offence. 45. It is, furthermore, trite that for the purpose of considering an application for grant of bail, although detailed reasons are not necessary to be assigned, the granting bail must demonstrate application of mind at least in serious cases as to why the applicant has been granted or denied the privilege of bail.