In State of Rajasthan v. Sanyam Lodha,26 this Court was considering whether absent a challenge to the law/rule, the same could be read down. Answering in the negative, Hon’ble R. V. Raveendran, J. (as His Lordship then was) speaking for the bench held: “12. It is true that any provision of an enactment can be read down so as to erase the obnoxious or unconstitutional element in it or to bring it in conformity with the object of such enactment. Similarly, a rule forming part of executive instructions can also be read down to save it from invalidity or to bring it in conformity with the avowed policy of the Government. When courts find a rule to be defective or 26 (2011) 13 SCC 262 1820 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports violative of the constitutional or statutory provision, they tend to save the rule, wherever possible and practical, by reading it down by a benevolent interpretation, rather than declare it as unconstitutional or invalid. But such an occasion did not arise in this case as there was no challenge to the validity of Rule 5 and the parties were not at issue on the validity of the said Rule. We are therefore of the view that in the absence of any challenge to the Relief Fund Rules and an opportunity to the State Government to defend the validity of Rule 5, the High Court ought not to have modified or read down the said Rule.” 25. Caution has been sounded in Subramanian Swamy v. Raju 27 in the following words: “61. Reading down the provisions of a statute cannot be resorted to when the meaning thereof is plain and unambiguous and the legislative intent is clear. The fundamental principle of the ‘reading down’ doctrine can be summarised as follows. Courts must read the legislation literally in the first instance. If on such reading and understanding the vice of unconstitutionality is attracted, the courts must explore whether there has been an unintended legislative omission. If such an intendment can be reasonably implied without undertaking what, unmistakably, would be a legislative exercise, the Act may be read down to save it from unconstitutionality. The above is a fairly well-established and well-accepted principle of interpretation which having been reiterated by this Court time and again would obviate the necessity of any recall of the huge number of precedents…” 26. On the question as to whether harshness of a provision could afford reason for reading down the same, we find that a three-Judge bench of this Court in Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu 28 speaking through Hon’ble J.B. Pardiwala, J. has held as follows: 27 (2014) 8 SCC 390 28 (2024) 6 SCC 641 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1821 Allahabad University Etc. v. Geetanjali Tiwari (Pandey) & Ors. Etc. Etc. “100. Thus, the principle of ‘Reading Down’ a provision emanates from a very well-settled canon of law, that is, the courts while examining the validity of a particular statute should always endeavour towards upholding its validity, and striking down a legislation should always be the last resort.