In the decision in S.M.S. Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Neeta Bhalla & Anr.8, this Court held that the settled position for summoning of an accused is that the Court has to see the prima facie evidence. This Court went on to hold that the ‘prima facie evidence’ means the evidence sufficient for summoning the accused and not the evidence sufficient to warrant conviction. The inquiry under Section 202, Cr.PC, is limited only to ascertain whether on the material placed by the complainant a prima facie case was made out for summoning the accused or not. 7 [2015] 1 SCR 377 : (2015) 4 SCC 609 8 [2005] Supp. 3 SCR 371 : (2005) 8 SCC 89 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1233 Vikas Chandra v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. 17. In an earlier decision in Smt. Nagawwa v. Veeranna Shivalingappa Konjalgi & Ors.9, this Court laid down certain conditions whereunder a complaint can be quashed invoking the power under Section 482, Cr.PC, thus: - "(1) where the allegations made in the complaint or the statements of the witnesses recorded in support of the same taken at their face value make out absolutely no case against the accused or the complaint does not disclose the essential ingredients of an offence which is alleged against the accused; (2) where the allegations made in the complaint are patently absurd and inherently improbable so that no prudent person can ever reach a conclusion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused; (3) where the discretion exercised by the Magistrate in issuing process is capricious and arbitrary having been based either on no evidence or on materials which are wholly irrelevant or inadmissible; and (4) where the complaint suffers from fundamental legal defects, such as, want of sanction, or absence of a complaint by legally competent authority and the like.” 18. Having understood the scope of interference with issuance of summons in exercise of power under Section 482, Cr.PC, we will move on to consider the question whether the impugned justifies such interference or in other words, whether impugned invites interference? We have briefly narrated the case revealed from the complaint and also taken note of the fact(s) that the High Court under the impugned arrived at the finding that no material is available, suggesting instigation by the respondent No.2 in the suicide note and nothing indicative of occurrence of an incidence and utterance of words as mentioned by the complainant, were vividly stated or even alluded, therein. In view of the fact that summons was issued to the respondent No.2 to stand the trial for the offence under Section 306, IPC it is only apt to analyse the said Section to 9 [1976] Supp. 1 SCR 123 : (1976) 3 SCC 736 1234 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports find out the ingredients to attract the same and also whether the complaint and the evidence collected during the inquiry and also during the investigation which resulted in the filing of the closure report prima facie discloses sufficient ground for proceeding and to issue summons to the respondent No.2 to face the trial for the offence under Section 306, IPC.