The matter arose before this Court because the petitioner therein being a government servant was being proceeded against in the absence of a sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC for the offences under Sections 148, 302, 325, 323, 149 and 120-B of the IPC. The contention of the petitioner therein was that cognizance of the offence under Section 197 of the CrPC could not have been taken nor the trial proceeded with without the sanction of the appropriate authorities. The question was, whether, while investigating and performing his duties as a police officer, was it necessary for the petitioner therein to conduct himself in such a manner which would result in such consequences such as injuries of one of the alleged accused and consequent death. Dwelling on the said issue, this Court observed that in the facts and circumstances of each case, protection of public officers and public servants functioning in discharge of official duties and protection of private citizens have to be balanced by finding out as to what extent and how far is a public servant working in discharge of his duties or purported discharge of his duties and whether the public servant has exceeded his limits. Taking note of Section 197 of the CrPC which is at the stage of taking cognizance, this Court observed that the criminal trial should not be stayed in all cases at the preliminary stage and it was observed on the facts of the case 1622 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that the trial should proceed and the question of sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC may be agitated after some evidences have been noted by the trial court. c) In Urmila Devi vs. Yudhvir Singh (2013) 15 SCC 624, (“Urmila Devi”) there are two concurring s by this Court. In the said case, the facts were that the appellant therein had filed a complaint against the respondent alleging that the respondent therein had threatened the appellant and another person that if they did not withdraw the complaint filed by them earlier as against a third person under Section 500 of the IPC both of them will not remain in service. The learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Panchkula had summoned the accused Nos.1 to 10 and 12 to face the trial for the offences under Sections 323, 354, 389, 452, 458, 500 and 506 read with Sections 34 and 120-B of the IPC. It was contended that none of the acts complained of against the respondent therein would amount to exercise of any powers in his official capacity as the SDM and, therefore, he could not have taken umbrage under Section 197 of the CrPC. On considering the allegations against the respondent therein, this Court observed that the behaviour of the respondent therein as written in the complaint of the appellant, if found to be true, could only be held to be a high- handed one bing on indecency of the highest , wholly abusing his status as the SDM and can never be held to have acted within the statutory framework of law.