It has been observed that the said provisions have been deliberately and designedly omitted in Article 131 of the Constitution and now any legal right can be enforced by a suit in this Court provided the parties fill the character specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Article 131 of the Constitution. What is required to be considered is that in determining the maintainability of the suits, whether any legal right of the States is sought to be vindicated or not. His Lordship, in paragraph 142, specifically observed that the suits for consideration before it sought to enforce a legal right of the States arising under the Constitution and the suits could not be thrown out in limine as being outside the scope and ambit of Article 131 of the Constitution. The same view has been taken by Justice P.K. Goswami in paragraph 159 with regard to parties that may be impleaded in a suit under Article 131 of the Constitution as well as with regard to the subject matter of the litigation. 43. In the light of the law laid down in the case of State of Rajasthan and Others v. Union of India and Others (supra), which is a of seven Judges of this Court, we will have to examine the rival submissions. 706 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports VI. CONSIDERATION: a. Reading of the Plaint: 44. As observed hereinabove, in a catena of s, it has been held that for considering the preliminary objections, only the averments made in the plaint are to be looked into to determine as to whether a cause of action has been made out or not. In that regard, it will be relevant to refer to some of the paragraphs in the plaint, which read thus: “3. Article 246(1) empowers the Parliament with exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I, Seventh Schedule (known as the Union List). Entry 80, List I is relevant in this regard: “80. Extension of the powers and jurisdiction of members of a police force belonging to any State to any area outside that State, but not so as to enable the police of one State to exercise powers and jurisdiction in any area outside that State without the consent of the Government of the State in which such area is situated; extension of the powers and jurisdiction of members of a police force belonging to any State to railway areas outside that State.” 4. That the police powers come within the State’s exclusive jurisdiction is also recognized in Article 246(3) of the Constitution, which provides that the State has exclusive power to make laws for such state for any of the matters enumerated in List II. Specifically, of such matters, Entry 1 and Entry 2 are relevant which are: “1. Public (but not including the use of any naval, military or air force or any other armed force of the Union or of any other force subject to the control of the Union or of any contingent or unit thereof in aid of the civil power).