The NCDRC had awarded compensation on depreciated basis. Before this Court, the complainant relied on Clause 9 of the conditions, particularly the second para, which Clause 9 was similar to the Clause 9 in the present case. Even the Insurance Company contended as follows: 318 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. It is submitted that as rightly observed by the NCDRC that the goods insured were to be replaced on “as is basis” i.e., if the machinery is an old machinery, it is to be replaced by an old machinery and therefore, as the actual reinstatement has not been done by the complainant or by the insurance company and the money is to be paid to the insured on reinstatement basis, one has to find out the value of the machinery on replacement basis i.e., the value of the old machinery, which can be calculated only through deducting the value of the depreciation from the current value of the machinery. 74. It appears that even the Insured does not appear to have disputed that the payment ought to have been on reinstatement basis and the money is to be paid on reinstatement basis. Further, no clause similar to the memorandum of reinstatement value clause appears to have existed in Oswal Plastic Industries (supra). 75. In any event, independent of the above, no argument was raised in the NCDRC and even in the memo of appeal here based on second para of Clause 9. At the stage of final arguments in the appeals, we are not prepared to permit this ambush argument by allowing the Insured to mechanically rely on Oswal Plastic Industries (supra) without establishing the factual similarity by laying an appropriate foundation in the courts below. Hence, Oswal Plastic Industries (supra) has no application to the facts of the present case. IRDA Regulations 76. In so far as the argument based on Regulation 9(3) of the IRDA (Protection of Policyholders’ Interests) Regulations, 2002, we find there is no breach thereof. Regulation 9(3) of the IRDA reads as follows: 9. Claim procedure in respect of a general insurance policy xxx (3) If an insurer, on the receipt of a survey report, finds that it is incomplete in any respect, he shall require the surveyor under intimation to the insured, to furnish an additional report on certain specific issues as may be required by the insurer. Such a request may be made by the insurer within 15 days of the receipt of the original survey report. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 319 New India Assurance Company Ltd. Through its Manager v. M/s Tata Steel Ltd. Provided that the facility of calling for an additional report by the insurer shall not be resorted to more than once in the case of a claim. 77. This clause has no application to the facts of the present case. As has been illustrated above, the second report of 11.12.2001 was based on negotiations held up to July, 1999. Thereafter there were several developments including the Insured’s claim to first give up reinstatement and then reintroduce the claim for reinstating the mill.