1899 Bijay Agarwal v. M/s Medilines in N. Harihara Krishnan. This clarified that a signatory is merely authorised to sign on behalf of the company and does not become the drawer. The respondents’ interpretation aligns with the principle that penal statutes should be interpreted strictly, particularly in determining vicarious liability. The in K.K. Ahuja further supports this approach, emphasising that penal provisions must be read strictly to determine liability. 35. In conclusion, the High Court’s decision to interpret “drawer” strictly as the issuer of the cheque, excluding authorised signatories, is well-founded.” 14. As noted earlier, Section 148 would make it clear that it empowers the Appellate Court in an appeal by the drawer against conviction under Section 138, NI Act, to direct to deposit a sum which shall be a minimum of 20% of the fine or compensation awarded by the trial Court and the same shall be in addition to any interim compensation paid by the appellant under Section 143A. When this be the position revealed from Sections 143A and 148 there cannot be any doubt with respect to the position that the term ‘drawer’ referred to in Section 148 and 143A means ‘drawer of the cheque concerned’. Ergo, the question is whether the law laid down in the decision in Shri Gurudatta Sugars Marketing Pvt. Ltd.’s case (surpa) is applicable proprio vigore in cases involving the question of liability to pay additional compensation, as contemplated under Section 148(1), NI Act. The proviso to Section 148(1) itself makes it specifically clear that the amount payable under Section 148(1), NI Act, if the Appellate Court so directs, shall be in addition to any interim compensation paid by the appellant concerned under Section 143A, NI Act. It is nobody’s case that the appellant was made to pay interim compensation under Section 143A, in relation to the original proceedings. Be that as it may, the other question is whether an authorised signatory of the cheque can be said to be the drawer of the cheque concerned? We may hasten to add here that we were not addressed on the question whether the appellant herein could be saddled with the liability to pay such additional compensation in terms of Section 148(1) by virtue of the provision under Section 141, NI Act which extends liability to the officers of the company for the dishonour of a cheque and as such, we do not propose to consider that aspect as it need be considered only when pointedly posed for consideration based on proven facts. 1900 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. There can be no doubt with respect to the position that Section 143A and 148 empowers the Court trying an offence under Section 138 and the Appellate Court considering an appeal by a drawer against his conviction under Section 138 respectively to fasten liability to pay interim compensation and additional compensation under Section 148(1), as the case may be, and therefore, the question whether any particular officer of the company concerned can be made to pay interim compensation or deposit additional compensation under the aforesaid relevant provision(s) would depend upon the question whether he is only a signatory of the cheque or whether he is the drawer of the cheque.