f. If there is no real yield advantage, DMH-11 cannot be marketed to the farmers as having yield advantage, as this would be misleading for supporting its environmental and commercial release. g. In the 134th meeting of GEAC, the applicant of DMH-11 was advised to conduct research on the effect thereof on honey bees. The said advisory was given a go by and the study was directed to be done after environmental release 2024 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of DMH-11. It is submitted that the DBT has funded the development of DMH-11 and therefore, its recommendation to forego studies on honey bees is a case of conflict of interest and ignores all precautionary principles. h. That even though there is no immediate advantage from the environmental release of DMH-11, the immediate and irreversible disadvantage from its release is the scientific certainty of contamination of non-GM/non-HT mustard hybrids/varieties through cross pollination from bees, thereby: − irreversibly threatening biodiversity, as eventually all non-GM/non-HT mustard will be contaminated; − irreversibly eliminating choice of consumers to eat non-GM/non-HT mustard, in the absence of any mechanism to prevent pollination by bees, which is accentuated by the absence of any laws for labelling; − irreversibly coercing farmers who do not wish to grow GM crops to be susceptible to their crops being contaminated with transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 with no legal mechanism for redress or liability for losses suffered; − irreversibly causing loss to organic farmers and the entire agro-economic system relying on non-GM crops as their products can no longer be certified as GM-free. For instance, honey, which is produced in the country from mustard flowers, can no longer be certified as organic or GM-free in the absence of elaborate testing for each and every product. Hence, there is a need for studies with regard to long-term effects on biosafety and the hazards from environmental release of DMH-11. i. The present writ petition has been filed seeking to put in place a comprehensive, stringent, scientifically rigorous and transparent biosafety test protocol in the public domain for GMOs before they may be released into the environment. This is because GMOs are a serious potential hazard and several dimensions of biosafety are necessary before their [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2025 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. release into the environment. The proper and independent testing of GMOs is essential in view of the concern of the irreversible contamination of non-GMOs crops and the environment at large. This is unlike a drug, which when tested to be unsafe, can be recalled. It is contended that the GMO contamination of the environment would affect the nation’s foundational seed stock and change the structure of the food at the molecular level without recourse. j. The right to health being a fundamental right, it is necessary that the Union Government and the Regulators put in place a rigorous mechanism so as to avoid the harm caused by GMOs, such as chronic toxicity and other unattended effects including health hazards.