However, the report submitted by the Village Administrative Officer, after a detailed enquiry and through the documentary evidence collected, would clearly establish that the appellant’s father belonged to Scheduled Caste community and the appellant’s mother was a Christian and their marriage was performed as per the Christian rituals and duly registered on 12.11.1987 by Rev.Fr.E.Showry as evident from the certificate issued on 15.03.2017 by the parish of Lourdes Shine, Villianur and thereafter, the appellant’s father had converted to Christianity through baptism; baptism of the appellant’s brother was done on 07.05.1989; and the appellant was born on 22.11.1990 and she was baptized on 06.01.1991 at Lourdes Shrine, Villianur, Pondicherry within two months. Therefore, it is clear that the appellant was a born Christian and she would not be entitled to claim the certificate under Scheduled Caste Category. The said facts were also admitted by four persons of the same village viz., Alencon Karthick, Ravishankar, Prakash and Arumugam of Kombakkampet by stating that the appellant had undertaken baptism and regularly attended the church activities and her name found place in the Church’s baptismal register. The objector Anand in his letter dated 06.01.2016 had categorically averred that the appellant belongs to Christian religion. On the other hand, the statement of the villagers viz., Punniyakodi, Paramadayalam, Gabral and Dess, [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1517 C. Selvarani v. The Special Secretary-Cum-District Collector and Others that the appellant’s mother being Christian by birth, used to go to Villianur and Kompakkampet village church as she professes Christianity, is contrary to the statement made by the appellant that her mother had converted to Hinduism after marriage and started to profess the same. In such circumstances, the appellant ought to have produced something more than mere statements. When the facts are otherwise, she cannot simply claim that her father got reconverted and she and her mother converted. The appellant and her family, if they really intended to get themselves converted, ought to have done some positive act to evince such conversion rather than a meek claim to be practicing Hinduism. One of the methods of conversion is by adopting a procedure prescribed through the Arya Samaj. A public declaration to the effect of evincing conversion could also have been made. There is no documentary evidence to that effect and the oral evidence sought to be relied upon by the appellant is also against her. Even assuming that the appellant’s mother had converted to Hinduism after marriage, she ought not to have baptized her children in the church and hence, the statement of the appellant is untrustworthy. The certified copies of the baptism and extract from the register of marriage of the appellant’s parents at Lourdes Shrine, Villianur gathered by the Village Administrative Officer, Murungapakkam Village, further disclosed that the appellant’s father is a converted Christian and the appellant was baptized after her birth. Thus, it can safely be inferred by us that the appellant is a Christian by religion and she does not profess Hinduism. In view of that, in terms of the S.C. , 1964, as per which, the Scheduled Caste community certificate can be issued only to a person who is professing either Hinduism Sikhism or Buddhism, the appellant is not entitled to the Scheduled Caste community certificate.