In absence of any mechanism prescribing the procedure, the discretionary powers vested with authorities concerned have been subject matter of multiple layers of litigation before Courts throughout India. Eventually, the issue concerning the procedure to be followed for adjudication of caste claims was considered in detail by Constitution Bench of this Court in ‘Kumari Madhuri Patil and Another Vs. Additional Commissioner, Tribal Development and Others, (1994) 6 SCC 241’, wherein this Court expressed grave concerns about the deprivation of benefits to genuine candidates, especially when caste certificate has been obtained fraudulently on the basis of forged documents and social status. This Court laid emphasis on the need of the hour to streamline 130 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the procedure for issuance of caste certificates, their scrutiny and validation thereafter. Resultantly, this Court exercising the powers under Article 142 of Constitution of India, laid down exhaustive procedural guidelines in para 13 which is reproduced below as thus – 13. ……..It is, therefore, necessary that the certificates issued are scrutinized at the earliest and with utmost expedition and promptitude. For that purpose, it is necessary to streamline the procedure for the issuance of social status certificates, their scrutiny and their approval, which may be the following: 1. The application for grant of social status certificate shall be made to the Revenue Sub-Divisional Officer and Deputy Collector or Deputy Commissioner and the certificate shall be issued by such officer rather than at the Officer, Taluk or Mandal level. 2. The parent, guardian or the candidate, as the case may be, shall file an affidavit duly sworn and attested by a competent gazetted officer or non-gazetted officer with particulars of castes and sub-castes, tribe, tribal community, parts or groups of tribes or tribal communities, the place from which he originally hails from and other particulars as may be prescribed by the Directorate concerned. 3. Application for verification of the caste certificate by the Scrutiny Committee shall be filed at least six months in advance before seeking admission into educational institution or an appointment to a post. 4. All the State Governments shall constitute a Committee of three officers, namely, (I) an Additional or Joint Secretary or any officer high-er in rank of the Director of the department concerned, (II) the Director, Social Welfare/Tribal Welfare/Backward Class Welfare, as the case may be, and (III) in the case of Scheduled Castes another officer who has intimate knowledge in the verification and issuance of the social status certificates. In the case of the Scheduled Tribes, the Research Officer who has intimate knowledge in identifying the tribes, tribal [2024] 4 S.C.R. 131 Navneet Kaur Harbhajansing Kundles @ Navneet Kaur Ravi Rana v. State of Maharashtra and Other communities, parts of or groups of tribes or tribal communities. 5. Each Directorate should constitute a vigilance cell consisting of Senior Deputy Superintendent of Police in over-all charge and such number of Police Inspectors to investigate into the social status claims. The Inspector would go to the local place of residence and original place from which the candidate hails and usually resides or in case of migration to the town or city, the place from which he originally hailed from.