1619 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. as the case may be. It is only the Parliament by law which can include in or exclude from the list of Scheduled Castes specified in the notification notified under Clause (1), any caste, race or tribe or part of or group within any caste, race or tribe. Such notification notified under Clause(1) cannot be varied even by the President by issuing any subsequent notification. (c) Etymology and Special Status of “Scheduled Castes” 41. Since the arguments have been advanced before us, on the issue whether the Scheduled Castes specified in the Presidential List under Clause (1) of Article 341 should be treated as a homogenous group or heterogenous group, let us peep into the etymology of the nomenclatures “Scheduled Castes” and “Scheduled Tribes”. Briefly stated, the practice of untouchability or caste-based discrimination was rampant particularly amongst Hindus in India during British era. Shri V.I. Muniswamy Pillai, in his speech (quoted hereinbefore) had informed the members of the Constituent Assembly about the background which brought out the special name of “Scheduled Castes”, and stated that it was untouchability, the social evil that was being practised by the Hindu Community for ages, that was responsible for the Government and the people to know the section of people coming under the category of Hindus and who were kept at the outskirts of the Hindu Society. Such class of people were being discriminated on the basis of their castes and occupations they were engaged in, like Sweepers, Scavengers, Chamars, Mochis, etc. They were known as “depressed classes.” The term “depressed classes” however was not synonymous with “backward classes”. From the study material placed before us, it appears that the Census Commissioner J.H. Hutton who conducted Census in 1931 had explained that the “depressed castes” were those castes, ‘the contact with whom entailed purification on the part of high caste Hindus’. These were the communities which suffered social disabilities such as being denied access to temples, use separate wells, and not being allowed to sit inside a school house etc. The term ‘depressed classes’ was being used only for low caste Hindus who suffered from the stigma of untouchability. The word “class” in “depressed class” was in fact referred to for “caste”. Eventually, the Government of India Act 1935 referred to the “depressed classes” as “Scheduled Castes”. The 1935 Act made it clear that “Scheduled 1620 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports castes” were none other than those who were previously known as “depressed classes”. Clause 26 of Schedule I appended to the said Act 1935 mentioned as under: “26(I) …………….the ‘scheduled castes’ means such castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes, being castes, races, tribes or parts or groups which appear to be His Majesty in Council to correspondence to the classes of persons formerly known as ‘depressed classes’, as His Majesty in Council may specify”. 42. The identification of the different castes for inclusion as Scheduled Castes in the said Schedule was based on an elaborate exercise conducted for each of the provinces as could be seen from the Schedule consisting of nine parts, to the 1935 Act.