But if precluding a candidate from appointment is in violation of the recruitment rules without there being a finding on such candidate’s unsuitability, such an action would fail the Article 14 test and shall be held to be arbitrary. The reason behind the Full Court Resolution is that better candidates ought to be found. That is different from a candidate excluded from the appointment process being found to be unsuitable. 21. Stipulations contained in Rule 21 of the 2001 Rules for making the select list were breached by the High Court administration in adopting the impugned resolution. The ratio of the decision in the case of Ram Sharan Maurya (supra) would not apply in the facts of this case and we have already discussed why we hold so. 22. Mr. Gupta’s stand is that applying a higher aggregate mark is not barred under the said Rules or Regulations. We are, however, unable to accept this submission. The very expression “aggregate” means combination of two or more processes and in the event the procedure for arriving at the aggregate has been laid down in the applicable Rules, a separate criteria cannot be carved out to enable change in the manner of making the aggregate marks. 240 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 23. So far as the ratio of the decision in the case of K. Manjusree (supra) is concerned, that authority deals with change of the Rules mid-way. In the case before us, in our opinion, if the High Court is permitted to alter the selection criteria after the performance of individual candidates is assessed, that would constitute alteration of the laid down Rules. We refer to paragraphs Nos. 14 and 15 of the of the Constitution Bench in the case of Sivanandan C.T. (supra), which lays down the principle of law on this point. We reproduce below the said passages from this authority:- “14. The decision of the High Court to prescribe a cut-off for the viva-voce examination was taken by the Administrative Committee on 27 February 2017 after the viva-voce was conducted between 16 and 24 January 2017. The process which has been adopted by the High Court suffers from several infirmities. Firstly, the decision of the High Court was contrary to Rule 2(c)(iii) which stipulated that the merit list would be drawn up on the basis of the marks obtained in the aggregate in the written examination and the viva-voce; secondly, the scheme which was notified by the High Court on 13 December 2012 clearly specified that there would be no cut off marks in respect of the viva- voce; thirdly, the notification of the High Court dated 30 September 2015 clarified that the process of short listing which would be carried out would be only on the basis of the length of practice of the members of the Bar, should the number of candidates be unduly large; and fourthly, the decision to prescribe cut off marks for the viva-voce was taken much after the viva-voce tests were conducted in the month of January 2017.