The Office of the Accountant General had noticed the manifest error/irregularity in grant of revised pay scale to the appellant and thus, a letter dated 15th April, 2009 was issued thereby, requiring the appellant to refund the excess amount which he had received on account of wrong pay scale having been conferred to him. He submitted that the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court rightly interpreted the Government Resolution dated 8th February, 1999 and recorded concurrent findings of fact denying relief to the appellant and thus, the appellant is not entitled to seek indulgence from this Court in this appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. He urged that the appeal should be dismissed. Discussions and Conclusion: - 17. We have given our thoughtful consideration to submissions advanced at bar and have gone through the material available on record. 18. At the outset, we may note that the fact regarding the appellant having been accorded time bound promotion from the post of Marketing Officer in Junior Selection Grade to Senior Selection Grade, Marketing Officer-cum-Assistant District Supply Officer (ADSO) as per his entitlement on 10th March 1991 is not in dispute. It is not the case of the respondents that the said promotion suffered from any irregularity or was given against the rules and regulations. The Resolution dated 19th January, 1991 placed on record as Annexure P-1 indicates that the next promotional channel from the post of the Lower Senior Grade (Marketing Officer) was to the post of Upper Senior Grade (Upper Marketing Officer). Earlier, the pay scale for the post of Lower Senior Grade (Marketing Officer) was fixed at Rs.1800-3330 whereas for the promotional post i.e. Upper Senior Grade (Marketing Officer), the applicable pay scale was fixed at Rs.2000-3800. The appellant having been duly promoted to the post of Upper Senior Grade (Upper Marketing Officer) w.e.f. 10th [2024] 8 S.C.R. 385 Jagdish Prasad Singh v. State of Bihar and Others March, 1991 was entitled to and was rightly given the pay scale of the promotional post. Pursuant to the 5th Pay Commission being applied, the Government of Bihar issued a Resolution dated 8th February, 1999, whereby the pay scale applicable to the post of Upper Senior Grade (Upper Marketing Officer) was revised from Rs.2000-3800 to Rs.6500-10500. The paragraph 11 (supra) of the said Government Resolution specifically protects the promotions granted to the employees prior to 31st December, 1995. Only those employees who were not promoted by the cut off date, i.e., 31st December, 1995 would get a notional promotion and consequent rise in pay scale which would come to an end w.e.f. 31st December, 1995. Apparently thus, the appellant could not have been put to a disadvantage and his pay scale could not have been reduced prospectively by virtue of the said Resolution. Even if paragraph 11 (supra) was not in existence, the appellant could not have been subjected to eight years after his retirement because there was no illegality in conferment of the revised pay scale to the appellant which was an action taken by the State Government as per the applicable rules and regulations.