The discretion vests in the court which is not arbitrary or irrational but judicial, guided by the principles of law as provided under section 45 of the 2002 Act. While dealing with a similar provision prescribing twin conditions in MCOCA, this court in Ranjitsing Brahmajeetsing Sharma (supra), held as under: “44. The wording of section 21(4), in our opinion, does not lead to the conclusion that the court must arrive at a positive finding that the applicant for bail has not committed an offence under the Act. If such a construction is placed, the court intending to grant bail must arrive at a finding that the applicant has not committed such an offence. In such [2024] 8 S.C.R. 965 Prem Prakash v. Union of India Through The Directorate of Enforcement an event, it will be impossible for the prosecution to obtain a of conviction of the applicant. Such cannot be the intention of the Legislature. Section 21(4) of the MCOCA, therefore, must be construed reasonably. It must be so construed that the court is able to maintain a delicate balance between a of acquittal and conviction and an granting bail much before commencement of trial. Similarly, the court will be required to record a finding as to the possibility of his committing a crime after grant of bail. However, such an offence in futuro must be an offence under the Act and not any other offence. Since it is difficult to predict the future conduct of an accused, the court must necessarily consider this aspect of the matter having regard to the antecedents of the accused, his propensities and the nature and manner in which he is alleged to have committed the offence. 45. It is, furthermore, trite that for the purpose of considering an application for grant of bail, although detailed reasons are not necessary to be assigned, the granting bail must demonstrate application of mind at least in serious cases as to why the applicant has been granted or denied the privilege of bail. 46. The duty of the court at this stage is not to weigh the evidence meticulously but to arrive at a finding on the basis of broad probabilities. However, while dealing with a special statute like MCOCA having regard to the provisions contained in sub-section (4) of section 21 of the Act, the court may have to probe into the matter deeper so as to enable it to arrive at a finding that the materials collected against the accused during the investigation may not justify a of conviction. The findings recorded by the court while granting or refusing bail undoubtedly would be tentative in nature, which may not have any bearing on the merit of the case and the trial court would, thus, be free to decide the case on the basis of evidence adduced at the trial, without in any manner being prejudiced thereby” We are in agreement with the observation made by the court in Ranjitsing Brahmajeetsing Sharma (supra). The 966 [2024] 8 S.C.R.