44. In 1965, the Central Government appointed a Committee to advise on the revision of the existing list of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. This Committee popularly known as B.N. Lokur Committee, [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1657 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. reported and concluded that the question of de-scheduling (or excluding) of relatively advanced communities should receive serious and urgent consideration. It recommended for the intensive periodical survey of the socio-economic progress made by each of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, probably to exclude certain communities that have progressed and to include those that have been left behind. It further recommended that in framing of development schemes for scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, priority ought to be given to the welfare of the most backward amongst them. It also prepared a list of communities (castes/tribes) that were relatively forward and recommended to de-schedule or exclude 14 scheduled tribes and 28 scheduled castes from the list. 45. The Constitution though aimed at a casteless society, it defined certain depressed/disadvantageous classes as Scheduled Castes and certain tribes living in forest, hilly areas and other remote areas as Scheduled Tribes. However, a significant segment of the population that was otherwise socially, economically and politically backward were not given any privileges or benefits of upliftment. They were marginalised and were left behind in education as well as employment. In to address this anomaly, the most talked about second backward class Commission was constituted on 1st January, 1979 by the Government of India which is popularly known as B. P. Mandal Commission. This Commission was entrusted with the job to investigate the conditions of socially and educationally backward classes, to recommend the criteria for defining such classes of citizens, steps to be taken for their advancement and upliftment and the manner in which they can be extending the benefit of the reservation. 46. The Commission submitted its report on 31st December, 1980. The Commission on the basis of 1961 census compiled a national list of 3743 classes of persons under the heading ‘Other Backward Classes’ out of which 2108 were classified as ‘depressed backward classes’. The Commission recorded that 52 per cent (including 44 per cent hindus and 8 per cent non-hindus) of the citizens are Other Backward Classes whereas 22.5 per cent are Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in India. 47. The Government while implementing the recommendations of the Mandal Commission took a historic decision on 6th August, 1990 to introduce 27 per cent reservation for Other Backward Classes 1658 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which were socially and educationally backward classes. This was in addition to 22.5 per cent reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The 27 per cent reservation in favour of other backward classes was confined as this Court in M.R Balaji vs. State of Mysore19 has put a cap of 50 per cent mark for the purposes of reservation. 48. The Mandal Commission thus recommended for 27 per cent reservation for OBCs in public sector and Government jobs and in promotion at all levels.