In case the land has been rehabilitated no tax is to be levied. The tax is levied in effect on the activity of the removal or excavation of land. In other words the tax is squarely on the activity of mining because it is under the mining lease that mechanized and non-mechanized excavation as well as underground excavation takes place and this is what is referred to in column 1 of the Schedule to the Act while determining the amount of tax leviable. Levy in other words is on the activity of removal of earth and not on the land itself and is, therefore, outside the ambit of Entry 49 of List II.” (emphasis added) 337. The tax in Indian Aluminium Company (supra), was held not to be a tax on land, but a tax on the absence of land. It was further [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1745 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. observed that since the levy was not a tax on land, Goodricke (supra) had no application because in that case the levy was on tea estates as a unit. 338. The true nature of a tax has to be gathered from the charging section. In Indian Aluminium Company (supra), the charging section provided that the tax was levied “for mechanical and biological reclamation of forest land and for rehabilitation so that the land is reclaimed as far as possible.” Importantly, the provision further provided that “every occupier responsible for creating void/ voids by indulging in any developmental activities including mining” shall be liable to pay the tax. The charging section clearly indicates that the object of the levy was to tax the activity by the occupier of “creating void/voids”. The measure of the tax, therefore, was based on the area of the land voided. It was not a tax on lands as a unit. Thus, this Court held that the levy was not a tax on land under Entry 49 of List II, but rather on the activity of extraction. However, this decision is not relevant for our purposes because the true nature of the levy in that case did not pertain to taxes on lands. 339. Both the entries 49 and 50 of List II deal with distinct subject matters. Both the entries operate in different fields without any overlap. The fact that mineral value or mineral produced is used as a measure under Entry 50 of List II does not preclude the legislature from using the same measure for taxing mineral bearing land under Entry 49 of List II. As Justice Ayyangar observed in H R S Murthy (supra), using royalty as a measure of tax on lands “does not stamp it as a tax on either the extraction of the mineral or on the mineral right.” The doctrine of generalia specialibus non derogant has no application in the instant case because Entries 49 and 50 of List II operate in different fields. Though Parliament can limit the taxing field entrusted to the State under Entry 50 of List II through a law relating to mineral development, the limitation operates on the field of taxing mineral rights.