In view of this, the s issued by the Govt. of Karnataka to this effect does not have any validity. In view of the position explained above, persons belonging to Kotegara and Kote-Kshatriya who have been appointed against the vacancy reserved for scheduled castes cannot be treated as scheduled castes even at the time of their initial appointment because these community have never been treated as synonymous of Kotegar-Matri(sic) by the Government of India which is in the list of SSC in Karnataka. It is infact, entirely the responsible of employer Department to have the matter verified through the State Government, before accepting the claim of the candidates who have been appointed against the reserved posts.” 9. The Government of Karnataka issued a circular dated 11th March, 2002 providing protection to individuals employed in State services who had obtained Caste Certificates based on a synonymous caste under the Government circulars, issued by the State. These individuals were to be treated as having been appointed under the General Merit(GM) category, effective from 11th March, 2002. The said circular also provided that such candidates would not be eligible for future promotions or any other benefits as SCs/STs, although they could claim benefits under the respective Backward Classes to which they belonged. Although the ‘Kotegara’ community was not included in this circular, a subsequent circular dated 29th March, 2003 was issued by the Government of Karnataka, extending the benefits of the circular dated 11th March, 2002 to individuals belonging to the Kotegara, Kotekshathriya, Koteyava, Koteyar, Ramakshathriya, Sherugara, and Sarvegara communities, who had obtained Caste Certificates in accordance with the earlier Government circulars. 10. It is also undisputed that the Caste Certificates held by the appellants were cancelled by the Competent Authority, namely the District Caste Verification Committee, and this decision was communicated to their respective employers. Subsequently, criminal proceedings were initiated against some of the appellants at the concerned police 876 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports station; however, these proceedings were quashed by the High Court while exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973(hereinafter referred to as ‘CrPC’). 11. Respondent No. 2 i.e., Additional Director General of Police, Directorate of Civil Rights Enforcement Cell, intimated respondent No.1-bank to terminate the services of the appellants on the ground that they had secured employment based on fake Caste Certificates. In turn, respondent No.1-bank issued notices to the appellants calling upon them to show cause as to why their services should not be terminated. The appellants challenged the aforesaid notices by filing writ petitions before the High Court of Karnataka which came to be rejected. 12. Being aggrieved by the dismissal of their writ petitions, the appellants preferred intra-Court writ appeals before the learned Division Bench of the High Court against the of the learned Single Judge. The Division Bench of the High Court dismissed the intra-Court appeals. 13. This batch of appeals by special leave has been preferred to assail the decisions of the learned Division Bench of the High Court of Karnataka, rejecting the writ appeals as indicated in the table above.