The very plenitude of the power under the said articles requires great caution in its exercise. Insofar as the question of issuing a direction to CBI to conduct investigation in a case is concerned, although no inflexible guidelines can be laid down to decide whether or not such power should be exercised but time and again it has been reiterated that such an is not to be passed as a matter of routine or merely because a party has levelled some allegations against the local police. This extraordinary power must be exercised sparingly, cautiously and in exceptional situations where it becomes necessary to provide credibility and instil confidence in investigations or where the incident may have national and international ramifications or where such an may be necessary for doing complete justice and 28 (2010) 3 SCC 571 1572 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports enforcing the fundamental rights. Otherwise CBI would be flooded with a large number of cases and with limited resources, may find it difficult to properly investigate even serious cases and in the process lose its credibility and purpose with unsatisfactory investigations.” (Emphasis Supplied) (b) Mandakini Diwan and Anr. v. High Court of Chhattisgarh and Ors:29 “14. It is true that power to direct CBI to conduct investigation is to be exercised sparingly and such s should not be passed in routine manner. In the present case, the aggrieved party has raised allegations of bias and undue influence on the police machinery of the State of Chhattisgarh. Coupled with the fact that the thorough, fair and independent investigation needs to be carried out to find out the truth about the whole incident and in particular about the ante mortem injuries. We are of the view that such a direction needs to be issued in the present case.” 27. A perusal of the s above shows that the transfer to CBI, as already observed must take place in special circumstances, or else the agency, being with limited resources shall be overburdened and rendered ineffective. In directing as such, the High Court has not referred to any such special circumstance arising in the present case. On such further count, the transfer of the case to CBI is rendered questionable and therefore set aside. 28. Let us now move to the next issue. Apart from the fact that reinvestigation of the same offence or the same set of facts is impermissible, the appellant has also canvassed the point that the High Court’s goes against the well-established principle of criminal jurisprudence that a person cannot be punished for the same offence twice or the principle of double jeopardy. Before proceeding to the merits of such a claim in the present case, it would be apposite to examine the judicial pronouncements on this count. 29 2024 SCC Online SC 2448 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1573 P. Manikandan v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. 29. The appellant submits that the principle of double jeopardy is not only recognized by the Constitution but also reiterated in several statutory enactments.