Based on the ratio of the judgement of Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Lakshmirattan Cotton Mills Co Ltd and further reiterated in Dena Bank’s case (supra) that there is an acknowledgement of subsisting liability of the Corporate Debtor. However, it may not necessarily specify the exact nature of the liability. But it indicates the jural relation between the parties, and in any event, the same can also be derived by implication. Further, the said Letter is not “without prejudice” basis and, therefore, amounts to an unequivocal acknowledgement of liability of the Corporate Debtor. A reading of the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1467 Vidyasagar Prasad v. UCO Bank & Anr. documents above reveals that the Corporate Debtor has acknowledged/subsisting liability to attract the provisions of Section 18 of the Limitation Act, 1963. 11.11 Based on the discussion as above, we think that the present Appeal is liable to be dismissed, and the interim dated April 07, 2020, is exposed to vacated.” 6. Mr. Balbir Singh, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has emphatically argued only one point before us. It is that there is no clear and unequivocal acknowledgement of debt of the Corporate Debtor in the entries of the balance sheets. If this is true, it is submitted, then the financial creditor cannot have the benefit of Section 18 of the Limitation Act to extend the period of limitation which commenced on 05.11.2014. 7. The commencement of a fresh period of limitation from the time of acknowledgement of the debt is part of the statutory scheme. Section 238A of the Code extends the applicability of the provisions of the Limitation Act to the proceedings under the Code. With the extension of Limitation Act to the provisions of the Code, the benefit of Section 18 of the Limitation Act dealing with the effect of acknowledgement of a debt in writing applies. Considering the same issue in Laxmi Pat Surana v. Union Bank of India7, the Court observed: “42. Notably, the provisions of the Limitation Act have been made applicable to the proceedings under the Code, as far as may be applicable. For, Section 238-A predicates that the provisions of the Limitation Act shall, as far as may be, apply to the proceedings or appeals before the adjudicating authority, NCLAT, the DRT or the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be. After enactment of Section 238-A IBC on 6-6-2018, validity whereof has been upheld by this Court, it is not open to contend that the limitation for filing application under Section 7 IBC would be limited to Article 137 of the Limitation Act and extension of prescribed period in certain cases could be only under Section 5 of the Limitation Act. There is no reason to exclude the effect of Section 18 of the Limitation Act to the proceedings initiated under the Code. 7 (2021) 8 SCC 481. 1468 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 43. Ordinarily, upon declaration of the loan account/ debt as NPA that date can be reckoned as the date of default to enable the financial creditor to initiate action under Section 7 IBC.