Supreme Court Reports extended up to 30.09.2023; and Fourthly, by this Court vide dated 18.01.2024, whereby the time of 180 days for infusion was extended up to 31.01.2024. I. The adjustment of the PBG was impermissible under the terms of the Resolution Plan read with Regulation 36B(4A) of the 2016 Regulations. 99. It is the case of the SRA that as per Clause 6.4.4 on the “Treatment of Financial Creditors” and the table adduced under the heading “Summary of payment and security package”, the PBG of Rs. 150 Crore could have been adjusted against the payment of the first tranche. It was submitted that in the last column of the table, the “Date of Release of Security” is provided. In the very first head in the column on date of release of security, the expression “PBG adjusted” has been mentioned against the first tranche of cash payment to be made to the Financial Creditors. Further, in the explanation given to the said table under Clause 6.4.4(a)(i), against the heading “Date of Release of Security”, there is no mention of the PBG while the other two types of security find a mention. It was submitted that the only good reason for this exclusion was the understanding that the PBG was adjustable against the obligation of the SRA towards payment of the first tranche. Further, it is the case of the SRA that since a revolving security package was agreed to under Clause 6.4.4, other types of security were envisioned for the subsequent tranches of payment and therefore, no issue could have been raised in adjusting the PBG towards the first tranche. However, we find it extremely difficult to agree with the stance of the SRA for multiple reasons which are detailed below. 100. The RFRP under Clause 3.13 deals with the Performance Security to be given by the SRA. Clause 3.13.1 provides that the SRA shall furnish or cause to be furnished, an unconditional and irrevocable PBG, of an amount of Rs. 150 Crore in favor of the SBI within 7 days of being declared as the SRA. Clause 3.13.2 provides that the PBG shall be valid, till the later of (a) a period of 180 days from the date of the PBG; and (b) the date of completion of the implementation of the Resolution Plan, as determined by the RP and the CoC. Clause 3.13.7 provides that the PBG can be invoked or appropriated at any time by the SBI, without any reference to the SRA, upon the occurrence of any of the following conditions; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2121 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. i. If any of the conditions under the Letter of Intent or the Resolution Plan are breached; ii. If the SRA fails to re-issue or extend the PBG in accordance with the terms of the RFRP; or iii. Failure of the SRA to implement the Resolution Plan to the satisfaction of the CoC, and in accordance with the terms of the Resolution Plan.