There was no worthwhile evidence placed by the prosecution on this aspect. The findings of the Courts on this aspect therefore needs to be set aside. We, therefore, partly allow the present appeals to the extent that findings recorded by the Trial Court and the High Court of conviction under Section 364A of the IPC are hereby set aside. We, however, find that the accused had committed an offence under Section 364 IPC, as the offence of abduction in to murder the victim i.e., PW-6 stands proved. In other words, we convert the findings of conviction under Section 364A to that of Section 364 IPC and sentence the two accused (present appellants) for rigorous imprisonment of Ten years each on this count and a fine of Rs.10,000/- each, and in default further imprisonment of three months. The rest of the conviction and sentence that is under Section 307 of the IPC read with Section 120B as well as under Section 392 of IPC read with Section 397 are hereby affirmed. We are also aware that in addition to the sentence, a fine of Rs.50,000/- each against the two accused was imposed by the High Court. We retain the same and direct that the fine be recovered from the present appellants, in default of payment of the fine, the appellants shall undergo further imprisonment of one year each. The above fine shall be thereafter remitted to the victim in accordance with law. 19. A victim of a crime cannot be treated merely as a prosecution witness. Section 357(1) of Criminal Procedure Code empowers the court to that the fine amount recovered be given to any person 3 Para 13 4 Para 20 5 Para 8 6 Para 5 7 Para 31 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 59 NEERAJ SHARMA v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH as compensation who has suffered any loss or injury caused due to that offence. In this case, the victim had suffered burn injuries of 45-48% and lost one leg, when he was only eighteen years of age. There may be times when the situation may demand that a substantive amount of compensation be paid to the victim and the convict may not be financially that strong to bear that burden. For such situations, Section 357A was therefore introduced in Criminal Procedure Code for this reason, where compensation to the victims may be paid out of State funds, as the State had the responsibility to protect the victim against the offence that had been committed against the victim of the crime. 20. In the present case, the victim i.e., PW-6 has suffered grievous injuries, not only this, his left leg below his knee had to be amputated. Consequently, we direct that an amount of Rs.5,00,000/- (Five Lakhs only) be paid by the State of Chhattisgarh to the victim as compensation under Section 357A of Cr.PC., instead of Rs.1,00,000/- as directed by the High Court. Let the same be done within a period of three months from today. 21. Ashwani Kumar Yadav shall be released, subject to the payment of fine/compensation, provided he has completed his 10 years of imprisonment and if not required in any other case.