Digital Supreme Court Reports 7.5 Clause (fa) was inserted by the ‘Chartered Accountants, the Cost and Works Accountants and the Company Secretaries (Amendment) Act, 2022’ and the same reads as under: “15. Functions of Council.- (2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers, the duties of the Council shall include – x x x (fa) to issue guidelines for the purpose of carrying out the objects of this Act;” 7.6 Chapter V of the 1949 Act deals with Misconduct. Section 22 defines professional or other misconduct as under: “22. Professional or other misconduct defined.- For the purposes of this Act, the expression “professional or other misconduct” shall be deemed to include any act or omission provided in any of the Schedules, but nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit or abridge in any way the power conferred or duty cast on the Director (Discipline) under sub-section (1) of Section 21 to inquire into the conduct of any member of the Institute under any other circumstances.” Section 22 of the 1949 Act defines “professional or other misconduct” to include any act or omission provided in any of the Schedules to the Act. Clause (1) of Part II of the Second Schedule to the Act stipulates that a member of the Institute, whether in practice or not, shall be deemed to be guilty of professional misconduct if he contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or the regulations made thereunder or any Guidelines issued by the Council of the respondent-Institute. For immediate reference the same reads as under: “PART II: Professional misconduct in relation to members of the Institute generally A member of the Institute, whether in practice or not, shall be deemed to be guilty of professional misconduct, if he – [2024] 6 S.C.R. 827 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others (1) contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or the regulations made thereunder or any guidelines issued by the Council;” Therefore, if a member of the Institute contravenes the provisions of the aforesaid Chapter VI of the Guidelines dated 08.08.2008, he shall be deemed to be guilty of professional misconduct under the 1949 Act. Clause 6 is extracted as under: “Chapter VI Tax Audit assignments under Section 44AB of the Income-tax Act, 1961 6.0. A member of the Institute in practice shall not accept, in a financial year, more than the “specified number of tax audit assignments” under Section 44AB of the Income-tax Act, 1961. Provided that in the case of a firm of Chartered Accountants in practice, the “specified number of tax audit assignments” shall be construed as the specified number of tax audit assignments for every partner of the firm. Provided further that where any partner of the firm is also a partner of any other firm or firms of Chartered Accountants in practice, the number of tax audit assignments which may be taken for all the firms together in relation to such partner shall not exceed the “specified number of tax audit assignments” in the aggregate.