Under the DoH, even the Corporate Debtor hypothecated its goods. The last part of sub-clause (iii) of clause 5 means that if after the sale of hypothecated assets, there is any shortfall in the discharge of 2070 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the liabilities of RCom or RTL, the Corporate Debtor is under an obligation to pay the shortfall or deficiency. Therefore, the latter part of clause 5(iii) of the DoH indicates that RITL-Corporate Debtor, who is not the borrower of the appellants, agreed to discharge the liability of the third parties (RCom and RTL) to the appellants in the case of default of RCom or RTL. Therefore, the second part of clause 5(iii) of the DoH amounts to a guarantee provided by the Corporate Debtor to the appellants in terms of Section 126 of the Contract Act. 59. In the case of Phoenix ARC Pvt. Ltd.11, in paragraphs 24 and 25, this Court held thus: “24. Chapter VIII of the Contract Act, 1872 deals with “Of Indemnity and Guarantee”. Section 124 defines “Contract of indemnity” and Section 126 defines “Contract of guarantee”. Section 126 which is relevant for the present case is as follows: “126. “Contract of guarantee”, “surety”, “principal debtor” and “creditor”.—A “contract of guarantee” is a contract to perform the promise, or discharge the liability, of a third person in case of his default. The person who gives the guarantee is called the “surety”; the person in respect of whose default the guarantee is given is called the “principal debtor”, and the person to whom the guarantee is given is called the “creditor”. A guarantee may be either oral or written.” 25. As is clear from the definition a “contract of guarantee” is a contract to perform the promise, or discharge the liability, of a third person in case of his default. The present is not a case where the corporate debtor has entered into a contract to perform the promise, or discharge the liability of borrower in case of his default. The pledge agreement is limited to pledge 40,160 shares as security. The corporate debtor has never promised to discharge the liability of the borrower. The facility agreement under which the borrower was bound by the terms and conditions and containing his obligation to repay the loan security for performance are all contained in the facility agreement. A contract of guarantee contains a guarantee “to perform the promise or [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2071 China Development Bank v. Doha Bank Q.P.S.C. & Ors. discharge the liability of third person in case of his default”. Thus, key words in Section 126 are contract “to perform the promise”, or “discharge the liability”, of a third person. Both the expressions “perform the promise” or “discharge the liability” relate to “a third person”.” In this case, from the last part of clause 5(iii) of the DoH, it is very clear that the Corporate Debtor has undertaken to discharge the liability of the RCom and RTL, the borrowers of the appellants.