A three-Judge Bench of this Court, in the case of P. ORR & Sons (P) Ltd. -vs- Associated Publishers (Madras) Ltd. [(1991) 1 SCC 301] dealing with a provision similar to Section 16(1) (i) contained in the rent legislation for the State of Tamil Nadu, Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 opined that the condition of building had to be considered for determining the legitimacy of the demand for timely demolition by reason of extent of damage to the structure, apart from considering other factors. It was also pointed out in this that there was no necessity of the building being in crumbling condition to invoke the said provision. This view was echoed in a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Vijay Singh and Others -vs- Vijayalakshmi Ammal [(1996) 6 SCC 475]. But these authorities do not clash with [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1121 Baitulla Ismail Shaikh and Anr. v. Khatija Ismail Panhalkar and Ors. the reasoning of the High Court anchored on Section 16(4) of the 1999 Act. That provision lays down an entirely different test, and that is to ascertain if part-demolition could save the tenant’s interest. Dealing with claim based on Section 16(1)(h) and (i) of the 1999 Act, the statutory mandate for the Court is to test the question of part vacating. Neither the Trial Court nor the Appellate Court chose to analyse this requirement before directing eviction. This provision becomes relevant as the initial demolition notice identifies a part of the premises requiring demolition and the Commissioner’s report is also on that line. Sub-section (2) of Section 16 relates to reasonable and bona fide need in terms of Section 16(1)(g) and if the requirement is in the aforesaid terms, then the Court has to be satisfied having regard to all the circumstances of the case including the question whether other reasonable accommodation is available to the landlord or the tenant. This provision essentially incorporates the principle of “comparative hardship”, as such a test has come to be known in tenancy jurisprudence. We have been taken through the s of the Trial Court and the Appellate Court on this point. The Appellate Court came to the finding that balance on this point tilts in favour of the landlord. The High Court rejected this finding, holding:- “54] However, the respondent-landlords, have not at all been candid with the Court insofar as the pleadings are concerned. In the course of evidence, it has come on record that the respondent-landlords have, besides the suit premises several other premises, which are being used by them for purposes of commerce as well as residence. Some of the premises, may have been acquired post the institution of the suit including in particular, the premises acquired by one of the sons of Baitullah Shaikh. Nevertheless, there were no disclosures volunteered in the course of examination-in-chief. Even if, the premises subsequently acquired are left out of consideration, there was a duty upon the respondent-landlords to fully and candidly make disclosure about the premises in their occupation, both for the purposes of residence as well as commerce and thereafter to explain, howsoever briefly, the subsistence of the need in respect of suit premises.