However, once they get inside it, they make every attempt possible to prevent the persons outside such a compartment from entering it. 269. In fact, what the people belonging to the categories who are availing of large chunk of reservations and denying a special treatment to the less privileged among them are doing, is what the people from the higher castes have done to these people for centuries as a result of which backward classes were kept away from the mainstream of society for ages, for no fault of theirs. Only on account of the principle of social and economic justice as enshrined under the Constitution, they have availed themselves of the benefits of special treatment. However, when the State endeavours to ensure that the said benefit percolates to the more underprivileged and less adequately represented, the sections from the Scheduled Castes who oppose them, stand in the shoes of those who oppressed them. 270. The categories in the Presidential List who have already enjoyed a major chunk of reservations should not object to the State providing a special treatment to those who have been deprived of such a benefit [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1575 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. and particularly when such a benefit is not being taken away from them. Only part of that benefit is being reserved for percolating the same to the more disadvantageous and less represented. 271. I find that to achieve real equality as envisaged by this Court in various judicial pronouncements, sub-classification amongst the Scheduled Castes for giving more beneficial treatment is wholly permissible under the Constitution. VI. THE WAY FORWARD 272. That leaves us with the question regarding the applicability of creamy layer principle to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 273. No doubt that in Indra Sawhney, Jeevan Reddy, J. while considering the applicability of ‘means test’ and ‘creamy layer’ has observed that the discussion therein is confined only to Other Backward Classes, and it has no relevance in the case of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 274. In paragraph 792, Jeevan Reddy, J. observed thus: “792. In our opinion, it is not a question of permissibility or desirability of such test but one of proper and more appropriate identification of a class — a backward class. The very concept of a class denotes a number of persons having certain common traits which distinguish them from the others. In a backward class under clause (4) of Article 16, if the connecting link is the social backwardness, it should broadly be the same in a given class. If some of the members are far too advanced socially (which in the context, necessarily means economically and, may also mean educationally) the connecting thread between them and the remaining class snaps. They would be misfits in the class. After excluding them alone, would the class be a compact class. In fact, such exclusion benefits the truly backward. Difficulty, however, really lies in drawing the line — how and where to draw the line?