In Waman Rao, the petitioners sought to assail the unamended portion of Article 31-C. We shall advert to the decision in Waman Rao shortly, but at present, it is sufficient to note that in Minerva Mills, the Constitution Bench decided the validity of the changes wrought to Article 31-C by the Forty-Second Amendment while in Waman Rao, the Constitution Bench dealt with arguments concerning the validity of Article 31-C as it stood prior to the Forty-Second Amendment. This is clarified by the observation of Chief Justice YV Chandrachud, speaking for the majority in Minerva Mills, where he noted: “24. … Mr. Palkhivala did not challenge the validity of the unamended Article 31-C, and indeed that could not be done. The unamended Article 31-C forms the subject- matter of a separate proceeding and we have indicated therein that it is constitutionally valid – to the extent to which it is upheld in Kesavananda Bharati.” The separate proceedings that the learned Chief Justice was adverting to were those in Waman Rao. It is also worth referring to the opinion of Justice PN Bhagwati (as he then was) in the decision 38 [1981] 2 SCR 1 : (1981) 2 SCC 362 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 53 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. of Minerva Mills. Justice Bhagwati authored a common for both the decisions in Minerva Mills and Waman Rao. In his common he stated: “84. Now, in Wamanrao case the broad argument of Mr Phadke on behalf of the petitioners […] that the fundamental rights enshrined in Articles 14 and 19 form the basic structure of the Constitution and therefore Article 31-A, Article 31-B read with Ninth Schedule and the unamended Article 31-C insofar as they exclude the applicability of Articles 14 and 19 to certain kinds of legislation emasculate those fundamental rights and thereby damage the basic structure of the Constitution… […] The argument of Mr. Palkhivala on behalf of the petitioners in the Minerva Mills case was a little different. He too attacked the vires of clause (4) and 5) of Article 368 since they barred at the threshold any challenge against the constitutional validity of the amendment made in Article 31-C but so far as Article 31-A, Article 31-B and the unamended Article 31-C were concerned, he did not dispute their validity and, as pointed out by us earlier, he conceded and in fact gave cogent reasons showing that they were constitutionally valid. His only attack was against the validity of the amendment made in Article 31-C by Section 4 of the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976 and he contended that this amendment, by making the directive principles supreme over the fundamental rights, damaged or destroyed the basic structure of the Constitution….” (emphasis supplied) The opinion of Justice PN Bhagwati clearly delineates the scope of the contentions, and consequently the decisions in Minerva Mills and Waman Rao. In the former case, the amendment to Article 31-C, which expanded the scope of immunity provided to legislation, was challenged.