xxx 51. In sum, it may be stated that the law expressly chosen by the parties in respect of all matters arising under their contract, which must necessarily include the agreement contained in the arbitration clause, being Indian law and the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts in Delhi having been expressly recognised by the parties to the contract in all matters arising under it, and the contract being most intimately associated with India, the proper law of arbitration and the competent courts are both exclusively Indian [...] xxx 54. The Delhi High Court was wrong in treating the award in question as a foreign award. The Foreign Awards Act has no application to the award by reason of the specific exclusion contained in Section 9 of that Act. The award is governed by the laws in force in India, including the Arbitration Act, 1940. Accordingly, we set aside the impugned of the Delhi High Court and direct that Court to consider the appellant’s application on the merits in regard to which we express no views whatsoever. The appeal is allowed in the above terms. We do not, however, make any as to costs.” (Emphasis supplied) (ii) Secondly, the Court held that where the parties have agreed to two distinct choices of law, one governing the arbitration agreement and the other governing the arbitration proceedings i.e., both lex arbitri and lex curiae, then the appropriate courts under both the laws will have concurrent jurisdiction in 1172 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports respect of the matters governed by their respective system of law. Thus, where the parties have agreed that the arbitration agreement would be governed by the Indian Laws whereas the arbitration proceedings would be conducted in accordance with the English Laws, then in such cases two different courts will have concurrent jurisdiction in respect of matters as agreed upon by the parties i.e., the competent English Courts will have jurisdiction in respect of procedural matters concerning the conduct of arbitration while the competent courts in India will have jurisdiction over all matters pertaining to and arising out of the arbitration agreement. The relevant observations read as under: - "26. Whereas, as stated above, the proper law of arbitration (i.e., the substantive law governing arbitration) determines the validity, effect and interpretation of the arbitration agreement, the arbitration proceedings are conducted, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, in accordance with the law of the country in which the arbitration is held. On the other hand, if the parties have specifically chosen the law governing the conduct and procedure of arbitration, the arbitration proceedings will be conducted in accordance with that law so long as it is not contrary to the public policy or the mandatory requirements of the law of the country in which the arbitration is held. If no such choice has been made by the parties, expressly or by necessary implication, the procedural aspect of the conduct of arbitration (as distinguished from the substantive agreement to arbitrate) will be determined by the law of the place or seat of arbitration.