List of Keywords Onerous condition on pre-arrest bail; Matrimonial disputes; Lex non cogit ad impossibilia. Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 3210 of 2024 From the and dated 30.08.2023 of the High Court of Judicature at Patna in CRLM No. 57492 of 2023. Appearances for Parties Nitish Banka, Lakshay Manchanda, Aadesh Punjabi, Sunny Sharma, Chetna Mourya, Ms. Kiritika Singh, Lokesh Baimad, Dr. Ram Kishor Choudhary, Chand Qureshi, Advs. for the Appellant. Anshul Narayan, Addl. Standing Counsel, Prem Prakash, Divyanshu Kumar Srivastava, Karan Verma, Ashwini Kumar, Advs. for the Respondents. 664 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court C.T. Ravikumar, J. Leave granted. 1. ‘Lex non cogit ad impossibilia’ means ‘the law does not compel a man to do what he cannot possibly perform’. The said maxim is being followed as an adage and with alacrity. We are constrained to refer to the said maxim on being pained to see that despite a catena of decisions deprecating the practice of putting onerous conditions for pre-arrest bail such s are being passed without giving due regard to the binding precedents. 2. The case on hand arises from an dated 30.08.2023 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Patna in Criminal Miscellaneous No.57492 of 2023 whereby and whereunder the High Court granted provisional pre-arrest bail in Complaint Case No.1100 of 2021 registered against the appellant herein, alleging commission of offences punishable under Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short ‘the IPC’) and Section 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. 3. Heard the learned counsel appearing for the appellant, learned counsel appearing for the State and also the learned counsel appearing for the second respondent. The second respondent filed reply affidavit and resisted the prayer for interfering with the conditions put in the impugned . The counsel for the State endorsed the view and contentions raised on behalf of the second respondent. 4. Complaint Case No.1100 of 2021, produced in this proceeding as Annexure P-1, would reveal that distrust and discordancy among the couple viz., the appellant and the second respondent led to disputes and then divorceable situation. In fact, the appellant moved a petition for dissolution of their marriage before the Court of learned Principal Judge, Family Court, Bhagalpur. Complaint Case No.1100 of 2021 has been filed by the second respondent-wife alleging commission of the aforesaid offences against the appellant. Earlier, in connection with the aforesaid Complaint Case, the appellant moved an application for pre-arrest bail before the Court of Sessions Judge, Katihar. On [2024] 8 S.C.R. 665 Sudeep Chatterjee v. State of Bihar & Anr. its dismissal vide dated 24.05.2023, the above-mentioned application for an anticipatory bail was moved before the High Court which culminated in the impugned . The relevant paragraphs in the impugned that compelled us to make the opening remarks read thus: - “6. Considering the desire of the parties, both the parties are directed to file a joint affidavit before the Court below to the effect that the parties have agreed to live together and petitioner must give specific statement in the said joint affidavit that he undertakes to fulfill all physical as well as financial requirement of the complainant so that she can lead a dignified life without any interference of any of the family members of the petitioner.