It was clearly brought into existence by the 1920 Act for it could not have been brought into existence otherwise. It was thus the Central Legislature which brought into existence the Aligarh University and must be held to have established it. It would not be possible for the Muslim minority to establish a university of the kind whose degrees were bound to be recognised by Government and therefore it must be held that the Aligarh University was brought into existence by the Central Legislature and the Government of India. If that is so, the Muslim minority cannot claim to administer it, for it was not brought into existence by it. […]” [Emphasis supplied] D.3.3 Whether AMU was ‘administered’ by the Muslim community? 70. This Court in Azeez Basha (supra) then examined the AMU Act, 1920 in greater detail and determined that the Act did not grant administrative control of the University to the Muslim community. It observed that members of the AMU Court were elected by individuals who made donations exceeding INR 500, a category which included non-Muslims as well. Furthermore, the Lord Rector, who was the Governor-General, held overriding powers concerning administrative matters. Additionally, various bodies, such as the Executive Council and the Academic Council, possessed significant authority over the University’s affairs. Based on this analysis, the Court concluded that AMU did not meet the administrative criteria required by Article 30 and, therefore could not be recognized as a minority institution: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1795 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. “28. It appears from para 8 of the Schedule that even though the members of the Court had to be Muslims, the electorates were not exclusively Muslims. For example, sixty members of the Court had to be elected by persons who had made or would make donations of five hundred rupees and upwards to or for the purposes of the University. Some of these persons were and could be non-Muslims. Forty persons were to be elected by the Registered Graduates of the University, and some of the Registered Graduates were and could be non-Muslims, for the University was open to all persons of either sex and of whatever race, creed or class. Further fifteen members of the Court were to be elected by the Academic Council, the membership of which was not confined only to Muslims.” “29. Besides there were other bodies like the Executive Council and the Academic Council which were concerned with the administration of the Aligarh University and there was no provision in the constitution of these bodies which confined their members only to Muslims. It will thus be seen that besides the fact that the members of the Court had to be all Muslims, there was nothing in the Act to suggest that the administration of the Aligarh University was in the Muslim minority as such. Besides the above, we have already referred to Section 13 which showed how the Lord Rector, namely, the Governor- General had overriding powers over all matters relating to the administration of the University.