In India, the approach of prescribing wide-ranging norms for citizenship was adopted at the commencement of the Constitution. Since the country was required to have norms for determining who could be a member of its community, the Constitution prescribed certain transitional conditions within Part II and made them subject to any laws that Parliament may make later.22 Prescribing such norms in the Constitution was all the more critical because the country had undergone two significant changes: first, there had been a complete 20 Citizenship By investment Countries & proGrAms list in 2024, Global Residence Index, https:// globalresidenceindex.com/citizenship-by-investment/. 21 Constituição da República Federativa do Brasil, Article 22; Grundgesetz für die Bundesrepublik, Article 18; Constitution of Kenya, Article 18. 22 Constitution of India, Article 11. 1008 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports metamorphosis from a ruled territory to an independent nation; and second, there was the partition of the country, and some of its territories that were hitherto a part of it were declared a separate nation. After the creation of an independent India and the demarcation of its territory being complete, the next logical question of who an Indian was, emerged. Since the Parliament itself was nascent, the Constituent Assembly chose to incorporate transitionary norms of citizenship in the Constitution itself, instead of keeping the question of who an Indian was unsettled till later. 18. In this context, the Constitution came to incorporate the provisions now enshrined in Part II of the Constitution. Articles 5 to 10 prescribed the overarching norms of citizenship at the time of the commencement of the Constitution, while Article 11 granted Parliament the power to make any law regarding citizenship. 19. Hence, the scheme of citizenship provided under the Constitution comprises broadly of the following provisions: “5. Citizenship at the commencement of the Constitution — At the commencement of this Constitution, every person who has his domicile in the territory of India and— (a) who was born in the territory of India; or (b) either of whose parents was born in the territory of India; or (c) who has been ordinarily resident in the territory of India for not less than five years immediately preceding such commencement, shall be a citizen of India.” “6. Rights of citizenship of certain persons who have migrated to India from Pakistan — Notwithstanding anything in article 5, a person who has migrated to the territory of India from the territory now included in Pakistan shall be deemed to be a citizen of India at the commencement of this Constitution if— (a) he or either of his parents or any of his grand-parents was born in India as defined in the Government of India [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1009 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 Act, 1935 (as originally enacted); and (b)(i) in the case where such person has so migrated before the nineteenth day of July, 1948, he has been ordinarily resident in the territory of India since the date of his migration, or (ii) in the case where such person has so migrated on or after the nineteenth day of July, 1948, he has been registered as a citizen of India by an officer appointed in that behalf by the Government of the Dominion of India on an application made by him therefor to such officer before the commencement of this Constitution in the form and manner prescribed by that Government: Provided that no person shall be so registered unless he has been resident in the territory of India for at least six months immediately preceding the date of his application.” “7.