Marico Ltd., treating the coconut oil as ‘hair oil’ and also levying penalty and interest. However, the appeals filed by M/s. Marico Ltd. and its four job-workers before the Customs Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal, South Zonal Bench, Chennai, were allowed, vide Final s No. 1068 to 1075 of 2008 dated 30.07.2008. It is against these s passed by the Tribunal that the Revenue is before us by way of these appeals filed under Section 35L(b) of the Central Excise Act, 1944. 34. Though much stress has been laid by the Revenue upon the fact that pure coconut oil is suitable for use as ‘hair oil’ and is, in fact, used as such by many people, this contention does not further the case of the Revenue, given the clarity of the headings in the First Schedule to the Act of 1985 which are in perfect alignment with the corresponding entries in the HSN. Once the entries are aligned and reflect the same position, the General/Explanatory Notes in the HSN would be applicable and cannot be ignored while classifying goods as per the headings in the First Schedule. This position is well settled, as pointed out by this Court in Wood Craft Products Limited (supra). 35. We may now deal with the next point – the ‘common parlance test’. A well settled principle of interpretation of taxing statutes is that words therein must be construed in consonance with their commonly accepted meaning in the trade and their popular meaning. When a word is not explicitly defined or there is ambiguity as to its meaning, it must be interpreted for the purpose of classification in the popular sense, which is the sense attributed to it by those who are conversant with the subject matter that the statute is dealing with. This principle, known as the ‘common parlance test’, serves as good fiscal policy so as to not put people in doubt or quandary about their tax liability. The test is an extension of the general principle of interpretation of statutes for deciphering the mind of the law-maker but it is subject to certain exceptions - for example, when there is an artificial definition or special meaning attached to the word in the statute itself, whereby the ordinary sense approach would not be applicable [See D.L. Steels (supra)]. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 917 Commissioner of Central Excise, Salem v. M/s Madhan Agro Industries (India) Private Ltd. 36. However, we find that the reliance presently placed by the Revenue upon the ‘common parlance test’ is utterly misplaced. The said test would have to be understood in the proper perspective and cannot be brought into play when there is no ambiguity and there is no difference in the clear heading in the First Schedule and the corresponding entry in the HSN. In Commissioner of Central Excise, New Delhi vs. Connaught Plaza Restaurant Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi,6 this Court observed that classification of excisable goods shall be determined according to the headings and corresponding Chapter or Section Notes but where these are not clearly determinative of the proper classification, the same shall be effected according to the general rules of interpretation and according to the common parlance understanding of such goods.