Digital Supreme Court Reports and liabilities between the principal debtor (“PD”), the surety (“S”) and the creditor (“C”). PD has the primary obligation to C and a secondary obligation to indemnify S if and so far as S discharges PD’s liability, but if PD is insolvent S may not enforce that right in competition with C. S has an obligation to C to answer for PD’s liability, and the secondary right of obtaining an indemnity from PD. C can (after due notice) proceed against either or both of PD and S. If both PD and S are in insolvent liquidation, C can prove against each for 100p in the pound but may not recover more than 100p in the pound in all.” 125. In view of the above discussion, it is held that approval of a resolution plan does not ipso facto discharge a personal guarantor (of a corporate debtor) of her or his liabilities under the contract of guarantee. As held by this Court, the release or discharge of a principal borrower from the debt owed by it to its creditor, by an involuntary process i.e. by operation of law, or due to liquidation or insolvency proceeding, does not absolve the surety/guarantor of his or her liability, which arises out of an independent contract.” (emphasis added) This Court dealt with a situation where a resolution plan for the principal borrower was approved in CIRP, and the principal borrower was discharged from the debt by operation of law through an involuntary process. It was held that the contract between the creditor and the surety is independent; therefore, the approval of the resolution plan of the principal borrower will not amount to the discharge of the surety. The same principles will apply when the resolution plan is approved in CIRP of the surety. In such a case, the surety gets a discharge from his liability under the guarantee by operation of law or by involuntary process. It will not amount to the discharge of the principal borrower. 17. Section 31 of the IBC reads thus: “31. Approval of resolution plan.– (1) If the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that the resolution plan as approved by the committee of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2163 BRS Ventures Investments Ltd. v. SREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd. & Anr. creditors under sub-section (4) of section 30 meets the requirements as referred to in sub-section (2) of section 30, it shall by approve the resolution plan which shall be binding on the corporate debtor and its employees, members, creditors, including the Central Government, any State Government or any local authority to whom a debt in respect of the payment of dues arising under any law for the time being in force, such as authorities to whom statutory dues are owed, guarantors and other stakeholders involved in the resolution plan. Provided that the Adjudicating Authority shall, before passing an for approval of resolution plan under this sub-section, satisfy that the resolution plan has provisions for its effective implementation. (2) Where the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that the resolution plan does not confirm to the requirements referred to in sub-section (1), it may, by an , reject the resolution plan.