On an overall comparison of the measure and the alternative, the alternative is better suited because it realizes the purposes to a considerable extent and imposes a lesser restriction on the fundamental rights. Having concluded that Clause 7(4) of the Scheme is not the least restrictive means to balance the fundamental rights, there is no necessity of applying the balancing prong of the proportionality standard. 169. The Union of India has been unable to establish that the measure employed in Clause 7(4) of the Electoral Bond Scheme is the least restrictive means to balance the rights of informational privacy to political contributions and the right to information of political contributions. Thus, the amendment to Section 13A(b) of the IT Act introduced by the Finance Act 2017, and the amendment to Section 29C(1) of the RPA are unconstitutional. The question is whether this Court should only strike down the non-disclosure provision in the Electoral Bond Scheme, that is Clause 7(4). However, as explained above, the anonymity of the contributor is intrinsic to the Electoral Bond Scheme. The Electoral Bond is not distinguishable from other modes of contributions through the banking channels such as cheque transfer, transfer through the Electronic Clearing System or direct debit if the anonymity component of the Scheme is struck down. Thus, the Electoral Bond Scheme 2018 will also consequentially have to be struck down as unconstitutional. c. Validity of Section 154 of the Finance Act amending Section 182(3) to the Companies Act [2024] 2 S.C.R. 536 Digital Supreme Court Reports 170. Before the 2017 amendment, Section 182(3) of the Companies Act, mandated companies to disclose the details of the amount contributed to a political party along with the name of the political party to which the amount was contributed in its profit and loss account. After the amendment, Section 182(3) only requires the disclosure of the total amount contributed to political parties in a financial year. For example, under Section 182(3) as it existed before the amendment, ifa Company contributed rupees twenty thousand to a political party, the company was required to disclose in its profit and loss account, the details of the specific contributions made to that political party. However, after the 2017 amendment, the Company is only required to disclose that it contributed rupees twenty thousand to a political party under the provision without disclosing the details of the contribution, that is, the political party to which the contribution was made. The profit and loss account of a company is included in the financial statement which companies are mandated to prepare. '” A copy of the financial statement adopted at the annual general meeting of the company must be filed with the Registrar of Companies. '” 171. As discussed in the earlier segment of this , the Companies Act 1956 was amended in 1960 to include Section 293A by which contributions by companies to political parties and for political purposes were regulated. Companies were permitted to contribute within the cap prescribed. All such contributions were required to be disclosed by the Company in its profit and loss account with details.