The EVMs do not have any ports so as to enable a person to have access to the burnt memory. 42. It flows from the above discussion that the possibility to hack or tamper with the agnostic firmware in the burnt memory to tutor/favour results is unfounded. Accordingly, the suspicion that the EVMs can be configured/manipulated for repeated or wrong recording of vote(s) to favour a particular candidate should be rejected. At this stage we would refer to other checks and protocols to ensure and ascertain the legitimacy and integrity of the EVMs and the election process. 43. Part IV, Chapter II of the 1961 Rules, which relates to voting by EVMs, lays down details of preparation of the voting machine by the returning officer, arrangements at the polling station, admission to the polling stations, and preparation of voting machine for poll. The three units of the EVM have to bear the serial number of the unit, name of the constituency, serial number and name of the polling station(s), and the date of poll. Before the commencement of the poll, the presiding officer has to demonstrate to the polling agent and other persons present that no vote has already been recorded in the control unit, 438 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the three units bear the label as prescribed and the drop box of the VVPAT printer is empty. Paper seal is thereupon used for securing the control unit. The presiding officer affixes his own signature on the paper seal and also obtains the signatures of the polling agents who are desirous of affixing the same. The VVPAT and the ballot unit are put in the voting compartment and are connected with the control unit in the manner directed. 44. Before permitting any elector to vote, the polling officer is required to record the electoral roll number of the elector as mentioned in the electoral rolls, signature or thumb impression of the elector, name of the elector and the document produced by the elector in proof of their identification. These particulars are recorded in Form 17A prescribed under Rule 49L of the 1961 Rules. The format prescribed in terms of Form 17A is as under: Sl.No. Sl.No. of Details of the Signature/ Remarks elector in document produced Thumb the electoral by the elector in proof impression roll of his/her identification of elector (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) 1. 2. Form 17A is required to be signed by the presiding officer. 45. Every elector is permitted to vote in secrecy in the voting compartment of the polling station. They are required to press the blue button or key on the ballot unit against the name and symbol of the candidate/ political party they intend to vote. In terms of the proviso to Rule 49M(3), the elector is entitled to view through the transparent window of the printer of VVPAT, kept along with the ballot unit inside the voting compartment, the printed paper slip showing the serial number, the name and the symbol of the candidate for whom he has voted.