It is submitted that the Technical Assistants neither commenced their duties on the posts borne on the cadre of such service nor commenced their probation. He further submitted that, in accordance with Rule 4 of the said Rules, all appointments to a service whether by direct recruitment or by recruitment by transfer or by promotion, can be made by the appointing authority from a list of approved candidates. It is submitted that, since the Technical Assistants are not approved candidates, they cannot be appointed to the post of Assistant Engineers. He further submitted that the temporary appointments in accordance with Rule 10 of the said Rules could be made only for a temporary period only when there is likelihood of delay in making the appointments in accordance with the said Rules. He further submitted that, in accordance with Rule 36A of the said Rules, the appointments by recruitment by transfer can be made only on the ground of merit and ability, seniority being 1 [1990] 2 SCR 900 :(1990) 2 SCC 715 : 1990 INSC 169 2 [1990] Supp. 2 SCR 638 : (1991) 1 SCC 544 : 1990 INSC 344 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 553 Association of Engineers and Others Etc. v. The State of Tamil Nadu and Others Etc. considered only where merit and ability are approximately equal. He submitted that, amendment to Rule 4A specifically prohibits promotion or appointment on the basis of executive s seeking to modify the Rules. He therefore submitted that, on several grounds, the appointments of Technical Assistants are liable to be set aside. 10. It is further submitted that the appointments so made are contrary to the of this Court in the case of B. Thirumal v. Ananda Sivakumar and Others3. 11. Per contra, Shri V. Prakash, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents submitted that a perusal of G.O. Ms. No. 3037 dated 22nd December 1986 issued by the PWD would reveal that the pay-scales of Overseers and Technical Assistants are the same. It is submitted that the said G.O. Ms. No. 3037 specifically provides that 75% of the vacancies in the post of Junior Engineer (formerly Supervisor) shall be filled up by Engineering degree holders while remaining 25% vacancies shall be filled up by the candidates possessing Engineering Diploma or equivalent certificates. It further provides for promotion from Overseers, Head Draughtsman and Civil Draughtsman (Grad I, II and III). It is submitted that, though the pay- scales of the Overseers are same as that of Technical Assistants and that of Draughtsman Grade III, inadvertently, the cadre of Technical Assistants was not mentioned therein. It is submitted that, in to rectify this omission, the G.O. No. 1 came to be issued. It provided that, Junior Draughting Officers, Draughting Officers, Overseers and Technical Assistants in PWD, who have put in five years service would be eligible to be appointed as Assistant Engineers on transfer of service on acquiring B.E./A.M.I.E. qualification. Shri Prakash submitted that challenge to the said G.O. No. 1 was negatived by the Madras High Court vide dated 8th March 1991 in Writ Petition No.