Aurora, the appellant and the respondent were parties under which it was agreed that the appellant would provide 22,500 square feet of constructed area to 142 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports M/s. Aurora instead of 15,000 square feet, which was agreed to be allotted under the agreement dated 22nd September 1999. 4. The dispute began on 22nd March 2012 when the respondent, by his letter, alleged default against the appellant as set out in the said letter. After the letter was sent, there was a prolonged correspondence, exchange of drafts of the sale agreements, etc. Ultimately, the respondent filed a petition before the High Court under Section 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short, ‘the Arbitration Act’). An Arbitrator was appointed. The arbitral proceedings concluded in the form of an award made by the Arbitral Tribunal on 7th September 2018 in favour of the respondent (the claimant before the Arbitral Tribunal). Most of the claims made by the respondent were granted. The counter-claim made by the appellant was rejected. The appellant filed a petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act before the High Court to challenge the award. By the dated 13th September 2019, the learned Single Judge of the High Court allowed the petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act and proceeded to set aside the award on various grounds, such as perversity, patent illegality, etc. The respondent filed an appeal under Section 37(1)(c) of the Arbitration Act to challenge the of the learned Single Judge. By the impugned , which set aside the of the learned Single Judge, the Division Bench of the High Court passed an of remand to the learned Single Judge on the ground that the learned Single Judge did not consider several issues. The Division Bench referred to an application made by the third parties. It directed that the interim arrangements made earlier by making an appointment of the Court Receiver shall continue for four weeks with a liberty to the parties to seek appropriate interim s in the restored petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. Both the parties to the appeal under Section 37 have preferred these cross-appeals. SUBMISSIONS 5. We have heard the learned senior counsel appearing for the parties in these appeals. The learned senior counsel representing the appellant submitted that an appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act is essentially a continuation of the proceedings under Section 34. The scope of interference in an appeal under Section 37(1)(c) is narrower than what is available under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. Reliance was placed on various decisions of this Court in [2024] 7 S.C.R. 143 Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation Private Limited v. Samir Narain Bhojwani support of the said submissions. Another contention is that while deciding the appeal under Section 37(1)(c), the Court can either set aside the award or affirm the award but cannot remand the petition under Section 34 for a fresh hearing. The submission is that the provisions of XLI of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (for short, ‘the CPC’) concerning remand do not apply to an appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act as the provisions of the CPC do not apply to such an appeal.