1287 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. Provided that where such divorced woman has children, the Magistrate shall only such children to pay maintenance to her, and in the event of any such children being unable to pay such maintenance, the Magistrate shall the parents of such divorced woman to pay maintenance to her: Provided further that if any of the parents is unable to pay his or her share of the maintenance ed by the Magistrate on the ground of his or her not having the means to pay the same, the Magistrate may, on proof of such inability being furnished to him, that the share of such relatives in the maintenance ed by him be paid by such of the other relatives as may appear to the Magistrate to have the means of paying the same in such proportions as the Magistrate may think fit to . (2) Where a divorced woman is unable to maintain herself and she has no relatives as mentioned in sub-section (1) or such relatives or any one of them have not enough means to pay the maintenance ed by the Magistrate or the other relatives have not the means to pay the shares of those relatives whose shares have been ed by the Magistrate to be paid by such other relatives under the second proviso to sub-section (1), the Magistrate may, by direct the State Wakf Board established under section 9 of the Wakf Act, 1954 (29 of 1954), or under any other law for the time being in force in a State, functioning in the area in which the woman resides, to pay such maintenance as determined by him under sub-section (1) or, as the case may be, to pay the shares of such of the relatives who are unable to pay, at such periods as he may specify in his .” In Danial Latifi, this Court observed on the effect and implication of the 1986 Act on the of this Court in Shah Bano as under: “8. As held in Shah Bano case [(1985) 2 SCC 556 : 1985 SCC (Cri) 245] the true position is that if the divorced wife is able to maintain herself, the husband’s liability to provide maintenance for her ceases with the expiration of the period of iddat but if she is unable to maintain herself 1288 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports after the period of iddat, she is entitled to have recourse to Section 125 CrPC. Thus it is was held that there is no conflict between the provisions of Section 125 CrPC and those of the Muslim personal law on the question of the Muslim husband’s obligation to provide maintenance to his divorced wife, who is unable to maintain herself. This view is a reiteration of what is stated in two other decisions earlier rendered by this Court in Bai Tahira v. Ali Hussain Fidaalli Chothia [(1979) 2 SCC 316 : 1979 SCC (Cri) 473] and Fuzlunbi v. K. Khader Vali [(1980) 4 SCC 125 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 916] .