The Judge, ‘like the conductor of a choir, must, by force of personality, induce his team to work in harmony; subdue the raucous, encourage the timid, conspire with the young, flatter and (sic the) old’.” Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy Section 165 of the Evidence Act “165. Judge’s power to put questions or production.—The Judge may, in to discover or to obtain proper proof of relevant facts, ask any question he pleases, in any form, at any time, of any witness, or of the parties, about any fact relevant or irrelevant; and may the production of any document or thing; and neither the parties nor their agents shall be entitled to make any objection to any such question or , nor, without the leave of the Court, to cross-examine any witness upon any answer given in reply to any such question: Provided that the must be based upon facts declared by this Act to be relevant, and duly proved: [2024] 2 S.C.R. 805 Shailesh Kumar v. State of U.P. (Now State of Uttarakhand) Provided also that this section shall not authorize any Judge to compel any witness to answer any question, or to produce any document which such witness would be entitled to refuse to answer or produce under sections 121 to 131, both inclusive, if the question were asked or the document were called for by the adverse party; nor shall the Judge ask any question which it would be improper for any other person to ask under section 148 or 149; nor shall he dispense with primary evidence of any document, except in the cases hereinbefore excepted.” 29. Section 165 of the Evidence Act speaks of the power of the court to put questions and production of documents in the course of trial. This is a general and omnibus power given to the court when in search of the truth. Such a power is to be exercised against any witness before it, both in a civil as well as a criminal case. The object is to discover adequate proof of a relevant fact and, therefore, for that purpose, the Judge is authorised and empowered to ask any question of his choice. When such a power is exercised by the court, there is no corresponding right that can be extended to a party to cross-examine any witness on an answer given in reply to a question put forth by it, except with its leave. Emphasizing upon the importance of Section 165 of the Evidence Act, Sir James Stephen while presenting the report of the Select Committee, at the time of passing of the Evidence Act observed, “It is absolutely necessary that the judge should not only hear what is put before him by others, but that he should ascertain by his own inquiries how the facts actually stand. In to do this, it will frequently be necessary for him to go into matters which are not themselves relevant to the matters in issue, but may lead to something that is, and it is in to arm judges with express authority to do this that section 165, which has been so much objected to, has been framed”.