However, the ground reality today is that almost no tender remains unchallenged. Unsuccessful parties or parties not even participating in the tender seek 4 Tata Cellular v. Union of India, [1994] Supp. 2 SCR 122 : (1994) 6 SCC 651, Michigan Rubber v. State of Karnataka, [2012] 8 SCR 128 : (2012) 8 SCC 216, Caretel Infotech Ltd. v. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited & Ors., [2019] 6 SCR 950 : (2019) 14 SCC 81. 372 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to invoke the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution. The public interest litigation (PIL) jurisdiction is also invoked towards the same objective, an aspect normally deterred by the Court because this causes proxy litigation in purely contractual matters. 2. The judicial review of such contractual matters has its own limitations. It is in this context of judicial review of administrative actions that this Court has opined that it is intended to prevent arbitrariness, irrationality, unreasonableness, bias, and mala fides. The purpose is to check whether the choice of decision is made lawfully and not to check whether the choice of decision is sound. In evaluating tenders and awarding contracts, the parties are to be governed by principles of commercial prudence. To that extent, principles of equity and natural justice have to stay at a distance. 3. We cannot lose sight of the fact that a tenderer or contractor with a grievance can always seek damages in a civil court and thus, “attempts by unsuccessful tenderers with imaginary grievances, wounded pride and business rivalry, to make mountains out of molehills of some technical/procedural violation or some prejudice to self, and persuade courts to interfere by exercising power of judicial review, should be resisted.” 20. We find merit in the argument of the appellant-Board that respondent no. 1 could not have invoked the jurisdiction of the High Court, being an interested party. The reliance placed by the appellant-Board on the precedent of this Court in Ashok Kumar Pandey (supra) is apposite. In a similar context, this Court held: “4. When there is material to show that a petition styled as a public interest litigation is nothing but a camouflage to foster personal disputes, the said petition is to be thrown out. Before we grapple with the issue involved in the present case, we feel it necessary to consider the issue regarding public interest aspect. Public interest litigation which has now come to occupy an important field in the administration of law should not be “publicity interest litigation” or “private interest litigation” or “politics interest litigation” or the latest [2024] 3 S.C.R. 373 The Travancore Devaswom Board v. Ayyappa Spices & Ors. trend “paise income litigation”. If not properly regulated and abuse averted it also becomes a tool in unscrupulous hands to release vendetta and wreak vengeance as well. There must be real and genuine public interest involved in the litigation and not merely an adventure of a knight errant or poke one’s nose into for a probe.