An appeal court should not venture too readily into this area by classifying issues as issues of law which are really best left for determination by the specialist appellate tribunals.” 20. The scope of appeal under Section 15Z may be formulated as under: 1036 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 20.1 The Supreme Court will exercise jurisdiction only when there is a question of law arising for consideration from the decision of the Tribunal. A question of law may arise when there is an erroneous construction of the legal provisions of the statute or the general principles of law. In such cases, the Supreme Court in exercise of its jurisdiction of Section 15Z may substitute its decision on any question of law that it considers appropriate. 20.2 However, not every interpretation of the law would amount to a question of law warranting exercise of jurisdiction under Section 15Z. The Tribunal while exercising jurisdiction under Section 15T, apart from acting as an appellate authority on fact, also interprets the Act, Rules and Regulations made thereunder and systematically evolves a legal regime. These very principles are applied consistently for structural evolution of the sectorial laws. This freedom to evolve and interpret laws must belong to the Tribunal to subserve the Regulatory regime for clarity and consistency. These are policy and functional considerations which the Supreme Court will keep in mind while exercising its jurisdiction under Section 15Z.” 7.3 The above understanding of ‘question of law’ as a precondition to this Court’s exercise of appellate jurisdiction under regulatory statutes is extremely pertinent to the present matter. The Act envisages the establishment of State Electricity Regulatory Commissions and the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission as expert and specialised bodies that discharge advisory, regulatory, and adjudicatory functions.14 It has established the APTEL as an appellate body to hear appeals against s of the adjudicating officers or the Appropriate Commission.15 Hence, while delineating the contours of this Court’s interference in 14 The functions of the Central Commission are enlisted in Section 79 of the Act. Similarly, Section 86 provides the functions of the State Commissions. 15 Section 110 establishes the APTEL. Section 111 provides the scope of appellate jurisdiction of the APTEL and Section 120 sets out the procedure to be followed by the APTEL and the powers of the APTEL. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1037 Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited v. Hirehalli Solar Power Project LLP & Others appeal under Section 125, we must be mindful and measured so as to enable a systematic and coherent development of electricity law by the Commissions and the APTEL. 7.4 Having examined the scope of this Court’s exercise of appellate jurisdiction when there is a ‘question of law’ under Section 15Z of the SEBI Act, the position that emerges in this case, it is a little more restrictive as the requirement under Section 125 is not merely a ‘question of a law’ but a ‘substantial question of law’.16 8. Analysis on merits: The above discussion provides the context in which we decide the present appeals.