The freight paid by the respondents was as per the rates notified. Thus the present one is not a case of overcharge at all. It is a case of illegal recovery of freight on account of being unreasonable and in violation of Section 28 of the Act, consequent upon such determination by the Tribunal and the decision of the Tribunal having been upheld by this Court. A case of “illegal charge” is distinguishable from the case of “overcharge” and does not attract the applicability of Section 78-B of the Railways Act.” The facts are different from the present case as the Respondent-IOCL in the present case was only being charged the notified rates as per the prevailing rules at the time of booking. The Respondent-IOCL was aware of the freight charges at the time of booking. 1072 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c. In Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited v. Union of India’, the facts were different from the present case as the Railways had migrated to a computerized railway freight charges system from a manual system, which lead to decrease in the distance notified between Asaudah Railway Station, District Rohtak, Haryana and Partapur, District Meerut, Uttar Pradesh. It is submitted that this Hon’ble Court had correctly held that there was no overcharge and therefore Section 106 of the Railways Act, 1989 is not applicable. However, it is most humbly and respectfully submitted that as on merits there is no discussion in law as to whether any refund is payable dehors Section 106 of the Railways Act, 1989. In the present case, the Appellant-Union had stated as per the circulars dated 07.04.2004 and 24.09.2004 that it would not be raising any issue of undercharging nor would be providing any refund and that the charges are prospective. 6. Therefore, it is requested to allow the present Appeal and reverse the judgement of the Hon’ble High Court.” E. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT 20. Mr. Shashwat Goel, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent in his written submissions has stated thus: - “WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT - M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LTD A. RESPONDENT’S CASE/ ARGUMENTS IN BRIEF 1. It is respectfully submitted that the present matter pertains to ‘illegal charge’ / ‘illegal realization’ of the freight amount by the Petitioner (i.e. the Railways) from the Respondent oil company. Admittedly, the Petitioner herein has charged the freight amount from the Respondent for a distance of 444 km, instead of [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1073 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. 333.18 km between ‘Baad’ (BAD) station to ‘Hissar’ (HSR) station. This is nothing but ‘illegal realization’ of freight from the Respondent and it cannot be termed as ‘overcharge’. It is submitted that there is a difference between ‘illegal realization’/ ‘illegal charge’ and ‘overcharge’ of freight amount. An ‘overcharge’ is something which is in excess of that what is due according to law and is paid by a party on account of mistake of fact. Whereas, ‘illegal realization’ / ‘illegal charge’ is excess realization of charges due to change in ‘notified’ distance or rates.