Tax on land and buildings 269. Entry 42 of the Provincial Legislative List in the Government of India Act 1935, read as follows: “42. Taxes on lands and buildings, hearths and windows” The Draft Constitution prepared by Shri B N Rau, the Constitutional Adviser adopted the above provision in draft Entry 43 of the Provincial Legislative List.331 The Expert Committee on Financial Provisions suggested the deletion of the words “hearths and windows” from draft Entry 43 of the Provincial Legislative List on the ground that such taxes were not likely to be levied. The Committee observed that they would anyway be covered by the word “buildings.”332 The recommendation of the Expert Committee was accepted by the Drafting Committee.333 330 Chanan Mal (supra) [38] 331 B Shiva Rao, ‘The Framing of India’s Constitution: A Study’ (1966, Volume 3) 181 332 B Shiva Rao (Volume 3) 269 333 B Shiva Rao (Volume 3) 502 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1715 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. a. Principles governing ‘taxes on lands and buildings’ 270. The interpretation of the word “lands” has been considered by this Court in several decisions. In Raja Jagannath Baksh Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh,334 the provisions of the UP Large Land Holdings Tax Act 1957 were challenged for falling beyond the legislative competence of the State legislature. It was contended that the expression “lands” under Entry 49 of List II does not include agricultural land. Rejecting this contention, Justice P B Gajendragadkar (as the learned Chief Justice then was) speaking for the Constitution Bench held that the word “lands” is wide enough to include all lands, agricultural or otherwise. In Anant Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of Gujarat,335 this Court held that the word “lands” includes not only the face of the earth, but everything under or over it, and has in its legal signification an indefinite extent upward and downward. The above decisions are authority for the proposition that the ambit of the word “lands” under Entry 49 of List II comprises: (i) all types of lands; and (ii) covers everything under or over land. 271. In Ajoy Kumar Mukherjee v. Local Board of Barpeta,336 the constitutionality of an annual tax levied by local boards for the use of land for the purpose of holding markets was challenged before a Constitution Bench. Speaking for the Bench, Justice K N Wanchoo held that the tax was on land used for a market, and not on the market held on land. The Court held that the use to which the land is put can be taken into account while imposing a tax on the land within the meaning of Entry 49 of List II.337 Further, it was observed that the incidence of tax was on the owner or occupier of the land, and not any other person who may come to the market to transact. In conclusion, it was held that the tax was a tax on land, though its incidence depended upon the use of the land as a market.