104. In view of the above discussion, we are of the opinion that the information about funding to a political party is essential for a voter to exercise their freedom to vote in an effective manner. The Electoral Bond Scheme and the impugned provisions to the extent that they infringe upon the right to information of the voter by anonymizing contributions through electoral bonds are violative of Article 19(1)(a). il. | Whether the infringement of the right to information of the voter is justified 105. The next issue which falls for analysis is whether the violation of the right to information is justified. This Court has laid down the proportionality standard to determine if the violation of the fundamental right is justified. '*4 The proportionality standard is as follows: a. The measure restricting a right must have a legitimate goal (legitimate goal stage); b. |The measure must be a suitable means for furthering the goal (suitability or rational connection stage); c. The measure must be least restrictive and equally effective (necessity stage); and d. The measure must not have a disproportionate impact on the right holder (balancing stage). 106. The legitimate goal stage requires this Court to analyze if the objective of introducing the law is a legitimate purpose for the infringement of rights. At this stage, the State is required to discharge two burdens. First, the State must demonstrate that the objective is legitimate. 124 Modern Dental College & Research Centre v. State of Madhya Pradesh, [2031 S6CR ]57 5 : (2016) 4 SCC 346 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 507 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Second, the State must establish that the law is indeed in furtherance of the legitimate aim that is contended to be served. '*6 107. The then Finance Minister, Mr. Arun Jaitley encapsulated the objective of introducing the Electoral Bond Scheme thus: a. An attempt was made in the past to incentivize donations to political party through banking channels. Both the donor and the donee were granted exemption from payment of tax if accounts of contributions were maintained and returns were filed. However, the situation had only marginally improved. Political parties continued to receive funds through anonymous sources; and b. Donors have been reluctant in donating through the banking channel because the disclosure of donor identity would entail adverse consequences. 108. In other words, Mr. Jaitley stated that the main purpose of the Scheme is to curb black money in electoral financing and this purpose could be achieved only if information about political donations is kept confidential. That is, donor privacy is a means to incentivize contributions through the banking channel. However, Mr. Tushar Mehta argued that protecting donor privacy is an end in itself. We will now proceed to determine if the infringement of the right to information of the voters is justified vis-a-vis the purposes of (a) curbing black money; and (b) protecting donor privacy. a. Curbing Black money 109. The petitioners argue that the infringement of the right to information which is traceable to Article 19(1)(a) can only be justified if the purpose of the restriction is traceable to the grounds stipulated in Article 19(2).