2 and 3. 8. On a re-appreciation of evidence pitched against accused no. 2 and 3, the High Court agreed with the view of the Trial Court that the evidence was not trustworthy. The theory of last seen, as propounded to bring accused no. 2 and 3 within the ambit of criminality, was rejected. Similarly, the allegation of recovery of ornaments from PW-17 at the instance of the accused was also rejected. Since, there is no divergence of opinion with respect to accused no. 2 and 3, this Court is not required to delve further into the same. The High Court set aside the view of the Trial Court regarding the rejection of the voluntary extra judicial confession of appellant and recovery of dead body of the deceased at his instance. The High Court went on to convict the appellant on the strength of the following reasons: i. The extra judicial confession of the appellant was a voluntary confession and there is no reason to doubt the same. ii. Information disclosed by the appellant led to the discovery of dead body of the deceased and minor discrepancies in the version of PW-1 are not material. iii. The Trial Court committed an error by not properly appreciating the evidence of PW-1, especially the voluntary statement and recovery of dead body. SUBMISSIONS OF APPELLANT 9. Assailing the of the High Court, the appellant submits that the High Court did not appreciate the discrepancies in the evidence of PW-1 and went on to accept the same. He further submits that the High Court failed to take note of the improvements made by PW-1 at [2024] 2 S.C.R. 399 Kalinga @ Kushal v. State of Karnataka By Police Inspector Hubli every stage. He further submits that the Trial Court had elaborately appreciated the entire evidence on record and it was not open for the High Court to reappreciate the entire evidence and arrive at a different conclusion of its own. Further, it is submitted that the High Court did not notice the absence of mother and wife of PW-1 from the list of witnesses of the prosecution. 10. The appellant further submits that the finding of the Trial Court regarding the sequence of arrest of the appellant has not been discussed at all in the impugned . It is further submitted that the High Court did not examine the extra judicial confession of the appellant in its correct perspective, especially in light of the suspicion raised by the Trial Court. It is urged that the High Court did not subject the extra judicial confession to a stern test and went on to place undue reliance on the same. It is further contended that the High Court overlooked the discrepancy between the description of clothes found on the dead body and that indicated by PW-1 in his complaint. Lastly, it is submitted that if two views were possible on a reappreciation of evidence, the High Court must have adopted the view in favour of the accused, thereby providing benefit of doubt to the appellant.