(xiv) That, as a matter of fact, the remand application had already been accepted at 6:00 a.m. which fact is manifested from the time appended at the end of the remand (supra). The learned Remand Judge signed the proceedings by recording the time as 6:00 a.m. Hence, there is no escape from the conclusion that the remand was passed without supplying copy of the grounds of arrest to the appellant or the Advocate engaged by him. The appellant was intentionally deprived from information about the grounds of his arrest and thereby he and his Advocate were prevented from opposing the prayer of police custody remand and from seeking bail. (xv) He further urged that the stand taken by the respondent that the grounds of arrest were conveyed to the learned counsel for the appellant well before the learned Remand Judge passed the remand is unacceptable on the face of the record because the time of passing the remand is clearly recorded in the dated 4th October, 2023 as 6:00 a.m. Admittedly, the grounds of arrest were conveyed to Shri Arshdeep Khurana, Advocate for the appellant well after 7:00 a.m. It was contended that the noting made by the learned Remand Judge in the dated 4th October, 2023 that the learned counsel for the appellant was heard on the application for remand is a subsequent insertion clearly visible from the remand . The fact of subsequent insertion of these lines is fortified from the fact that the appellant had already been remanded to police custody by the time the Advocate was informed and the copy of the remand application containing the purported grounds of arrest was transmitted to him. (xvi) That the foundational facts in the FIR No. 224 of 2023 are almost identical to the allegations set out in the EOW FIR. The appellant had been granted protection against arrest by the High Court of Delhi in the EOW FIR. Owing to this protection, the mala fide objective of the authorities in putting the appellant [2024] 6 S.C.R. 679 Prabir Purkayastha v. State (NCT of Delhi) behind bars was not being served and, therefore, a new FIR No. 224 of 2023 with totally cooked up allegations came to be registered and the appellant was illegally deprived of his liberty without the copy of the FIR been provided and without the grounds of arrest being conveyed to the appellant. 9. On these grounds, Shri Sibal implored the Court to accept the appeal, set aside the impugned s and direct the release of the appellant from custody in connection with the above FIR. Submission on behalf of the respondent: - 10. Per contra, Shri Suryaprakash V. Raju, learned ASG, appearing for the respondent vehemently and fervently opposed the submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant and made the following pertinent submissions:- (i) He urged that the in the case of Pankaj Bansal (supra) has been held to be prospective in operation by this Court in the case of Ram Kishor Arora (supra).