In fact, it is common knowledge that in notice inviting tenders, any person blacklisted is rendered ineligible. Hence, blacklisting will not only debar the person concerned from dealing with the concerned employer, but because of the disqualification, their dealings with other entities also is proscribed. Even in the terms and conditions of tender in the present case, one of the conditions of eligibility is that the agency should not be blacklisted from anywhere. 26. In other words, where the case is of an ordinary breach of contract and the explanation offered by the person concerned raises a 202 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports bona fide dispute, blacklisting/debarment as a penalty ought not to be resorted to. Debarring a person albeit for a certain number of years tantamounts to civil death inasmuch as the said person is commercially ostracized resulting in serious consequences for the person and those who are employed by him. 27. Too readily invoking the debarment for ordinary cases of breach of contract where there is a bona fide dispute, is not permissible. Each case, no doubt, would turn on the facts and circumstances thereto. 28. Examining the facts of this case from that perspective, we find that the appellant, after the award of the tender, has admittedly paid an amount of Rs. 3,71,96,265/-, though, according to the Corporation, the outstanding amount as on the date of the debarment was Rs. 14,63,24,727/-. However, as would be clear from the facts discussed hereinabove, right from the inception there have been issues between the appellant and the Corporation with regard to the fulfilment of the reciprocal obligations in the bid document. There has been exchange of correspondence between the parties with each side blaming the other for not performing the reciprocal obligations. While the appellant had a case with regard to the non-issuance of work s; non-receipt of formal format of bank guarantee; refusal of No Objection Certificate for obtaining connection from the Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation Ltd.; existence of only 200 out of 250 allotted street hoardings and so on demonstrating breach of obligations by the Corporation, the Corporation had a case that Bank Guarantee was not the mode of payment and as such there was no reason to insist on Bank Guarantee; that in the joint inspection the appellant’s men failed to cover all the areas and thereafter when appellant was asked to submit a list of allotted location, the appellant failed to furnish the same and further there was huge default on the part of the appellant. 29. Even in the dated 02.03.2016 by which the appellant was debarred for a period of five years, the reason given is that the tender notice had clearly stated that the street hoardings in the annexures would be allotted on ‘as is where is’ basis; that the company having understood the scope and effect of the terms and conditions of the notice accepted the award; that, ‘No Objection Certificate’, is not required in respect of the existing hoardings; that there was no document to show that the company had applied to [2024] 8 S.C.R.