In this connection, reference may be made to Malcom Lawrence Cecil D’Souza v. Union of India and Others,36 wherein this Court held that: - “9. Although security of service cannot be used as a shield against administrative action for lapses of a public servant, by and large one of the essential requirements of contentment and efficiency in public services is a feeling of security. It is difficult no doubt to guarantee such security in all its varied aspects, it should at least be possible to ensure that matters like one’s position in the seniority list after having been settled for once should not be liable to be reopened after lapse of many years….. Raking up old matters like seniority after a long time is likely to result in administrative complications and difficulties. It would, therefore, appear to be in the interest of smoothness and efficiency of service that such matters should be given a quietus after lapse of some time.” 46. In R.S. Makashi and Others v. I.M. Menon and Others,37 this Court observed as follows: - “33. …. We must administer justice in accordance with law and principles of equity, justice and good conscience. It would be unjust to deprive the respondents of the rights which have accrued to them. Each person ought to be entitled to sit back and consider that his appointment and promotion effected a long time ago would not be set aside after the lapse of a number of years. ….” 47. In K.R. Mudgal and Others v. R.P. Singh and Others,38 this Court observed in the following terms: - “2. … A government servant who is appointed to any post ordinarily should at least after a period of 3 or 4 years 36 (1976) 1 SCC 599 37 [1982] 2 SCR 69 : (1982) 1 SCC 379 38 [1986] 3 SCR 993 : (1986) 4 SCC 531 148 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of his appointment be allowed to attend to the duties attached to his post peacefully and without any sense of insecurity.” 48. In B.S. Bajwa and Another v. State of Punjab and Others,39 this Court held that the seniority list should not be reopened after a lapse of reasonable period as it would disturb the settled position which is unjustifiable. The relevant extract is as follows: - “7. … It is well settled that in service matters the question of seniority should not be reopened in such situations after the lapse of a reasonable period because that results in disturbing the settled position which is not justifiable….” 49. It can easily be inferred that in the intervening period, before the GO dated 4th August, 2015 came to be issued, seniority of multitudes of employees must have been fixed according to the GO dated 24th December, 2002, which is according to the date of promotion to skilled grade and not from the date of induction/entry in semi-skilled grade. As a matter of fact, respondent Nos. 3, 4 and 5 who were below the appellant in the of merit at the time of induction in the semi-skilled grade, have been promoted to the skilled grade and the highly skilled grade much before the appellant by application of the GO dated 24th December, 2002.