In the present case, the appellant filed an application at the earliest point of time raising the claim of juvenility based on a horoscope before the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate. The said application was rejected. However, before the trial Court, the birth certificate was presented and a plea for determination of age was raised. Learned trial Court rejected the said prayer by observing that even though the birth certificate was issued in the year 1995, the same was not presented along with the application filed earlier before the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate. 15. On going through the record, we find that proper inquiry in accordance with the provisions of the JJ Act, 2000 or the JJ Act, 2015 was not carried out so to consider the prayer made by the appellant to be treated as juvenile on the date of the incident even though the plea was raised at the earliest opportunity. It can be said without a cavil of doubt that the plea of juvenility raised by the appellant could not have been thrown out without conducting proper inquiry. 16. In the wake of the above discussion, we hereby direct that the learned first Additional Sessions Judge, Darbhanga shall conduct a thorough inquiry to determine the age/date of birth of the appellant in accordance with the procedure provided under the JJ Act, 2015 and the rules framed thereunder. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 509 Rahul Kumar Yadav v. The State of Bihar 17. The Station House Officer of the police station concerned shall provide full assistance to the learned first Additional Sessions Judge in the process of collection of documents/evidence so as to facilitate the inquiry. Proper opportunity to participate in the proceedings shall be provided to the accused as well as the prosecution. 18. In case the trial Court is unable to reach to a logical conclusion based on the documents/certificates placed on record during the course of the inquiry, it may, as a last resort, get conducted the ossification test of the appellant keeping in view the observations made by this Court in the case of Vinod Katara(supra). 19. The inquiry shall be completed within 12 weeks from today. 20. A copy of this shall forthwith be transmitted to the learned first Additional Sessions Judge, Darbhanga for information and compliance. 21. Upon conclusion of procedure, the inquiry report shall be forwarded to this Court and a copy shall also be provided to the accused and the prosecution. 22. The matter shall be listed for hearing in the third week of August, 2024. Criminal Appeal No. 214 of 2018 23. List along with Criminal Appeal No. 177 of 2018 Headnotes prepared by: Result of the case: Niti Richhariya, Hony. Associate Editor Interim direction issued. (Verified by: Liz Mathew, Sr. Adv.) Matter to be relisted.