Similar opinion is required to be formed by the Court whilst considering the prayer for bail, made after filing of the first report made under Section 173 of the Code, as in the present case. • Reasoning, necessary but no detailed evaluation of evidence [para 24] : The exercise to be undertaken by the Court at this stage--of giving reasons for grant or non-grant of bail--is markedly different from discussing merits or demerits of the evidence. The elaborate examination or dissection of the evidence is not required to be done at this stage. • Record a finding on broad probabilities, not based on proof beyond doubt [para 24]:“The Court is merely expected to record a finding on the basis of broad probabilities regarding the involvement of the accused in the commission of the stated offence or otherwise.” • Duration of the limitation under Section 43D(5) [para 26] : The special provision, Section 43-D of the 1967 Act, applies right from the stage of registration of FIR for the offences under Chapters IV and VI of the 1967 Act until the conclusion of the trial thereof. • Material on record must be analysed as a ‘whole’; no piecemeal analysis [para 27] : The totality of the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1023 Union of India Rep. by The Inspector of Police National Investigation Agency Chennai Branch v. Barakathullah etc. material gathered by the investigating agency and presented along with the report and including the case diary, is required to be reckoned and not by analysing individual pieces of evidence or circumstance. • Contents of documents to be presumed as true [para 27] : The Court must look at the contents of the document and take such document into account as it is. • Admissibility of documents relied upon by Prosecution cannot be questioned [para 27] : The materials/evidence collected by the investigation agency in support of the accusation against the accused in the first information report must prevail until contradicted and overcome or disproved by other evidence……. In any case, the question of discarding the document at this stage, on the ground of being inadmissible in evidence, is not permissible.” 13. In the light of the above, let us consider whether from the perusal of the chargesheet and other material/documents produced against the respondents, there are reasonable grounds for believing that accusations against the respondents are prima facie true, as contemplated in the proviso to sub-section (5) of Section 43D of UAPA. It is quite well settled position of law that the chargesheet need not contain detailed analysis of the evidence. * It is for the concerned court considering the application for bail to assess the material/evidence presented by the investigating authority along with the report under Section 173 Cr.P.C. in its entirety, to form its opinion as to whether there are reasonable grounds for believing the accusation against the accused is prima facie true or not. 14. So far as the instant appeals are concerned, the chargesheet contains a narration of the organisational structure of PFI, the objective of the PFI, the activities of PFI and the identification of the physical education instructors and masters as identified by the protected witnesses/listed witnesses.