The CAG is requested to verify the claim of the Petitioner that the Total Cost of the Project has not been recovered and submit a report within four weeks. The CAG shall be at liberty to call for and examine all such records having a bearing on the financial aspects, as it requires to facilitate its decision. This will include matters and information pertaining to all the benefits which have flowed to the Petitioner under the entirety of the agreement, including the utilisation, if any. The Petitioner shall co-operate in all respects with the CAG and provide all documents, information and details as sought. 15. We do not agree with the submission that the Petitioner would suffer irreparable loss if the 2010 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports of the High Court is not stayed. It will be impossible to provide restitution to the lakhs of commuters from whom the fee would be collected to repay them in the event of dismissal of the SLP. On the other hand, if the Petitioner succeeds, it can be compensated suitably by extension of time. The balance of convenience is also against the Petitioner. Therefore, we are not inclined to grant the interim relief as prayed for…” 4.11. In compliance, the CAG conducted a detailed examination of NTBCL’s records, carrying out numerous surveys and tests to arrive at its findings, which have been submitted to this Court by way of a self-explanatory report, a detailed reference to which shall be made in the later part of this judgement. B. contentions on behalf of the appellants 5. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of NTBCL, contended that the High Court has committed multiple errors while rendering the impugned judgement. In this regard, they made the following submissions: (a) Owing to the considerable delay and laches in filing the original petition, the High Court ought to have rejected it at the threshold. The Writ Petition was filed twenty years after execution of the MoU and fifteen years after execution of the Concession Agreement, with no explanation provided to justify such a significant delay. (b) The Writ Petition allegedly filed in public interest could not serve as a vehicle to interfere with a commercial contract like the Concession Agreement or render it invalid. A PIL cannot be utilised to annul or modify a Government Policy established and implemented through the Concession Agreement. It is beyond the scope of judicial review to invalidate a Government Policy decision solely based on the belief that an alternative policy might have been more appropriate. Consequently, the subject PIL was beyond the purview of judicial powers exercisable under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. (c) It was impossible during the relevant period to float tenders in to develop the necessary infrastructure, due to the absence of non-governmental infrastructure developers from [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2011 Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. v. Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association and Others whom competitive bids could have been solicited. IL&FS was explicitly selected because it was a pioneer in the field, with 81% of its ownership held by public sector institutions.