The doctrine of manifest arbitrariness has been subsequently reiterated by this Court in numerous other s. 190. The standard of manifest arbitrariness was further cemented by the Constitution Bench of this Court in Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India.’% In_Navtej Singh Johar (supra), Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code 1860 was challenged, inter alia, on the ground it is manifestly arbitrary. Section 377 criminalized any person who has had “voluntary carnal intercourse against the of nature”. Chief Justice Dipak Misra (writing for himself and Justice AM Khanwilkar) held that Section 377 is manifestly arbitrary for failing to make a distinction between consensual and non-consensual sexual acts between consenting adults. '*® Justice Nariman, in the concurring opinion, observed that Section 377 is manifestly arbitrary for penalizing “consensual gay sex”. Justice Nariman faulted the provision for (a) not distinguishing between consensual and non-consensual sex for the purpose of criminalization; and (b) criminalizing sexual activity 194 [2071 SC8R ]37 9 : (2018) 10 SCC 1 195 WP (Criminal) 76 of 2016 [Chief Justice Misra, 239] [2024] 2 S.C.R. 545 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. between two persons of the same gender.’ Justice DY Chandrachud noted that Section 377 to the extent that it penalizes physical manifestation of love by a section of the population (the LGBTQ+ community) is manifestly arbitrary. '?” Similarly, Justice Indu Malhotra observed that the provision is manifestly arbitrary because the basis of criminalization is the sexual orientation of a person which is not a “rationale principle”. 191. In Joseph Shine v. Union of India,'*? a Constitution Bench of this Court expressly concurred with the doctrine of manifest arbitrariness as evolved in Shayara Bano (supra). In Joseph Shine (supra), one of us (Justice D Y Chandrachud) observed that the doctrine of manifest arbitrariness serves as a check against state action or legislation “which has elements of caprice, irrationality or lacks an adequate determining principle.” In Joseph Shine (supra), the validity of Section 497 of the Indian Penal Code was challenged. Section 497 penalized a man who has sexual intercourse with a woman who is and whom he knows or has a reason to believe to be the wife of another man, without the “consent and connivance of that man” for the offence of adultery. Justice Nariman observed that the provision has paternalistic undertones because the provision does not penalize a married man for having sexual intercourse with a married woman if he obtains her husband’s consent. The learned Judge observed that the provision treats a woman like a chattel: “23. [...] This can only be on the paternalistic notion of a woman being likened to chattel, for if one is to use the chattel or is licensed to use the chattel by the — licensorll, namely, the husband, no offence is committed. Consequently, the wife who has committed adultery is not the subject matter of the offence, and cannot, for the reason that she is regarded only as chattel, even be punished as an abettor.