What really in that circumstance can be called in question is the procedural compliance and the eligibility of their arbitrator depending upon the norms provided under the Act and the Schedules appended thereto. But, here is a case where the Managing Director is the “named sole arbitrator” and he has also been conferred with the power to nominate one who can be the arbitrator in his place. Thus, there is subtle distinction.” 7. The Court relied on the maxim qui facit per alium facit per se (what one does through another is done by oneself)11 to hold that a person who becomes ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator cannot nominate another person as an arbitrator: “57. […] once the arbitrator has become ineligible by operation of law, he cannot nominate another as an arbitrator. The arbitrator becomes ineligible as per prescription contained in Section 12(5) of the Act. It is inconceivable in law that person who is statutorily ineligible can nominate a person. …once the identity of the Managing Director as the sole arbitrator is lost, the power to nominate someone else as an arbitrator is obliterated...” (emphasis supplied) 8. In Perkins Eastman Architects DPC v. HSCC (India) Ltd.,12 the arbitration clause stipulated that disputes or differences between the parties to the contract “shall be referred for adjudication through arbitration by a sole arbitrator appointed by the CMD HSCC within 30 days from the receipt of request from the Design Consultant.” The Bench of two Judges held that the test to determine the possibility of bias is directly relatable to the interest the person appointing an arbitrator has in the outcome of the dispute. The Court held that 11 As applied by this Court in Pratapchand Nopaji v. Kotrike Venkata Setty (1975) 2 SCC 208 [9] 12 [2019] 17 SCR 275 2198 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports a person having an interest in the dispute “cannot and should not have any role in charting out any course to the dispute resolution by having the power to appoint an arbitrator.”13 9. TRF (supra) and Perkins (supra) both dealt with a situation where a person who was rendered ineligible in terms of Section 12(5) was making an appointment of a sole arbitrator. Consequently, Perkins (supra) relied on TRF (supra) to observe that a person who has an interest in the dispute or its outcome should not have the power to unilaterally appoint a sole arbitrator: “16. […] The next sentences in the paragraph, further show that cases where both the parties could nominate respective arbitrators of their choice were found to be completely a different situation. The reason is clear that whatever advantage a party may derive by nominating an arbitrator of its choice would get counter-balanced by equal power with the other party. But, in a case where only one party has a right to appoint a sole arbitrator, its choice will always have an element of exclusivity in determining or charting the course for dispute resolution. Naturally, the person who has an interest in the outcome or decision of the dispute must not have the power to appoint a sole arbitrator.