The definition as understood, has an important bearing on the issuance of licenses and permits. 36. The term “driving license”, which is relevant for the present discussion, is defined under Section 2(10) of the MV Act as a license authorizing a person to operate a motor vehicle of “any specified class or description”. Let us now read Section 10(2) titled, ‘form and Contents of Licenses to drive’ which lists the different classes of motor vehicles. It is contained in Chapter II which deals with ‘Licensing of Drivers of Motor Vehicles’. A key amendment was carried out in the Section by deleting clauses (e), (f), (g) and (h) and all these were clubbed under a single head of “transport vehicle”. 30 Justice G.P. Singh, Principles of Statutory Interpretation (LexisNexis,2016) 582 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports MV Act (pre amendment of MV Act (post amendment of 14.11.1994) 14.11.1994) 10. Form and contents of 10. Form and contents of licences licences to drive.—(1) Every to drive.—(1) Every learner’s learner’s licence and driving licence and driving licence, except licence, except a driving licence a driving licence issued under issued under section 18, shall section 18, shall be in such be in such form and shall form and shall contain such contain such information as may information as may be prescribed be prescribed by the Central by the Central Government. (2) A Government. learner’s licence or, as the case may be, driving licence shall also (2) A learner’s licence or, as the be expressed as entitling the case may be, driving licence holder to drive a motor vehicle shall also be expressed as of one or more of the following entitling the holder to drive a classes, namely:— motor vehicle of one or more of the following classes, (a) motor cycle without gear; namely:— (a) motor cycle (b) motor cycle with gear; without gear; (b) motor cycle with gear; (c) invalid carriage1 ; (c) invalid carriage; (d) light motor vehicle; (d) light motor vehicle; (e) transport vehicle; (e) medium goods vehicle (e) deleted (f)medium passenger vehicle; (f) deleted (g)heavy goods vehicle; (g) deleted (h) heavy passenger vehicle. (h) deleted (i) road-roller; (j)motor vehicle of a specified description 37. In the context of the deletion of the classes of ‘medium goods vehicle’, ‘medium passenger vehicle’, ‘heavy goods vehicle’, and ‘heavy passenger vehicle’ and the introduction of a separate class of ‘transport vehicle’ through the 1994 amendment, the counsel for the insurance companies contended that a specific mention of [2024] 11 S.C.R. 583 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. ‘transport vehicle’ after the amendment would suggest that a separate endorsement would be necessary to drive a ‘transport vehicle’. It was further submitted that even before the 1994 amendment, the second part of Section 3 always provided that a separate endorsement would be necessary. 38. Section 3 is titled ‘Necessity for driving license’ and reads as under: “3. Necessity for driving licence.– (1) No person shall drive a motor vehicle in any public place unless he holds an effective driving licence issued to him authorising him to drive the vehicle; and no person shall so drive a transport vehicle [other than a motor cab or motor cycle hired for his own use or rented under any scheme made under sub-section (2) of section 75] unless his driving licence specifically entitles him so to do.