According to him, since, the driver was sufficiently restrained by the seat belt, there was no need for the front airbag to deploy at the time of accident and the front passenger airbag would be triggered only if the front passenger seat was occupied, whereas in the instant case, the complainant no. 2 was sitting at the rear left seat and therefore the front passenger’s airbag could not have deployed. In any case, runs the submission of Mr. Mehta, the complainants had already sold out the car during the pendency of the proceedings before the National Commission and thereby had created a situation where the Commission could not have inspected the car in question. He further submitted that there was no “unfair trade practice” practiced by the appellants and the damages/compensation awarded by the Commission was without any legal basis. 31. The Senior Learned Advocate Mr. Prashanto Chandra Sen appearing on behalf of the respondents-complainants however vehemently submitted that admittedly neither the front airbags nor the side airbags of the car deployed as a result of the accident. The appellants had not produced on record the owner’s manual and the features of the airbags given in the owner’s manual on record produced by the complainants did not disclose as to what was the pre-determined level at which the airbags would deploy. According to him, the appellants had misrepresented that their car was the safest place on the road and that the provision of airbags was an additional safety measure not only for the front passengers but also for the rear passengers. According to him, since the owner’s manual did not contain accurate and complete information as regards the safety measure of airbags, and the appellants having misrepresented about the safety measures at the time of the promotion of the car, it was rightly construed as an “unfair trade practice” on the part of the appellants by the Commission, however, the Commission had committed an error in not awarding exemplary damages to the respondents-complainants. 32. In the instant case, there are certain undisputed facts as transpiring from the record, like that the purchase of the car was by the respondent no.1 for the respondent no. 2 its Managing Director. The occurrence [2024] 7 S.C.R. 439 M/s Daimler Chrysler India Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s Controls & Switchgear Company Ltd. & Anr. of the accident on 17.01.2006 is not disputed. It is also not disputed that at the time of accident, the driver of the car was wearing the seat belt, whereas the respondent No. 2 who was sitting on the rear left side seat did not wear the seat belt. It is also not disputed that neither the airbags on the front side nor the airbags on the side of the respondent no. 2 had opened at the time of accident, as a result thereof, the respondent no. 2 sustained grievous injuries, and the driver sustained some minor injuries. It is also not disputed that neither the respondents nor the appellants had produced on record the owner’s manual of 2002 i.e.