It is submitted that Captain Amarinder Singh had made public statements that he was “touchy” about the Khalsa College, that he would not permit the ruling party to tinker with the status of the same and that, after he comes to power, he will reverse the decision. It is submitted that immediately after Captain Amarinder Singh became the Chief Minister of Punjab in 2017, an Ordinance was promulgated repealing the 2016 Act, and shortly thereafter, the said Ordinance got the imprimatur of the legislature by the passing of the Impugned Act dated 17th July 2017. 7. Shri Patwalia further submitted that the State of Punjab had come up with the 2010 Policy and under the said Policy, 16 Universities were established, however, it was only the Khalsa University which was picked up and abolished. He submitted that picking up a single University out of 16 Universities which were established as per the 2010 Policy is patently arbitrary, discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. 8. Shri Patwalia further submitted that the Impugned Act is passed on a non-existent factual matrix. He submitted that the Statement of Objects and Reasons7 of the Impugned Act shows that the only reason for passing it is to “protect the heritage character of Khalsa College”. He submitted that the SOR shows that the Impugned Act was passed on the basis that the Khalsa College has, over a period of time, become a significant icon of Khalsa Heritage and the Khalsa University established in 2016 was likely to shadow and damage its character and pristine glory. He submitted that the Khalsa College 7 Hereinafter referred to as “SOR” 452 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was established in 1892 and the appellants had clearly given an undertaking that the establishment of the Khalsa University would not touch the Khalsa College. He submitted that the Khalsa Society comprises of various other establishments apart from Khalsa College and that the Khalsa University was established to provide affiliation for only three colleges namely Khalsa College of Pharmacy, Khalsa College of Education and Khalsa College for Women. He submits that all the three institutions were started after more than half a century of establishment of Khalsa College. It is submitted that Khalsa University (appellant No.1) had also planned/established various other colleges or institutions which would be affiliated to it, however, the same was to be done without in any way affecting the Khalsa College. As such, it is submitted that the reasoning given in the SOR that the Impugned Act was being passed only to protect the heritage character of Khalsa College is formed on a factually erroneous matrix. 9. Shri Patwalia further submitted that the Impugned Act was patently arbitrary, discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. It is submitted that the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Shayara Bano v. Union of India and Others (Ministry of Women and Child Development Secretary and Others) 8 has held that the ground of manifest arbitrariness is also available for examining the validity of a legislation.