10. Applying the Principle in Forasol under the 1996 Act: The reason that this Court in Forasol (supra) determined the date of the decree under Section 17 of the 1940 Act as the proper date is that it is only then that the arbitral award becomes enforceable. However, as set out earlier, the statutory scheme under the 1996 Act does not require such a or decree to be passed for a foreign award to be enforceable. Rather, the enforceability of a foreign award is automatic and deemed under Section 49 after the objections against such an award under Section 48 are finally decided and disposed of. At this point, the award is enforceable as a decree of a court (Section 49). Hence, the date on which the objections are finally decided and dismissed would be the proper date for determining the exchange rate to convert an amount expressed in foreign currency. 10 .1 In the present case, this date is 01.07.2014 – when the High Court dismissed the revision petition against the Trial Court dismissing the appellants’ objections. No further appeal was preferred from this and hence, it attained finality. While the learned counsels have not contested this issue, it was necessary for us to delve into the reason and principle behind selecting this date and to settle the position of law on the applicability of Forasol (supra) under the 1996 Act. 11. Conversion of Deposited Amounts: The primary contention by the learned counsels was regarding the proper date to determine the exchange rate to the extent of Rs. 8 crores that was deposited in the court pursuant to certain s. The learned counsels have 50 2022 SCC OnLine Del 949 312 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports both referred to decisions by the Delhi High Court on this point. Mr. Mishra heavily relied on Voith Hydro (supra), where the arbitral award was partly paid against bank guarantees under a Niti Ayog circular, before the objections were finally decided. The High Court here held that the paid amount stood converted as on the date of payment as it was received by the award-holder and the exchange rate increased by the time the objections were finally decided. On the other hand, Mr. Mahajan has relied on Karam Chand Thapar (supra), where again a deposit of some part of the amount was made, albeit after the final decision on objections. Here the High Court held that the date on which the SLP in the objections was dismissed would be the proper date. 11.1 In the present case, it is important to note the terms on which the two deposits of Rs. 7.5 crores and Rs. 50 lakhs were made. From the of the High Court dated 15.10.2010, it is clear that such for deposit of Rs. 7.5 crores and for furnishing a bank guarantee of an Indian bank for the release of the deposit was made in accordance with the consent of the parties. Mr. Mahajan’s submission that the respondent did not consent to the deposit hence cannot be accepted.