Phone no: 09779866666/09810533311. 14. The learned Chairperson is hereby authorized to constitute separate or joint Search-cum-Selection Committees for one or more Universities, keeping in view the nature of subjects/disciplines in which education is being imparted in such pooled Universities. The Chairperson is requested to nominate 4 persons out of the empaneled experts, whom he finds capable of short-listing suitable names for appointment as Vice-Chancellors. Learned Chairperson shall preside over every Search-cum-Selection Committee and thus, composition of each such Committee shall be five. The Search-cum-Selection Committee shall prepare a panel of at least 03 names (alphabetically and not in of merit) for each University. 15. The learned Chairperson is requested to constitute the Search- cum- Selection Committees for the group or the individual Universities as early as possible and preferably within two weeks. The Department of Higher Education, Government of West Bengal is hereby nominated as the nodal department of the State Government to issue advertisements giving vide publicity to invite applications for the posts of Vice- Chancellors. Such advertisements shall contain the details of the requisite qualification and other eligibility conditions, with a specific reference to this Court’s so as to infuse confidence, leaving no uncertainty in the minds of the meritorious aspirants in submitting their claims. The advertisements shall give four weeks’ time to submit the applications. Such applications shall be scrutinized by the concerned department of the State Government within one week and shall thereafter the entire set of all applications be placed before the learned Chairperson of the Search-cum-Selection Committee, who in turn, will get the dossier of each candidate prepared for consideration of the Search-cum-Selection Committee. The Search Committee may endeavour to complete their task within three months from today. 16. The learned Chairperson shall be paid an honorarium of Rs. 3 lakhs for every effective day of proceedings of the Search Committee, until [2024] 7 S.C.R. 85 The State of West Bengal v. Dr. Sanat Kumar Ghosh and Ors. the entire process is completed. The State Government, in addition to honorarium, provide the Chairperson with a suitable office and full secretarial assistance, along with transit accommodation at Kolkata. The learned Chairperson shall also be provided with an official vehicle and necessary paraphernalia forthwith, commensurate to the constitutional position held by him in the past. 17. The members of the Search-cum-Selection Committee shall be entitled to such allowance, perks, and facilities as may have been prescribed under the Statutes or by the State Government. If nothing has been prescribed, in that case, the petitioner-State shall apprise this Court of the status on the next date of hearing to enable us to pass appropriate in this regard. Meanwhile, State Government is directed to reimburse their air fare (economy class) lodging and boarding expenses within one week of submission of such claims. 18. The recommendations made by the Search-cum-Selection Committee, duly endorsed by the learned Chairperson, shall be put up before the Chief Minister (and not the Minister-in-charge of a Department) for necessary consideration. In case the Chief Minister, State of West Bengal has reasons to believe that any short-listed person is unsuitable for appointment as Vice-Chancellor, the remarks to this effect along with supporting material and the original record of the recommendation made by the Search-cum-Selection Committee, shall be put up before the learned Chancellor within two weeks.