10.9.4 The Delhi High Court noted that all components, spares and accessories of such capital goods under Chapter 85, would also be treated as capital goods since CENVAT credit is available to accessories of capital goods. 10.9.5 As to what amounts to an accessory, the Delhi High Court, after analysis of the relevant rules and case laws, took the view that an accessory is an article or device that adds to the convenience or effectiveness but is not essential to the main machinery. It was held that tower has to be considered as an essential component/part of the “capital good” being BTS and the antenna. The Antenna which receives and transmits signals and used for providing output mobile service cannot be installed high above the ground without the tower. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1555 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune 10.9.6 It was also held that BTS is an integrated system which includes antenna, and each component in the BTS has to work in tandem to provide cellular connectivity to phone users to provide efficient services. 10.9.7 Further, it was held that the tower is part of the active infrastructure as the antenna cannot be placed at the appropriate altitude to generate uninterrupted frequency without the support of the tower and the PFBs are accessories for the placement of various BTS equipment and other items for these to remain in a dust-free environment with ambient temperature. 10.9.8 The Delhi High Court then concluded that tower and PFB/Shelter support the BTS for effective transmission of mobile signals and therefore, enhance the efficiency of BTS and antenna. The towers and shelters, therefore, act as components and parts and in alternative as accessories to the BTS and antenna and thus are covered by the definition of “capital goods”. 10.9.9 The Delhi High Court accordingly found fault with the Tribunal in interpreting the definition of “capital goods” and observed that the Tribunal merely adopted the ratio laid down in the case of Bharti Airtel (supra) of the Bombay High Court without proper analysis. The Delhi High Court was of the opinion that the view of the Bombay High Court in the aforesaid case of Bharti Airtel (supra) and subsequent decisions was contrary to the settled judicial precedents including in Solid and Correct Engineering (supra). 10.9.10 The Delhi High Court further examined as to whether towers and PFBs/shelters would qualify as “inputs” under Rule 2(k) of the CENVAT Rules. 10.9.11 After examining the principles laid down in Godfrey Phillips India Ltd. vs. Union of India, 1985 SCC OnLine Bom 345; Indian Chamber of Commerce vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, WB, AIR 1976 SC 348; Union Carbide India Ltd. vs. CCE, Calcutta-1, 1996 SCC OnLine CEGAT 1355; Oblum Electrical Industries Pvt. Ltd. vs. Collector of Customs, 1997 (7) SCC 581; J.K. Cotton Spinning and 1556 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Weaving Mills Co. Ltd. vs. Sales Tax Officer, Kanpur (1965) 1 SCR 900, the Court came to the conclusion that the term “all goods” mentioned under Rule 2(k) of the CENVAT Rules would cover all the goods used for providing output services except those which are specifically excluded in the Rules.