[2024] 1 S.C.R. 1081 Adv Babasaheb Wasade & Ors. v. Manohar Gangadhar Muddeshwar & Ors. 31. For all the reasons recorded above, the impugned of the High Court and the other authorities adverse to the appellants cannot be sustained. The Change Report No.668 of 2002 deserves to be accepted. The Joint Charity Commissioner had rightly accepted it. 32. The appeal is accordingly allowed. The impugned and of the High Court as also the s rejecting the Change Report regarding General Body Meeting dated 08.09.2002 are set aside and the Change Report is accepted. 33. However, having allowed the appeal, before parting, we would like to address one grey area, which having been left unexplained cannot be brushed aside. Insofar as it relates to four signatories to the Requisition for calling a General Body Meeting, specifically being Members 4 to 7 from the category of Employee Members, from a perusal of the available record, it transpires that they had retired from service. Yet even after this, they had continued to pay their subscription and as such, their membership had continued. 34. In this context, the obvious question that arises is that once the said Members were Employee Members, their categorisation as such was dependent on them being in service. On retirement, the said signatories would cease to be employees, come out of the category of Employee Members and their membership in the Society could not have continued. Upon superannuation or cessation of their employment, such four signatories could very well have been made members of the Society, but there is no indication on the record that they were made members of the Society by a specific resolution and thereafter continued as members and paid the subscription fee(s). Thus, they could not have continued as members of the Society in the category of Employee Members even upon their superannuation by merely paying the yearly subscription fee thereby blocking the entry of the persons, who were still employees. 35. Moreover, we find that the stalemate in the Society has continued for a pretty long time, which does not bode well for any institution, much less an institution which is running educational institutions and is required to be run in a fair, transparent and legal manner. Thus, we direct that fresh elections shall be held for the new Executive Committee of the Society by the Charity Commissioner in accordance with law within six months from the receipt of a copy of this . It is left open for him to delve into all aspects of the matter for 1082 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ensuring that the issue of membership/members of the Society is resolved in terms of the existing records of the Society, ascertaining the factual position and status of the members at relevant point of time as also their right to continue as members of the Society and be on the electoral roll for conduct of fresh election for constitution of a new Executive Committee. 36. There shall be no as to costs.