In other words, the action challenged has no public element and writ of mandamus cannot be issued as the action was essentially of a private character. 76. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we hold that the learned Single Judge of the High Court was justified in taking the view that the original writ application filed by Respondent 1 herein under Article 226 of the Constitution is not maintainable. The appeal court could be said to have committed an error in taking a contrary view.” 42. In view of the aforesaid, nothing more is required to be discussed in the present appeals. We are of the view that the High Court committed an egregious error in entertaining the writ petition filed by the respondents herein holding that the appellant society is a “State” within Article 12 of the Constitution. Undoubtedly, the school run by the Appellant Society imparts education. Imparting education involves public duty and therefore public law element could also be said to be involved. However, the relationship between the respondents herein and the appellant society is that of an employee and a private employer arising out of a private contract. If there is a breach of a covenant of a private contract, the same does not touch any public law element. The school cannot be said to be discharging any public duty in connection with the employment of the respondents. ii. Doctrine of Legitimate Expectation 43. During the course of the arguments, a submission was canvassed that the respondents were under a legitimate expectation that their service conditions and salary would not be unilaterally altered by the appellant society to their disadvantage. Thus, as the respondents were neither consulted with nor taken in confidence by the appellant society before effecting the changes in their service conditions, it amounted to a breach of their legitimate expectation, thereby making it a fit case for the exercise of writ jurisdiction by the High Court. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2243 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. 44. The doctrine of legitimate expectation was also referred to and relied upon by the single Judge of the High Court as one of the reasons to allow the writ petition filed by the respondents. The relevant observations made by the single Judge in the and dated 05.08.2014 are reproduced hereinbelow:- “28. We also have to appreciate the “legitimate expectations” of the petitioners who expect equity, fairplay and justice, from a public authority which respondent nos. 2, 3 and 7 indeed are and, therefore, they must meet such standards as a public authority ought to 15 have. The new management of the School, including respondent no.2, 3 and 7 are hereby directed not to change or vary the conditions of the petitioners to their disadvantage.” 45. Before parting with the matter, we deem it necessary to answer the aforesaid submission of the respondents. This Court in Union of India v. Hindustan Development Corporation reported in (1993) 3 SCC 499 enunciated that the doctrine of legitimate expectation is a creature of public law aimed at combating arbitrariness in executive action by public authorities.