[2024] 12 S.C.R. 392 : 2024 INSC 937 Kunhimuhammed@Kunheethu v. The State of Kerala (Criminal Appeal No. 5097 of 2024) 06 December 2024 [Vikram Nath* and Prasanna B. Varale, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether appellant had the intention to commit murder; whether the appellant’s act can be brought under section 304, IPC in light of the offence being committed in exercise of private defense and thereby exceeding the power given under the law, that is under exception 2 to section 300, IPC; whether appellant’s sentence should be reduced on the grounds of parity with his co-accused. Headnotes† Penal Code, 1860 – ss.302, 324 and 326/34 – The sympathizers of two political groups fought against each other – Appellant along with other accused committed murder of victim-S and injured CW-1 – Trial Court held appellant guilty u/ss.302, 324 and 326/34 of IPC and sentenced him to life imprisonment and the same was upheld by the High Court – Correctness: Held: The severity of the injuries inflicted on the deceased has been central to the Courts’ conclusion that the act qualifies as murder under Section 300 of the IPC – As per the post-mortem report, the deceased sustained both external and internal ante-mortem injuries that were identified as being inflicted by a sharp-edged knife – The prosecution established beyond doubt that these injuries were inflicted by the appellant-accused no. 1 using a knife, which was recovered during the investigation based on the appellant’s disclosure statement – Further, the doctor PW-6 has stated that these injuries were sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature – Cross-examination of these witnesses did not reveal any inconsistencies that could undermine the credibility of the evidence – Consequently, the courts have rightly concluded that the fatal injuries inflicted by the appellant were the direct cause of the deceased’s death – As far as intention of appellant to commit * Author [2024] 12 S.C.R. 393 Kunhimuhammed@Kunheethu v. The State of Kerala murder is concerned, the injuries were concentrated on the vital parts of the deceased’s body, such as the chest and ribs, which house critical organs like the heart and lungs – The deliberate targeting of these areas indicates a clear intent to cause harm that could lead to death – There is also the testimony of the injured witnesses that accused used considerable force while stabbing – The other co-accused were reportedly armed with sticks, the appellant-accused no. 1 was in possession of a sharp knife, which was used to inflict severe injuries – The decision to carry and use such a weapon during the scuffle reflects a readiness to escalate violence beyond a mere physical altercation – The third clause of Section 300, IPC defines murder as the act of causing death by causing such bodily injury as is likely to result in death in the ordinary course of nature – In the instant case, the appellant’s actions satisfy these criteria – The appellant was armed with a knife, which he used to inflict multiple injuries on vital organs – The fatal nature of these injuries, as confirmed by medical evidence, and the circumstances of the attack clearly point to an intent to cause death or at least an intention to inflict injuries with the knowledge that they were likely to result in death – Even if it is presumed that the appellant-accused no.