The High Court observed that compensation had been paid for the shortfall of 974 sq. mts. @ ₹25/- per sq. mt. and noted that it was not in dispute that the said compensation amount had been accepted without protest. The High Court also noted that the plaintiffs had not challenged the second varied Town Planning Scheme No. 6, Paldi, under which they were allotted Final Plot No. 187, admeasuring 2278 sq. mts., in lieu of the originally allotted Final Plot No. 463, admeasuring 3890 sq. yds. The High Court also took note of the fact that the plaintiffs supported the second varied scheme before the Division Bench of the High Court in Special Civil Application No. 3980 of 1992 and concluded that they could not make out a grievance with regard to the non-delivery of the remaining 974 sq. mts. of land. 606 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. Reference was made by the High Court to Section 71 of the Act of 1976, which allowed variation of a Town Planning Scheme and it was held that any right with respect to the remaining 974 sq. mts., on the basis of the original Town Planning Scheme No. 6, Paldi, no longer remained in existence after such variation. The High Court, accordingly, held that the Trial Court had erred in directing the Corporation to allot 974 sq. mts. of land in any other scheme in the western zone of Ahmedabad. The High Court also took note of the fact that the Trial Court had opined that the compensation paid to the plaintiffs for the shortfall of 974 sq. mts. @ ₹25/- per sq. mt. was inadequate, which had led to the direction to the Corporation to allot an equivalent extent of land in any other Town Planning Scheme, while directing the plaintiffs to return the amount of compensation paid to them. The High Court, thereupon, observed that once the plaintiffs accepted Final Plot No. 187 and the compensation for the 974 sq. mts. of land @ ₹25/- per sq. mt. under the second varied Town Planning Scheme, No. 6, Paldi, without protest, it was not open to the Trial Court to pass any which would tantamount to further varying the scheme when it was not even challenged by the plaintiffs. 16. As regards the inaction on the part of the Corporation in handing over vacant possession of Final Plot No. 463, the High Court observed that once the original Town Planning Scheme was varied, it was not open to the plaintiffs to assert any grievance in relation to the plot allotted to them under that scheme. As regards the inadequacy of compensation, the High Court held that the Trial Court could not have gone into that issue as no appeal was preferred by the plaintiffs under Section 54 of the Act of 1976, if they were unhappy with the quantum of compensation. 17. Insofar as the cross-objection filed by the plaintiffs is concerned, the High Court noted that the Trial Court had not accepted their prayer to award them compensation of ₹1,63,97,673/- as they had failed to prove, by leading evidence, that at the relevant time in 1963 the market price of the land was ₹150/- per sq.