Shamlal Garg, father of Mahesh Garg(PW-1) was found present and he made an enquiry about the incident from him. However, the witness did not record the statement of Shamlal Garg under Section 161 CrPC on the premise that Shamlal Garg seemed to be apprehensive and frightened because of old age. However, this seems to be nothing but a lame excuse. The Investigating Officer(PW-37) stated that he had recorded the statement of Shamlal Garg under Section 161 CrPC at a later date. He recorded the statements of Sachin Garg(PW-2) and Mahesh Garg(PW-1) on 20th April, 2003 at about 12:00 noon. Mahesh Garg(PW-1), divulged the names of accused as Gaurav, Sanjay, Munish @ Mintu and Gaurav Maini in his statement under Section 161 CrPC. Subsequently, the Investigating Officer(PW-37) resiled from this version and stated that names of the accused were not disclosed by Mahesh Garg(PW-1), but rather the same were stated by Sachin Garg(PW-2). The Investigating Officer(PW-37) was confronted with the special report(Exhibit-PEEE) prepared by the SHO of Police Station, Sector 5, Chandigarh under Section 173 CrPC wherein, neither the names of the accused nor the title of the case were mentioned. The Investigating Officer explained that in spite of the statements of Mahesh Garg(PW-1) and Sachin Garg(PW-2), being available on the case file, he did not consider it essential to mention the names of the accused in the special report. This omission is again an indication of suspicious conduct of the Investigating Officer(PW-37). The Investigating Officer(PW-37) further admitted that on making enquiry from Niranjan Singla and Reena Singla, he could not gather any information regarding the identity of the person(s) to whom the SIM cards had been sold. The Investigating Officer(PW-37) also admitted that the cash amount recovered from the accused was not available in the Court. The recovered currency notes were deposited with CIA staff, i.e. Male [2024] 7 S.C.R. 355 Gaurav Maini v. The State of Haryana Head Constable, Panchkula(hereinafter being referred to as ‘MHC’). These currency notes were not in a sealed condition when they were deposited. The currency notes recovered at the instance of the accused were not produced before the Court as the same already been taken on superdari by the Superdar. He did not remember the name of the MHC. He also could not state whether the MHC had been cited as a witness in the case. A pertinent suggestion was given to the witness(PW-37) that he was deliberately concealing the name of the MHC because amount recovered from Munish Bhalla and Gaurav Bhalla was never deposited with him. 40. At this stage, it would be relevant to mention that the Investigating Officer(PW-37) claimed that the recovered currency notes had been handed over to the Superdar, but no of the Court concerned directing/permitting handing over of the currency notes to anyone is available on record. Admittedly, the recovered currency notes were neither sealed at the time of recovery nor did the prosecution led any evidence to show that the currency notes allegedly seized from the accused were ever deposited in the malkhana of the police station.