Supreme Court Reports 23.4. In Azhar Hussain v. Rajiv Gandhi9 this Court held that the whole purpose of conferment of powers under this provision is to ensure that a litigation which is meaningless, and bound to prove abortive, should not be permitted to waste judicial time of the court, in the following words : (SCC p.324, para 12) “12. …The whole purpose of conferment of such power is to ensure that a litigation which is meaningless, and bound to prove abortive should not be permitted to occupy the time of the Court, and exercise the mind of the respondent. The sword of Damocles need not be kept hanging over his head unnecessarily without point or purpose. Even if an ordinary civil litigation, the Court readily exercises the power to reject a plaint, if it does not disclose any cause of action.” 23.5. The power conferred on the court to terminate a civil action is, however, a drastic one, and the conditions enumerated in VII Rule 11 are required to be strictly adhered to. 23.6. Under VII Rule 11, a duty is cast on the Court to determine whether the plaint discloses a cause of action by scrutinizing the averments in the plaint,10 read in conjunction with the documents relied upon, or whether the suit is barred by any law. 23.7. VII Rule 14(1) provides for production of documents, on which the plaintiff places reliance in his suit, which reads as under: “14.Production of document on which plaintiff sues or relies.– (1)Where a plaintiff sues upon a document or relies upon document in his 9 1986 Supp SCC 315. Followed in Manvendrasinhji Ranjitsinhji Jadeja v. Vijaykunverba, 1998 SCC OnLine Guj 281 : (1998) 2 GLH 823 10 Liverpool & London S.P. & I Assn. Ltd. V. M.V. Sea Success I (2004) 9 SCC 512 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1457 Shri Mukund Bhavan Trust and Ors. v. Shrimant Chhatrapati Udayan Raje Pratapsinh Maharaj Bhonsle and Another possession or power in support of his claim, he shall enter such documents in a list, and shall produce it in Court when the plaint is presented by him and shall, at the same time deliver the document and a copy thereof, to be filed with the plaint. (2)Where any such document is not in the possession or power of the plaintiff, he shall, wherever possible, state in whose possession or power it is. (3)A document which ought to be produced in Court by the plaintiff when the plaint is presented, or to be entered in the list to be added or annexed to the plaint but is not produced or entered accordingly, shall not, without the leave of the Court, be received in evidence on his behalf at the hearing of the suit. (4)Nothing in this rule shall apply to document produced for the cross examination of the plaintiff’s witnesses, or, handed over to a witness merely to refresh his memory.” (emphasis supplied) 23.8. Having regard to VII Rule 14 CPC, the documents filed alongwith the plaint, are required to be taken into consideration for deciding the application under VII Rule 11 (a).