Meaning of the expression “mineral rights” 170. The Constitution does not define “mineral rights”. The expression has not been defined in the MMDR Act or the rules framed under it. Though the expression “mineral rights” is used in Entry 50 of List II, it does not find mention in any of the other related legislative entries – Entry 54 of List I and Entry 23 of List II. The expression has to be given its ordinary and natural meaning by adopting an interpretative approach which eschews rigidity. Mineral rights are inextricably connected to property. Any understanding of “mineral rights” must be prefaced on an understanding of the basics of property law. 171. In a regime of private property, the rules governing access to and control of resources are organized around the idea that resources are on the whole separate objects belonging to particular individuals.236 These resources can comprise of immovable and movable property, both corporeal and incorporeal. In a social based on private property, an owner’s decision of the manner in which they put the resource to use is generally upheld by society as final.237 A person who owns a resource has the right to determine its use. The ownership of 234 Hansard, Volume 11, 22 September 1909 235 Hansard, Volume 35, 5 March 1912 236 Jeremy Waldron, ‘What is Private Property?’ (1985) 5(3) Oxford Journal of Legal Studies 313, 327. 237 Ibid, 327. 1674 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a resource also precludes the claims of other persons or individuals with respect to that particular resource.238 172. In the context of land, it is well-established that the ownership of land includes the ownership of underlying minerals, unless the right to minerals has been expressly reserved by law.239 Therefore, an owner of land has rights to the surface of the land and to sub-soil resources.240 Surface rights are rights to the surface of the land and include the right to use land, construct buildings, install machinery and equipment, and plant trees or dig wells. Surface rights can also be sold or transferred to another person. The right to minerals entails the right to monetize mineral resources by either consuming them or selling them to third parties. The right to minerals emanates from the concept of the ownership of property. 173. Counsel have drawn attention to dictionary meanings attributed to “mineral rights”. Black’s Law Dictionary defines “mineral right” as “an interest in minerals in land, with or without ownership of the surface of the land; a right to take minerals or a right to receive royalty.”241 174. Corpus Juris Secundum defines the term “mineral right” as follows: “It is the right or title to all, or to certain specified, minerals in a given tract. It is a broader term and is more inclusive than the term “oil and gas”, and it has been held that, in the light of the surrounding facts and circumstances under which it is used, it may not be necessarily include the right to oil and gas.”242 175.