We may note here that the decision in the case of Anand Theatres19 is by a Bench of two Hon’ble Judges. Thus, the decision of a larger Bench in the case of Karnataka Power Corporation20 limits the applicability of the decision in the case of Anand Theatres19 to hotels or cinema theatres. Therefore, the decision in the case of Anand Theatres19 cannot be applied while considering the question of whether a mall or warehouse or a building other than a hotel or a cinema theatre can be said to be a “plant”. 52. This Court has laid down the functionality test. This Court held that whether a building is a plant is a question of fact. This Court held that if it is found on facts that a building has been so planned and constructed as to serve an assessee’s special technical requirements, it will qualify to be treated as a plant for the purposes of investment allowance. The word ‘plant’ used in a bracketed portion of Section 17(5)(d) cannot be given the restricted meaning provided in the definition of “plant and machinery”, which excludes land, buildings or any other civil structures. Therefore, in a given case, a building can also be treated as a plant, which is excluded from the purview of the exception carved out by Section 17(5)(d) as [2024] 10 S.C.R. 847 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. it will be covered by the expression “plant or machinery”. We have discussed the provisions of the CGST Act earlier. To give a plain interpretation to clause (d) of Section 17(5), the word “plant” will have to be interpreted by taking recourse to the functionality test. 53. One of the submissions of the learned ASG is that as the Union legislature cannot levy tax on land and buildings, the chain is broken once a building comes into existence by using goods and services. As discussed earlier, Schedule II of the CGST Act recognises the activity of renting or leasing buildings as a supply of service. Even the activity of the construction of a building intended for sale is a supply of service if the total consideration is accepted before the completion certificate is granted. Therefore, if a building qualifies to be a plant, ITC can be availed against the supply of services in the form of renting or leasing the building or premises, provided the other terms and conditions of the CGST Act and Rules framed thereunder are fulfilled. Therefore, the argument regarding breaking the chain cannot be accepted in its entirety. However, if the construction of a building by the recipient of service is for his own use, the chain will break, and therefore, ITC would not be available. 54. One of the arguments of learned ASG was that if different meanings were given to the words “plant and machinery” and “plant or machinery”, it could result in discriminatory treatment. Clause (c) of Section 17(5) operates in a completely different field, as it applies only to works contract services supplied for the construction of immovable property.