However, there are few distinguishing features, which, in my view, are important as they go to the root of the matter. First, in the case before the Calcutta High Court even at the time when the writ application was rejected, the company was a public sector undertaking; Secondly, even when the appeal was filed, the same was a public sector undertaking; and thirdly and most importantly, the issue as regards the propriety and legality of the privatisation was pending before the Larger Bench of the Supreme Court.” (emphasis supplied) 25. In the case of Kalpana Yogesh Dhagat (supra), the learned Single Judge of the Gujarat High Court went on to uphold the preliminary objection regarding the maintainability of the writ petition against Reliance Industries Limited (RIL). The relevant excerpts from the said are extracted hereinbelow: - “19. …..However, the scope of mandamus is determined by the nature of the duty to be enforced, rather than the identity of the authority against whom it is sought. If the private body is discharging public function, the pubic law remedy can be enforced. The duty cast upon a public body may be either statutory or otherwise and the source of such power is immaterial, but, nevertheless, there must be a public law element in such action. The respondent Reliance Petro Investment Limited has nothing to do with the public as such. It is a company engaged in the business of petroleum products. Neither the Union nor the ‘State’ has any control over the respondent company. Mere issue of a licence by the Union or State Government for the purpose of running the company by itself will not make it an instrumentality of a “State” or an agency of a “State”. *** 21. The language of Article 226 is no doubt very wide. It states that a writ can be issued “to any person or authority” 950 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and “for enforcement of right conferred by Part III and for any other purpose”. However, the aforesaid language in Article 226 cannot be interpreted and understood literally. The Court should not apply the literal rule of interpretation while interpreting Article 226. If we take the language of Article 226 literally it will follow that a writ can be issued to any private person or to settle even the private disputes. If we interpret the word “for any other purpose” literally it will mean that a writ can be issued for any purpose whatsoever, e.g. for deciding private disputes, for grant of divorce, succession certificate etc. Similarly, if we interpret the words “to any person” literally it will mean that a writ can even be issued to the private persons. However, this would not be the correct meaning in view of the various decisions of the Supreme Court in which it has been held that a writ will lie only against the State or instrumentality of the State vide Chander Mohan Khanna v. N.C.E.R.T, (1991) 4 SCC 578, Tekraj Vasandhi v. Union of India, (1988) 1 SCC 236 : AIR 1988 SC 469, General Manager, Kisan Sahkari Chini Mills Ltd. v. Satrughan Nishad, (2003) 8 SCC 639, Federal Bank Ltd. v. Sagar Thomas & Co., (2003) 10 SCC 733, Pradeep Kumar Biswas v. Indian Institute of Chemical Biology ((2002) 5 SCC 111) etc.