92 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT 36. At the outset, Mr. Rana Mukherjee, the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent submitted that the disputes raised by the petitioner are not arbitrable as the claims made by the petitioner relate to the sanction letter dated 10.10.2016 issued by the ICCR to the respondent which is not a part of the AELA franchise agreement entered into between the parties on 21.03.2013. Thus, in the absence of any arbitration clause in the aforesaid sanction , and it being unrelated to the AELA franchise agreement, the petitioner cannot invoke arbitration for the adjudication of the claims. 37. It was further submitted by him that on the contrary, as per the AELA franchise agreement, it was the respondent who was entitled to receive royalty fee from the petitioner at the rates prescribed in the franchise agreement, and there was no arrangement by which the petitioner was entitled to a 90% payment. 38. The learned Senior counsel vehemently argued that notwithstanding the merits of the claim, the same is hopelessly barred by limitation on the face of it by virtue of the applicability of Article 137 of the Limitation Act, 1963. The dispute, as per the legal notice dated 26.08.2021 issued by the petitioner to the respondent, arose on 01.11.2017 and thus the limitation period, even after considering the covid exclusion, had come to an end much prior to the date when the notice for invocation of arbitration was issued by the petitioner on 24.11.2022. Further, the plea of a force-majeure event due to coming back of Taliban in Afghanistan, as raised by the petitioner is not bona-fide as most of the exchanges between the parties took place on email and the email facility was available to the petitioner even in the month of August, 2021. The counsel submitted that no effective steps were taken by the petitioner even after the covid period came to an end indicating that the petitioner was not vigilant in protecting its rights and hence the petition was liable to be dismissed as barred by limitation. The counsel contended that the mere exchange of letters would not extend the cause of action and the period of limitation for the purposes of filing the arbitration petition. 39. It was further submitted that the invocation of pre-litigation mediation proceedings before the Bombay High Court Mediation Centre by the petitioner was under Section 12A of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 which is a mandatory pre-condition before institution of a commercial [2024] 3 S.C.R. 93 M/S Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/S Aptech Ltd. suit under the said Act and the petitioner should not be allowed to change course by invoking arbitration after having previously submitted to the jurisdiction of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015. Further, the petitioner made the ICCR as a party in the mediation proceedings before the High Court and the ICCR also participated in the said proceedings. Thus, it is evident that the dispute arising out of the tripartite arrangement between the petitioner, respondent and the ICCR has no nexus with the arbitration clause of the AELA franchise agreement.