Charge under Section 341/217/218/201/330/34 /120B Indian Penal Code, 1860 was found to have been made out against all the accused persons. …” 24. From the above extracted portion, it is evident that the implication of the appellant in the crime is with the aid of Section 120B and Section 34, IPC. Apart from using the expression “criminal conspiracy” there is absolute absence of anything whatsoever in the said final report as also in the statement of any of the witnesses, suggesting that the appellant herein conspired with the other accused or what exactly is the criminal conspiracy. 25. This Court in the decision in R. Venkatakrishnan v. CBI,10 held that criminal conspiracy, in terms of Section 120B, IPC, is an independent offence and its ingredients are: (i) an agreement between two or more persons; (ii) the agreement must relate to doing or causing to be done either – (a) an illegal act; (b) an act which is not illegal in itself but is also done by illegal means. 10 (2009) 11 SCC 737 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1171 Ram Prakash Chadha v. The State of Uttar Pradesh 26. An important facet of law of conspiracy is that apart from it being a distinct offence, all conspirators are liable for the acts of each other of the crime or crimes which have been committed as a result of conspiracy. A careful scanning of the provisions under Sections 120A and 120B, IPC, would reveal that the sine qua non for an offence of criminal conspiracy is an agreement to commit an offence. It consists of agreement between two or more persons to commit the criminal offence, irrespective of the further consideration whether or not the offence is actually committed as the very fact of conspiracy constitutes the offence (See the decision in K.S. Narayanan & Ors. v. G Gopinathan11). 27. There can be no doubt that conspiracy is hatched in privacy and not in secrecy, and such it would rarely be possible to establish conspiracy by direct evidence. A few bits here and a few bits there, on which the prosecution may rely, are not sufficient to connect an accused with the commission of the crime of criminal conspiracy. To constitute even an accusation of criminal conspiracy, first and foremost, there must at least be an accusation of meeting of minds of two or more persons for doing an illegal act or an act, which is not illegal in itself, by illegal means. 28. In Ajay Aggarwal v. Union of India & Ors.,12 this Court characterized the offence of criminal conspiracy as an agreement between two or more persons to do an illegal act or a legal through illegal means. Furthermore, it was held that commission of the offence would be complete as soon as, there is consensus ad idem and it would be immaterial whether or not the offence is actually committed. It is also held therein that necessarily there must be agreement between the conspirators on the design or object of the conspiracy.