44. The federal balance of the distribution of legislative powers between the Union and the States rests on the interpretation of the phrase “notwithstanding” in Clause (1) of Article 246 and “subject to” in Clause (3) of Article 246. It is more than clear that the phrases provide predominance to Parliament over State Legislatures. The federal balance lies not on the recognition that the Constitution grants Parliament predominant legislative power but on the identification of the scope of such predominance. The scope of the non-obstante clause in Article 246(1) and the subjugation clause in Article 246(3) must not be interpreted in isolation but along with the substantive provisions of the clauses. Clause (1) of Article 246 grants Parliament the “exclusive power” to enact laws with respect to matters in List I. Similarly, Clause (3) of Article 246 grants the Legislature of States, the “exclusive power” to enact laws with respect to matters in List II. On a holistic interpretation of the provisions, it is clear that the non- obstante clause in Article 246(1) and the subjugation clause in Article 246(3) do not permit Parliament to enact laws with respect to the entries in List II. Each of the legislative bodies are sovereign and supreme within the sphere that is allocated to them in the Seventh Schedule.75 What then is the purpose of the non-obstante and subjugation clause? It is crucial to note that Clause (1) of Article 246 stipulates that the power of Parliament to make laws with respect to entries in List I is ‘notwithstanding’ not just the power to make laws with respect to matters in the Concurrent list but also the power to 75 Jindal Stainless Steel v. State of Haryana (2017) 12 SCC 1 [617] 1988 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports make laws with respect to matters in the State List. A combined reading of the non-obstante clause and the subjugation clause along with the use of the phrase “exclusive power” means only one thing, that when there is a conflict between the entries in List I and List II, the power of Parliament supersedes. 45. The of this Court in Hoechst Pharmaceuticals v. State of Bihar76 is the locus classicus on the constitutional scheme of legislative distribution. The decision holds that when there is a conflict between an entry in List I and entry in List II which is not ‘capable of reconciliation’,77 the power of Parliament to legislate with respect to a field covered by List I must supersede the exercise of power by the State legislature to that extent.78 The also proceeded to lay down the manner in which the entries in List I and List II must be reconciled79: a. In case of a seeming conflict between the entries in the two lists, the entries must be read together without giving a narrow and restricted meaning to either of the entries in the Lists; and b. If the entries cannot be reconciled by giving a wide meaning, it must be determined if they can be reconciled by giving the entries a narrower meaning.