The rule of strict construction should be applied in the instant case. The intention of the legislature in directing the trader to obtain licence is absolutely clear and unambiguous insofar as it seeks to regulate the trade for purchase and sale. Thus a person who is not buying an agricultural produce for the purpose of selling it whether in the same form or in the transformed form may not be a trader. Furthermore, it is well known that construction of a statute will depend upon the purport and object of the Act, as has been held in Sri Krishna Coconut case [AIR 1967 SC 973] itself. Therefore, different provisions of the statute which have the object of enforcing the provisions thereof, namely, levy of market fee, which was to be collected for the benefit of the producers, in our opinion, is to be interpreted differently from a provision where it requires a person to obtain a licence so as to regulate a trade. It is now well known that in case of doubt in construction of a penal statute, the same should be construed in favour of the subject and against the State. 58. In the case of London and North Eastern Rly. Co. v. Berriman [1946 AC 278 : (1946) 1 All ER 255 (HL)] , Lord Simonds quoted with approval (at All ER p. 270 C-D) the following observations of Lord Esher, M.R. in the case of Tuck & Sons v. Priester [(1887) 19 QBD 629 : 56 LJ QB 553 (CA)], QBD at p. 638: “We must be very careful in construing that section, because it imposes a penalty. If there is a reasonable interpretation which will avoid the penalty in any particular case we must adopt that construction. If there are two reasonable constructions we must give the more lenient one. That is the settled rule for the construction of penal sections.” It is trite that fiscal statute must not only be construed literally, but also strictly. It is further well known that if in terms of the provisions of a penal statute a person becomes liable to follow the provisions thereof it should be clear and unambiguous so as to let him know his legal obligations and liabilities thereunder.’ [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2355 Md. Rahim Ali @ Abdur Rahim v. The State of Assam & Ors. (2011) 1 SCC 529 at Para 11,8 and; Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai v Dilip Kumar & Company (2018) 9 SCC 1 at Para 249]. Equally, ‘If special provisions are made in derogation to the general right of a citizen, the statute, in our opinion, should receive strict construction. …’10 The consequences which would befall the person declared as a foreigner are no doubt penal and severe. The moment a person is declared to be a foreigner, he/she is liable to be detained and deported to the country of his/her origin. Thus, the same would necessarily pre-suppose existence of material to (a) prove the person is not an Indian national, and (b) establish or identify his/ her country of origin.