[2024] 11 S.C.R. 2297 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company 7. With this introduction, I will now examine the following issues in detail; (i) Party autonomy, as recognised and incorporated in the scheme of the Act; (ii) Constituting an independent and impartial arbitral tribunal, which obligation of parties is distinct from the duty of the arbitrator to be unbiased and neutral; (iii) The obligation of the parties is founded on contract and public policy considerations, without which agreements are void and unenforceable in law; (iv) Apart from the obligations on the parties, the Contract Act and Arbitration Act empower the courts to ensure constitution of an independent and impartial arbitral tribunal; (v) The determination as to whether an arbitral tribunal is independent and objective is examined by the court only when it takes up an application under Section 11(6) or Section 14 of the Arbitration Act. D. Party autonomy 8. Arbitration is an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them, as provided under Section 7(1) of the Act. Party autonomy is a product of freedom to contract and recognises the freedom of parties to determine the terms of contract. It is said to be the “brooding and guiding spirit in arbitration” and the “grund norm” of arbitration.6 Party autonomy is ingrained as a fundamental principle in the Act. The freedom to enter into such an agreement belongs to the parties7 and this will also include the freedom to determine the law governing the arbitration agreement.8 8.1 Second, parties are free to determine composition of the arbitral tribunal, such as the number of arbitrators,9 the nationality of 6 Bharat Aluminium Co. v. Kaiser Aluminium Technical Services Inc. (2016) 4 SCC 126. 7 Cox and Kings v. SAP India Pvt Ltd (2024) 4 SCC 1, para 180. 8 Bharat Aluminium Co. (supra). 9 Section 10 of the Act, provided that it is not even number. 2298 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the arbitrator,10 the procedure for appointment,11 the grounds of challenge, including waiver of challenge,12 the procedure for challenging an appointed arbitrator,13 terminate the mandate of an arbitrator,14 and even the consequences of substitution of arbitrator.15 8.2 Third, the parties have the autonomy to determine the conduct of arbitral proceedings, the procedure to be followed by the arbitral tribunal in the conduct of proceedings,16 the place of arbitration,17 the date of commencement of arbitral proceedings,18 the language to be used in the arbitral proceedings,19 the time for submitting statements of claim and defence,20 including amendments,21 whether the arbitral tribunal will conduct oral hearings or proceed on the basis of documents and other material,22 in cases of default by a party to communicate statement of claim or defence, or failure to appear at an oral hearing or produce documentary evidence,23 and regarding the appointment of experts by the arbitral tribunal.24 8.3 Fourth, the parties to the arbitration agreement have the freedom to determine the procedure as well as the termination of arbitral proceedings.