The nature of the tasks given to the appellant shows that they were done in progression, with basic instruments being given first, followed by the use of assistive devices to examine his abilities and then being tested in other, more complex tasks. The report states as follows: “1.4 Functional assessment: Om was first shown how to record blood pressure using a mercury sphygmomanometer, how to elicit reflexes, and how to use a tuning fork to check for deafness. He was then asked to demonstrate these skills, which he successfully did, showing his eagerness to learn after just one demonstration. Next, he was given a foldable crutch to test whether it could assist him in standing from a seated position, but I observed that he has developed his own coping mechanisms to navigate physical barriers. This is often an innovative strategy used by people with disabilities in environments that are not fully accessible. He was then taken to the laboratory and asked to reach examination tables of three different heights. He was able to access two of them, demonstrating that an adjustable examination table would be a suitable clinical accommodation for him. Afterward, he was taken to our Medical Simulation Centre, where he was shown how to perform Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) in a simulated real-life scenario [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2199 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. of a person lying on the floor after a heart attack. After the demonstration, Om sat down on the floor to perform CPR. Considering it was his first experience in such a lab (his previous two assessments did not involve simulation), and to make the situation less intimidating, he was first guided on a baby mannequin, which he successfully managed. He also succeeded in giving an intravenous and intramuscular deltoid injection, as well as inserting a cannula after a demonstration. Please find some pictures below. For Om, who uses a mobility scooter, the functional limitation lies in his inability to stand independently. This may pose a challenge during clinical rotations in surgical settings, where he would need to be at standing height to observe procedures. Potential solutions could include using a standing or hydraulic wheelchair, providing remote visual access to the surgery via a monitor, or arranging for all parties to sit during minor surgeries. These accommodations can help mitigate barriers without imposing undue burden The disability access appointee or Coordinator of the Enabling Unit or Equal Opportunity Cell (as mandated by the UGC) at Om’s future medical college should interact with him to propose these accommodations on an individual basis before the preclinical, paraclinical, and clinical rotations begin.” 15. The report thereafter gave detailed (but not exhaustive) suggestions for clinical accommodations for the appellant during his course - for each of the years of his education and the mandatory internship. The report finally outlined the overall assessment of the appellant and declared him to be suitable, with appropriate clinical accommodations, to pursue MBBS. The section of the report on overall assessment reads as follows: “4.