A change in the circumstances under the Act may be of either a pecuniary nature, such as a change in the income of the respondent or an aggrieved person or it could be a change in other circumstances of the party paying or receiving the allowance, which would justify an increase or decrease of the maintenance amount ed by the Magistrate to pay or any other necessary change in the relief granted by the Magistrate including a revocation of the earlier . The phrasing of the provision is wide enough to cover factors like the cost of living, income of the parties, etc. Further, a change in the circumstances need not just be of the respondent but [2024] 10 S.C.R. 51 S. Vijikumari v. Mowneshwarachari C also of the aggrieved person. For example, a change in the financial circumstances of the husband may be a vital criterion for alteration of maintenance but may also include other circumstantial changes in the husband or wife’s life which may have taken place since the time maintenance was first ed. 14. However, for the invocation of Section 25(2) of the Act, there must be a change in the circumstances after the being passed under the Act. Alexander Sambath Abner vs. Miron Lede, 2009 SCC OnLine Mad 2851 is also to the same effect. Thus, an for alteration, modification or revocation operates prospectively and not retrospectively. Though the for grant of a maintenance is effective retrospectively from the date of the application or as ed by the Magistrate, the position is different with regard to an application for alteration in an allowance, which may incidentally be either an increase or a reduction – to take effect from a date on which the of alteration is made or any other date such as from the date on which an application for alteration, modification or revocation was made depending on the facts of each case. 15. The position is analogous to Sections 125 and 127 of the CrPC, 1973, wherein the legislature under Section 125(2) of the CrPC, 1973 had given power to the Magistrate to grant maintenance from the date of the application, but did not give any such power under Section 127 of the CrPC, 1973. Therefore, under the Act, the of alteration or modification or revocation could operate from the date of the said application being filed or as ed by the Magistrate under Section 25(2) of the Act. Thus, the applicant cannot seek its retrospective applicability, so as to seek a refund of the amount already paid as per the original . 16. The respondent herein has however sought the following prayers in the application filed under Section 25 of the Act, which read as under: “WHEREFORE, the petitioner respectfully prays that this Hon’ble Court may be pleased to pass the following s: a) Set aside the dated 23-02-2015 passed in Crl. Mis. 6/2014, b) In pursuant of that direct the respondent to pay back the entire amount received by her by playing fraud on the court and on petitioner.