It is presumed that the formal signatories to an arbitration agreement are parties who will be bound by it. However, in exceptional cases persons or entities who have not signed or formally assented to a written arbitration agreement or the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement may be held to be bound by such agreement. As mentioned in the preceding paragraphs, the doctrine of privity limits the imposition of rights and liabilities on third parties to a contract. Generally, only the parties to an arbitration agreement can be subject to the full effects of the agreement in terms of the reliefs and remedies because they consented to be bound by the arbitration agreement. Therefore, the decisive question 940 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports before the Courts or tribunals is whether a non-signatory consented to be bound by the arbitration agreement. To determine whether a non-signatory is bound by an arbitration agreement, the Courts and tribunals apply typical principles of contract law and corporate law. The legal doctrines provide a framework for evaluating the specific contractual language and the factual settings to determine the intentions of the parties to be bound by the arbitration agreement. [ Gary Born, International Arbitration Law and Practice, (3rd Edn., 2021) at p. 1531.] xxx xxx xxx 170. In view of the discussion above, we arrive at the following conclusions: 170.1. The definition of “parties” under Section 2(1)(h) read with Section 7 of the Arbitration Act includes both the signatory as well as non-signatory parties; 170.2. Conduct of the non-signatory parties could be an indicator of their consent to be bound by the arbitration agreement; 170.3. The requirement of a written arbitration agreement under Section 7 does not exclude the possibility of binding non-signatory parties;[…]” (Emphasis supplied) 69. The fact that a non-signatory did not put pen to paper may be an indicator of its intention to not assume any rights, responsibilities or obligations under the arbitration agreement. However, the courts and tribunals should not adopt a conservative approach to exclude all persons or entities who intended to be bound by the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement through their conduct and their relationship with the signatory parties. The mutual intent of the parties, relationship of a non-signatory with a signatory, commonality of the subject matter, composite nature of the transactions and performance of the contract are all factors that signify the intention of the non-signatory to be bound by the arbitration agreement. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 941 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. 70. An important factor to be considered by the Courts and Tribunals is the participation of the non-signatory in the performance of the underlying contract. In this regard, it was observed in Cox and Kings (supra) as follows: “123. […] The intention of the parties to be bound by an arbitration agreement can be gauged from the circumstances that surround the participation of the non-signatory party in the negotiation, performance, and termination of the underlying contract containing such agreement.