This Court explained the working of the calculation of cadre-based vacancy as follows: posts falling in specific serial numbers would be reserved seats allotted to each class and when a reserved seat falls vacant, it must be filled by the person of the same category: “5. […] concept of “running account” in the impugned instructions has to be so interpreted that it does not result in excessive reservation. “16% of the posts …” are reserved for members of the Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes. In a lot of 100 posts those falling at Serial Numbers 1, 7, 15, 22, 30, 37, 44, 51, 58, 65, 72, 80, 87 and 91 have been reserved and earmarked in the roster for the Scheduled Castes. Roster points 26 and 76 are reserved for the members of Backward Classes. It is thus obvious that when recruitment to a cadre starts then 14 posts earmarked in the roster are to be filled from amongst the members of the Scheduled Castes. To illustrate, first post in a cadre must go to the Scheduled Caste and thereafter the said class is entitled to 7th, 15th, 22nd and onwards up to 91st post. When the total number of posts in a cadre are filled by the operation of the roster then the result envisaged by the impugned instructions is achieved. In other words, in a cadre of 100 posts when the posts earmarked in the roster for the Scheduled Castes and the Backward Classes are filled the percentage of reservation provided for the reserved categories is achieved. We see no justification to operate the roster thereafter. The “running account” is to operate only till the quota provided under 1440 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the impugned instructions is reached and not thereafter. […] As and when there is a vacancy whether permanent or temporary in a particular post the same has to be filled from amongst the category to which the post belonged in the roster. For example the Scheduled Caste persons holding the posts at roster points 1, 7, 15 retire then these slots are to be filled from amongst the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes. Similarly, if the persons holding the post at points 8 to 14 or 23 to 29 retire then these slots are to be filled from among the general category. By following this procedure there shall neither be shortfall nor excess in the percentage of reservation.” 203. The inference in Nagaraj (supra) that cadre must be taken as a unit to determine inadequacy of reservation based on the above observations in RK Sabharwal (supra), in our respectful opinion, is misplaced. The cadre as a unit was considered only for the purpose of preparation of roster to draw a balance between the reserved and open seats. This Court did not hold that cadre must be used as a unit for the purpose of determining the adequacy of representation. In fact, RK Sabharwal (supra) says to the contrary. RK Sabharwal (supra) observed that the State Government may take the total population of a particular Backward Class and its representation in the State Services while determining adequacy of representation: “4.