paragraph 13 (a) is set aside and it is ed that - 1. Appellants/Defendants should return the Earnest Money of Rs.6,000/- (Six thousand) to the Respondent/Plaintiff within 01 month from today i.e. the date of . 2. Appellants/Defendants will bear the litigation expenses of their own and of the respondent. Advocate fee should be given after being certified as per rules.” 12. The respondents herein (original plaintiffs) being dissatisfied with the and passed by the appellate court, preferred second appeal before the High Court under Section 100 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 (for short, the “CPC”). 13. The High Court formulated the following substantial question of law for its consideration:- “Whether lower appellate court has committed an illegality by not affirming the finding of the trial court and has denied the grant of discretionary relief in arbitrary manner.” 14. The High Court in para 4 of its impugned has observed as under:- “4. On appeal being preferred by legal representatives of original defendant No.1, the first appellate Court concurred with findings of the trial Court with regard to valid agreement to sell by defendant No.1 in favour of the plaintiff and plaintiff is ready and willing to perform his part of contract and also that the suit is within limitation, but interfered on the ground that the plaintiff is not entitled for relief of decree for specific performance of contract and by partly granting appeal, granted decree for return/refund of earnest money, against 726 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports which, this second appeal under Section 100 of the CPC has been filed, in which one substantial question of law has been formulated, which has been set out in the opening paragraph of this for sake of completeness.” 15. The High Court allowed the second appeal and thereby quashed and set aside the and passed by the appellate court and restored the and decree passed by the trial court. 16. The High Court while allowing the second appeal, observed the following in para 17:- “17. Reverting to the facts of the present case in the light of aforesaid legal principle of law laid down by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in the above stated s (supra), it is quite vivid that in the instant case, though defendant No.1 in his written statement only took a plea that no agreement to sell was executed in between him and the plaintiff and took a calculated chance to proceed the suit without taking a specific plea based on Section 20(2)(b) of the Act of 1963, in which two Courts below have clearly reached to the conclusion that there was valid agreement to sell between defendant No.1 and the plaintiff and it fulfills the requirement of valid agreement to sell. Defendant No.1 did not take the plea based on Section 20(2) (b) of the Act of 1963 that the performance of the contract would involve some hardship to him and it will not cause any such hardship to the plaintiff. Consequently, the trial Court did not frame any issue based on Section 20(2) (b) of the Act of 1963 and parties also did not lead any hardship evidence to demonstrate the fact of hardship to the defendant in performance of contract and no hardship to the plaintiff in case the contract is not allowed to be performed and consequently, the trial Court has not recorded any finding in this regard, but the first appellate Court without there being any pleading on the part of defendant No.1 based on Section 20(2)(b) of the Act of 1963 and without any issue in that behalf and there being no evidence on said point, proceeded to take-up the issue of hardship to defendant No.1 in granting decree for specific performance of contract after affirming all other [2024] 12 S.C.R.