The Appellant has, after undergoing the regular selection process, been working since 17.01.2017, for the last seven years and approximately six months. Even in the impugned , pending the proposed re-advertisement, she was continued in service. 31. The representations in the employment notice, the Resolution of the Executive Council and the appointment did give rise to a legitimate expectation to the Appellant that in the event of the lien being vacated, the appellant would be continued in service and regularized in the said post. The only condition was that it will need the approval of the Executive Council. 32. In Ram Pravesh Singh and Others vs. State of Bihar and Others (2006) 8 SCC 381, this Court observed that the repository of the legitimate expectation is entitled to an explanation as to the cause for denial of the expected benefit flowing from the representation held out. Ram Pravesh Singh (supra) was recently followed by the Constitution Bench in Sivanandan C.T. and Others vs. High Court of Kerala and Others (2024) 3 SCC 799. Chief Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, speaking for the Constitution Bench, after felicitously tracing the entire history of the development of the doctrine of legitimate expectation, held in para 18 as under:- “18. The basis of the doctrine of legitimate expectation in public law is founded on the principles of fairness and non-arbitrariness in Government dealings with individuals. It recognises that a public authority’s promise or past 866 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports conduct will give rise to a legitimate expectation. The doctrine is premised on the notion that public authorities, while performing their public duties, ought to honour their promises or past practices. The legitimacy of an expectation can be inferred if it is rooted in law, custom, or established procedure.” 33. In the said of the Constitution Bench, it was further held following Food Corporation of India vs. M/s Kamdhenu Cattle Feed Industries (1993) 1 SCC 71 that public authorities have a duty to use their powers for the purpose of public good and that the said duty raises a legitimate expectation on the part of the citizens to be treated in a fair and non- arbitrary manner. One of the exceptions recognized in the above is that the doctrine of legitimate expectation will cede to larger public interest. 34. In the present case, the only explanation given in the counter affidavit of the State was that the University had a discretion and that the denial of regularization and the decision to re-advertise was in the larger interest of the candidates who had not applied as the post was under lien. This explanation found favour with the High Court. However, we have in our discussion above, demonstrated that one of the post of the Assistant Professor (Law) was clearly a regular post in the Unreserved Category. We have found that no prejudice to public interest could have been caused as eligible candidates desiring the appointment would have anyway applied to compete for the regular slot.