(c) the Director (Discipline) shall function as the Secretary of the Board. 202 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) The Board of Discipline shall follow summary disposal procedure in dealing with all cases before it. (3) Where the Board of Discipline is of the opinion that a member is guilty of a professional or other misconduct mentioned in the First Schedule, it shall afford to the member apportunity of being heard before making any against him and may thereafter take any one or more of the following actions, namely: -- (a) reprimand the member. (b) remove the name of the member from the Register up to a period of three months. (c) impose such fine as it may think fit, which may extend to rupees one lakh. (4) The Director (Discipline) shall submit before the Board of Discipline all information and complaints where he is of the opinion that there is no prima facie case and the Board of Discipline may, if it agrees with the opinion of the Director (Discipline), close the matter or in case of disagreement, may advise the Director (Discipline) to further investigate the matter.] 21B. Disciplinary Committee. — (1) The Council shall constitute a Disciplinary Committee consisting of the President or the Vice-President of the Council as the Presiding Officer and two members to be elected from amongst the members of the Council and two members to be nominated by the Central Government from amongst the persons of eminence having experience in the field of law, economics, business, finance or accountancy: Provided that the Council may constitute more Disciplinary Committees as and when it considers necessary. (2) The Disciplinary Committee, while considering the cases placed before it shall follow such procedure as may be specified. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 203 Naresh Chandra Agrawal v. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and Others (3) Where the Disciplinary Committee is of the opinion that a member is guilty of a professional or other misconduct mentioned in the Second Schedule or both the First Schedule and the Second Schedule, it shall afford to the member an opportunity of being heard before making any against him and may thereafter take any one or more of the following actions, namely: -- (a) reprimand the member. (b) remove the name of the member from the Register permanently or for such period, as it thinks fit. (c) impose such fine as it may think fit, which may extend to rupees five lakhs. (4) The allowances payable to the members nominated by the Central Government shall be such as may be specified.] “29A. Power of Central Government to make rules: (1) The Central Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the provisions of this Act. (2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely :− (a) the manner of election and nomination in respect of members to the Council under sub-section (2) of Section 9; (b) the terms and conditions of service of the Presiding Officer and Members of the Tribunal, place of meetings and allowances to be paid to them under sub-section (3) of Section 10B; (c) the procedure of investigation under sub-section (4) of Section 21; (d) the procedure while considering the cases by the Disciplinary Committee under sub-section (2), and the fixation of allowances of the nominated members under sub-section (4) of Section 21B; 204 [2024] 2 S.C.R.