It was further stated that the issue of determining parties to an 938 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports arbitration agreement goes to the very root of the jurisdictional competence of the arbitral tribunal and can be decided under its jurisdiction under Section 16. ii. Whether on a prima facie view, the SRG Group being a non-signatory to the FAA, can be referred to arbitration? 66. It is well settled that an arbitration agreement, in to qualify as a valid agreement, has to satisfy the requirements stipulated under Section 7 of the Act, 1996 along with the principles of law under the Indian Contract Act, 1872. Having regard to the submissions of both the Respondent Groups i.e., JRS and SRG, it can be said that they have raised manifold objections to the present petition, however, none of those objections question or deny the existence of the arbitration agreement under which the arbitration has been invoked by the Petitioner AMP Group. In fact, the JRS Group has no objection to resolve the disputes with the AMP Group by way of arbitration. Their primary objection is only that the SRG Group cannot be a part of the arbitration proceedings. Therefore, the requirement of prima facie existence of an arbitration agreement, as stated under Section 11 of the Act, 1996 is satisfied. 67. However, the core issue that falls for our consideration is whether the SRG Group, being a non-signatory to the FAA can also be referred to arbitration and whether they are “veritable” parties to the arbitration agreement. 68. This Court in Cox and Kings (supra) held that the definition of “parties” under Section 2(1)(h) read with Section 7 of the Act, 1996 includes both the signatory as well as non-signatory parties. Persons or entities who have not formally signed the arbitration agreement or the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement may also intend to be bound by the terms of the agreement. Further, the requirement of a written agreement under Section 7 of the Act, 1996 does not exclude the possibility of binding non-signatory parties if there is a defined legal relationship between the signatory and non- signatory parties. Therefore, the issue as to who is a “party” to an arbitration agreement is primarily an issue of consent. Actions or conduct could be an indicator of the consent of a party to be bound by the arbitration agreement. This aspect is also evident from a reading of Section 7(4)(b) which emphasises on the manifestation of the consent of persons or entities through actions of exchanging [2024] 9 S.C.R. 939 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. documents. The relevant observations made in Cox and Kings (supra) are extracted hereinbelow: “83. Reading Section 7 of the Arbitration Act in view of the above discussion gives rise to the following conclusions : first, arbitration agreements arise out of a legal relationship between or among persons or entities which may be contractual or otherwise; second, in situations where the legal relationship is contractual in nature, the nature of relationship can be determined on the basis of general contract law principles; third, it is not necessary for the persons or entities to be signatories to the arbitration agreement to be bound by it; fourth, in case of non-signatory parties, the important determination for the Courts is whether the persons or entities intended or consented to be bound by the arbitration agreement or the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement through their acts or conduct; fifth, the requirement of a written arbitration agreement has to be adhered to strictly, but the form in which such agreement is recorded is irrelevant; sixth, the requirement of a written arbitration agreement does not exclude the possibility of binding non-signatory parties if there is a defined legal relationship between the signatory and non-signatory parties; and seventh, once the validity of an arbitration agreement is established, the Court or tribunal can determine the issue of which parties are bound by such agreement.” 84.