33. This Court in Ramanand @ Nandlal Bharti v. State of U.P., 2022 SCC Online SC 1396, while discussing the quality of legal aid, in para 120, held as under: “120. It is by far now well-settled for a legal proposition that it is the duty of the court to see and ensure that an accused put on a criminal trial is effectively represented by a defence counsel, and in the event on account of indigence, poverty or illiteracy or any other disabling factor, he is not able to engage a counsel of his choice, it becomes the duty of the court to provide him appropriate and meaningful legal aid at the State expense. What is meant by the duty of the State to ensure a fair defence to an accused is not the employment of a defence counsel for namesake. It has to be the provision of a counsel who defends the accused diligently to the best of his abilities. While the quality of the defence or the caliber 1798 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the counsel would not militate against the guarantee to a fair trial sanctioned by Articles 21 and 22 resply of the Constitution, a threshold level of competence and due diligence in the discharge of his duties as a defence counsel would certainly be the constitutional guaranteed expectation. The presence of counsel on record means effective, genuine and faithful presence and not a mere farcical, sham or a virtual presence that is illusory, if not fraudulent.” Directions: - 34. In view of the above, we dispose of the matter by issuing the following directions:- i. While commending the work already done by NALSA, the SLSAs and the DLSAs, we have no reason to doubt that the Legal Services Authorities at different levels will continue to work with the same momentum to achieve the constitutional objectives and objectives of the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987. ii. NALSA in cooperation with the SLSAs and the DLSAs will ensure that the SOP on Access to Legal Aid Services to prisoners and functioning of PLACs are operated efficiently in practice. NALSA will periodically update and improve the measures prescribed under the SOP-2022 so as to address any of the inadequacies that may emerge while operating the same at the field level. iii. The Legal Services Authorities at different levels will adopt methods to strengthen the monitoring of PLACs and to review their functioning periodically. iv. The Legal Services Authorities will periodically update the statistical data and after analysing the results take steps to address the shortcomings that may come to light. v. The Legal Services Authorities, at all levels, should ensure that the Legal Aid Defence Counsel System, which is a pioneering measure, functions to its full potential. In this regard, periodic inspection and audit of the work of the Legal Aid Defence Counsels should be carried out. Steps should also be taken to improve the service conditions of the personnel working [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1799 Suhas Chakma v. Union of India & Ors.