29. While being cross-examined PW-9 deposed that he did not tell the police that Ramjan with parena, Musaf Khan with farsa and, Habib Khan with axe assaulted his brother Naseem Khan. While being 1888 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports examined in chief he would depose that his mother was also beaten by the accused persons. It is to be noted that there is absolutely no such case even for PW-8, the mother of PW-9. As can be seen from paragraph 6 of his oral testimony the defence had brought out some other omissions and contradictions. The aforementioned omissions on the part of PWs 5 and 9 cannot be said to be minor contradictions to be taken lightly as according to them they did not name the accused persons in their previous statements made to the police. Hence, omissions thus brought amount to material contradiction which will go into the core of the prosecution case. Their oral testimonies would reveal that they stated about the infliction of injuries on Naseem Khan, their elder brother by the respondents with the weapons mentioned above for the first time only before the Court while being examined. That apart, it is to be noted that though the case of the prosecution is that both PWs 5 and 9 had gone with deceased Naseem Khan for taking bath on the fateful day the evidence of PW-8 would reveal that in her previous statement to the police she had not disclosed the said fact to the police. In this context, it is relevant to note that the prosecution had not revealed, rather established, the genesis of the incident that led to the death of Naseem Khan. In other words, none of the witnesses including PWs 5 and 9 had deposed as to the genesis of the incident. This assumes relevance as PW-8 herself deposed that she got no enmity with the families of the accused and got no land dispute with them. When this be the nature of the evidence of PWs 5 and 9 as also the evidence of PWs 2, 8 and 17, we are of the considered view that there can be no good reason to hold that the prosecution had succeeded in conclusively proving the guilt of the accused/respondents herein beyond reasonable doubt warranting displacement of the finding of the High Court that in view of the omissions and contradictions, the oral testimonies of the aforesaid witnesses are not reliable and the respondents herein are entitled to the benefit of doubt. We have already taken note of the decision in Dharmaraj’s case (supra) involving a challenge against of acquittal in a murder case in reversal of conviction entered against the accused by the trial Court holding that if on facts the view taken by the High Court is a reasonable possible view, though not the only view that could be taken, interference with acquittal would be uncalled for. In view of the nature of the evidence discussed above and the finding of [2024] 10 S.C.R.