The contravention of any law always affects but before it can be said to affect public , it must affect the community or the public at large. In this connection we must draw a line of demarcation between serious and aggravated forms of dis which directly affect the community or injure the public interest and the relatively minor breaches of peace of a purely local significance which primarily injure specific individuals and only in a secondary sense public interest. A mere disturbance of law and leading to dis is thus not necessarily sufficient for action under the Preventive Detention Act but a disturbance which will affect public comes within the scope of the Act. …” (Emphasis supplied) 23. The explanation attached to Section 2(a) of the Act 1986 reproduced above contemplates that ‘public ’ shall be deemed to have been affected adversely or shall be deemed likely to be affected adversely, inter alia if any of the activities of any person referred to in Section 2(a) directly or indirectly, are causing or is likely to cause any harm, danger or alarm or feeling of insecurity among the general public or any section thereof or a grave or widespread danger to life, property or public health. The Explanation to Section 2(a) also provides that for the purpose of Section 2, a person shall be deemed to be “acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public ” when such person is a “GOONDA” and engaged in activities which affect adversely or are likely to affect adversely the maintenance of public . It, therefore, becomes necessary to determine whether besides the person [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1207 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. being a “GOONDA” his alleged activities are such which adversely affected the public or are likely to affect the maintenance of public . 24. The essential concept of preventive detention is that the detention of a person is not to punish him for something he has done but to prevent him from doing it. The basis of detention is the satisfaction of the executive about the likelihood of the detenu acting in a manner, similar to his past acts, which is likely to affect adversely the maintenance of public and, thereby prevent him, by an of detention, from doing the same. A criminal conviction on the other hand is for an act already done which can only be possible by a trial and legal evidence. There is no parallel between the prosecution in a Court of law and a detention under the Act 1986. One is a punitive action and the other is a preventive act. In one case a person is punished on proof of his guilt, and the standard is proof beyond the reasonable doubt, whereas in the other a person is detained with a view to prevent him from doing such act(s) as may be specified in the Act authorizing preventive detention. 25. The power of preventive detention is qualitatively different from punitive detention.