This approach is rooted in the belief that inclusion should be integrated into the design process from the very beginning, rather than as an afterthought. 31. Universal or inclusive design goes beyond just making things accessible; it encourages creative and imaginative engagement with the diverse needs of all users. This means considering not only physical accessibility but also addressing social, informational, and technological barriers. The objective is to eliminate environments that disable people and replace them with enabling ones for everyone. 35 On the social model generally, see Michael Oliver, ‘If I had a Hammer’, in Implementing the Social Model of Disability: Theory and Research, ed. Colin Barnes and Geof Mercer (Leeds: The Disability Press 2004), 18–31. 36 The 7 Principles of Universal Design were developed in 1997 by a working group of architects, product designers, engineers and environmental design researchers in North Carolina State University (NCSU). 988 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 32. The RPWD Act and the CRPD both define “universal design” in similar terms. Under Section 2(ze) of the RPWD Act, universal design refers to the creation of products, environments, and services that are usable by everyone, to the greatest extent possible, without the need for specialised adaptation.37 This also includes assistive devices and advanced technologies for specific groups of PWDs. The CRPD expands its scope to include the necessity of assistive devices for those who need them.38 33. When considering the design of products and services, it is crucial to account for environmental and structural factors that impact accessibility. For example, transportation systems must be designed with features that cater to various needs - whether through accessible vehicles, infrastructure, or communication systems. These factors play a critical role in ensuring that all individuals, including those with disabilities, can engage fully with public services and transportation. ii. A two-pronged approach to accessibility 34. Addressing accessibility requires a balanced approach that focuses on both adapting existing environments and proactively designing new spaces with accessibility in mind. A two-pronged approach is needed - one that focuses on ensuring accessibility in existing institutions/activities and the other that focuses on transforming new infrastructure and future initiatives. Both are essential to achieving true inclusivity in society. 35. The first prong focuses on ensuring that existing institutions and activities are made accessible and inclusive for all. This approach emphasizes the importance of retrofitting existing systems and structures to meet the needs of PWDs, women, older individuals, children, and other vulnerable groups. While retrofitting is important, it is often more complex and expensive than designing inclusive spaces from the outset. 37 Right of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016, Section 2(ze). “universal design” means the design of products, environments, programmes and services to be usable by all people to the greatest extent possible, without the need for adaptation or specialised design and shall apply to assistive devices including advanced technologies for particular group of persons with disabilities. 38 CRPD, Article 2. “Universal design” shall not exclude assistive devices for particular groups of persons with disabilities where this is needed.