12. Per contra, learned counsel for the first respondent Sri Aseem Mehrotra, at the outset submitted that the impugned would not call for any interference; that the appellant would now have to face the criminal trial; and that the appellant has had the benefit of the interim of stay of proceedings at the hands of this Court. Therefore, the appeal may simply be dismissed in limine, so that the appellant would stand the test of criminality which has been alleged against her. It was contended that the first respondent was constrained to file the complaint owing to the fact that the Notification issued under the Act was not at all applicable and that the demolition carried out by the appellant herein was with vengeance and malice; that she had no authority to carry out the demolition of the building which was constructed prior to 05.08.2005 inasmuch as the notification did not apply to the period prior to 05.08.2005. 13. Further, the first respondent herein had made an application for regularization of the alleged illegal construction, the same was pending consideration and instead of considering the application for regularization made by the first respondent herein, the Department kept the same pending and went ahead with the demolition. This has caused not only monetary loss but also has prejudiced the institutions of which the first respondent is the Chairman. 14. In this regard, learned counsel for the first respondent drew our attention to the following s of this Court: (1) Bhagwan Prasad Srivastava vs. N.P. Mishra (1970) 2 SCC 56 (“Bhagwan Prasad Srivastava”) (2) Urmila Devi vs. Yudhvir Singh (2013) 15 SCC 624, (“Urmila Devi”) 1610 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (3) Punjab State Warehousing Corporation vs. Bhushan Chander (2016) 13 SCC 44 (“Bhushan Chander”) (4) Bakhshish Singh Brar vs. Gurmej Kaur (1987) 4 SCC 663 (“Bakhshish Singh Brar”) 15. Learned counsel for the first respondent submitted that there is sufficient material against the appellant herein who cannot be given the benefit of the legal position that the absence of sanction prior to the initiation of criminal proceeding would vitiate the entire proceeding. He submitted that in the event this Court was to hold that the sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC was a necessary condition to be complied with by the first respondent herein in the context of filing a criminal complaint under Section 200 of the CrPC, then, in the absence of such sanction being taken till date, liberty may be reserved to the first respondent herein to make a representation for seeking such a sanction. 16. Learned counsel for the second respondent-State, Sri Akshay Amritanshu with reference to his counter affidavit and other pleadings submitted that having regard to the fact that appellant herein was on the relevant day discharging her duties as a District Town Planner and it was in accordance with the scope and ambit of her authority that the demolition was carried out, the first respondent herein could not have initiated the criminal proceeding as against her in the absence of an of sanction for doing so under the provisions of Section 197 of the CrPC.