v. Davinder Singh & Ors. a competitive examination but also includes their social networks and cultural capital) communication skills, accent, books or academic accomplishments) that they inherit from their family. […] Social networks based on community linkages) become useful when individuals seek guidance and advice on how to prepare for examination and advance in their career.” 72. One of us (DY Chandrachud J) writing for the Bench, observed that while examinations are a convenient method to allocate educational resources, they are not effective markers of merit, and that merit should be understood in terms of the social good of equality and inclusivity.99 73. Before concluding the discussion in this section, we deem it necessary to discuss the opinion of the nine-Judge Bench in Indra Sawhney (supra) on the binary of merit and reservation because this Bench sitting in a composition of seven is bound by the opinion of the larger Bench. The petitioners in that case argued that the necessary effect of reservation is the appointment of less meritorious persons while the respondents argued that marks obtained in an examination do not represent the inherent merit of the candidate. Justice B P Jeevan Reddy, authoring the plurality opinion, observed that it is not necessary to express their view on the competing visions of reservation and merit. However, the learned Judge observed that reservation is not anti-merit. The learned Judge made two conceptual observations: first, even if merit is not synonymous with efficiency in administration, its relevance and significance cannot be ignored. Reservations imply the selection of a less meritorious person;100 and second, members of disadvantaged sections, given the opportunity, would overcome the barriers and prove their merit. 74. Applying these two principles, Justice Jeevan Reddy held that: (a) the removal of minimum marks in qualifying examinations for the backward class is invalid; (b) there cannot be reservations in 99 Neil Aurelio Nunes v. Union of India (2022) 4 SCC 1 [28]; BK Pavitra (II) v. State of Karnataka (2019) 16 SCC 129 [131] 100 Also see, Janki Prasad Parimoo v. State of J&K (1973) 1 SCC 420, Justice Khanna in NM Thomas v. State of Kerala (1976) 2 SCC 310; Justice Subba Rao in Devadasan v. Union of India, [1964] 4 SCR 680 1376 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports promotions;101 and (c) there cannot be any reservation in certain positions of services “where either on account of the nature of duties attached to them or the level (in the hierarchy)”, merit alone counts. The learned Judge also proceeded to give a non-exhaustive list of such positions. The list included technical posts in research and development organizations/departments/institutions; specialties and super-specialties in medicine, engineering and other such courses in physical sciences and mathematics; defense services; posts of professors; airline pilots; and scientists and technicians in nuclear and space application. Justice Pandian also agreed with this view,102 making it the view of the majority. 75. Justice Jeevan Reddy recognized that reservation is not anti-merit. Two constitutional amendments overruled the above aspects of the holding in Indra Sawhney (supra).