Digital Supreme Court Reports the provisions of the impugned Act, it was observed that only those provisions which affected the possession, selling and consumption of any medicinal and toilet preparations and commendation of any intoxicant or hemp were invalid. d) In Nagendra Nath vs. Commissioner of Hills Division, AIR 1958 SC 398 (“Nagendra Nath”), it was reiterated that there is no inherent right in a citizen to sell liquor and that the control and restriction over the consumption of “intoxicating liquors” was necessary for the preservation of public health and morals and to raise revenue. e) The question, whether Section 43 of the Bengal Excise Act, 1909, under which the licence of a liquor contractor was withdrawn, violated Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution of India was considered in Amar Chandra Chakraborty vs. Collector of Excise, Government of Tripura, AIR 1972 SC 1863 (“Amar Chandra Chakraborty”). It was observed that in view of the injurious effect of excessive consumption of liquor on health, the trade or business must be treated as a class by itself and it cannot be treated on par with other trades while testing the matter from the angle of Article 14 of the Constitution. f) In State of Orissa vs. Harinarayan Jaiswal, AIR 1972 SC 1816 (“Harinarayan Jaiswal”), it was observed that one of the important purposes of selling the exclusive right to vend liquor was to raise revenue and since the Government had the power to sell exclusive privileges, there was no basis for contending that the owner of the privileges could not decline to accept the highest bid if it thought that the price offered was inadequate. g) Similarly, in Nashirwar vs. State of Madhya Pradesh, AIR 1975 SC 360 (“Nashirwar”), it was observed that there was no fundamental right of citizens to carry on trade or to do business in liquor. It was observed in the said case as under: “There are three principal reasons to hold that there is no fundamental right of citizens to carry on trade or to do business in liquor. First, there is the police power of the State to enforce public morality to prohibit trades in noxious or [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2071 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons dangerous goods. Second, there is power of the State to enforce an absolute prohibition of manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquor. Article 47 states that the State shall endeavour to bring about prohibition of the consumption except for medicinal purposes of intoxicating drinks and of drugs which are injurious to health. Third, the history of excise law shows that the State has the exclusive right or privilege of manufacture or sale of liquor.” h) In Har Shankar vs. The Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, AIR 1975 SC 1121 (“Har Shankar”), this Court, speaking through Y.V. Chandrachud, C.J, observed that the State has the power to prohibit trades which are injurious to the health and welfare of the public, that elimination and exclusion from business is inherent in the nature of liquor business as no person has an absolute right to deal in liquor.