Classification of the assessees on the same footing as assessees engaged in the business of constructing immovable properties and then selling the immovable properties is justified on the ground that the classification has been done on the basis of intelligible differentia which has rational nexus with the object of GST. The transactions lead to the creation of immovable property, which itself is the intelligible differentia based on which classification has been done. Such classification has a rational nexus since there is a break in the tax chain and therefore, the ITC is being denied; b. Denial of ITC was justified on the ground that it is not a fundamental or constitutional right. He submitted that ITC is a statutory right, and in the absence of the right under the statute, the Court cannot issue a mandamus to grant ITC. Reliance has been placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of ALD Automotive Pvt. Ltd. v. Commercial Tax Officer, now upgraded as Assistant Commissioner (CT) & Ors.27 and in particular, what is held in paragraphs 34, 37, 38 and 40. c. In response to the principles for examining the constitutional validity of taxation statutes, he submitted that the test of vice of discrimination in a taxing statute is less rigorous. He submitted that the Parliament is entitled to make policy choices and adopt appropriate classifications given the latitude that our Constitutional jurisprudence allows in the matters involving tax legislation. The principle of equality does not preclude the classification of property, credit, profession and events for taxation. He submitted that it is settled law, as held in the case of Hari Krishna Bhargav v. Union of India & Anr28 that a taxing statute is not open to challenge on the ground that the tax is harsh or excessive. He refuted a submission that clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5) are fraud on the Constitution or that they are manifestly arbitrary. He invited our attention to a decision of the Constitution Bench in the case of Joseph Shine 27 [2018] 13 SCR 217 : (2019) 13 SCC 225 28 [1966] 2 SCR 22 : (1966) 2 SCR 22 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 813 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. v. Union of India29 and, in particular, what is held in paragraphs 163 to 165. He submitted that considering the test laid down in the said decision, even assuming that clauses (c) and (d) are discriminatory, they are not manifestly discriminatory. He submitted that English decisions will not apply, as in India, there is a constitutional and statutory distinction between goods that are movables and immovables. This distinction is not available in England. 16. His submissions about the interpretation of Section 17(5)(d) can be summarised as follows: a. The expression “plant or machinery” must be read as “plant and machinery”. It is not uncommon to read “and” as “or” or “or” as “and”. He relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority v. Manoharlal & Ors.30 and, in particular, what is held in paragraph 105.