The fraud played on them by respondent no.2 of transferring the same property (suit land) in favour of respondent no.1, which had been earlier transferred in their favour, became apparent. (k) The appellants then followed up registration of their sale deed. After removing the deficiency in stamp duty, the sale deed executed on 02.12.1985 and presented for registration on 05.12.1985 before the Sub-Registrar came to be registered on 14th June, 2011. The above incident of interference in possession by the respondent no.1 gave rise to filing of the suit. 5. The appellants along with Premkumar, father of appellant no.1, instituted a suit for cancellation of sale deed dated 03.12.2010 and 2304 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for perpetual injunction on 27th June, 2011 which was registered as Special Civil Suit No.46 of 2011. The vendor was impleaded as defendant No.1 (respondent no.2 herein) and the subsequent purchaser as defendant No.2 (respondent no.1 herein). The facts as stated in paragraph 4 above are pleaded in the plaint as such are not being repeated. 6. Both the defendants filed separate written statements. The written statement filed by the defendant no.1 averred that the plaintiff was not entitled to any of the reliefs; the suit was barred by limitation; the land in suit was owned by him; that he did not recollect having executed any such sale deed in favour of the appellant no.1 and his brother; that the plaintiff purchasers were minors, as such, the sale deed in their favour was void; it was also denied that defendant no.2 had tried to trespass the property and take forcible possession with the help of musclemen. 7. Defendant no.2 in his written statement averred that the valuation of the suit was not proper; that no cause of action arose to file the suit; that the plaintiffs had supressed material facts and documents and, as such, the suit was liable to be dismissed; that the plaintiff no.1 and his brother Ambrish were minors and, as such incompetent to contract; that as per section 11 of the Indian Contract Act, 18721 the transaction with minor was void and as such unenforceable in law; that guardian of minor Ambrish was shown as his mother whereas actually it should have been his father and therefore also the sale deed was bad; that there was no signature of plaintiff no.2 in the sale deed; that the widow of brother Ambrish was not made a party, as such, the suit was bad for non-joinder of the necessary party; that the sale deed was not duly registered as per provisions of law; that before registration no notice was issued to the vendor i.e. defendant no.1; no explanation or details were given with regard to the delay of 26 years in getting the registration; that under section 85 of the Registration Act, 1908,2 the documents pending for two years were liable to be destroyed, as such, the sale deed was not legal and proper; that there was interpolation in the documents of sale; that he was bona fide purchaser for value and had done so after verification 1 The Act, 1872 2 The Act, 1908 [2024] 7 S.C.R.