Good faith precludes pretence, deceit or lack of fairness and uprightness and also precludes wanton or wilful negligence.” (Emphasis supplied) 18. The decision of the Bombay High Court referred to above was taken on Appeal to this Court in The Municipality of Bhiwandi and Nizampur v. Kailash Sizing Works, 1974 (2) SCC 596. While approving the decision of the Bombay High Court, this Court held as follows: 884 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “15. In Jones v. Gordon, Lord Blackburn pointed out the distinction between the case of a person who was honestly blundering and careless, and the case of a person who has acted not honestly. An authority is not acting honestly where an authority has a suspicion that there is something wrong and does not make further enquiries. Being aware of possible harm to others, and acting in spite thereof, is acting with reckless disregard of consequences. It is worse than negligence, for negligent action is that, the consequences of which, the law presumes to be present in the mind of the negligent person, whether actually it was there or not. This legal presumption is drawn through the well- known hypothetical reasonable man. Reckless disregard of consequences and mala fides stand equal, where the actual state of mind of the actor is relevant. This is so in the eye of law, even if there might be variations in the degree of moral reproach deserved by recklessness and mala fides. 16. The Bombay, as also, the Central, General Clauses Acts, help only in so far as they lay down that negligence does not necessarily mean mala fides. Something more than negligence is necessary. But these Acts say “honestly” and so, for the interpretation of that word, we have explained the legal meanings above.” (Emphasis supplied) 19. The leading case on the subject, relied on in a number of Indian decisions is — ‘Daniels v. Davison’ [(1809) 16 Ves Jun 249: 33 ER 978]. The Lord Chancellor held that: “where there is a tenant in possession under a lease, or an agreement, a person purchasing part of the estate must be bound to inquire on what terms that person is in possession … that a tenant being in possession under a lease, with an agreement in his pocket to become the purchaser, those circumstances altogether give him an equity repelling the claim of a subsequent purchaser who made no inquiry as to the nature of his possession.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 885 Manjit Singh & Anr. v. Darshana Devi & Ors. 20. In our opinion, no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned and . 21. In the result, this appeal fails and is hereby dismissed. 22. The plaintiff may now go for the execution of the decree passed by the Civil Court. 23. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal Dismissed †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey