This will result into an anomalous situation. According to the Division Bench, ‘post-doctoral experiences’ can be of many kinds including research activity, teaching activity, etcetera and that if teaching experience of a post-doctoral candidate (who is not drawing gross monthly equivalent 18 (2004) 6 SCC 54 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1811 Allahabad University Etc. v. Geetanjali Tiwari (Pandey) & Ors. Etc. Etc. to that of a regular Assistant Professor) is counted as ‘post-doctoral experience’, then such candidate would be entitled to two marks per year of his/her experience; however, if it is counted as ‘teaching experience’, then the candidate would not be entitled to the marks as he/she as a teacher was not drawing salary as aforesaid. Hence, for the same candidate, two different markings are possible based on the interpretation chosen. This perceived anomaly guided the High Court to ultimately read down Reg.10. JudICIal pReCedenTs and The pRInCIples flowIng TheRefRom 11. It would be of profit to read precedents and to deduce the principles of law laid down therein, having a bearing on the issue which we are tasked to decide. On InterpretatIOn Of StatuteS 12. Hon’ble O. Chinnappa Reddy, J. (as His Lordship then was) in Girdhari Lal & sons v. Balbir Nath Mathur,19 in His Lordship’s inimitable style, had the occasion to emphasize: “6. It may be worthwhile to restate and explain at this stage certain well-known principles of interpretation of statutes: Words are but mere vehicles of thought. They are meant to express or convey one’s thoughts. Generally, a person’s words and thoughts are coincidental. No problem arises then, but, not infrequently, they are not. It is common experience with most men, that occasionally there are no adequate words to express some of their thoughts. Words which very nearly express the thoughts may be found but not words which will express precisely. There is then a great fumbling for words. Long-winded explanations and, in conversation, even gestures are resorted to. Ambiguous words and words which unwittingly convey more that one meaning are used. Where different interpretations are likely to be put on words and a question arises what an individual meant when he used certain words, he may be asked to explain himself and he may do so and say that he meant one thing and not the other. But if it is the legislature that has expressed itself by making the laws 19 (1986) 2 SCC 237 1812 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports and difficulties arise in interpreting what the legislature has said, a legislature cannot be asked to sit to resolve those difficulties. The legislatures, unlike individuals, cannot come forward to explain themselves as often as difficulties of interpretation arise. So the task of interpreting the laws by finding out what the legislature meant is allotted to the courts. Now, if one person puts into words the thoughts of another (as the draftsman puts into words the thoughts of the legislature) and a third person (the court) is to find out what they meant, more difficulties are bound to crop up.