42 Vikash Kumar v Union Public Service Commission, 2021 INSC 78. 992 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports complementary, each reinforcing the other in the pursuit of full inclusion and equality. 43. From the above, the following guiding principles emerge: a. Accessibility is not a standalone right; it is a prerequisite for PWDs to exercise other rights meaningfully; and b. Accessibility requires a two-pronged approach. One focuses on ensuring accessibility in existing institutions/activities often through retrofitting and the other focuses on transforming new infrastructure and future initiatives. D. NALSAR Report and its findings: Sector Wise 44. Having discussed the theoretical framework to understand accessibility, we will now briefly summarise the NALSAR-CDS Report. The NALSAR-CDS employed the following methodology in preparing its report: a. The NALSAR-CDS reached out to the Union and State governments, Union Territories, court administrations, and prison establishments to gather details on their accessibility initiatives. Responses were received from only fourteen States, three Union Territories and the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The remaining fourteen States and five Union Territories did not respond; b. NALSAR-CDS also gathered individual affidavits from PWDs, including those whose impairments were not covered by the RPWD Act Schedule. The studies and surveys conducted were undertaken by individuals and organisations using their own resources; c. Expertise and lived experiences of PWDs were central to the report. Various organizations conducted surveys on the right to education, transportation, and sports to assess how access impacts these rights. Law students contributed by auditing accessibility in Mumbai; d. To understand the impact of the existing accessibility guidelines, NALSAR-CDS conducted interviews with accessibility experts and organised focused group discussions with doctors with disabilities. Additionally, expert opinions were sought on how [2024] 11 S.C.R. 993 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. access affects higher education, and personal testimonies were included to reflect the lived experiences of PWDs; e. A draft of the report was shared for feedback with all contributors, ensuring accountability and recognition of their inputs; and f. The report was prepared using personal resources, and no financial claims have been made to the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. 45. It is now necessary to look at the findings of the report. The report mentions that the 2021 Harmonising Guidelines marked a significant shift by including a chapter on “Accessibility, Diversity and Universal Design,” broadening the focus to address all impairments and recognizing accessibility needs for groups beyond individuals with disabilities, such as children, the elderly, and those temporarily disabled. However, the guidelines only briefly covered less-discussed disabilities. The NALSAR-CDS documented these gaps through affidavits from individuals with conditions like autism, cerebral palsy, and ichthyosis.43 For example, individuals with autism emphasized the benefit of subsidized communication devices, while those with cerebral palsy highlighted the need for a register of scribes. 46. The report explored the intersectional nature of the right to accessibility, aiming to demonstrate its impact on the enjoyment of other rights. It emphasised that the right to accessibility cannot be viewed in isolation but must be considered alongside other forms of disadvantage, such as caste, sex, region, and religion.