The Court found that neither any notice was issued nor an opportunity of hearing was afforded prior to passing the suspending the registration. It was further held that while passing the first of suspension on 25.10.2010, powers were exercised by appropriate authority under Sections 20(1) & (2) of PC&PNDT Act without affording an opportunity of hearing, which was contrary to the spirit of the said provisions and wholly unjustified. The Learned Single Judge was of the view that appellate authority was not justified to remit the matter in appeal against the of suspension to the appropriate authority suggesting clarification whether such powers were exercised by him under Section 20(1) & (2) or under Section 20(3) of the PC&PNDT Act and how far the reasons for exercising such power are justified. The Court further held that the reason as assigned in the subsequent , if accepted as valid, then each and every case of suspension would fall within the purview of Section 20(3) of PC&PNDT Act and the provisions of Section 20(1) & (2) will be rendered redundant. 6. Being aggrieved by the of Learned Single Judge, appropriate authority challenged the same by filing the Letters Patent Appeal which was dismissed by the impugned by the Division Bench, putting a stamp of approval to reasonings of the Learned Single Judge. The [2024] 3 S.C.R. 65 District Appropriate Authority under the PNDT Act and Chief District Health Officer v. Jashmina Dilip Devda & Anr. Division Bench was of the opinion that all the cases of suspension would not automatically fall within the purview of Section 20(3) of the PC&PNDT Act. It was observed that the reasons assigned in subsequent of suspension by the appropriate authority are not valid to exercise such power in public interest. Therefore, the Letters Patent Appeal filed by the appropriate authority was dismissed. 7. Learned counsel for the appellant authority submits that on the scope of Sections 20(1), (2) & (3) of PC&PNDT Act, there is no of this Court, so the question involved in the case is of general public interest. He has placed reliance on the of Malpani Infertility Clinic Pvt. Ltd. vs. Appropriate Authority, 2004 SC Online Bom 834 to urge that if power is exercised by appropriate authority to suspend the registration due to pendency of the prosecution, such power may be exercised in public interest under Section 20(3) of PC&PNDT Act. It is contended that looking to the object of PC&PNDT Act, if the appropriate authority considers that the activity of the licensed entity is affecting the public at large, the power to suspend the registration or license is permissible. However, it is fairly stated that the High Court of Bombay has given a conflicting in the case of J. Sadanand M. Ingle (Dr) vs. State of Maharashtra, 2013 SCC online Bom 697 which lays down that sub-section (3) starts with non- obstante clause and empowers the appropriate authority to suspend the registration temporarily. Dealing with the scope of Sections 20(3) and 30 of the PC&PNDT Act, it was observed that, both Sections are independent and action can be taken independent to each other.