Therefore, Section 5(1)(b) of the 1955 Act has no application. 19. At this stage, it is necessary to refer to Sections 8 and 9 of the 1955 Act, which read thus: “8. Renunciation of citizenship.― (1) If any citizen of India of full age and capacity, makes in the prescribed manner a declaration renouncing his Indian Citizenship, the declaration shall be registered by the prescribed authority; and, upon such registration, that person shall cease to be a citizen of India: Provided that if any such declaration is made during any war in which India may be engaged, registration thereof shall be withheld until the Central Government otherwise directs. (2) Where a person ceases to be a citizen of India under sub-section (1), every minor child of that person shall thereupon cease to be a citizen of India: Provided that any such child may, within one year after attaining full age, make a declaration in the prescribed form 750 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and manner that he wishes to resume Indian citizenship and shall thereupon again become a citizen of India. 9. Termination of citizenship.—(1) Any citizen of India who by naturalisation, registration or otherwise voluntarily acquires, or has at any time between the 26th January, 1950 and the commencement of this Act voluntarily acquired, the citizenship of another country shall, upon such acquisition or, as the case may be, such commencement, cease to be a citizen of India: Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to a citizen of India who, during any war in which India may be engaged, voluntarily acquires the citizenship of another country, until the Central Government otherwise directs. (2) If any question arises as to whether, when or how any citizen of India has acquired the citizenship of another country, it shall be determined by such authority, in such manner, and having regard to such rules of evidence, as may be prescribed in this behalf.” (emphasis added) In view of Section 9(1), those citizens of India who voluntarily acquire citizenship of another Country after the commencement of the 1955 Act, or between 26th January 1950 and the date of the commencement of the 1955 Act, upon acquisition of such citizenship, automatically cease to be citizens of India. It is not in dispute that Pranav’s parents acquired Singapore citizenship on 19th December 1998, before his birth when he was in the womb. Therefore, immediately after the voluntary acquisition of Singapore citizenship, Pranav’s parents ceased to be citizens of India by the operation of Section 9(1). 20. Section 8(1) will apply if any citizen of India of full age and capacity makes, in the prescribed manner, a declaration renouncing his Indian Citizenship. Section 8(1) will not apply to the involuntary cessation of citizenship by the operation of law as provided in Section 9(1). Section 8(2) will apply only if the minor child’s parents had voluntarily renounced citizenship by making a declaration. In the facts of the case, on 19th December 1998, when Pranav’s parents voluntarily acquired citizens of Singapore, they immediately ceased to be [2024] 10 S.C.R.