They were included because they were untouchables with respect to everything but for smoking requirements and they were a socially and educationally backward community:190 “I have made close and careful enquiries and there is a general consensus of opinion that the Mahars are not jal- chal and are a depressed class. The story of Raja Subid Narayan made them jal-chal for smoking requirements only, seems to be true. If the Mahars are at all jal-chal, they are jalchal only in the sense that a man of the higher caste can smoke a huka filled with water by a Mahara. There is not a single graduate among the Maharas in this subdivision and not even a single matriculate can be found. The deputy Inspector of Schools reports that the only educated Maharas he has met in the whole subdivision are three persons working as Vernacular teachers in Primary and Middle English Schools. So the Maharas are depressed both socially and educationally.” 190 Ibid, 498 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1409 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 134. The list prepared by Madras noted that castes to whom the “technical stigma of untouchability” does not apply, had been excluded from the list. This approach when juxtaposed with the approach adopted by Assam, varies with respect to the stringency of the untouchability standard employed.191 It is evident that there is no one “form” of untouchability. Untouchability, like other forms of social disability differs in degree and severity. 135. Based on the tests for identifying untouchability laid down by Hutton, the Provincial Committee prepared the provincial estimates of depressed classes. In Madras, Bombay and the Central Province, there was a general agreement between the Provincial Committees and the Local Governments on the estimate of the depressed classes because the distinction between the depressed and other classes of the Hindu Communities was clearly defined. On the other hand, the States of Bihar, Orissa and Assam while stipulating the castes which faced untouchability observed that untouchability in the States did not exist in the same form as it existed in South India. 136. Mr SB Rambe, Mr CY Chintamani and Mr RR Bakhale submitted a note of dissent, inter alia, on the depressed classes in which they claim that the tests for untouchability were not applied with uniformity.192 They observed that untouchability only existed in Madras, Bombay and the Central Province. They claimed that in other states, untouchability was not an adjunct of a person but the occupation that they pursued and thus, those castes should not have been included in the list of the depressed classes.193 It is here that the Note submitted by Dr B R Ambedkar on depressed classes is of particular importance for it encapsulates the heterogeneity within the castes which suffer untouchability. 137. Dr B R Ambedkar highlighted that applying a uniform criterion to identify the depressed class would be inappropriate. Dr Ambedkar observed that the differences in the tests of untouchability do not indicate differences in the conditions of the untouchables because the notion underlying both the standards would be the same, 191 Ibid, 499 192 Minute of dissent by Mr SB Rambe, Mr CY Chintamani, Mr RR Bakhale, Report of the Franchise Committee, 231 193 id 1410 [2024] 8 S.C.R.