In that context, the Court was of the opinion that a criminal proceeding could not be continued. However, in the present case, the charges were framed under the Prevention of Corruption Act, while the appellants seek to rely upon findings recorded by authorities under the Income Tax Act. The scope of adjudication in both the proceedings are markedly different and therefore the findings in the latter cannot be a ground for discharge of the Accused Persons in the former. The proceedings under the Income Tax Act and its evidentiary value remains a matter of trial and they cannot be considered as conclusive proof for discharge of an accused person. 41. The appellants herein have further sought to place reliance on J. Sekar (supra) to argue that the letter of the Income-Tax Department was relied upon to quash prosecution under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. In our opinion, this decision is again inapplicable to the present case. In J. Sekar (supra), the criminal proceedings had arisen based upon the information furnished by the Income Tax Department regarding recovery of unauthorized cash and other items during their search. It so transpired that the Income Tax Department accepted the explanation of the accused regarding the recovered cash which led to closure of the Income Tax proceedings. Thereafter, even the criminal proceedings led to filing of a closure report on the ground that no sufficient evidence was found for continuation of prosecution. The proceedings under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, being based on the Income Tax Department’s information after their search and the registration of FIR, were found to be unsustainable in view of no violation being found either by the Department or in the criminal proceeding. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 703 Puneet Sabharwal v. CBI 42. The decision in J. Sekar (supra) is therefore distinguishable on facts. In the abovementioned case, there was an exoneration by not only the Income Tax Department, to the effect that no case was made, there was also an exoneration in the criminal proceedings which involved the Scheduled Offence. In the present case, the proceedings under the Income Tax Act which are sought to be relied upon relate to the assessment of income of the assessee and not to the source of income and the allegation of disproportionate assets under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The said s cannot be the basis to abort the criminal proceeding in the present case. 43. We are not to conduct a dress rehearsal of the trial at this stage. The tests applicable for a discharge are well settled by a catena of s passed by this Court. Even a strong suspicion founded on material on record which is ground for presuming the existence of factual ingredients of an offence would justify the framing of charge against an accused person [Onkar Nath Mishra & Ors. v. State (NCT of Delhi) & Anr. (2008) 2 SCC 561 Paragraph 11]. The Court is only required to consider judicially whether the material warrants the framing of charge without blindly accepting the decision of the prosecution [State of Karnataka v. L. Muniswamy & Ors.