(vi) The dispositional passed by the Children’s Court shall necessarily include an individual care [2024] 5 S.C.R. 787 Child in Conflict with Law Through his Mother v. The State of Karnataka and Another plan in Form 7 for the child in conflict with law concerned, prepared by a Probation Officer or Child Welfare Officer or recognized voluntary organisation on the basis of interaction with the child and his family, where possible. (vii) The Children’s Court, in such cases, may pass any s as provided in sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 18 of the Act. (8) Where the Children’s Court decides that there is a need for trial of the child as an adult: (i) It shall follow the procedure prescribed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 of trial by sessions and maintaining a child friendly atmosphere. (ii) The final passed by the Children’s Court shall necessarily include an individual care plan for the child as per Form 7 prepared by a Probation Officer or Child Welfare Officer or recognized voluntary organisation on the basis of interaction with the child and his family, where possible. (iii) Where the child has been found to be involved in the offence, the child may be sent to a place of safety till the age of twenty-one years. (iv) While the child remains at the place of safety, there shall be yearly review by the Probation Officer or the District Child Protection Unit or a social worker in Form 13 to evaluate the progress of the child and the reports shall be forwarded to the Children’s Court. (v) The Children’s Court may also direct the child to be produced before it periodically and at least once every three months for the purpose of assessing the progress made by the child and the facilities provided by the institution for the implementation of the individual care plan. 788 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (vi) When the child attains the age of twenty-one years and is yet to complete the term of stay, the Children’s Court shall: (a) interact with the child in to evaluate whether the child has undergone reformative changes and if the child can be a contributing member of the society. (b) take into account the periodic reports of the progress of the child, prepared by the Probation Officer or the District Child Protection Unit or a social worker, if needed and further direct that institutional mechanism if inadequate be strengthened. (c) to (cd) xx xx (vii) xx xx” EXTRACT OF RELEVANT PROVISION OF PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012 “Section 28. Designation of Special Courts.— (1) For the purposes of providing a speedy trial, the State Government shall in consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court, by notification in the Official Gazette, designate for each district, a Court of Session to be a Special Court to try the offences under the Act: Provided that if a Court of Session is notified as a children’s court under the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005 (4 of 2006) or a Special Court designated for similar purposes under any other law for the time being in force, then, such court shall be deemed to be a Special Court under this section.