During the arguments, ld. Counsel for the accused argued that complainant Sitara Bi has stated in her court statement that when she reached at well, at that time, her son Naseem Khan told her that all the three accused Ramjan Khan, Musab Khan and Habib Khan have caused his murder after beating him with sickle, axe and lathi. Though, this fact is not written in the police statement Exh. D-3 of Sitara Bi that when he reached, at that time, [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1883 The State of Madhya Pradesh v. Ramjan Khan & Ors. accused Naseem had told her to be beaten by accused persons, even thereafter, I don’t find it proper to give it’s benefit to the accused persons because I don’t find any reason to disbelieve the statement, which has been given by her before the court.” 18. Paragraph 42 of the of the Trial Court carries the further recital with respect to the aforesaid aspect and it, in so far as relevant, reads thus: - "42… Sitara Bi (PW-8) has stated in para-5 of her cross- examination that if the police has not written the fact of going of Farid Khan and Haseen Khan alongwith Naseem Khan for bathing is not written in the police statement of Exh. D-3, then, she cannot tell its reason. Similarly, when complainant Sitara Bi reached on the spot, at that time, Naseem Khan was lying on the ground and Naseem Khan told her that accused have beaten him. If, this fact is also not written in her police statement, then she cannot tell its reason...” 19. The of the Trial Court would reveal that after considering the aforesaid aspect in such a light manner, believing the oral evidence of PW8 as well, the Trial Court arrived at the finding that accused Ramjan Khan had beaten Naseem Khan with sickle, accused Musab had beaten him with bamboo lathi (equipped with Farsa) and accused Habib inflicted axe blow on Naseem Khan and thereby caused his murder. 20. The undisputed and indisputable position obtained from the evidence on record is that the defence had brought out that neither in Ext. P12 FIR nor in Ext. D3 statement of PW8 recorded under Section 161, Cr.P.C., PW8 stated about the oral dying declaration made to her by the deceased. That apart, the prosecution had failed to establish that when PW8 reached the place of occurrence the deceased was in a fit state of mind to speak or talk relevantly. Except the statement of PW8 in the Court there is no scrap of evidence in that regard in the case on hand. As a matter of fact, on this aspect nothing was brought out from PW5 and PW9 or from any other witnesses. There can be no doubt that oral dying declaration should be of such a nature as to inspire full confidence of the court in its correctness. In the contextual situation revealed as above, we have 1884 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports no hesitation to hold that the High Court was perfectly justified in considering the oral testimony of PW8 and taking serious note of the serious omission brought out from her, on being confronted with Ext.