In my opinion, it did not break any judicial discipline, since in Sanjeev Coke, the Five Judges did not go against the law laid down by the majority Judges in Ranganatha Reddy but only adopted the logic of the Three Judges on which the majority of Four Judges were silent. 31. It is first difficult for me to even come to the conclusion that the Four Judges in Ranganatha Reddy entirely disagreed with the minority opinion of Justice Krishna Iyer. It merely says “we must not be understood to agree with all that he has said in his in this regard.” This is not exactly a disagreement. The majority of the Four Judges chose to remain silent on the subject. It cannot be said that the Four Judges, in any way, said anything contrary or in opposition to what was laid down by the Three Judges in Ranganatha Reddy, and therefore, no judicial discipline was broken by Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy when he authored the unanimous in Sanjeev Coke by adopting the logic of the Three Judges in Ranganatha Reddy. Theoretically speaking there are no s of the Supreme Court which may throw any light on what would be the binding nature of a of minority judges given on a subject, where the majority has remained silent. The logic, however, is very clear, in cases where a Judge or Judges of the Supreme Court in minority have given a decision on a point on which the majority has remained silent, that it would be binding on the High Courts and all other Courts, and for this Court the least [2024] 11 S.C.R. 299 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. it will have is persuasive value. Reference can be made here to a decision of this Court in KT Moopli Nair v. State of Kerala 1960 SCC OnLine SC 7. In the above , the Supreme Court had held that a tax rate of 2 rupees per acre irrespective of the nature of the land was violative of Article 14, as unequals cannot be treated as equals. The question which was before this Court was whether the impugned levy, although levied as a tax on land, was also applicable on forest land. In other words, it was argued that a similar tax on forest land was invalid. The majority of the Judges noticed this submission in Moopli Nair, but did not deal with it. This was only dealt with by Justice A.K. Sarkar in his dissenting where it was held that the power to tax under Entry 49 List II, would include taxation of forest land as well. Consequently, when a similar matter came before Kerala High Court in V. Padmanabha Ravi Varma Raja v. Deputy Tahsildar 1962 SCC OnLine Ker 98, it was held by the High Court that it was bound by the minority view of Justice Sarkar on the point and held that State legislature had the competence to levy tax on land on which a forest stood.