We are not commenting on the scenario if the dissenting financial creditor himself chooses to accept any other method of discharge of its payment obligation but as per the requirements of law, the resolution plan ought to carry the provision as aforesaid.” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 135 DBS BANK LIMITED SINGAPORE v. RUCHI SOYA INDUSTRIES LIMITED AND ANOTHER 39. Similar view has been taken by a two Judge Bench of this Court in Vistra ITCL (India) Limited & Ors. v. Dinkar Venkatasubramanian & Anr.14, wherein it was observed in paragraphs 34, 41.2 and 42 as under: “34. The amendment introduced by Act 26 of 2019 ensures that the operational creditors under the resolution plan should be paid the amount equivalent to the amount which they would have been entitled to, in the event of liquidation of the corporate debtor under Section 53 of the Code. In other words, the amount payable under the resolution plan to the operational creditors should not be less than the amount payable to them under Section 53 of the Code, in the event of liquidation of the corporate debtor. The amended provision also provides that the financial creditors who have not voted in favour of the resolution plan shall be paid not less than the amount which would be paid to them in accordance with sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code, in the event of liquidation of the corporate debtor. Explanation (1) to clause (b) of Section 30(2) of the Code, for the removal of doubts, states and clarifies that the distribution in accordance with this clause shall be fair and equitable to such creditors. xx xx xx 41.2. The second option is to treat Appellant 1-Vistra as a secured creditor in terms of Section 52 read with Section 53 of the Code. In other words, we give the option to the successful resolution applicant — DVI (Deccan Value Investors) to treat Appellant 1-Vistra as a secured creditor, who will be entitled to retain the security interest in the pledged shares, and in terms thereof, would be entitled to retain the security proceeds on the sale of the said pledged shares under Section 52 of the Code read with Rule 21-A of the Liquidation Process Regulations. The second recourse available, would be almost equivalent in monetary terms for Appellant 1-Vistra, who is treated 14 (2023) 7 SCC 324. 136 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS as a secured creditor and is held entitled to all rights and obligations as applicable to a secured creditor under Sections 52 and 53 of the Code. This to our mind would be a fair and just solution to the legal conundrum and issue highlighted before us. 42. We wish to clarify that the directions given by us would not be a ground for the successful resolution applicant — DVI to withdraw the resolution plan which has already been approved by Nclat and by us. The reason is simple. Any resolution plan must meet with the requirements/provisions of the Code and any provisions of law for the time being in force.