As instructed by the caller, he left the cash in the car and went to the emergency ward of the hospital. Sometime later, his car was seen lying abandoned at the crossing of Sector 11-Sector 15, Chandigarh. The suspects called and told him that Sachin Garg(PW-2) would be released after counting the ransom amount and, thus, he returned home. On the same day, at about 10:30 pm, he got a telephone call intimating that his son had been released in the market area of Sector 20, Panchkula. On receiving this information, Mahesh Garg(PW-1) proceeded to Sector 20, Panchkula and brought his son Sachin Garg(PW-2) back home. One more call was received with a threat that if the police or anyone else was informed, the entire family would be eliminated. 30. We find that there exist inherent improbabilities in the versions of these two star prosecution witnesses i.e. Mahesh Garg(PW-1) and Sachin Garg(PW-2) which go to the root of the matter. 31. Neither of the witnesses stated that the kidnappers allowed Sachin Garg(PW-2) to talk to his family members so as to lend assurance about his safety. In this background, it is hard to believe that Mahesh Garg(PW-1) would rely upon such an unverified telephone conversation and proceed to collect a huge sum of Rs. 1 crore and thereafter, leave it in an unsecured condition inside his car without having any assurance whatsoever regarding the safety of Sachin Garg(PW-2) for whose purported release the ransom amount had been demanded. This is a grave lacuna which brings the entire prosecution case under a cloud of doubt. In the natural course of human conduct, the family members of the kidnapped person would expect and require some kind of assurance about the victim’s safety before agreeing to part with a huge sum of money as ransom. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 351 Gaurav Maini v. The State of Haryana 32. Admittedly, the police had visited the house of Mahesh Garg(PW-1) on two to three occasions before 20th April, 2003, but he never informed them about the incident. Inspite of the statement of Shamlal Garg having been recorded by the police, the FIR was not registered regarding the alleged kidnapping of Sachin Garg(PW-2) and his release after payment of ransom. The FIR(Exhibit-PAA/1) was admittedly registered on the basis of the so-called secret information received by Jai Singh, SI(PW-27) which was also not brought on record. 33. A perusal of the deposition of Mahesh Garg(PW-1) would reveal that he admitted that from the very ransom amount paid by him, he received back a sum of Rs. 95,08,000/- from the Court, but he could not remember the date of receiving the amount. It is however an admitted position as emerging from record that no such was ever sought for or procured from the Court. Mahesh Garg(PW-1) also admitted that his son Sachin Garg(PW-2) was never asked to identify the accused by the police in any identification parade. 34. Jai Singh, SI(PW-27) deposed that he was on patrolling duty at the market of Sector-16, Panchkula when he received a secret information about a gang operating in Panchkula which was indulged in kidnapping children for ransom and if the amount was not paid, they would kill the victims and that such an incident had occurred in Kothi No.