422 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 127. Afzal-Ul-Ulma BACHELOR’S 3 years 10+2 (Alim/ Afzal- Ul- Ulma Preliminary) 128. Kamil MASTER’S 2 years Fazil/Afzal- Ul-Ulma (BA) 129. Mumtaz. (Mumtazul M.PHIL. 1 year Kamil (MA) Tafseer. Mumtazul Mohaddisin, Mumtazul Fiqh, Mumtazul Adah etc.) The universities shall be free to write English equivalent of these degrees, if they so desire in the mark sheet/degree certificates either in parentheses or slash. 98. Section 9 of the Madarsa Act specifies the functions of the Board under the Madarsa Act. Several of these functions pertain to the regulation of the Fazil and Kamil degrees, which correspond to a bachelor’s level and a post-graduate degree, respectively. In particular, the following provisions deal with regulating these higher education degrees: a. Sub-clause (a) empowers the Board to prescribe courses of instructions, textbooks and other material for inter alia the Kamil and Fazil courses; b. Sub-clause (e) empowers the Board to grant degrees, diplomas, certificates and academic distinctions to those who have either studied in institutions recognized by the board or studied privately under the conditions mandated by regulations and passed an examination conducted by the Board; c. Sub-clause (f) empowers the Board to conduct the examinations of inter alia the Kamil and Fazil courses. Sub-clauses (g), (h) and (j) further empower the Board to recognize institutions for the purpose of examinations, admit candidates for the examinations, and publish or withhold the publication of the examination results; and d. Sub-clause (o) empowers the Board to carry out all acts which are required to further the object of the Board, which is a body [2024] 11 S.C.R. 423 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. constituted to regulate and supervise “Madrasa-Education up to Fazil”. Pursuant to the above provisions, several provisions in the Regulations framed by the Board also seek to regulate the Kamil and Fazil courses and degrees. 99. The Madarsa Act to the extent to which it seeks to regulate higher education, including the ‘degrees’ of Fazil and Kamil, is beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature since it conflicts with Section 22 of the UGC Act. Entry 25 of List III, pursuant to which the Madarsa Act has been enacted, has been expressly made subject to Entry 66 of List I. The UGC Act governs the standards for higher education and a state legislation cannot seek to regulate higher education, in contravention of the provisions of the UGC Act. c. The entire Madarsa Act need not be struck down on the above ground 100. In the foregoing sections of this , we have upheld the constitutionality of the Madarsa Act on various grounds, that were urged before the High Court and subsequently, before this Court. However, certain provisions of the Madarsa Act which pertain to the regulation of higher education and the conferment of such degrees have been held to be unconstitutional on the ground of lack of legislative competence. Thus, the question that arises is whether the entire legislation must be struck down on this ground.