As this Court for the first time has been called upon to apply the doctrine evolved in a different country under different circumstances, we would like to move warily in the beginning. We would lay down the following propositions : (1) The doctrine of prospective over-ruling can be invoked only in matters arising under our Constitution; (2) It can be applied only by the highest court of the country, i.e., the Supreme Court as it has the constitutional jurisdiction to declare law binding on all the courts in India; (3) the scope of the retroactive operation of the law declared by the Supreme Court superseding its earlier decisions is left to its discretion to be moulded in accordance with the justice of the cause or matter before it.” 202. This doctrine was also applied by this Court in the case of Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. v. State of UP (supra). In the said case originally, this Court in State of UP v. Synthetics and Chemicals [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1233 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 Ltd. reported in (1980) 2 SCC 441, had upheld the validity of the State legislature to impose tax on industrial alcohol. 203. Subsequently, this matter was referred to a Seven-Judge Bench, by the 2nd Synthetics Case, and this Court struck down the validity of the provisions of the said Act, permitting levy of excise duty in the form of vend fee, prospectively. 204. The significance of the prospective overruling was dealt with by a five- Judge Bench of this Court in Somaiya Organics (India) Ltd. & Anr. v. State of U.P. & Anr. (supra). This Court had elaborated upon the term “prospective overruling” as follows: - “24. The word “prospective overruling” implies an earlier judicial decision on the same issue which was otherwise final. That is how it was understood in Golak Nath [AIR 1967 SC 1643 : (1967) 2 SCR 762] . However, this Court has used the power even when deciding on an issue for the first time. Thus in India Cement Ltd. v. State of T.N. [(1990) 1 SCC 12] when this Court held that the cess sought to be levied under Section 115 of the Madras Panchayats Act, 1958 as amended by Madras Act 18 of 1964, was unconstitutional, not only did it restrain the State of Tamil Nadu from enforcing the same any further, it also directed that the State would not be liable for any refund of cess already paid or collected. 25. This direction was considered in Orissa Cement Ltd. v. State of Orissa [1991 Supp (1) SCC 430] at p. 498 where it was held that: (SCC para 69) "The declaration regarding the invalidity of a provision and the determination of the relief that should be granted in consequence thereof are two different things and, in the latter sphere, the court has, and must be held to have, a certain amount of discretion. It is a well-settled proposition that it is open to the court to grant, mould or restrict the relief in a manner most appropriate to the situation before it in such a way as to advance the interests of justice.