That the State Legislature had no power to levy excise duty on “industrial alcohol” as the latter is “not fit for human consumption” and the State Legislature will have [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2079 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons power to levy fee in respect of all alcohol (see Entry 66 read with Entry 6 - List II). The State Legislature has power to legislate on the topic “intoxicating liquors” under Entry 8 - List II. It being a general Entry, will not comprehend a power of taxation but will comprehend a power to levy fee read with Entry 66 – List II. 9.1.7 According to the Union of India, with regard to industries the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in public interest, Parliament will have exclusive legislative competence vide Entry 52 - List I. This power includes the power to declare by Parliament that control by the Union of industries relating to all types of alcohol is expedient in public interest. Once Parliament makes such a declaration, the State Legislature will be denuded of its power under Entry 24 - List II on the aspect “industry” with respect to all subject matters. 9.1.8 It was also contended that the power to collect the lump sum amount by way of auction by any right or otherwise conferring the right to sell alcohol is neither a power to levy tax nor a power to levy fee but it will fall within the legislative competence of the State Legislature under Entry 8 – List II. But this power will extend only to alcohol for human consumption. Also, there can be a complete prohibition with regard to manufacture and sale of alcohol fit for human consumption because there is no fundamental right to carry on business in alcohol even for human consumption (see Article 47 of the Constitution and other s already discussed). The State can, therefore, collect an amount called vend fee, shop rent etc. for conferring on a citizen the right to manufacture and sell alcoholic liquors if it is fit for human consumption. This power cannot extend to “industrial alcohol” or “alcohol contained in the medicinal or toilet preparations”. According to the Union of India, there was no power to levy such rent or fee with regard to “industrial alcohol” because (a) “industrial alcohol” and “alcoholic liquors for medicinal and toilet preparations” cannot be completely prohibited; (b) as there is a right to carry on business in “industrial 2080 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports alcohol”, any prohibition on manufacture of “industrial alcohol”, would be violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. Therefore, in the absence of a power to completely prohibit, there will be no power to collect sums for conferring rights to manufacture or sell except the levy of taxes and fees. 9.1.9 On behalf of the State of UP, it was submitted that in to appreciate the controversy, it was necessary to realise that the real problem arises from the fact that the denaturants can be converted into renaturants through an illicit process.