The course adopted by the Committee in taking into consideration different criteria while examining an individual case of the appellants’ plot was wholly unwarranted, especially when the Committee in its Report has not assigned any reason for making the deviation.” 44. The learned counsel for the respondent further contended that another i.e., Nisarga v. Asst. Conservator of Forests OA No.19 (THC) of 2013, was concealed by the Appellant. The learned counsel submitted that the Appellant herein, approached the NGT arguing that the minimum canopy density to be adopted as a criterion ought to be 0.1 (i.e. 10%). It was submitted that the basis of this argument was identical to that advanced in this appeal, inasmuch as the Indian State of Forests Report, 2009 (ISFR) was relied upon to suggest that the said report had classified lands with canopy density between 10% to 40% as open forests. In other words, it was urged by the Appellant that even such lands were forest nonetheless. The NGT rejected this argument based on the of this Court in Tata Housing (supra). The learned Counsel emphasized on the point that, the Appellant herein chose not to appeal the said before this Court, and has allowed the same to attain finality. The counsel for the respondents submitted that Appellant cannot now be allowed to reagitate the very same issue on the very same basis before this Court. 722 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 45. The counsel for the respondent accordingly submitted that, criteria adopted by the State of Goa ought not to be interfered with; and the dated 04.02.2015 passed by this Court directing a restraint on the grant of conversion sanads in the State of Goa ought to be vacated since the criterion for the identification of forest in the State of Goa has become final and binding, its variation having been rejected in Tata Housing (Supra) and Nisarg (Supra) by this Court and the NGT respectively. 46. The counsel for the respondent has submitted that the sheet anchor of the instant appeal is the formula adopted by this Court for the computation of NPV in T.N. Godavarman Thirumalpad v. Union of India20, and in turn the reliance by this Court on the report of Ms. Kanchan Chopra, which in turn relies on the Indian State of Forests Report, 2008 (ISFR) issued by the FSI. It is submitted that ISFR has classified canopy density into 3 kinds, namely, very dense, moderately dense, and open. Furthermore, this Court while fixing the NPV rates has fixed them per Hectare, basis which the Appellant contends that even 1 (one) Ha of land can be a forest. It is submitted that the Appellant sought to change the criteria for a private forest in Goa to a minimum area of 1 (one) Ha, and also a minimum canopy density of 0.1 which was the least denominator employed by the ISFR in classifying an open forest for the purposes of fixing NPV rates. The counsel for the respondents urged and emphasized that this argument of the Appellant is misconceived as it fails to take into account that the private forest criteria not only in Goa but throughout the country is distinct from that for government lands.