[2024] 2 S.C.R. 420 : 2024 INSC 113 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. V. Union of India & Ors. (Writ Petition (C) No. 880 of 2017) 15 February 2024 [Dr Dnhananjaya Y Chandrachud,* CJl, 8 R Gavai, J B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra and Sanjiv Khanna,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration The matter pertains to the constitutional validity of the Electoral Bond Scheme which introduced anonymous financial contributions to political parties; as also the constitutional validity of the provisions of the Finance Act 2017 which, among other things, amended the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India Act 1934, the Representation of the People Act 1951, the Income Tax Act 1961; as also whether unlimited corporate funding to political parties, as envisaged by the amendment to s. 182(1) of the Companies Act infringes the principle of free and fair elections and violates Art. 14 of the Constitution; and whether the non- disclosure of information on voluntary contributions to political parties under the Electoral Bond Scheme and the amendments to 5. 29C of the RPA, s. 182(3) of the CA and 5. 13A(b) of the IT Act are violative of the right to information of citizens u/Art. 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. Headnotes Elections — Electoral process — Electoral Bond Scheme, 2018 - Electoral Bond Scheme introduced anonymous financial contribution to political parties — Constitutional validity of: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya ४ Chandrachud, Cul.) (for himself and for B R Gavai, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ) Electoral Bond Scheme is unconstitutional — Directions to the issuing bank to stop the issuance of Electoral Bonds — SBI to submit: details of Electoral Bonds purchased since 12 April 2019 till date to the ECI including the date of purchase of each Electoral Bond, the name of the purchaser of the bond and the denomination of the * Authors Ed. Note : Hon’ble Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Cul, pronounced the judgement of the Bench comprising his lordship, Hon’ble Mr. Justice B.R. Gavai, Hon’ble Mr. Justice J.B. Pardiwala, Hon’ble Mr. Justice Manoj Misra, while Hon’ble Mr. Justice Sanjiv Khanna pronounced his separate judgement. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 421 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Electoral Bond purchased; details of political parties which have received contributions through Electoral Bonds since 12 April 2019 till date to the ECI, and each Electoral Bond encashed by political parties — SBI to submit the said information to the ECI within the period stipulated - ECI to publish the information shared by the SBI on its official website — Electoral Bonds within the validity period of fifteen days but have not been encashed by the political party yet, to be returned by the political party or the purchaser to the issuing bank — Constitution of India. [Paras 216, 219] — Held: (per Sanjiv Khanna, J.) (Concurring with Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Cul.) (Concurring with conclusions albeit with different reasonings) Electoral Bond Scheme is unconstitutional and is struck down — Directions to ECI to ascertain the details from the political parties and the State Bank of India, which issued the Bonds, and the bankers of the political parties and thereupon disclose the details and names of the donor/purchaser of the Bonds and the amounts donated to the political party - Henceforth, the issuance of fresh Bonds is prohibited — Electoral Bonds within the validity period of fifteen days but have not been encashed by the political party yet, to be returned by the political party or the purchaser to the issuing bank.