The respondent Janpad Panchayat has admitted that the Committee President Smt. Pushpa Dvivedi’s sister-in-law (Nanad) Shyama Dvivedi, her daughter Shiv Dass Dvivedi, her sister-in-law (Devrani) Smt. Vibha, two real sisters of her sister-in-law namely Kumari Rashmi Dvivedi and Kumari Rita Dvivedi have been selected at Serial No. 9 and 4 of the Select List. The Respondent has also admitted that Devender Kumar Avasthi son of Brij Bhushan Avasthi is the nephew (sister’s son) of President and Rekha Avasthi daughter Brij Bhushan Avasthi, Pravesh Kumari daughter of Brij Bhushan Avasthi are also the nieces (sister’s daughters) of the President who have been selected at Serial No. 176 and 30 of the Select List. The Chief Executive Officer has also mentioned in his reply that another Member Swami Singh Senger’s son Sumer Singh, daughter-in-law Raamrani wife of Rudra Pratap Singh, nephew Rajesh Singh Chauhan son of Som Prakash Singh have also been selected. 9 marks on the basis of experience have been given to the selected candidate Badri Prasad son of Bhagwat Prasad but the Experience Certificate has not been attached with his application. Shri 200 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Krishan Dutt Avasthi son of Sita Ram Avasthi, who has been selected at Serial No. 64, is the nephew (sister’s son) of President and Gita Rawat (selected at Serial No. 190 of the appointment ) is the real sister of the President. In this way, after the above examination, holding of the Collector, Chhatarpur that the Select Committee of the Janpad Panchayat has selected their relatives contrary to the provisions of section 40-C of Madhya Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act and the selection rules, is. completely justified in view of the facts. So far as the plea of the Revisionists that the information and the opportunity of hearing was not given to the Revisionists in the appeal by the Collector, Chhatarpur nor they have been joined in the present appeal, therefore, the dated 2.6.1999 is liable to be set aside, I am not agreed to this argument. (sic) In this regard, the Hon’ble High Court has clearly established in “Hira Lal Patel Versus Chief Executive Officer, Janpad Panchayat, Sargarh” reported in 1998 Volume-2 M.P.W.N. 39 that if the selection has not been made in accordance to the scheme then the same can be cancelled without giving the opportunity of hearing. It clearly appears from the above facts of the case that selection of the petitioners has been made contrary to the provisions of Madhya Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1993 and principles prescribed for the selection. In the above situation, the dated 02.06.1999 passed by the Collector, Chhatarpur is not liable to be interfered….” Writ Petitions in the High Court: 22. The appointed candidates totaling eleven (including the ten appellants herein) filed Writ Petition No. 2522 of 2000 before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur. On 03.03.2000, in the writ petition filed, an directing maintenance of status quo was made. The writ petition came to be dismissed by the learned Single Judge on 31.07.2008.