Though there was a suppression of fact by the unit, the Court was not inclined to closure at that stage and imposed instead a requirement of compensation quantified at Rs. 100 crores for non-compliance with environmental parameters and operating without consent in terms of the applicable environmental law: “47. … we are of the view that the appellant Company should be held liable for a compensation of Rs 100 crores for having polluted the environment in the vicinity of its plant and for having operated the plant without a renewal of the consents by the TNPCB for a fairly long period and according to us, any less amount, would not have the desired deterrent effect on the appellant Company.” 8. While setting aside the of closure, this Court nonetheless observed that its would not prevent TNPCB from issuing directions to the unit including a direction for closure, if required. iii. The decision in this case a. Violations of environmental norms and consequent harm 9. Before assessing the submissions of the parties, it is necessary to understand the basis for the decision of the High Court as well of this Court in 2013. It is not possible for this Court to assess the merits of the submissions, shorn of the context in which the decision(s) were rendered. Both this Court in Sterlite Industries (supra) as well as the High Court in the impugned found that the unit of the petitioner was guilty of serious violations of environmental and other laws. 4 “NEERI” 5 “CPCB” 1128 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. In 2013, this Court in Sterlite Industries (supra) found that the unit had violated the law in more than one way: a. The unit had caused pollution between 1997 and 2012; b. The reports of NEERI indicated non-compliance with environmental standards; c. The unit had operated without a renewal of the consent to operate for a long period of time; and d. There was an act of suppression and misrepresentation on the part of the unit in the proceedings before this Court. 11. In the impugned , the High Court inter alia found that: a. The unit had operated without consent from TNPCB for about sixteen years; b. The unit had operated without hazardous waste management authorisation for about ten years; c. The unit did not have appropriate systems in place for the disposal of hazardous waste; d. There was a substantial presence of Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) in the water; e. The unit dumped large amounts of copper slag, leading to air and water pollution. The dumped copper slag also caused the river in Thootukudi to flood. This was a violation of the conditions in terms of which the relevant authorities had granted consent; f. The unit failed to comply with the requirement of maintaining a green belt; g. The regulator, TNPCB, did not exercise its powers in a timely and effective fashion, as mandated by law; and h. TNPCB established that the unit flouted the law for over twenty- two years.