State Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority79 xxii. Environment Impact Assessment Authorities80 xxiii. Expert Appraisal Committee81 xxiv. Dahanu Taluka Environment Protection Authority82 xxv. Wildlife Crime Control Bureau xxvi. Forest Survey of India 27. The above referred bodies, authorities, regulators, and officers are constituted with persons having expertise in the field. They have the requisite knowledge to take appropriate decisions about contentious issues of the environment, forests, and wildlife, and also to ensure effective implementation of environmental laws. These bodies constitute the backbone of environmental governance in our country. They need to function with efficiency, integrity, and independence. As duty-bearers, they are also subject to accountability. 28. We may ask a simple question – how effectively are these environmental bodies functioning today? This question has a direct bearing on the protection and restoration of ecological balance. 74 ibid. 75 ibid. 76 Constituted under the NGT Act, 2010. 77 Constituted under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. 78 Constituted under the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Act, 2016. 79 ibid. 80 Constituted under the Environment Impact Assessment Notification issued by the Central Government under Section 3(3) of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. 81 ibid. 82 Constituted by the Central Government under Section 3(3) of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1217 In Re: T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Ors. 29. As environmental governance through these bodies emerges, the obligation of the constitutional courts is even greater. Hitherto, the constitutional courts focused on decisions and actions taken by the executive or private persons impacting the environment and ecology because the scrutiny by regulators was felt to be insufficient. Their , review, and consideration did not inspire confidence and therefore, the Court took up the issue and would decide the case. In this process, a large number of decisions rendered by this Court on sensitive environmental, forest, and ecological matters constitute the critical mass of our environmental jurisprudence. This Court would continue to exercise judicial review, particularly in environmental matters, whenever necessary. 30. We however seek to emphasise and reiterate the importance of ensuring the effective functioning of these environmental bodies as this is imperative for the protection, restitution, and development of the ecology. The role of the constitutional courts is therefore to monitor the proper institutionalisation of environmental regulatory bodies and authorities. 31. In furtherance of the principles of environmental rule of law, the bodies, authorities, regulators, and executive offices entrusted with environmental duties must function with the following institutional features: i. The composition, qualifications, tenure, method of appointment and removal of the members of these authorities must be clearly laid down. Further, the appointments must be regularly made to ensure continuity and these bodies must be staffed with persons who have the requisite knowledge, technical expertise, and specialisation to ensure their efficient functioning. ii. The authorities and bodies must receive adequate funding and their finances must be certain and clear. iii. The mandate and role of each authority and body must be clearly demarcated so as to avoid overlap and duplication of work and the method for constructive coordination between institutions must be prescribed.