In the opinion of the Court, there cannot be any disagreement with the said submission of Mr. Luthra. In fact it has been laid down by this Court in catena of decisions that the Penal Statute enacting an offence or imposing a penalty has to be strictly construed. A beneficial reference of the decisions in the case of Sakshi v. Union of India reported in (2004) 5 SCC 518, in the case of R. Kalyani v. Janak C. Mehta reported in (2009) 1 SCC 516 and in the case of State of Punjab v. Gurmeet Singh, (2014) 9 SCC 632 be made in this regard. However, it is equally settled legal position that the clauses of a statute should be construed with reference to the context vis-a-vis the other provisions so as to make a consistent enactment of the whole Statute relating to the subject matter. The Court can not be oblivious to the fact that the impact of traumatic sexual assault committed on children of tender age could endure during their whole life, and may also have an adverse effect on their mental 252 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports state. The suffering of the victims in certain cases may be immeasurable. Therefore, considering the objects of the POCSO Act, its provisions, more particularly pertaining to the sexual assault, sexual harassment etc. have to be construed vis-a-vis the other provisions, so as to make the objects of the Act more meaningful and effective.” (Emphasis supplied) 158. The statutory presumption of culpable mental state is neither a concept which is alien to the law nor is it something which is exclusive to the POCSO alone. In fact, there are several legislations which also contain similar provisions relating to the statutory presumption of culpable mental state, such as Section 35 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (for short, the “NDPS Act”), Section 138A of the Customs Act, 1962 (for short, the “Customs Act”), Section 278E of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (for short, the “Act, 1961”) to name a few. Since all of the aforesaid provisions are pari materia with Section 30 of the POCSO, it would be apposite to refer to the various decisions of this Court interpreting these analogous provisions. 159. In Bhanabhai Khalpabhai v. Collector of Customs reported in 1994 Supp. (2) SCC 143, this Court whilst examining the scope of Section 138A of the Customs Act which relates to presumption of culpable mental state observed that the said statutory presumption had been incorporated by the legislature in view of the difficulty that the prosecution often faces in proving every link in respect of commission of certain offences by way of direct evidence. It further observed that such statutory presumption is an exception to the general criminal jurisprudence that the onus never shifts on the accused and he has only to raise a doubt in the mind of the court, in respect of the correctness of the prosecution version. The relevant observation reads as under: - “9.