In 1979, during the routine update of the electoral rolls, various illegal immigrants were detected therein causing the AASU to observe its first state-wide strike to protest against the infiltration of illegal immigrants. The publication of the electoral rolls of the Mangaldoi parliamentary constituency ahead of a bye-election in 1979 is widely considered as the proximate episode which kickstarted the six-year long student-led movement in Assam. 55. The reports that the number of eligible voters in Mangaldoi had increased by a vast margin since the last election held two years ago, led many in the state to make formal complaints that challenged the citizenship of many voters included in the electoral rolls. This came in the wake of multiple, well-publicised accounts detailing the continuous high levels of migration from Bangladesh into Assam. Shortly after this, in June, 1979, the AASU demanded the detection, disenfranchisement and deportation of foreigners. 56. In 1980, the then Prime Minister once again invited leaders of the Assam movement for deliberations over the prevailing issues. The student leaders met the Prime Minister and submitted a memorandum detailing their demands, the economic situation and a future roadmap for Assam. Their demands included a register of citizens, detection of all foreigners who came to live in Assam since 1951 and their deportation. However, consensus could not be arrived at between the Central Government and the leaders of the Assam movement leading to the continuation of the agitation. The student leaders were given the option of accepting 1967 as the cut-off date for the detection and deportation of illegal citizens but the offer was turned down.45 57. Between 1980 and 1983, talks with the student leaders continued at the highest level of the Central Government. However, the Assamese leaders stuck to the 1951 benchmark for grant of citizenship as per the Citizenship Act. 44 ArupJyoti, supra note 29. 45 sAnGeetA BArooAh pishAroty, AssAm: the ACCorD, the DisCorD (Penguin 2019). 1162 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 58. Arupjyoti Saikia has observed that the student-led movement presented “no specific charter or program for bringing political and economic change to Assam. Instead, it focused on two demands that the agitators believed would bring the desired change – first, push back the foreigners and secondly, increase Assam’s share in the Union budget.”46 He has also observed that “the movement at its essence was largely in the hands of student leaders – both rural and urban. Students across the rural and urban divide had withdrawn from classrooms, the large majority missing class for an entire year in 1980.” 59. In 1981, both the Central government and the Assam leaders tried to seek an answer to the definition of ‘illegal’ foreigners,47 and the former was willing to deport those who came after 1966.48 However, by the end of 1982, the dispute was mainly about the fate of those who had entered Assam between 1961 and 1971.49 The Central Government agreed that those who had entered Assam post-1971 would be deported from India—a decision believed to have been supported by various political groups in Assam.