In Shilpa Sailesh as well as other s, several factors have been adumbrated which could be considered for the purpose of exercising discretion one way or the other, such as the nature of allegations against each other by the parties and their family members; the s passed in the legal proceedings from time to time; the period of time that parties have spent together; the cumulative impact on the personal relationship; the attempts made for settlement of disputes; the period of separation between the parties being illustrative factors. The socio-economic status of the parties, their educational qualifications; their age; whether there are children born out of the wedlock and as to how the parties would have to be provided for in the event of separation and such other considerations have been particularised in the said . 8.15 Most importantly, we find that the exercise of discretion under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India to do complete justice to the parties is because there is no possibility of the parties cohabiting together and continuing their marital relationship. It is also apparent that in the usual course one of the parties would have sought for dissolution of marriage on the basis of one of the grounds mentioned in the law such as Section 13 of the HMA. Alternatively, the parties can jointly seek for dissolution of their marriage by a decree of divorce by mutual consent. However, the ground of divorce on the premise that there is irretrievable breakdown of marriage and in to do complete justice to the parties on the anvil of Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India is an avenue for dissolution of marriage by a decree of divorce granted by this Court by exercising its powers under Article 142(1) of the Constitution. 8.16 Hence, in the instant case, we need to consider the factual basis before arriving at a decision one way or the other on the application filed by the respondent herein. 1382 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 8.17 In the instant case, since earlier, the petitions said to have been filed under Section 13(1)(ia) by the respondent herein and sub-section (1) of Section 13B of HMA filed by both parties were unsuccessful inasmuch as the same came to be closed for their respective reasons and the premise that there had not been separation between the parties for one year or more, the present application filed by the respondent under Article 142(1) of the Constitution seeking a decree of divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage would have to be considered on its merits. Analysis of the facts of this case: 9. In the instant case, the petitioner as well as the respondent had registered on Jeevansathi.com and after conclusion of divorce proceedings with his first wife, the respondent and the petitioner herein had a roka ceremony on 18.11.2020 at Pune. Thereafter, the engagement ceremony was performed at Pune on 30.07.2021 and the wedding took place on 31.07.2021. Thereafter, from 01.08.2021 onwards, the parties resided together at a hotel in Pune, at the matrimonial home in Pune, Indore, Bhopal and at Kota where parents of the petitioner reside.