15453 of 2023 Appearances for Parties Suhail Dutt, Sr. Adv., Sankalp Goswami, Azhar Alam, Ms. B. Vijayalakshmi Menon, Advs. for the Appellants. Rajat Singh, Neeraj Kumar Sharma, Sarthak Chandra, Raghav Garg, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court J.B. Pardiwala, J. 1. This appeal arises from the passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad dated 03.04.2024 in Application No. 15453 of 2023 filed by the appellant herein by which, the High Court rejected the same and thereby declined to quash and set aside the summoning dated 28.02.2023 passed by the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Khurja, Bulandshahar in Complaint Case No. 547 of 2021. 2. Facts giving rise to this appeal may be summarised as under: (i) The respondent No. 2 herein is the original complainant. He lodged a private complaint in the court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Khurja, Bulandshahar against the appellants herein for the offence punishable under Sections 406, 420 & 120B respectively of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short, “IPC”). [2024] 8 S.C.R. 675 Delhi Race Club (1940) Ltd. & Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. The complaint reads thus: “It is most respectful that the Applicant Vipin Kumar Agarwal, son of Late Shri Bhagwat Swaroop Agarwal, who is the owner of a firm Agarwal Udyog, New Mandi, Khurja. The applicant’s firm used to supply horse feed, barley and oats to Delhi Race Club 1940 Limited, New Delhi since 1990. In the year 1995, the then head of the Race Club, Shri PS Vedi and the then Secretary Sehgal told the applicant that from now on the bills for the supply of horse grain and oats would be made in the name of Delhi Horse Trainers Association, Race Course Road, New Delhi. And the Head and Secretary of the same association have now been made separate, they will pay you for the goods supplied. Till the year 2017, the payment of the applicant’s firm continued to be regular and now at present Delhi Horse Trainers Association President Kazim Ali Khan and Secretary Sanjeev Charan owe a payment of Rs 9,11,434/- to the applicant’s firm. Whenever the applicant makes demands, they keep evading when the applicant tried to talk to the current President of the Race Club, J. S. Vedi and the current Secretary about this. Then the Secretary GS Vedi said that you should demand your dues from Delhi Horse Trainers Association only, we have no relation with them, then the applicant tried to meet Kazim Ali Pradhan along with Manish Kumar Sharma, son of Mahesh Kumar Sharma, resident of Nawalpura Khurja and Chirag Agarwal, son of Vijay Agarwal, resident of Malpura, Khurja but they refused to talk to the applicant and threatened that if he came here again, it would be very bad and started a scuffle. The applicant feels that both the above mentioned officials of Delhi Race Club 1940 Limited, New Delhi and Delhi Horse Trainers Association, in connivance with each other, cheated the applicant and dishonestly obtained the goods from the applicant’s firm in bad faith and they used it for their club and association and now they do not want to pay for the goods given by the applicant.