Transfer of property if required to be made during the lifetime of a person, they may do so primarily by way of gift (hiba). Other methods include the writing of a will but even therein certain restrictions have been postulated. 16. Prior to looking to the above said sources, a general understanding of partition would also be instructive. Advanced Law Lexicon10 defined partition as a separation between joint owners or tenants in common of their respective interests in land, and setting apart such interest, so that they may enjoy and possess the same in severalty. In Shub Karan Bubna v. Sita Saran Bubna,11 partition was defined as under: “5. “Partition” is a redistribution or adjustment of pre- existing rights, among co-owners/coparceners, resulting in a division of lands or other properties jointly held by them into different lots or portions and delivery thereof to the respective allottees. The effect of such division is that the joint ownership is terminated and the respective shares vest in them in severalty. 6. A partition of a property can be only among those having a share or interest in it. A person who does not have a share in such property cannot obviously be a party to a partition. “Separation of share” is a species of “partition”. When all 10 P Ramanatha Aiyar 3rd Edition Reprint 2009 11 [2009] 14 SCR 40 : (2009) 9 SCC 689 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 933 Mansoor Saheb (Dead) & Ors. v. Salima (D) By Lrs. & Ors. co-owners get separated, it is a partition. Separation of share(s) refers to a division where only one or only a few among several co-owners/coparceners get separated, and others continue to be joint or continue to hold the remaining property jointly without division by metes and bounds. For example, where four brothers owning a property divide it among themselves by metes and bounds, it is a partition. But if only one brother wants to get his share separated and other three brothers continue to remain joint, there is only a separation of the share of one brother.” (Emphasis supplied) 17. Let us now turn to the position as it is under Mohammedan Law. The right of an heir-apparent comes into existence for the first time on the death of the ancestor, and he is not entitled until then to any interest in the property to which he would succeed as an heir if he survived the ancestor [See: Mulla Principles of Mahomedan Law, 22nd Edition, Chapter 6; Abdul Wahid Khan v. Mussumat Noran Bibi & Ors.12]. Reference may also be made to the decision of this case in Gulam Abbas v. Haji Kayyum Ali & Ors.13 wherein a bench of three learned judges observed albeit in connection with renunciation of inheritance as under: “7. Sir Roland Wilson, in his “Anglo Mohamadan Law” (p. 260, para 208) states the position thus: “For the sake of those readers who are familiar with the joint ownership of father and son according to the most widely prevelant school of Hindu Law, it is perhaps desirable to state explicitly that in Mohammedan, as in Roman and English Law, nemo est heres viventis.........a living person has no heir.