27 Section 6, IBC reads: “6. Persons who may initiate corporate insolvency resolution process. – Where any corporate debtor commits a default, a financial creditor, an operational creditor or the corporate debtor itself may initiate corporate insolvency resolution process in respect of such corporate debtor in the manner as provided under this Chapter.” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1829 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. of the initiation of CIRP and a call for submission of claims; and appoints an IRP.28 Once an IRP is appointed, the affairs of the corporate debtor are managed by the IRP,29 who inter alia receives and collates all the claims submitted by the creditors pursuant to the public announcement of the CIRP.30 After the collation of claims received and the determination of the financial position of the corporate debtor, the IRP shall constitute a CoC, which consists of all the financial creditors of the corporate debtor.31 The CoC appoints a Resolution Professional32 and the CIRP process continues, as prescribed. 42. From this scheme of Chapter II of the IBC, it appears that the admission of an application is a significant event that alters the nature of the proceedings, and the stakeholders involved. Initially, when the petition is filed by the financial creditor, operational creditor or corporate applicant, as the case may be, the proceedings are in personam and the only relevant stakeholders are the applicant creditor and the corporate debtor. However, once the petition is admitted and CIRP is initiated, several significant changes take place, including the transfer of the management of the affairs of the corporate debtor 28 Sections 13, 14, 15, 16, IBC. 29 Section 17, IBC reads “17. Management of affairs of corporate debtor by interim resolution professional. - (1) From the date of appointment of the interim resolution professional, - (a) the management of the affairs of the corporate debtor shall vest in the interim resolution professional; (b) the powers of the board of directors or the partners of the corporate debtor, as the case may be, shall stand suspended and be exercised by the interim resolution professional; (c) the officers and managers of the corporate debtor shall report to the interim resolution professional and provide access to such documents and records of the corporate debtor as may be required by the interim resolution professional; (d) the financial institutions maintaining accounts of the corporate debtor shall act on the instructions of the interim resolution professional in relation to such accounts and furnish all information relating to the corporate debtor available with them to the interim resolution professional. (2) The interim resolution professional vested with the management of the corporate debtor, shall- (a) act and execute in the name and on behalf of the corporate debtor all deeds, receipts, and other documents, if any; (b)take such actions, in the manner and subject to such restrictions, as may be specified by the Board; (c)have the authority to access the electronic records of corporate debtor from information utility having financial information of the corporate debtor; (d)have the authority to access the books of account, records and other relevant documents of corporate debtor available with government authorities, statutory auditors, accountants and such other persons as may be specified; and (e) be responsible for complying with the requirements under any law for the time being in force on behalf of the corporate debtor.” 30 Section 18(b), IBC.