Without evidence of such foresight and dishonest intention, the claim of fraud cannot be substantiated. f) The decisions of the High Court in Ranjana Bhatia v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi and another12 and Sparsh Properties Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India and others13 sanctioned subsequent 12 (2014) SCC OnLine Del 2151 13 (2014) SCC OnLine Del 6659 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1181 Government of NCT of Delhi & Anr. v. M/s BSK Realtors LLP & Anr. purchasers to pursue a declaration of a right that had already vested in the landowners under the deeming provision of section 24(2) of the 2013 Act. These decisions were given a further seal of approval by the decision of a Bench of two Hon’ble Judges of this Court in Manav Dharam Trust (supra). Therefore, the change in law occasioned by its overruling in Shiv Kumar (supra) cannot be utilised as a crutch to claim that subsequent purchasers cannot seek a declaration of lapsing. g) In any event, the decision in Shiv Kumar (supra) is not good law and requires reconsideration by a larger Bench of this Court. F. ANALYSIS 18. Having heard the arguments presented by both sides at length on different issues, we propose segmenting our analysis accordingly. The following issues emerge for our consideration: a) Whether the dismissal of a civil appeal preferred by one appellant in the first round operates as res judicata against the other appellant in the second round before us? b) Whether suppression of the first round of litigation by the appellants constitutes a material fact, thereby inviting an outright dismissal of the appeals at the threshold? c) Does the doctrine of merger operate as a bar to entertain the civil appeals in the present case? d) Whether the previous determination of the rights of subsequent purchasers in an inter se dispute precludes the same issue from being reconsidered between the same parties? F.1 Res judicata 19. The first issue we noticed at the start of our analysis stems from the submission pertaining to res judicata. Counsel for the landowners, pressing the applicability of the principle of res judicata to the present appeals, submitted that the dismissal of a Civil Appeal preferred by one of the appellants in the first round, would act as res judicata against the other in subsequent round/s of litigation. The appellants contested the same and submitted that res judicata would not apply to the current proceedings. 1182 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 20. Would the rule of res judicata operate against the co-respondents before the High Court, namely GNCTD and DDA, and preclude us from looking into the merits of the present set of appeals, is the question that we propose to examine and answer now. 21. Nearly a century ago, a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of the Privy Council in Munni Bibi (since deceased) and another v. Tirloki Nath and others14 laid down the following three conditions for the application of res judicata between co-defendants: “(1.) There, must be a conflict of interest between the defendants concerned; (2.)