9. PW-7 is the land lady Seema Singh, where the complainant was staying as a paying guest who also testified against the accused. She has said that the complainant had informed her that he is going with his friend towards another place on 02.01.2013 for which he sought her permission. The mobile phone was traced by the police belonged to one of the accused Ashwani Kumar Yadav. The police during their investigation arrested Neeraj Sharma and Ashwani Kumar Yadav on 03.01.2013 and their Hero Honda Motorcycle and Mobile Phones were recovered. The prosecution story therefore as far as abduction and attempt to murder is concerned can hardly be in doubt. The prosecution has been able to prove its case beyond a reasonable doubt. The most important witness here is the complainant himself, who is an 18-year- old boy, studying at the relevant time in a college near Bhilai, who trusted his friends, not aware that he is being taken by deceit by his friends who had planned his murder. PW-6 is also an injured witness. 10. The first doctor who had examined PW-6 was Dr. Jai Kumar Chunarkar (PW-4), who works at the District Hospital at Balod. He had examined the injured complainant in the early hours of morning on 03.01.2013. His observation as to the injuries of PW-6 and his general condition are as follows : “Opinion : - Burn injuries were found over the body of the patient, which were of durmel peed burn nature, which expressed the first degree burn. The area of burnt was approximately 45 to 48 percentage. Exhibit P-9 is the examination report given by me, part A to A of which bears my signature. On the same date, on receiving the memo from the Station House Officer Daundilohara for recording, statement of injured Arjit Sharma, I had opined that, “injured Arjit Sharma [2024] 1 S.C.R. 49 NEERAJ SHARMA v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH was not in the condition to give statement on 03.01.13 at 4:30 hours in the morning.” The injured was then referred to Bhilai Hospital where he was examined by Dr. Uday (PW-9). His observation is as follows : “On examination, I found that both legs of the patient were deeply burnt from top to bottom and some blisters were therein stomach and both hands, which were burnt up to 40 to 45 percentage. There were mark in his neck, which probably was comes due to pressure of clutch wire. The treatment of which was undergone in my Hospital at about 60 days, in which he was operated twice, First operation was done on 15.01.13, during which we compelled to cut his right legs below the knee, which was rotten due to heavily burnt. Second operation was done on 12.02.13, wherein at the place on deep injury, the skin from other places were grafted. Therafter, it started improving gradually the condition of the patient and on 04.03.13, he has been discharged from the hospital. Registration Sheed (Bedhead Ticket) of indoor patient regarding admission in our hospital is Exhibit P-14, which is in 166 pages, wherein on each pages at part A to A bears my signature.” The other person who had met the injured while he had escaped was PW-1 i.e.