'” 162. This Court while applying the suitability prong to the purpose of privacy of political contribution must consider whether the non- disclosure of information to the voter and its disclosure only when demanded by a competent court and upon the registration of criminal 173 Media One Broadcasting (supra), [101] [2024] 2 S.C.R. 533 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. case has a rational nexus with the purpose of achieving privacy of political contribution. Undoubtedly, the measure by prescribing non- disclosure of information about political funding shares a nexus with the purpose. The non-disclosure of information grants anonymity to the contributor, thereby protecting information privacy. It is certainly one of the ways capable of realizing the purpose of informational privacy of political affiliation. 163. The suitability prong must next be applied to the purpose of disclosure of information about political contributions to voters. There is no nexus between the balancing measure adopted with the purpose of disclosure of information to the voter. According to Clause 7(4) of the Electoral Bond Scheme and the amendments, the information about contributions made through the Electoral Bond Scheme is exempted from disclosure requirements. This information is never disclosed to the voter. The purpose of securing information about political funding can never be fulfilled by absolute non-disclosure. The measure adopted does not satisfy the suitability prong vis-a- vis the purpose of information of political funding. However, let us proceed to apply the subsequent prongs of the double proportionality analysis assuming that the means adopted has a rational nexus with the purpose of securing information about political funding to voters. 164. The next stage of the analysis is the necessity prong. At this stage, the Court determines if the measure identified is the least restrictive and equally effective measure. To recall, the Court must determine if there are other possible means which could have been adopted to fulfill the purpose, and whether such alternative means (a) realize the purpose in a real and substantial manner; (b) impact fundamental rights differently; and (c) are better suited on an overall comparison of the degree of realizing the purpose and the impact on fundamental rights. 165. The provisions of the RPA provide an alternative measure. Section 29C states that contributions in excess of rupees twenty thousand received from a person or company for that financial year must be disclosed by the political party through a report. The report must be filled in the format prescribed in Form 24A of the Conduct of Election Rules 1961. The form is annexed as Annexure II to this . A crucial component of this provision when juxtaposed with Section 13A of the IT Act must be noted. Section 13A of the IT Act requires 534 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the political party to maintain a record of the contributions made in excess of rupees twenty thousand. Section 29C of the RPA requires the political party to disclose information about contributions in excess of rupees twenty thousand made by a person or company in a financial year.