This power can be read by necessary implication based on the role conferred on the Authority by the statute. To recall, Section 17(1)(a) grants TDSAT the jurisdiction to adjudicate any dispute between two parties, either between two service providers or a service provider or a consumer. There is clearly a lis before TDSAT in such cases. However, the proviso to the section recognises the expertise of AERA in the economic regulation of airports by providing TDSAT with the discretion to “obtain the opinion of the Authority on any matter relating to the dispute”. This is referable to the role of AERA as a proper party in the proceedings, where its expertise may be required for the effective adjudication of the dispute. 63. However, when it comes to appeals against the tariff s issued by AERA, it is not just acting as an ‘expert body’ but as a regulator interested in the outcome of the proceedings. AERA has a statutory 1446 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports duty to regulate tariff upon a consideration of multiple factors to ensure that airports are run in an economically viable manner without compromising on the interests of the public. This statutory role is evident, inter alia, from the factors that AERA must consider while determining tariff and the power to amend tariff from time to time in public interest as discussed above. When AERA determines the tariff for aeronautical services in terms of Section 13(1)(a) of the AERA Act, it is acting as a regulator and an interested party. It is interested not in a personal capacity. Its interest lies in ensuring that the concerns of public interest which animate the statute and the performance of its functions by AERA are duly preserved. Thus, AERA is a necessary party in the appeal against its tariff before TDSAT and it must be impleaded as a respondent. 64. Section 18(5) refers to parties in a dispute or appeal. AERA is not a party to the lis when TDSAT adjudicates a dispute between two or more service providers, or a service provider and a consumer in terms of Section 17(1)(a). For disputes adjudicated by TDSAT under Section 17(a), AERA may be included as a party in terms of the proviso to the provision. If the expression “as the case may be” is interpreted to refer to “dispute or appeal”, thereby excluding AERA as a party to either the dispute or the appeal, it would amount to reading down the proviso to Section 17(1)(a). 65. It may be recalled that determination of tariff for aeronautical services is merely one of the functions discharged by AERA. Section 17(1) (b) grants TDSAT the jurisdiction to “hear and dispose of appeal against any direction, decision or of the Authority under this Act.” Section 18(5) by using the expression “as the case may be” accounts for such a situation and requires that a copy of the to be provided to AERA even if it is not a party to the appeal.