As Karikho Kri admitted such non-disclosure in his Affidavit in Form No. 26, the High Court held against him on this count. 11. As regards Issue No. 5, pertaining to the liability of Karikho Kri and his wife in respect of their dues of municipal and property taxes, the High Court found that Karikho Kri had disclosed the taxes due and payable by him and his wife in one part of the Affidavit in Form No.26 submitted by him, but failed to do so in another part thereof. He disclosed the dues in Part A, Clause 8 (vi) and (viii), but failed to disclose it in Clause 9 in Part B. Though the High Court held against Karikho Kri even on this count, Mr. Arunabh Chowdhury, learned senior counsel, appearing for Nuney Tayang, fairly stated that he would not be pressing this ground as there was disclosure of the dues at least in one part of the Affidavit in Form No. 26. 12. As regards Issue No. 6, i.e., whether non-disclosure of the three vehicles, registered in the names of his dependent wife and second son, by Karikho Kri in his Affidavit in Form No. 26 amounted to commission of a corrupt practice as per Section 123(2) of the Act of 1951, the High Court referred to case law and held that such non-disclosure amounted to a corrupt practice within the meaning of Section 123(2) of the Act of 1951. 13. The High Court then considered Issue No. 7, i.e., whether the election of Karikho Kri was liable to be declared void under Section 100(1) (d)(i) of the Act of 1951 and opined that when the nomination of the returned candidate was shown to have been improperly accepted by the Returning Officer, there is no necessity to further prove that the election was ‘materially affected’. As the High Court was of the opinion that the nomination of Karikho Kri had, in fact, been improperly accepted by the Returning Officer, Tezu, his election was held liable to be declared void under Section 100(1)(d)(i) of the Act of 1951. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 405 Karikho Kri v. Nuney Tayang and Another 14. On Issue No. 8 - as to whether the non-disclosures by Karikho Kri were of a substantial nature affecting his election, the High Court observed that disclosure of information as per Form No. 26 of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, was fundamental to the concept of free and fair elections and, therefore, the solemnity thereof could not be ridiculed by offering incomplete information or suppressing material information, resulting in disinformation and misinformation to the voters. 15. Coming to Issue No. 9, i.e., as to what consequential relief Nuney Tayang would be entitled to, if any, the High Court noted that Nuney Tayang had secured the least number of votes out of the three candidates and though he made allegations to the effect that Dr. Mohesh Chai had failed to disclose the properties belonging to his mother in his Affidavit in Form No.