We are also of the view, with the past experience, that it is desirable that 25% quota be reduced to 10%. We feel so as the required result, which [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1109 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. was sought to be achieved by this process could not be achieved, thus it calls for modification. 7. Thus, we direct that henceforth only 10% of the cadre strength of District Judges be filled up by limited departmental competitive examination with those candidates who have qualified service of five years as Civil Judge (Senior Division). Every year vacancies are to be ascertained and the process of selection shall be taken care of by the High Courts. If any of the post is not filled up under 10% quota, the same shall be filled up by regular promotion. In some of the High Courts, process of selection of these 25% quota by holding limited departmental competitive examination is in progress, such process can be continued and the unfilled seats, if meritorious candidates are available, should be filled up. But if for some reason the seats are not filled up, they may be filled up by regular promotion and apply the usual mode of promotion process. Thus we pass the following . 8. Hereinafter, there shall be 25% of seats for direct recruitment from the Bar, 65% of seats are to be filled up by regular promotion of Civil Judge (Senior Division) and 10% seats are to be filled up by limited departmental competitive examination. If candidates are not available for 10% seats, or are not able to qualify in the examination then vacant posts are to be filled up by regular promotion in accordance with the Service Rules applicable.” (Emphasis supplied) 55. In Malik Mazhar Sultan & Anr. (3) v. U.P. Public Service Commission & Ors. reported in (2009) 17 SCC 530 this Court, in view of the large number of vacancies in the promotional quota in the cadre of District & Sessions Judge, directed the High Courts to be practical in the matters of promotion and ensure timely filling up of the vacancies on the basis of the principle of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’, deviating from the observations in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra) mandating promotion by ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’. It further observed that seniority should have a predominant role in giving promotions to the Civil Judges (Senior Division) and that the High 1110 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court may decline promotion only in case the Judicial Officer is not suitable for being promoted. The relevant observations read as under: - “3. We see large number of vacancies of District Judges are lying vacant as the promotion of these posts are not being done timely by the High Court. Considering the large number of vacant posts of District Judges, the High Court should take timely action to fill up these vacancies keeping in mind the principle of seniority-cum-merit. The High Court may deny promotion to a Civil Judge (Senior Division) only in case he/she is not suitable for being promoted and the seniority should always have a predominant role in giving promotion to the Civil Judge (Senior Division) to the post of District Judge.