It must be noted that the minimum qualifying service for the 65% category according to the 2005 Rules is two-years while that for the 10% category is five-years. Thus, appointment to the former category given the lesser years of minimum service allows relatively junior candidates to supersede the senior candidates based on the suitability test. Thus, while candidates who have two to five years of service will not be eligible to apply for promotion for the 10% promotional quota, they may still have the opportunity to apply and be considered for the 65% quota based on securing a minimum of 40% (and 50% aggregate) in each of the following indicators which measures the merit of the candidate: suitability test, evaluation of ACR, assessment of average disposal and evaluation of s. Thus, it is beyond any doubt that the criteria prescribed for promotion of candidates to the 65% promotional quota complies with the principle of ‘Merit- cum-Seniority’. 136. Words used in a are not to be read as words of a statute, but should be understood in the context of the facts of a given case. (See Ambica Quarry Works v. State of Gujarat, (1987) 1 SCC 213; Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. v. NR Vairamani, (2004) 8 SCC 579, Municipal Corporation Delhi v. Mohd Yasin, (1983) 3 SCC 229). The attempt on the part of the petitioners is to persuade us to take the view that the connotation ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ as figuring in the 2005 Rules, should be strictly understood as all merit and no seniority. This is not correct to our understanding. Such attempt must necessarily fail as the words “Merit-cum-Seniority” as they figure in the 2005 Rules read in conjunction with paragraphs 27 and 28 respectively of All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra), should be interpreted in the context in which they have been used [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1143 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. by this Court – which we have discussed elaborately in the foregoing paragraphs 137. The petitioners have relied on the decision of this Court in Thampanoor Ravi v. Charupara Ravi reported in (1999) 8 SCC 74 to contend that the term “Merit-cum-Seniority” has acquired a technical meaning and thus, should be given the meaning which is used ordinarily in relation to it. The relevant passage from the said decision is extracted here: - “22. In ascertaining the meaning of an expression used in a statute, certain norms are adopted. If the legislature has used an expression which has acquired a technical meaning and such expression is used ordinarily in the context of a particular branch of law, it must be assumed that because of its constant use the legislature must be deemed to have used such expression in a particular sense as is understood when used in a similar context. If an expression has acquired a special connotation in law, dictionary or general meaning ceases to be helpful in interpreting such a word. Such an expression must be given its legal sense and no other.