6. Was it established and accepted in joint inspection by the KMC that only 200 street hoardings out of 250 could be located? 7. Did the claimants fail to deposit the requisite amount in advance under the contract for which the KMC, the respondent, suffered substantial loss in revenue? 8. Was there any obligation of the respondents to identify the location of the street hoardings as the agreement was on ‘as is where is basis’? 9. Did the parties discharge their respective liabilities under the contract and if so to what extent? 10. Is the claimant entitled to the claim amount as claimed? 11. Are the respondents entitled to the amount of counter- claim as claimed in their statement of counter-claim? 12. To what other relief or reliefs the parties are entitled?” 35. The Division Bench has, in our opinion, not appreciated the case in its proper perspective. Merely saying that the blacklisting carried reasons is not good enough. Do the reasons justify the invocation of the penalty of blacklisting and is the penalty proportionate, was the real question. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 205 The Blue Dreamz Advertising Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. Kolkata Municipal Corporation & Ors. 36. The Division Bench has observed that blacklisting is a business decision by which the party affected by the breach decides not to enter into any contractual relationship with the party committing the breach. It also observed that between two private parties the right to take any such decision is absolute and untrammeled by any constraints whatsoever. The observations are too sweeping in their ambit and wholly overlook the fact that the respondent-Corporation is a statutory body vested with the duty to discharge public functions. It is not a private party. Any decision to blacklist should be strictly within the parameters of law and has to comport with the principle of proportionality. 37. The Division Bench having noticed the fact that any decision to blacklist will be open to scrutiny on the anvil of the doctrine of proportionality has failed to apply the principle to the facts of the case in the correct perspective. The Division Bench has also failed to correctly appreciate the ratio of the decision in B.S.N. Joshi (supra). 38. There has been no enquiry by the Division Bench as to whether the conduct of the appellant was part of the normal vicissitudes in business and common place hazards in commerce or whether the appellant had crossed the rubicon warranting a banishment , albeit for a temporary period in larger public interest. 39. One such case where this Court found the Lakshman Rekha to be breached by the party blacklisted was Patel Engineering Limited vs. Union of India and Another, (2012) 11 SCC 257. In that case, while upholding the of blacklisting, this Court recorded the following: “33. From the impugned it appears that the second respondent came to the conclusion that: (1) the petitioner is not reliable and trustworthy in the context of a commercial transaction; (2) by virtue of the dereliction of the petitioner, the second respondent suffered a huge financial loss; and (3) the dereliction on the part of the petitioner warrants exemplary action to “curb any practice of ‘pooling’ and ‘mala fide’ in future”.