What ? Since these questions are inter-related, they shall be considered together. Preface: 9.1 Before we proceed further, we would like to preface the discussion with a historical perspective. 9.2 Jean-Jacques Rousseau in his treatise the Social Contract said that “War is constituted by a relation between things, and not between persons… War then is a relation, not between man and man, but between State and State…” The general aim of the administration of enemy property is to eliminate enemy influence from the national economy. The mischief that such state instruments seek to cure is the provision of aid and comfort to the enemy, for instance, through the making available of funds for war financing. Enemy property can be disposed of by various means including custodianship, liquidation, expropriation, confiscation or nationalization. The means of custodianship imply a fiduciary administration. The whole raison d’etre of a statutory regime that seeks to administer enemy property through a custodianship is to preserve and protect the properties 866 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports until the war is over. After all, the law of settlement of enemy property is governed not only by considerations of diplomatic strategy but also by fundamental principles of fair governance. 9.3 In 1962, in the wake of the Chinese aggression, the Custodian of Enemy Property for India was called upon to take charge of the Chinese assets in India with the object of vesting the movable and immovable properties of the Chinese subjects left in India under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 specifying the enemy nationals and the properties held by them. Similarly, in the wake of the Indo-Pak war of 1965 and 1971, there was migration of people from India to Pakistan. Under the Defence of India Rules framed under the Defence of India Act, 1962, the Government of India took over the properties and companies of such persons who had taken Pakistani nationality. 9.4 At this juncture, we may notice the expression ‘on behalf of an enemy’ occurring in the definition of enemy property in Rule 133-I of Defence of India (Amendment) Rules, 1962, and Subrule 4 of Rule 138 of Defence of India Rules, 1971 implying that the enemy property is only held and managed by the Custodian for a specific purpose. We ought to appreciate that the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Enemy Property Act, 1968 intend to continue the vesting and maintenance of the properties by the Custodian of Enemy Property until the Government of India arrives at a settlement with the Governments of enemy countries. The intent of the Parliament is further illuminated by the Tashkent Declaration by India and Pakistan dated January 10, 1966, which included a clause stating that the two countries would discuss the return of the properties and assets taken over by either side in connection with the conflict. Legal framework: Provisions of the Act: 10. The Parliament has enacted the said Act to provide for the continued vesting of enemy property vested in the Custodian of Enemy Property for India under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 and the Defence of India Rules, 1971 and for matters connected therewith.