In respect of undertrials who were foreigners, this Court directed that the Special Judge should impound their passports besides insisting on a certificate of assurance from the concerned Embassy/High Commission of the country to which the foreigner accused belonged and that such accused should not leave the country and should appear before the Special Court as required. 25. Similarly, in Shaheen Welfare Association Vs. Union of India,3 this Court was considering a public interest litigation wherein certain reliefs were sought for undertrial prisoners charged with offences under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 (TADA Act) languishing in jail for considerable periods of time. This Court observed that while liberty of a citizen must be zealously 2 [1994] Supp. 4 SCR 386 : (1994) 6 SCC 731 3 [1996] 2 SCR 1123 : (1996) 2 SCC 616 1064 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports safeguarded by the courts but, at the same time, in the context of stringent laws like the TADA Act, the interest of the victims and the collective interest of the community should also not be lost sight of. While balancing the competing interest, this Court observed that the ultimate justification for deprivation of liberty of an undertrial can only be on account of the accused-undertrial being found guilty of the offences for which he is charged and is being tried. If such a finding is not likely to be arrived at within a reasonable time, some relief(s) becomes necessary. Therefore, a pragmatic approach is required. 26. Angela Harish Sontakke Vs. State of Maharashtra4 is a case where the accused-appellant was charged under various provisions of the UAP Act as well as under the IPC. He sought for bail. This Court observed that, undoubtedly, the charges are serious but the seriousness of the charges will have to be balanced with certain other facts like the period of custody suffered and the likely period within which the trial can be expected to be completed. In that case, it was found that the appellant-accused was in custody since April, 2011 i.e. for over five years. The trial was yet to commence. A large number of witnesses were proposed to be examined. It was in that context that the appellant-accused was directed to be released on bail. 27. More recently, a three Judge Bench of this Court in Union of India Vs. K.A. Najeeb,5 considered an appeal filed by the Union of India through the National Investigation Agency (NIA) against an passed by the High Court of Kerala granting bail to an accused- undertrial facing trial for allegedly committing offences, amongst others, under Sections 16, 18, 18B, 19 and 20 of the UAP Act. 27.1. This Court noted that the appellant in K.A. Najeeb (supra) was in jail for more than five years. Charges were framed only on 27.11.2020 and there were 276 witnesses still left to be examined. This Court emphasized that liberty granted by Part III of the Constitution would cover within its protective ambit not only due procedure and fairness but also access to justice and speedy trial.