The relevant observations read as under: - “2. The principal contention raised by the petitioner is that it had discovered the mistake when the railway authorities confirmed by their letter dated 12-10-1990 that they had committed a mistake in charging excess freight on wrong calculation of distance. The limitation starts running from the date of discovery of mistake and, therefore, stands excluded, by operation of Section 17(1)(c) of the Limitation Act, 1963 (Act 21 of 1963) and that Section 78-B has no application to the facts in this case. In consequence, the High Court and the Tribunal have committed error of law in rejecting the claim for refund. We find no force in the contention. xxx xxx xxx 4. [...] Section 78-B of the Act provides that a person shall not be entitled to refund of overcharge or excess payment in respect of animals or goods carried by Railway unless his claim to the refund has been preferred in writing by him or on his behalf to the Railway Administration to which the animals or goods were delivered to be carried by Railway etc. within six months from the date of the delivery of the animals or goods for carriage by Railway. The proviso has no application to the facts of this case. An overcharge is also a charge which would fall within the meaning of Section 78-B of the Act. Since the claims were admittedly made under Section 78-B itself but beyond six months, by operation of that provision in the section itself, the claim becomes barred by limitation. Therefore, the Tribunal and the High Court have rightly concluded that the petitioner is not entitled to the refund of the amount claimed.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1095 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. 50. In Steel Authority of India Ltd. (supra), the goods were booked to be carried through a longer-route and the freight was accordingly charged for the long route. However, the goods instead were dispatched through the shorter route. The Orissa High Court held that overcharge is anything charged in excess of what is actually to be charged for a particular thing. The High Court observed that as the goods had been booked for the longer route, the freight was also payable for the longer route. Since, no freight in excess of what was payable was realized, the High Court held that the claim for refund of the difference in freight charges was not one of overcharge. The relevant observations read as under: - “4. [...] the coal imported at Visakhapatnam Port for carriage to Rourkela Steel Plant was required to be booked and carried by the longer route covering 1082 kilometres instead of by the shorter route of 667 kilometres. According to the plaintiff, in view of the rationalisation scheme and the general , it had no choice but to pay freight for the longer route, as booking could not be for carriage over the shorter route. 5. It is the further case of the plaintiff that in or about April, 1987, an officer came to know that some of the rakes booked were despatched to Rourkela by the shorter route (covering a distance of 667 kilometres) though weight charges were recovered for carriage by the longer rationalised route (covering a distance of 1082 kilometres).