Moreover, front page of final shall disclose the date of the . (12) Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, it is incumbent on the applicant to disclose all the true and correct information, including disclosure of adverse entries or material, failing which, it shall be lawful for the Scrutiny Committee to draw adverse inference. (13) If the Scrutiny Committee finds and concludes that the report of Vigilance Cell is false or unrealistic, it shall record the reason in decision and direct appropriate action as contemplated under Section 14, read with Section 11 and 12 of the Act and also recommend Departmental inquiry against such Vigilance Officer: [2024] 4 S.C.R. 143 Navneet Kaur Harbhajansing Kundles @ Navneet Kaur Ravi Rana v. State of Maharashtra and Other Provided that, an opportunity of being heard be granted to the concerned Vigilance Cell officer prior to any direction for appropriate action. This hearing shall be independent to adjudication of Caste or Tribe claim. 12. A combined reading of the Sections of 2000 Act and Rules of 2012 Rules, makes it clear that a detailed procedure has been prescribed for the Scrutiny Committee to deal with the claim of an applicant seeking validation of caste certificate issued by the Competent Authority. The power to deal with such verification has been specifically vested with Scrutiny Committee and it falls within the exclusive domain of it in view of Rule 13(b) of 2012 Rules. For the purposes of verification, the Scrutiny Committee has all the powers of Civil Court while trying a civil suit and it can further take internal assistance of Vigilance Cell for verification in those cases as and when needed by the Committee. It is pertinent here to note that, as per Rule13(2)(b), the findings recorded, and opinion expressed by the Vigilance Cell shall not be binding on Scrutiny Committee and nor could be used in evidence for the purpose of claim. Further, Rule 17(6) provides that if the Scrutiny Committee upon appreciation of statement of applicant in prescribed format as well as other evidence and documents furnished along with it, is satisfied about the genuineness of same, then it shall forthwith issue the validity certificate in FORM–20 without enquiry by Vigilance Cell. In other words, the said Rule provides for subjective satisfaction of the Scrutiny Committee when a claim is made and does not mandate verification in each case by the Vigilance Cell. At this juncture, Section 7(2) of the 2000 Act also assumes significance. It fortifies the exclusive domain of Scrutiny Committee and deals with the finality of the s passed by Scrutiny Committee under the 2000 Act stating that the s passed by Scrutiny Committee shall be final and it shall not be open to challenge before any authority or Court except High Court under Article 226 of Constitution of India. The said language used in sub clause (2) clearly reflects the intention of legislature to ensure minimal interference with the s of Scrutiny Committee. 13. Now reverting to the facts of the instant case, the Scrutiny Committee admitted the claim of Appellant vide dated 03.11.2017 based on its subjective satisfaction regarding two documents namely, (i) bona-fide certificate issued by Khalsa College of Arts, Science and 144 [2024] 4 S.C.R.