12.9 However, the public purpose envisaged under the respective Acts must be to achieve a common good. Therefore, the public purpose for which acquisition of immovable property is made must be clearly established in accordance with the provisions of the respective enactments. Any special statute for acquisition of private immovable property must be for a public purpose which is ultimately for achieving a common good. 12.10 Another mode of acquisition of privately owned material resources such as land or other immovable property for the purpose of utilizing the same as best to subserve the common good is by vesting of the same in the State. How does such privately owned land vest in the State? It could be under an enactment, such as the Land Reforms Acts of the respective States, the Urban Land Ceiling Act (since repealed), the Inams 232 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Abolition Act, Village Offices Abolition Act, Land Tenures and Ceiling Acts under which lands privately owned or granted by the erstwhile rulers to certain persons and therefore, in the possession and control of private persons, on the abolition of such ownership and control over such lands by the State enactments, referred to above would vest with the State by operation of law. For instance, if on the appointed date the land is in possession and cultivation of tenants, then such lands covered by the respective tenancies would become vested in the State and thus be the land of the community i.e. “material resource of the community” on their vesting in the State. The State can thereafter grant occupancy rights of such lands to the tenants or other deserving persons in accordance with law i.e. by the tenants proving their tenancy on the appointed date before the Land Reforms Tribunal or as envisaged in the respective enactments. The mechanism is for a tenant to seek registration of occupancy rights on proof of tenancy which is a manner of distribution of the vested land in the State which gets transformed as material resource of the community on their vesting in the State. 12.11 Such material resources could also be bought by the State by paying a valuable consideration instead of acquisition as in the case of immovable property. 12.12 Another mode is when a private owner of immovable or other property transforms his ownership and control of material resources as “material resource of the community” by way of creation of an endowment or a grant or a donation or gift made to the State so that the said material resource converted as a community resource is used by the people at large or by the State depending upon the exigency of each case and the policy of the State. Earlier private lakes, pastures/grazing lands, forest lands, etc., were endowed for public use and therefore would be transformed as “material resource of the community”. 12.13 What is significant in all these instances is the fact that private resources are not straightaway “distributed” or handed over to other private persons by the State.