903 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others set at liberty. We have now quashed the s of remission. Since 10.08.2022, respondent Nos. 3 to 13 have been the beneficiaries of the s passed by an incompetent authority inasmuch as the impugned s are not passed by the appropriate Government within the meaning of Section 432 of the CrPC. So long as the said s impugned were not set-aside, they had carried the stamp of validity and hence till date the impugned s of remission were deemed to have been valid. Respondent Nos. 3 to 13 are out of jail. Since we have quashed the s of remission, what follows? 58. In our view, the most important constitutional value is personal liberty which is a fundamental right enshrined in Article 21 of our Constitution. It is in fact an inalienable right of man and which can be deprived of or taken away only in accordance with law. That is the quintessence of Article 21. But, this is a case where respondent Nos. 3 to 13 have been granted liberty and have been released from imprisonment by virtue of the impugned s of remission dated 10.08.2022 which we have declared and quashed as wholly without jurisdiction and non est. Having quashed the s of remission made in favour of respondent Nos. 3 to 13, should they be sent back to prison? Whether respondent No. 3 to 13 must have the benefit of their liberty despite obtaining the same from an incompetent authority with the aid of an of this Court obtained fraudulently and therefore, the same being illegal and carry a stamp of being a nullity and non est in the eye of law? This has been a delicate question for consideration before us. 59. Learned counsel for the petitioner in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022 has vehemently contended that there being failure of rule of law in the instant case, justice would be done by this Court only when respondent Nos. 3 to 13 are returned to the prison. They can be granted remission only in accordance with law. On the other hand, respective learned senior counsel and counsel for the respondents Nos. 3 to 13 who have appeared have pleaded that they have been enjoying liberty since 10.08.2022 and in spite of there being any error in the s of remission, although the s of remission may be quashed, by exercising jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution, these respondents may not be subjected to imprisonment once again and they may remain out of jailas free persons. In other words, their liberty may be protected. 904 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 60. We have given our anxious thought to the aforesaid divergent contentions. The primary question that now arises for our consideration is this: when is liberty of a person protected? Article 21 of the Constitution states that no person shall be deprived of his liberty except in accordance with law. Conversely, we think that a person is entitled to protection of his liberty only in accordance with law.