(4) The amount of compensation awarded and all other charges incurred in the acquisition of any such property shall, subject to all other provisions of this Act, be forthwith paid by the Municipal Commissioner and thereupon such property shall vest in the Corporation.” 22. The scheme of the Act makes it clear that Section 352 empowers the Municipal Commissioner to identify the land required for the purpose of opening of public street, square, park, etc. and under Section 537, the Municipal Commissioner has to apply to the Government to compulsorily acquire the land. Upon such an application, the Government may, in its own discretion, proceedings to be [2024] 5 S.C.R. 847 Kolkata Municipal Corporation & Anr. v. Bimal Kumar Shah & Ors. taken for acquiring the land. Section 352 is therefore, not the power of acquisition. We, therefore, reject the submission on behalf of the appellant-Corporation that Section 352 enables the Municipal Commissioner to acquire land. 23. We will now deal with the other submission of Mr. Jaideep Gupta that there is also a provision for compensation under Section 363 where land is acquired under Section 352. In so far as Section 363 relating to payment of compensation is concerned, the High Court has clarified that this provision relates to payment of compensation upon an agreement and not for compulsory acquisition. We are in agreement with this finding of the High Court. 24. The Right to property: A net of intersecting rights: There is yet another aspect of the matter. Under our constitutional scheme, compliance with a fair procedure of law before depriving any person of his immovable property is well entrenched. We are examining this issue in the context of Section 352 of the Act which is bereft of any procedure whatsoever before compulsorily acquiring private property. Again, assuming that Section 363 of the Act provides for compensation, compulsory acquisition will still be unconstitutional if proper procedure is not established or followed before depriving a person of their right to property. We find it compelling to clarify that a rather undue emphasis is laid on provisions of compensation to justify the power of compulsory acquisition, as if compensation by itself is the complete procedure for a valid acquisition. 25. While it is true that after the 44th Constitutional Amendment8, the right to property drifted from Part III to Part XII of the Constitution, there continues to be a potent safety net against arbitrary acquisitions, hasty decision-making and unfair redressal mechanisms. Despite its spatial placement, Article 300A9 which declares that “no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law” has been characterised both as a constitutional and also a human right10. To assume that constitutional protection gets constricted to the 8 Constitution (Forty-Fourth Amendment) Act, 1978. 9 300A of the Constitution: “Persons not to be deprived of property save by authority of law. – No person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law.” 10 Lachhman Dass v. Jagat Ram (2007) 10 SCC 448; Vidya Devi v. State of Himachal Pradesh (2020) 2 SCC 569 848 [2024] 5 S.C.R.