Interestingly, Mr. N.C. Deshpande could not come to a definite conclusion that the signatures on the Agreement to Sell, upon being compared with the admitted signatures, could not be said to be definitely not of Sushila Devi. He, in fact, made a candid admission that according to his opinion, it could not be said that the signatures on the Agreement to Sell were not of Sushila Devi. The star witness of the defendants could have been Kailash Aggarwal, the eldest son, in whose presence the Agreement to Sell had been executed and also the subsequent [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2401 Shyam Kumar Inani v. Vinod Agrawal & Ors. registered Power of Attorney in favour of M.K. Maheshwari. For reasons best known to the legal heirs of Sushila Devi (the original defendants), Kailash Aggarwal chose not to appear in the witness box. This clearly reflects that original defendants were trying to avoid to face the real facts and, therefore, they avoided Kailash Aggarwal from entering the witness box. In the totality of consideration of evidence on record with regard to the execution of Agreement to Sell, we are of the view that the same had been validly proved by the plaintiff-appellants and the defendants had failed to establish their claim that it was a forged document. 2. PLAINTIFF NOT ENTERING THE WITNESS BOX 28. Any adverse inference drawn by the High Court for the reason that the plaintiffs did not enter the witness box to prove the Agreement to Sell, in our opinion, was completely misplaced. Mr. K.D. Maheshwari is one of the purchasers and plaintiff in his suit for specific performance. He was throughout present in the transaction which took place on 30.08.1990. He held the Power of Attorney from the other plaintiffs and therefore, it was not necessary for each of the plaintiffs in separate suits to appear and prove the transaction of 30.08.1990. Mr. K. D. Maheshwari, who was examined as PW-1 in each of the suits whether in his capacity as plaintiff or as Power of Attorney from other plaintiffs, was fully justified in establishing the facts that transpired on 30.08.1990. The Trial Court had examined this aspect and had found favour with the plaintiffs. The finding of the High Court on this aspect is not approved in view of the above. 3. EFFECT OF THE REGISTERED POWER OF ATTORNEY DATED 04.09.1990 29. Sushila Devi on 04.09.1990, in the presence of her son Kailash Aggarwal, executed a General Power of Attorney in favour of M.K. Maheshwari, who happened to be the real brother of K.D. Maheshwari, one of the purchasers. If Sushila Devi executed the Power of Attorney, no fault could be found with the same, as she wanted herself to be free from repeatedly going to the Registry Office for execution and registration of sale deeds. No suspicion could arise on account of execution of General Power of Attorney which was a registered document. Any challenge to the same by her legal heirs was without any basis and totally based on conjectures.