Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, it is clarified that preliminary assessment is not a trial, but is to assess the capacity of such child to commit and understand the consequences of the alleged offence. (2) Where the Board is satisfied on preliminary assessment that the matter should be disposed of by the Board, then the Board shall follow the procedure, as far as may be, for trial in summons case under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974): Provided that the of the Board to dispose of the matter shall be appealable under sub-section (2) of section 101. Provided further that the assessment under this section shall be completed within the period specified in section 14. x x x 778 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 17. s regarding child not found to be in conflict with law.—(1) Where a Board is satisfied on inquiry that the child brought before it has not committed any offence, then notwithstanding anything contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force, the Board shall pass to that effect. (2) In case it appears to the Board that the child referred to in sub-section (1) is in need of care and protection, it may refer the child to the Committee with appropriate directions. Section 18. s regarding child found to be in conflict with law.— (1) & (2) xx xx (3) Where the Board after preliminary assessment under section 15 pass an that there is a need for trial of the said child as an adult, then the Board may transfer of the trial of the case to the Children’s Court having jurisdiction to try such offences. Section 19. Powers of Children’s Court.—(1) After the receipt of preliminary assessment from the Board under section 15, the Children’s Court may decide that— (i) there is a need for trial of the child as an adult as per the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) and pass appropriate s after trial subject to the provisions of this section and section 21, considering the special needs of the child, the tenets of fair trial and maintaining a child friendly atmosphere; (ii) there is no need for trial of the child as an adult and may conduct an inquiry as a Board and pass appropriate s in accordance with the provisions of section 18. (2) The Children’s Court shall ensure that the final , with regard to a child in conflict with law, shall include an individual care plan for the rehabilitation of child, including follow up by the probation officer or the District Child Protection Unit or a social worker. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 779 Child in Conflict with Law Through his Mother v. The State of Karnataka and Another (3) The Children’s Court shall ensure that the child who is found to be in conflict with law is sent to a place of safety till he attains the age of twenty-one years and thereafter, the person shall be transferred to a jail: Provided that the reformative services including educational services, skill development, alternative therapy such as counselling, behaviour modification therapy, and psychiatric support shall be provided to the child during the period of his stay in the place of safety.