It is a matter of satisfaction that the government has taken corrective measure, removed the offending clause and earmarked the land for respondent No.4, which is bound to be allotted to the members of the said respondent, who do not suffer from any disability incorporated in G.O.Ms.No.243 and the restriction, which may be imposed by the government in terms of the observations made in this .” 37. In view of the legal position, we reject the contention of the Cooperative Societies etc. that the principle of constructive res judicata should apply to our examination of the challenge to GOM Nos. 243 and 244. We, therefore, set aside the reasoning of the High Court to this extent. 38. We believe that the principles of constructive res judicata should not have been applied, given the significant public interest at stake in this public interest litigation. It is clear that GoM Nos. 243 and 244 were not part of the challenge in the first litigation, as the petitioners then believed that simply quashing the allotments would suffice. Once the allotments were cancelled and the Writ Petition was allowed, the State of Telangana had the opportunity to re-evaluate the entire issue in light of the findings recorded. 39. It will not be correct to put fetters on the members of the public in filing a Writ Petition challenging GoM Nos. 243 and 244 in this factual background. Constructive res judicata applies only when the cause of action is identical. In our view, the causes of action in the two litigation proceedings should not be considered identical, as the first litigation focused on the allotment and its terms and conditions. GoM Nos. 243 and 244 are separate and distinct from the allotment itself, and challenging these notifications constitutes a separate and independent cause of action. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1403 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others constItutIonal valIdIty oF Impugned government memoranda 40. To assess the constitutional validity of GoM Nos. 243 and 244 dated 28.02.2005; GoM Nos. 420, 422 to 425 dated 25.03.2008 and GoM No. 551 dated 27.03.2008; it is crucial to consider the factual context of their stipulations.25 The core issue at hand pertains to the distribution of State largesse—the generosity exercised by the State in distributing public resources—in this instance, public land in the State of Telangana. The term “State largesse” often implies a level of discretion in how these resources are allocated and can be seen as a reflection of a government’s priorities or policies. Consequently, the exercise of such “generosity” or “discretion” has significant implications for the citizenry, their rights, and the functioning of democracy. 41. The question that arises is – Can the Government, like any private individual, have the absolute discretion to frame policy, distribute resources and enter into a contract with whomsoever it pleases, on any terms and conditions it so desires? 42. In Erusian Equipment and Chemicals Ltd. v. State of West Bengal,26 this question was posed to this Court.