55 Lac. B. IMPUGNED 18. Aggrieved with the aforesaid, both the appellant and the respondent approached the High Court of judicature at Madras by way of C.R.P. No(s). 1892 & 2282 of 2021 respectively, assailing the dated 30.07.2021 passed by the DRAT, Chennai, wherein [2024] 2 S.C.R. 29 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu the High Court vide the impugned and final dated 27.10.2021 allowed the respondent’s civil revision petition. The operative portion is reproduced below: - “19. For the reasons aforesaid, the enhancement of the quantum of forfeiture as permitted by the Appellate Tribunal in the impugned of July 30, 2021 cannot be sustained and the same is set aside. The quantum as awarded by the DRT-II, Chennai in its of May 06, 2019 is restored and to such extent the of the appellate authority is set aside.” 19. The impugned of the High Court is in two-parts. In other words, the High Court allowed the respondent’s civil revision petition setting aside the DRAT’s on two grounds: - (i) First, the High Court took the view that the forfeiture of an amount or deposit by a secured creditor under the SARFAESI Rules cannot be more than the loss or damage suffered by it. The High Court held that Rule 9 sub-rule (5) of the SARFAESI Rules which provides for forfeiture cannot override the underlying ethos of Section 73 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (for short, “the 1872 Act”). The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “10. Section 74 of the Contract Act, 1872 provides for compensation for breach of contract where the penalty is stipulated. Section 73 of the Contract Act is the general rule that provides for compensation for loss or damage caused by breach of contract and Section 74 is where the quantum is specified. What Section 73 of the Contract Act mandates is that a party who suffers as a result of a breach committed by the other party to the contract “is entitled to receive from the party who has broken the contract, compensation for any loss or damage caused to him thereby, which naturally arose in the usual course of things from such breach, or which the parties knew, when they made the contract, to be likely to result from the breach of it.” Any detailed discussion on such provision would be beyond the scope of the present lis and may require many more sheets that may be conveniently expended in the present exercise. Indeed, Section 73 of the Contract Act is in the nature of a jurisprudential philosophy that is 30 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports accepted as a part of the law in this country. In short, it implies that only such of the loss or damage suffered by the party not in breach, may be recovered from the party in breach, as a consequence of the breach. It is possible that as a result of the breach, the party not in breach does not suffer any adverse impact.