3. Notwithstanding anything in the last preceding paragraph- (a) no Indian Christian shall be deemed to be a member of a scheduled caste; (b) in Bengal no person who professes Buddhism or a tribal religion shall be deemed to be a member of any scheduled caste; and if any question should arise as to whether any particular person does or does not profess Buddhism or a tribal religion, that question shall be determined according to the answers which he may make, in the prescribed manner, to such questions as may be prescribed. 4. In this the expression “Indian Christian” has the same meaning as it has for the purposes of Part I of the First Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935, and the expression “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made by the Governor of Bengal, exercising his individual . 5. Any reference in the Schedule to this to any division, district, subdivision, tahsil or municipality shall be construed as a reference to that division, district, subdivision, tahsil or municipality as existing on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and thirty-six. 1454 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports SCHEDULE PART I – MADRAS (1) Scheduled castes throughout the Province :- Adi-Andhra Gosangi Paidi Adi-Dravida Haddi Painda Adi-Karnataka Hasla Paky Ajila Holeya Pallan Arunthuthiyar Jaggali Pambada Baira Jambuvulu Pamidi Bakuda Kalladi Panchama Bandi Kanakkan Paniyan Bariki Kodalo Panniandi Battada Koosa Paraiyan Bavuri Koraga Paravan Bellara Kudumban Pulayan Byagari Kuravan Puthirai Vannan Chachati Madari Raneyar Chakkiliyan Madiga Relli Chalavadi Maila Samagara Chamar Mala Samban Chandala Mala Dasu Sapari Cheruman Matangi Semman Dandasi Moger Thoti Devandrakulathan Muchi Tiruvalluvar Ghasi Mundala Valluvan Godagali Nalakeyava Valmiki Godari Nayadi Vettuvan Godda Paga dai (2) Scheduled castes throughout the Province except in any special constituency constituted under the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1455 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. Government of India Act, 1935, for the election of a representative of backward areas and backward tribes to the Legislative Assembly of the Province :- Aranadan Kattunayakan Kuruman Dombo Kudiya Malasar Kadan Kudubi Mavilan Karimpalan Kurichchan Pano PART II – BOMBAY Scheduled Castes : - (1) Throughout the Province : - Asodi Dhor Mang Garudi Bakad Garode Meghval, or Menghwar Bhambi Halleer Mini Madig Bhangi Halsar, or Haslar, Mukri or Hulsavar Chakrawadya – Holaya Nadia Dasar Chalvadi Khalpa Shenva, or Shindhava Chambhar, or Kolcha, or Kolgha Shingdav, or Mochigar, or Shingadya Samagar Chena – Dasaru Koli Dhor Sochi Chuhar, or Lingader Timali Chuhra Dakaleru Madig, or Mang Turi Dhed Mahar Vankar Dhegu-Mega Vitholia (2) Throughout the Province except in the Ahmedabad, Kaira, Broaoh and Panch Mahals and Surat districts – Mochi. (3) In the Kanara district – Kotegar. 1456 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports PART III – Bengal Scheduled castes throughout the Province : - Agariya Hari Mal Bagdi Ho Mallah Bahelia Jalia Kaibartta Malpahariya Baiti Jhalo Malo, or Malo Mech Bauri Kadar Mehtor Bediya Kan Muchi Beldar Kandh Munda Berua Kandra Musahar Bhatiya Kaora Nagesia Bhuimali Kapuria Namasudra Bhuiya Karenga Nat Bhumij Kastha Nuniya Bind Kaur Oraon Binjhia Khaira Paliya Chamar Khatik Pan Dhenuar Koch Pasi Dhoba Konai Patni Doai Konwar Pod Dom Kora Rabha Dosadh Kotal Rajbanshi Garo Lalbegi Rajwar Ghasi Lodha Santal Gonrhi Lohar Sunri Hadi Mahar Tiyar Hajang Mahli Turi Halalkhor [2024] 8 S.C.R.