849 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. concessions and benefits on terms, as it considers appropriate. The consistent line of precedent of this Court emphasises certain basic precepts which govern both judicial review and judicial interpretation of tax legislation. These precepts are: 105.1. Selecting the objects to be taxed, determining the quantum of tax, legislating for the conditions for the levy and the socio-economic goals which a tax must achieve are matters of legislative policy. M. Hidayatullah, C.J., speaking for the Constitution Bench in Commr. of Urban Land Tax v. Buckingham & Carnatic Co. Ltd. [Commr. of Urban Land Tax v. Buckingham & Carnatic Co. Ltd. (1969) 2 SCC 55] held : (SCC p. 67, para 10) “10. … The objects to be taxed, the quantum of tax to be levied, the conditions subject to which it is levied and the social and economic policies which a tax is designed to subserve are all matters of political character and these matters have been entrusted to the legislature and not to the courts. In applying the test of reasonableness it is also essential to notice that the power of taxation is generally regarded as an essential attribute of sovereignty and constitutional provisions relating to the power of taxation are regarded not as grant of power but as limitation upon the power which would otherwise be practically without limit.” 105.2. The same principle has been reiterated in Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Assn. of India v. Union of India [Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Assn. of India v. Union of India (1989) 3 SCC 634], where M.N. Venkatachaliah, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was), speaking for the Constitution Bench held : (SCC pp. 658-59, paras 46-47) “46. It is now well settled that though taxing laws are not outside Article 14, however, having regard to the wide variety of diverse economic criteria that go into the formulation of a fiscal policy legislature enjoys a wide latitude in the matter of selection of persons, subject-matter, events, etc. 850 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for taxation. The tests of the vice of discrimination in a taxing law are, accordingly, less rigorous. In examining the allegations of a hostile, discriminatory treatment what is looked into is not its phraseology, but the real effect of its provisions. A legislature does not, as an old saying goes, have to tax everything in to be able to tax something. If there is equality and uniformity within each group, the law would not be discriminatory. Decisions of this Court on the matter have permitted the legislatures to exercise an extremely wide discretion in classifying items for tax purposes, so long as it refrains from clear and hostile discrimination against particular persons or classes. 47. But, with all this latitude certain irreducible desiderata of equality shall govern classifications for differential treatment in taxation laws as well. The classification must be rational and based on some qualities and characteristics which are to be found in all the persons grouped together and absent in the others left out of the class.