51. Jurisdiction of Authorities. — (1) The authorities shall exercise all or any of the powers and perform all or any of the functions conferred on, or, assigned, as the case may be, to such authorities by or under this Act or the rules framed thereunder in accordance with such directions as the Central Government may issue for the exercise of powers and performance of the functions by all or any of the authorities. (2) In issuing the directions or s referred to in sub- section (1), the Central Government may have regard to any one or more of the following criteria, namely: — (a) territorial area; (b) classes of persons; (c) classes of cases; and (d) any other criterion specified by the Central Government in this behalf 63. Punishment for false information or failure to give information, etc.— [2024] 9 S.C.R. 125 Abhishek Banerjee & Anr. v. Directorate of Enforcement (I) Any person wilfully and maliciously giving false information and so causing an arrest or a search to be made under this Act shall on conviction be liable for imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with fine which may extend to fifty thousand rupees or both. (2) If any person,— (a) being legally bound to state the truth of any matter relating to an offence under section 3, refuses to answer any question put to him by an authority in the exercise of its powers under this Act; or (b) refuses to sign any statement made by him in the course of any proceedings under this Act, which an authority may legally require to sign; or (c) to whom a summon is issued under section 50 either to attend to give evidence or produce books of account or other documents at a certain place and time, omits to attend or produce books of account or documents at the place or time, he shall pay, by way of penalty, a sum which shall not be less than five hundred rupees but which may extend to ten thousand rupees for each such default or failure. (3) No under this section shall be passed by an authority referred to in sub-section (2) unless the person on whom the penalty is proposed to be imposed is given an opportunity of being heard in the matter by such authority. (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (c) of sub-section (2), a person who intentionally disobeys any direction issued under section 50 shall also be liable to be proceeded against under section 174 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860). 65. Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 to apply. —The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) shall apply, in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to arrest, search and seizure, attachment, confiscation investigation, prosecution and all other proceedings under this Act. 126 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 71. Act to have overriding effect. —The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force.