14. Now, the question arises as to whether the course adopted by the High Court ought to be invalidated by us simply because another course, which is suggested by the appellant, could also be adopted by the High Court. In our view, under ordinary circumstances, we might not have had interfered with the High Court’s and which is under appeal before us. The course adopted by the High Court was a permissible course. We, however, must take into account that the High Court had passed the aforesaid when the appellant, a lady, was in detention for over four and a half years. At present, the appellant has been in detention for almost six years, [2024] 4 S.C.R. 281 Shoma Kanti Sen v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. her age is over 66 years and charges have not yet been framed. The appellant has also moved an application before us, registered as CRL MP No. 166531 of 2023, in which various ailments from which she suffers have been cited and prayer is made for bail on medical grounds as well. 15. Having taken these factors into account, we do not think it would be in the interest of justice to remand the matter to the Special Court constituted under the 2008 Act at this stage. We are taking this view as in our opinion, it would not have been beyond jurisdiction of the High Court Division Bench, even in exercise of appellate power under Section 21(2) of the 2008 Act, to examine the second supplementary chargesheet as well. For these reasons, we decline to accept the preliminary objection raised by Mr. Nataraj and shall proceed to consider here, the appellant’s plea for bail on merit. Now that we have given leave to the appellant in her petition for special leave to appeal, the same appellate jurisdiction which vested in the High Court will vest in us as well and in exercise of such appellate jurisdiction, we shall consider the appellant’s prayer for bail, which was not considered by the High Court on merit. 16. It was also urged by Mr. Nataraj that in the appeal-petition, the appellant has only asked for setting aside the impugned and . No specific prayer for bail has been made. But in our opinion, the plea for bail in the context of the present appeal is implicit. The petition which was transferred to the Division Bench carried prayer of the appellant for being released on bail and argument advanced by Mr. Grover, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant is that the High Court itself ought to have granted bail to the appellant on the basis of available materials. Moreover, the appellant in the appeal-petition has also asked for bail as interim relief. Since the appeal, in substance, is against the by which prayer for bail was refused, merely based on the manner of framing of reliefs or prayers in the subject-petition, the actual relief sought by the appellant would not stand eclipsed. 17. Mr. Nataraj had also contended that the NIA must be permitted to contest the bail plea of the appellant before the first Court of bail on the basis of materials disclosed in the second supplementary charge-sheet, because the prosecution would also be entitled to a right of appeal.