Supreme Court Reports committee, having regard to the nature of resolution plan and business of the corporate debtor. Explanation II. – A performance security may be specified in absolute terms such as guarantee from a bank for Rs. X for Y years or in relation to one or more variables such as the term of the resolution plan, amount payable to creditors under the resolution plan, etc.” (emphasis supplied) 105. Regulation 36B(4A) states that the performance security shall stand forfeited if the resolution applicant fails to implement or contributes to the failure of implementation of the plan, in accordance with the terms of the Resolution Plan and its implementation Schedule. Therefore, the PBG had to be kept alive until the complete implementation of the Resolution Plan as per Regulation 36B(4A) as well. This is also what is provided under Clauses 3.13.2 and 3.13.8 of the RFRP respectively wherein the PBG was required to be kept alive and was to be returned to the SRA only upon 100% completion of the implementation of the Resolution Plan. This binding nature of the RFRP was transferred onto the Resolution Plan through Clauses 7.3 and 9.4 respectively of the Resolution Plan. 106. The NCLAT in one of its s i.e., the dated 26.05.2023, had restrained the Appellants from invoking the PBG without the leave of the NCLT. While saying so, the following observations were made; “19. When the Resolution Plan of the Corporate Debtor has received approval up to Hon’ble Supreme Court and the Monitoring Committee is constituted under the Plan to oversee implementation, the Monitoring Committee has to act as a facilitator for implementation of the Resolution Plan instead of finding fault and taking steps, which does not facilitate the implementation, rather delay the implementation. There is no doubt that Performance Bank Guarantee can be invoked by the MC Lenders, but the said invocation can only take place when SRA has failed to implement the Plan. Present is a case where directions have been issued to both MC Lenders and SRA to implement the Plan and the event of failure of the Plan has not yet arrived. When the Adjudicating Authority [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2125 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. has directed on 13.01.2023 to take steps towards the implementation of the Plan and which was not been stayed by this Tribunal on 03.03.2023, the steps ought to have been taken by the MC Lenders in furtherance of the implementation. The time has not arrived for invoking the Performance Bank Guarantee. When the SRA is ready to undertake to perform its obligations under the Plan, we are of the view that Performance Bank Guarantee given by the SRA cannot be permitted to the invoked by the MC Lenders. MC Lenders instead of threatening to invoke Performance Bank Guarantee, should take steps, which may help implementation of the Plan and to achieve the objective of Resolution Plan. The Resolution Plan has been approved with the intent and purpose to revive the Corporate Debtor, which revival is in accordance with objective and purpose of the IBC.