Only when the Court is certain that no valid arbitration agreement exists, or that the subject-matter is not arbitrable, that reference may be refused. 45.1. […] While exercising jurisdiction under Section 11 as the judicial forum, the court may exercise the prima facie test to screen and knockdown ex facie meritless, frivolous, and dishonest litigation. Limited jurisdiction of the courts would ensure expeditious and efficient disposal at the referral stage. At the referral stage, the Court can interfere “only” when it is “manifest” that the claims are ex facie time-barred and dead, or there is no subsisting dispute. […]” (Emphasis supplied) 88. The decision in Vidya Drolia (supra) was applied in the context of “accord and satisfaction” by a two-Judge Bench of this Court in Indian Oil Corporation Limited v. NCC Limited reported in (2023) 2 SCC 539. It was held that although the referral court under Section 11 of the 1996 Act may look into the aspect of “accord and satisfaction”, yet it is advisable that in debatable cases and disputable facts, more particularly in reasonably arguable cases, the determination of whether accord and satisfaction was actually present or not should be left to the arbitral tribunal. This Court also expressed disagreement with the High Court which had held that post the insertion of Section 11(6-A) to the Act, 1996, the scope of interference of the referral court in a Section 11 petition was limited to the aspect of examining the existence of a binding arbitration agreement qua the parties before it. Relevant extracts are reproduced hereinbelow: “90. […] Therefore, even when it is observed and held that such an aspect with regard to “accord and satisfaction” of the claims may/can be considered by the Court at the stage of deciding Section 11 application, it is always advisable and appropriate that in cases of debatable and disputable facts, good reasonably arguable case, the 890 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports same should be left to the Arbitral Tribunal. Similar view is expressed by this Court in Vidya Drolia [Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn. (2021) 2 SCC 1 : (2021) 1 SCC (Civ) 549]. 91. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case, though it is specifically observed and held that aspects with regard to “accord and satisfaction” of the claims can be considered by the Court at the stage of deciding Section 11(6) application, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has not committed any error in observing that aspects with regard to “accord and satisfaction” of the claims or where there is a serious dispute will have to be left to the Arbitral Tribunal. 92. However, at the same time, we do not agree with the conclusion arrived at by the High Court that after the insertion of sub-section (6-A) in Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, scope of inquiry by the Court in Section 11 petition is confined only to ascertain as to whether or not a binding arbitration agreement exists qua the parties before it, which is relatable to the disputes at hand.