The intimation sent in writing to the Competent Authority by the incumbent employee of his intention or proposal to resign from his office/post from a future specified date can be withdrawn at any time before it becomes effective. 13. Now to appreciate the findings recorded by three fora, the facts of the present case are required to be discussed with precision. In the case at hand, the appellant was appointed as Principal on 01.07.1992 in “B.M. Ruia Girls and G.D. Birla Girls College” (hereinafter referred to as “College”), affiliated to SNDT University and run by respondent No. 1 – Trust. Her appointment was permanent, and she was discharging the duties for a decade long period. In the month of December 1998, the management of the Trust was changed, and the functioning of the school was taken over by the new management. In 2001, one Mr. Biani was appointed as Convenor and it is alleged that there was interference in the day- to-day functions and passing of lewd and inappropriate comments. Distressed by it, the appellant along with her colleagues wrote a letter dated 18.02.2003 containing some allegations and raised a protest. It should also be noticed that one of the Trustees sent a letter to appellant on 05.03.2003, stating that there are certain allegations of financial irregularities and indiscipline against her, and she was called upon to submit her justification. Appellant did not submit any response to the said letter, and vide letter dated 04.03.2003, withdrew her protest letter. On 25.03.2003, due to serious health issues, the appellant submitted an intimation of resignation to the President of Trust and informed that she wishes to resign from future date, i.e., 24.09.2003. The President on the same date informed the appellant that the Management Committee has decided to conduct a detailed enquiry by a “Fact Finding Committee”. Appellant was directed to proceed on leave for two months and hand over the charge to one Mrs. Purvi Shah who shall work as “officiating Principal” with immediate effect. Shortly within three days, i.e., on 28.03.2003, the President informed the appellant to submit a fresh unconditional resignation. For ready reference, the relevant portion of the said letter is reproduced as under – 628 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “ xxx xxx xxx xxx If you want to resign unconditionally of your own volition with immediate effect and settle the controversy on this footing, the management can perhaps consider your request to drop the enquiry subject to affirmation of managing committee. Your resignation with effect from 24.09.2003 is not acceptable to the management. Six months’ notice can be waived on both sides in view of the present situation is not mandatory. If you are not willing to resign unconditionally with immediate effect, it is your choice. If you want to resign with immediate effect, the management may perhaps be persuaded to drop the proposed enquiry in larger interest of the institute. If no reply is received from you within 48 hours from receipt of this letter, the management shall take appropriate action in the matter as deemed fit.