The deposition of PW-5 would also reveal that he had taken care to ensure that none of the relatives of the deceased were present when the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6) was being recorded. 9. Insofar as the contention of the learned counsel for the appellants that the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6) was recorded between 08:48 pm and 09:15 pm and the Discharge Slip (Ext. Ka-7) was issued at 05:00 pm is concerned, no question was put to that effect in the cross-examination of Raj Kumar Bhaskar (PW-5), the then Naib Tehsildar. As such, his testimony, in spite of cross-examination, has gone unchallenged on the material aspect of recording of the dying declaration. 10. A perusal of the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6) would reveal that before recording the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6), the victim was examined by Dr. A.K. Singh, Emergency Medical Officer at District Hospital, Moradabad on 1st December 2016 at 08:45 pm, who has certified her to be fully conscious and fit to give the statement. After the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6) was recorded, a certification by Dr. A.K. Singh, Emergency Medical Officer at District Hospital, Moradabad is recorded once again to the effect that the deceased was fully conscious while giving the statement (Ext. Ka-6). It can thus clearly be seen that the material placed on record would reveal that the deceased was in a fit state of mind at the time of making the statement and that it was not the result of tutoring, prompting or imagination. 11. We have no reason to interfere with the concurrent findings of fact that the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6) is true and free from any effort to induce the deceased to make a false statement. The dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6) is coherent and consistent and as such, there 44 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports should be no legal impediment to make it the basis of conviction without there being any independent corroboration. We find that the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6) is cogent, trustworthy and reliable to base the conviction on the same. 12. That leaves us with the question as to whether the conviction of all the three accused is tenable or not. 13. It will be apposite to refer to the relevant part of the dying declaration (Ext. Ka-6), which reads thus: “Answer: I had been into a dispute with my devar (husband’s younger brother) Mashkoor Hussain s/o Maqdoom Hussain over partition of the house for many days. Today i.e. 01.12.2016 at 12:30 O’clock I had a quarrel with my devar over partition of the house, during which he poured kerosene on me and set me ablaze. In commission of the act, my devrani (husband’s younger brother’s wife) Naeema Parveen and her brother Naeem aided my devar (husband’s younger brother). When they set my body ablaze, I ran outside the house. People from the neighbourhood doused fire engulfing my body and saved me. Residents of the locality informed my mother and brother, thereafter, my brother and mother brought and admitted me to the hospital.” 14.