Thereafter, in paragraph 25, the Court proceeded to criticise the POCSO Act by observing that it clubs all persons below eighteen years without considering their developing sexuality, evolving capacity and the impact of such criminalisation on their best interests. In paragraph 28, the Court went further. It held that instead of protecting the adolescents from abuse, the law exposes them in factually consensual and non-exploitative relationships to the risk of criminal prosecution. It compromises the mandate of protecting the children. Therefore, the Court observes that an amendment is necessary to decriminalise consensual sexual acts involving adolescents above sixteen years. The High Court, while dealing with an appeal against the of conviction, was not called upon to make the observations which we have referred to above. Perhaps these were the subjects on which only the experts could have debated at a different forum. The judges ought to have avoided expressing their personal views even assuming that there was some justification for holding the views. While the High Court observed this, it forgot that in the facts of the case, the Court was not dealing with the sexual acts involving adolescents above sixteen years, as the age of the victim was fourteen years and the accused was twenty-five years at the relevant time. 18. In paragraph 29, the Court went into the question of rights based approach, which was completely unwarranted. In paragraph 30.1, the Court referred to the generation of androgenic steroids and secretion from the pituitary gland. Thereafter, the Court laid down the duties and obligations of every female and adolescent in paragraph 30.3, which we have quoted above. No reasons are required to be recorded [2024] 8 S.C.R. 593 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents for holding that incorporation of the same in the is entirely irrelevant and unwarranted. After that, the Court proceeded to lay emphasis on incorporating the aspects of reproductive health and hygiene into the school curriculum. There are several statements and conclusions in the impugned which, to say the least, are shocking. Perversity is writ large on the face of the , which can be seen in several paragraphs of the impugned . 19. The duty of the High Court was to ascertain on the evidence whether the offences under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and Section 376 of the IPC were made out. In view of “sixthly” in Section 375 of the IPC, penetrative intercourse with a woman under eighteen years of age, with or without her consent, constitutes an offence of rape. Therefore, whether such offence arises from a romantic relationship is irrelevant. How can an act that is an offence punishable under the POSCO Act be described as “a romantic relationship”? The High Court went to the extent of observing that the case of criminalisation of a romantic relationship between two adolescents of opposite sex should be best left to the wisdom of the judiciary. The Courts must follow and implement the law. The courts cannot commit violence against the law.