We have no doubt that the authority making rules regulating the selection, can prescribe by rules, the minimum marks both for written examination and interviews, or prescribe minimum marks for written examination but not for interview, or may not prescribe any minimum marks for either written examination or interview. Where the rules do not prescribe any procedure, the Selection Committee may also prescribe the minimum marks, as stated above. But if the Selection Committee wants to prescribe minimum marks for interview, it should do so before the commencement of selection process. If the Selection committee prescribe minimum marks only for the written examination, before the commencement [2024] 12 S.C.R. 51 Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. of selection process, it cannot either during the selection process or after the selection process, add an additional requirement that the candidates should also secure minimum marks in the interview. What we have found to be illegal, is changing the criteria after completion of the selection process, when the entire selection proceeded on the basis that there will be no minimum marks for the interview.” (Emphasis supplied) 20. The discernible ratio in K. Manjusree (supra) is that the criterion for selection is not to be changed after completion of the selection process, though in absence of rules to the contrary the Selection Committee may fix minimum marks either for written examination or for interview for the purposes of selection. But if such minimum marks are fixed, it must be done before commencement of selection process. This view has been followed by another three-Judge Bench of this Court in Ramesh Kumar v. High Court of Delhi25 wherein the law on the issue has been summarized thus: “15. … in case the statutory rules prescribe a particular mode of selection, it has to be given strict adherence accordingly. In case, no procedure is prescribed by the rules and there is no other impediment in law, the competent authority while laying down the norms for selection may prescribe for the tests and further specify the minimum benchmarks for written tests as well as for viva voce." 21. What is important in K. Manjusree (supra) is that the minimum marks for the interview was fixed after the interviews were over. In that context, it was observed (a) that the game was played under the rule that there was no minimum marks for the interview, therefore introduction of the requirement of minimum marks for interview, after the entire selection process consisting of written examination and interview was completed, would amount to changing the rules of the game after the game was played; and (b) if the interviewers had to proceed on the basis that there were minimum marks to be secured in the interview for being considered for selection and 25 [2010] 2 SCR 256 : (2010) 3 SCC 104 52 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that the marks awarded by them would have the effect of barring or ousting any candidate from being considered for selection, the awarding of marks might have been markedly different.