(iii) that this Court had in the past entertained writ petitions under Article 32 filed by convicts seeking intervention in matters of premature release or the issuance of appropriate directions. Reliance was placed on the s in Ram Chander, Laxman Naskar and Rajan. (iv) that this Court had earlier entertained a writ petition filed by none other than respondent No.3 himself and no question was raised as to the maintainability of that writ petition. All of the other private respondents are beneficiaries of the dated 13.05.2022 passed by this Court in the aforesaid writ petition. It is thus incongruous to raise the objection of maintainability only against the writ petition filed by the petitioner-victim. That the petitioner-victim was totally unaware of Writ Petition (Crl.) No.135 of 2022 filed by respondent No.3 seeking premature release before this Court. The petitioner learnt about the release, like the general public did, from the news and social media. 812 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports That the petitioner had barely begun to recover from the shock of respondent Nos.3 to 13 being released when several PILs were filed, and this Court was already seized of the matter. This left the petitioner with no choice but to approach this Court. (v) that the petitioner had also filed a Review Petition seeking review of the dated 13.05.2022, wherein this Court held the State of Gujarat to be the appropriate government to consider the grant of remission, being the State in which the crime took place. The said was perincuriam and contrary to the judgements of this Court. On this aspect, reliance was again placed on V.Sriharan, Rattan Singh, M. T. Khan and Hanumant Dass. Hence, the petitioner was under the impression that the said Review Petition and this writ petition would be considered together by this Court. But the Review Petition has been dismissed. Hence, this writ petition has to be considered on its own merits. (vi) that the challenge to the maintainability of this writ petition is fallacious in the context of the specific argument raised by respondent Nos.1 and 2, namely, that the direction given by this Court as on 13.05.2022 was a mandate that was merely being adhered to in the remission and therefore the same would not be open to challenge. That this further exemplifies non-application of mind and a hasty and mechanical manner of granting remission by misrepresenting about the dated 13.05.2022. (vii) It was submitted that the ‘right to justice’ was recognized as an indispensable human and fundamental right in Anita Kushwaha vs. Pushap Sudan, (2016) 8 SCC 509 (“Anita Kushwaha”), and that this writ petition was maintainable on that basis also. In light of the aforementioned submissions, learned counsel contended that the filing of a writ petition under Article 32 before this Court is the most efficacious remedy available to the petitioner. 16.1. Reiterating her submissions regarding the non-consideration of the negative opinions of the investigating agency, namely the CBI as well as the Judge of the Special CBI Court, [2024] 1 S.C.R.