To assuage the worries of the 1944 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Petitioner in regard to the proper constitution of the GEAC, the latter was requested to invite Dr. P.M. Bhargava and Prof. M.S. Swaminathan to its meetings. It was further observed that if any person was dissatisfied by the decision arrived at by the Committee, an appeal may be preferred to the Appellate Committee and, that the apprehensions in regard to negative effect of open field trials, be also considered by the Committee. It was further directed that the guidelines to grant approvals be published on the website of the Committee. (f) On 07.10.2016, this Court recorded the submission of the Additional Solicitor General, that release was not allowed till 17.10.2016 because the Government had sought views from the public and after receiving public views/objections, the committee of experts would consider such matter. 34.1 As the above referred s point out, throughout the entire process of field testing, being taken stock of, at regular intervals by the Court, it has not, even for a moment doubted the authority of the GEAC and its ability to function properly. Repeatedly, it has been emphasised that the GEAC, being the apex body would be responsible for taking all precautions/ adopting safeguards and ensuring that no contamination takes place in planting of GM seeds. 34.2 In one of the s referred above, it has been noted that 91 field trials were underway at one point. In the extensive arguments made by the Petitioners, not even a single negative instance could be pointed out to show that the field trials impacted the agriculture, environment, biodiversity negatively or irrevocably. Furthermore, as pointed out by the Union of India, trials of DMH-11 have commenced in 6 out of the 8 sanctioned locations (seeds have been planted) and no adverse change therein has been reported thus far. The fears, raised by the Petitioners, therefore, are not substantiated by any negative occurrence. 34.3 The members of the GEAC under the 1989 Rules, are experts in their relevant fields. The approval has come, as discussed above, in consonance with the relevant statutory framework. Furthermore, adequate safeguards have been included in the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1945 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. approval itself, in accordance with the precautionary principle. There is an additional ground, upon whose anvil, the decision to grant conditional approval as also the general introduction of GMOs into the sphere of common consumption, which has been sought to be banned by the present petitions, has to be weighed. 35. Whether or not the State allows or disallows the scientific experimentation of a particular kind of crop, particularly when the Central Government is the primary authority entrusted with such function, is a decision squarely within their domain and the role of the Courts therein is circumscribed to the violation of fundamental rights; manifest arbitrariness; conflict with any other law and/or other grounds of similar nature. 36. In reference to public interest, in this particular context, Article 48 of the Directive Principle of the State Policy (hereinafter referred to as ‘DPSP’) would be instructive in for the concerned branch of the Government to frame policy and take steps in this regard being whilst being entirely in line with the Constitution of India which undoubtedly is the source of all power, legitimacy and is the ultimate guide for all actions.