The compensation may be sought in respect of any loss or damage or destruction caused to the goods which were being carried by the railway. (ii) Secondly, the claims towards the refund of any ‘overcharge’ that has been levied in respect of any goods which were being carried by the railways, and this has been provided under Section 106 sub-section (3). 36. Thus, Section 106 of Act, 1989 contains the statutory provisions that enables any person to make a claim from the railway administration, either for (i) compensation OR for (ii) refund of overcharge, in respect of any goods which were being carried by the railway by sending a notice of claim. 37. Apart from containing the enabling provision for making a claim, Section 106 further provides when such a claim may be made. Section 106 sub-section (1) provides that a claim for compensation may be made where there has been a loss or damage or destruction or deterioration or non-delivery of the goods that were being carried by the railway. Whereas, Section 106 sub-section (2) provides that a 1088 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports claim for refund may be made where there has been an overcharge in respect of the goods carried and the said overcharge was paid to the railway administration. 38. Lastly, Section 106 also provides how a claim may be made and the mode & manner in which the notice must be made by stipulating a pre-condition in the form of a prescribed time-limit for making any claim thereunder: - (i) Section 106 sub-section (1) prescribes twin-conditions for a Notice of Claim for Compensation and provides that such notice must be made within a period of 6-months from the date of entrustment of goods AND the notice must be served to the Railway Administration to whom the goods were entrusted. (ii) Similarly, Section 106 sub-section (3) also stipulates twin- conditions for making a Notice of Claim for Refund of Overcharge and provides that such notice must be made within a period of 6-months from either the date of payment of such overcharge or the date of delivery of the goods in respect of which the overcharge was paid AND that the notice must be served to the railway administration to whom the overcharge was paid. 39. Thus, a statutory time-period of 6-months has been provided for making a notice of claim under Section 106 of the Act, 1989, and if the notice of claim is not made within the stipulated period, then the claim becomes time-barred. 40. The High Court of Gujarat in its decision in Shah Raichand Amulakh v. Union of India & Ors. reported in (1971) 12 GLR 93 had observed that the object behind the time-limit prescribed under Section 78B of the 1890 Act (now Section 106 of the Act, 1989) is to prevent stale or dishonest claims from being made, which if otherwise allowed would make it difficult to enquire into their merits due to lapse of time. The relevant observations read as under: - “3.