1. Dignity goes to the very core of the existence of an individual in society. Any action which undermines dignity either by an act of another person or that of the State is potentially going against the spirit of the Constitution of India,1 which guarantees the security of all persons by ensuring that justice, liberty and equality are avouched for each and every person. By extension, if the dignity of a person 1 Hereafter ‘Constitution’ 1126 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports is compromised, their human rights, available to them by virtue of them being humans and guaranteed by various enactments, both national and international, are imperilled. 2. We may benefit from the observations in K.S. Puttaswamy (Privacy- 9J.) v. Union of India2: “108. Over the last four decades, our constitutional jurisprudence has recognised the inseparable relationship between protection of life and liberty with dignity. Dignity as a constitutional value finds expression in the Preamble. The constitutional vision seeks the realisation of justice (social, economic and political); liberty (of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship); equality (as a guarantee against arbitrary treatment of individuals) and fraternity (which assures a life of dignity to every individual). These constitutional precepts exist in unity to facilitate a humane and compassionate society. The individual is the focal point of the Constitution because it is in the realisation of individual rights that the collective well-being of the community is determined. Human dignity is an integral part of the Constitution. Reflections of dignity are found in the guarantee against arbitrariness (Article 14), the lamps of freedom (Article 19) and in the right to life and personal liberty (Article 21).” 3. When such rights of a woman are threatened, the danger is comparatively greater, for despite advancement by great leaps and bounds, when it comes to equality, much remains to be achieved, especially when it comes to women in rural areas. 4. This case is premised on certain disturbing facts. The First Information Report3 lodged on 04th March 2020 bearing details, FIR No.79/2020 under Sections 341, 323, 354, 354B, 379, 504, 506, 149 of Indian Penal Code, 18604 and Section 3&4 of the Witch (Daain) Act against 13 persons namely, Ashutosh Kumar, Paritosh Kumar, Rishu Kumar, Jisu Kumar, Soni Devi, Nirmala Devi, Lakhpati Devi, Sachidanand 2 [2017] 10 SCR 569 : (2017) 10 SCC 1 3 Hereafter ‘FIR’ 4 Hereafter ‘IPC’ [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1127 Rajeev Kumar Upadhyay v. Srikant Upadhyay & Ors. Upadhyay, Ravikant Upadhyay, Shrikant Upadhyay, Asim Priyanshu, Shrina Upadhyay and Shashikant Upadhyay. The relevant extracts describing the alleged commission of the offence are as under: "1. The present complaint reveals that the grandmother of the complainant, ..... going in the village. As soon as she reached in front of the house of opposite party Shashikant Upadhyay, the opposite party Shashikant Upadhyay surrounded ..... and began to say that you have made my son sick by doing witchcraft. He is not getting rid of the illness. Today you will have to cure my son by taking back your witchcraft.