1173 Ram Prakash Chadha v. The State of Uttar Pradesh against unknown persons. Hence, when the appellant who lost the money went to Police Station along with the witness thereof, how can it be presumed by the Court as a strong case for suspicion for commission of the offence of criminal conspiracy, especially taking note of the very case of the prosecution that causative incident for the case occurred when Ram Kishore was returning after collecting the business proceeds of the appellant and that the appellant was informed of it over telephone by Ram Kishore. When there is no case for the prosecution that the appellant pointed the fingers at Ram Kishore how the lodging of the complaint, apprehending custodial death of Ram Kishore who was appellant’s clerk for about 13 years, which caused the registration of custodial death case under FIR No.371/1993 can be taken as a ground for framing charge against the appellant for the offences punishable under Section 302, IPC, 120-B with the aid of Section 34, IPC. 31. These aspects were not at all considered by the High Court. To say the least, there was no consideration of the matter by the High Court in the manner required under law, in the given facts and circumstances of the case. 32. We are at a loss to understand, how in the absence of ground for a prima facie case revealed from the materials produced by the prosecution a person who lost his money and lodged a complaint based on the information furnished by his employee can be implicated in an offence, that too a grave allegation of commission of an offence of custodial death amounting to murder, merely because he caused the presence of the person concerned before the Police Station unless the ingredients to attract criminal conspiracy to commit any specific offence in relation to Ram Kishore is available. If the case of the prosecution and the materials produced along with the charge are taken as true, they would only suggest that Ram Kishore was under the control of the police in the Police Station. In fact, that exactly is the prosecution case revealed from the final report dated 21.02.2000 filed in Crime No.371/1993. 33. The aforesaid being the position revealed from the materials produced by the prosecution, the mere fact that rejection of the application of the appellant for discharge is concurrent cannot be a reason for confirming the impugned of the High Court confirming the of the Trial Court. Since the diallage on the matter constrain us to 1174 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports come to the concrete conclusion of absence of ground for proceeding against the appellant based on final report dated 21.02.2000 in Crime No.371/1993 of CBCID, U.P. Lucknow, this appeal must succeed. 34. We clarify that the observations made in this are made qua the appellant for the purpose of disposal of this appeal and we make it clear that we have not made any observation touching the merits of the case against the other accused in Crime No.371/1993 of CBCID, U.P.