There should have been a general legislation rather than singling out Sri Aurobindo Society for hostile treatment. 164. The argument cannot be accepted for two reasons. Firstly, because it has not been pointed out which were the other institutions where similar situations were prevailing. Besides, there is a uniqueness with this institution inasmuch as the Government is also involved. Even a single institution may be taken as a class. The situation 15 [1983] 1 SCR 729 : (1983) 1 SCC 51 : 1982 INSC 81 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 475 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another prevailing in the Auroville had converted the dream of the Mother into a nightmare. There had arisen acute law and situation in the Auroville, numerous cases were pending against various foreigners, the funds meant for the Auroville had been diverted towards other purposes and the atmosphere was getting out of hand. In the circumstances the Government intervened and promulgated the Ordinance and later on substituted it by the impugned enactment. It cannot be said that it is violative of Article 14 on that account….. …………… 171. We are afraid the argument has no substance. Obviously, there were serious irregularities in the management of the said Society as has been pointed out in the earlier part of the . There has been misutilisation of funds and their diversion to other purposes. This is evident from the audit report. There was no material change in the situation on the date of the impugned Ordinance or the Act, rather the situation had grown from bad to worse and the sordid situation prevailing in the Auroville so pointed out by the parties fully justified the promulgation of the Ordinance and the passing of the enactment. Of course, each party tried to apportion the blame on the other. Whosoever be responsible, the fact remains that the prevailing situation in the Auroville was far from satisfactory. The amount donated for the construction of the cultural township Auroville and other institutions was to the tune of Rs 3 crores. It was the responsibility of the Government to see that the amount was not misutilised and the management was properly carried out. So, the basis of the argument that the facts as pointed out in the Preamble were non est is not correct.” [emphasis supplied] 44. No doubt that the Court held that even a single institution may be taken as a class, in the facts of the said case, the Court found that from the Preamble of the impugned enactment itself, it was clear that there were serious irregularities in the management of the society. The Court found that there had arisen acute law and situation in the 476 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Auroville, numerous cases were pending against various foreigners, the funds meant for the Auroville had been diverted towards other purposes and the atmosphere was getting out of hand. It was found that in such circumstances, the intervention of the Government by promulgating the Ordinance and later on substituted it by the impugned enactment could not be held to be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.