It upheld the MACT’s Award. 5. Aggrieved by the concurrent findings of the High Court and the MACT, the Appellant (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Insurance Company’) is before us. SUBMISSIONS, ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 6. Having heard and considered the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the parties and the facts and circumstances of the case, we find that the present petitions are misconceived. 7. First and foremost, the basic contention put forth by the Insurance Company is that the vehicle which was insured with it, was not involved in the accident and some other vehicle was mentioned in the initial Written Statement filed before the MACT. On this point, there is a detailed discussion in the Award of the MACT itself which explains that various witnesses have stated that it was the vehicle as described in the complaint which was involved in the accident and further, that one witness produced by the Insurance Company had only raised some doubt with regard to the vehicle as claimed by the complainants, but not with the make of the vehicle involved in the accident as the difference in number was that instead of the vehicle that the complainants claimed bore Registration No.PB-06-Q-6846, it was actually a vehicle bearing Registration No.PB-06-Q-6847. But even this witness has stated that both vehicles were there and he was not sure as to which vehicle was actually involved in the incident. On scrutiny, we are of the view that this would not help the Insurance Company’s case or go against the respondents-claimants. 8. Moreover, the MACT has rightly observed that eventually in cross- examination, no suggestion was given to any of the witnesses produced by the complainants that the vehicle as claimed by the complainants was not the vehicle, which was involved in the accident and that it was some other vehicle. 9. One further aspect which this Court cannot shut its eyes to is the fact that post-investigation, the Final Report under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 also stated that the vehicle as claimed by the complainants was the vehicle involved in the accident. Therefore, the onus was on the Insurance Company or Respondents No.3 and 4 to get the same disproved by either calling the Investigating 1004 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Officer as a witness or by any other means to establish a factual position to the contrary. Admittedly, this was not done. 10. The Court, through 3 learned Judges, categorically held in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v Swaran Singh, (2004) 3 SCC 297, that ‘Insurance companies, however, with a view to avoid their liability must not only establish the available defence(s) raised in the said proceedings but must also establish “breach” on the part of the owner of the vehicle; the burden of proof wherefor would be on them.’3 It was also stated that ‘The Court cannot lay down any criteria as to how the said burden would be discharged, inasmuch as the same would depend on the facts and circumstances of each case’.4 In the above analysis, the Insurance Company cannot be said to have established its defence.