Thus, the Competition Commission of India (supra) lays down the clear proposition of law that a statutory authority can be impleaded as a respondent in an appeal against its even if the statute does not provide for it. It can be read by necessary implication based on the role conferred upon the authority by the statute. 32. 1 Rule 10 of CPC grants the Court the power to strike out or add parties. The Rule provides that the Court may either with or 54 Competition Commission of India Act 2002; Section 53S(2) 55 “53T. Appeal to Supreme Court.- The Central Government or any State Government or the Commission or any statutory authority or any local authority or any enterprise or any person aggrieved by any decision or of the Appellate Tribunal may file an appeal to the Supreme Court within sixty days from the date of communication of the decision or of the Appellate Tribunal to them: Provided that the Supreme Court may, if it is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal within the said period, allow it to be filed after the expiry of the said period of sixty days.” [emphasis supplied] 56 The Competition Act, 2002; Section 19(1) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1429 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. without the application of the party, add the name of the party who ought to have been joined or whose presence before the Court may be necessary for the Court to effectively adjudicate upon the questions involved in the suit.57 This Court has sufficiently dealt with proper and necessary parties referable to 1 Rule 10 of CPC. A necessary party is defined as someone who is indispensable to the suit and without whom the suit cannot effectively proceed. A proper party, on the other hand, is a party who has an interest in the adjudication of the suit though they may not be a person in whose favour or against whom a decree ought to be made.58 This Court has further held that a party would not become a necessary party merely because she has an interest in the correct solution of the question involved. She would be a necessary party only when she would be bound by the result of the action and has a direct or a legal interest in the proceeding.59 In view of the s of this Court in Competition Commission of India (supra) and Dabholkar (supra), a statutory authority would have a legal interest in appeals against s made by it in discharge of its regulatory duty. 33. In view of the above discussion, the following principles emerge: a. An authority (either a judicial or quasi-judicial authority) must not be impleaded in an appeal against its if the was issued solely in exercise of its “adjudicatory function”; b. An authority must be impleaded as a respondent in the appeal against its if it was issued in exercise of its regulatory role since the authority would have a vital interest in ensuring the protection of public interest; and c. An authority may be impleaded as a respondent in the appeal against its where its presence is necessary for the effective 57 1 Rule 10(2): “Court may strike out or add parties.- The Court may at any stage of the proceedings, either upon or without the application of either party, and on such terms as may appear to the Court to be just, that the name of any party improperly joined, whether as plaintiff or defendant, be struck out, and that the name of any person who ought to have been joined, whether as plaintiff or defendant, or whose presence before the Court may be necessary in to enable the Court effectually and completely to adjudicate upon and settle all the questions involved in the suit, be added.