In such an exceptional situation, the court can deviate from the appointment procedure provided in the agreement on the basis of material that indicates that the named arbitrator is not likely to act independently or impartially. It must also record the reasons for the same.60 The following principles laid down in Indian Oil Corporation (supra) summarise the position: “48. In the light of the above discussion, the scope of Section 11 of the Act containing the scheme of appointment of arbitrators may be summarised thus: … (vi) The Chief Justice or his designate while exercising power under sub-section (6) of Section 11 shall endeavour to give effect to the appointment procedure prescribed in the arbitration clause. (vii) If circumstances exist, giving rise to justifiable doubts as to the independence and impartiality of the person nominated, or if other circumstances warrant appointment of an independent arbitrator by ignoring the procedure 58 Northern Railway Administration, Ministry of Railway, New Delhi v. Patel Engineering Company (2008) 10 SCC 240, paras 12-14; North Eastern Railway (supra), paras 5-8. 59 Indian Oil Corporation (supra), para 45. Also see Ace Pipeline Contracts (P) Ltd. v. Bharat Petroleum Corpn. Ltd. (2007) 5 SCC 304, para 20; Uttar Pradesh State Bridge Corporation (supra), para 16. 60 See Denel (Proprietary) Limited v. Bharat Electronics Limited (2010) 6 SCC 394; Bipromasz Bipron Trading SA v. Bharat Electronics Ltd. (2012) 6 SCC 384; Denel (Proprietary) Limited v. Ministry of Defence (2012) 2 SCC 759 as examples of cases where the named arbitrator was not appointed on the basis of material that raised justifiable doubts regarding his independence and impartiality. Also see Rajasthan Small Industries Corporation Limited (supra), para 22 as an example for a case where the Court upheld the appointment of the named arbitrator as there was no material to show that a party has reason to believe that the arbitrator had not acted independently or impartially. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2311 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company prescribed, the Chief Justice or his designate may, for reasons to be recorded ignore the designated arbitrator and appoint someone else.” 32. Therefore, the power of the court to ensure the appointment of a neutral tribunal is not restricted to Section 12(5). Rather, Section 12(5) guides the court when it examines whether an arbitration agreement violates public policy of constituting an independent and impartial tribunal. In such cases, the court will not adhere to the procedure to the agreement, as the same becomes unenforceable, and will proceed to appoint an independent arbitrator. Further, Section 11(8) reifies and concretises the power of the court as it enables the court to undertake an examination on a case-to-case basis, based on the material and the evidence in each case, whether the independence or impartiality of the arbitrator is compromised. 33. What must be noted is that the court exercises the discretion under Section 11(8) while adjudicating on the facts in each case. However, the provision does not, in any manner, impose a blanket prohibition that is justifiable on a public policy consideration against unilateral appointments or appointments from a panel maintained by one party.