The cause of death is noted to be ‘due to hanging’. 3.4 On the same day, First Information Report bearing No. 74/2020 was lodged by the mother of deceased- Smt. Usha Gangurde against the appellant under Section 306 of IPC, alleging that her son committed suicide due to harassment and beating by his wife Rohini on account of demand of money and for transfer of the dwelling house at Shingapur in her name. She further stated that when her son visited her, he also told her that his wife was abusing and beating him, insisting on him not to visit his parents and not to give them money. When her husband- Ashok Gangurde stayed at the house of deceased in May 2019, he told her that accused Rohni was beating and abusing her son for money and transfer of house in her name. Due to these disputes, Rohini was residing separately from the deceased in her parent’s house at Sangali. The complainant further stated that accused was sending vulgar messages on mobile phone [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1035 Rohini Sudarshan Gangurde v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. of the deceased. All this allegedly resulted in commission of suicide by the deceased. 3.5 Apart from the complainant, statement of one of the colleagues of the deceased Ujwala Sawant was also recorded. She referred to an incident dated 17.10.2019 when the appellant visited deceased and created a ruckus in the office by rushing towards him on being abusive. The incidence was corroborated by another colleague Mr. Bajirao Apte. 3.6 On the other hand, as per the statement of Appellant Rohini, her husband was addicted to liquor and there were quarrels between them on that ground. They tried to patch up as the deceased had assured to give up his habit to consume liquor. On this condition they resumed co-habitation. However, the deceased could not overcome the habit and started to drink more. It is argued by the counsel for Appellant that the deceased may have committed suicide out of frustration. 3.7 On 04.11.2020, the police filed the Charge-sheet against appellant under section 306 of IPC. As per the Charge-sheet, the offence took place on 17.02.2020 between 7.00 to 7.30 AM at the dwelling house in Shinganapur, where the accused harassed the deceased on account of money and for transfer of house in her name, inducing the deceased for attempt of suicide. 4. Based on the charge-sheet, the Sessions Case No. 100 of 2021 is registered and pending for adjudication before the Sessions Court at Kolhapur. On 02.12.2021, the Appellant-accused preferred a discharge application before Trial Court. On 24.02.2022, the Trial Court rejected the application. Aggrieved, the appellant preferred Criminal Revision Application before the High Court. The High Court, by the impugned , has dismissed the Revision and thus effectively dismissed the discharge application. Therefore, the Appellant has challenged it before us. 5. The appellant has filed the present appeal on several grounds inter alia, that there is no evidence showing an active role played by Appellant which has abetted the commission of suicide.