The pay scale and even the nomenclature for the two classes were different. 82. In All India Station Masters (supra) and Mohd. Shujat Ali (supra), this Court did not specifically answer the question of whether there could be sub-classification within an integrated class. That issue arose for adjudication before this Court in State of Jammu and Kashmir v. Triloki Nath Khosa.125 The rules provided that only Assistant Engineers who possessed a degree or certain other qualifications were entitled to promotion to the post of Divisional Engineer. However, the pool of Assistant Engineers consisted of both degree and diploma holding graduates. The diploma holders among them challenged the constitutionality of the rule on the ground that it classified within the class of “Assistant Engineers” based on their educational qualification, and such a classification within a class was violative of Article 14. It was argued that if persons recruited from different sources are integrated into one class, they cannot thereafter be classified to permit preferential treatment in favour of some of them. This Court upheld the validity of the rule holding that the classification based on educational qualifications, for the purpose of promotions is not unreasonable. Justice YV Chandrachud (as he 123 [1960] 2 SCR 311 : AIR 1960 SC 384 124 [1975] 1 SCR 449 : (1975) 3 SCC 76 125 [1974] 1 SCR 771 : (1974) 1 SCC 19 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1381 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. then was), writing for the bench held that the classification had a reasonable nexus with the objective of promotions, which was to achieve administrative efficiency in engineering services. 83. It was also submitted that if persons recruited from different sources are integrated into one class, no further classification can be made within that class. In this case, the direct recruits to the post of Assistant Engineer were required to hold a degree in civil engineering. However, the promotees were drawn from the service which was open to both degree and diploma holders (the latter did not require a civil engineering degree). Thus, it was argued that a classification based on educational qualifications is a classification which is based on the source of service. This Court held that though persons were appointed from various sources such as promotion and direct recruitment, they came to be integrated into a common class of Assistant Engineers.126 However, despite this integration into a class, they could be validly classified based on educational qualifications because it was not a classification based on the source of service. 84. In this context, this Court cautioned that the ought not to be interpreted as a justification for minute and microcosmic classifications and that the theory of classification could not be evolved through “imperceptible extensions”, diluting the very substance of the equality guarantee.127 Distinguishing the in Roshan Lal Tandon v. Union of India,128 this Court observed in Triloki Nath (supra) that the issue in the former was whether the yardstick for integration (that is, the source of recruitment) could be used as a yardstick for further integration, which was not the issue in Triloki Nath (supra).