The petitioner elected for pensionary payments under Part III of the First Schedule, which is set out below: “1. The provisions of this Part apply to a Judge who has held any pensionable post under the Union or a State (but is not a member of the Indian Civil Service) and who has not elected to receive the pension payable under Part I. 2. The pension payable to such a Judge shall be— (a) the pension to which he is entitled under the ordinary rules of his service if he had not been appointed a Judge, his service as a Judge being treated as service therein for the purpose of calculating that pension; and (b) a special additional pension of [Rs. 45,016] per annum in respect of each completed year of service for pension: Provided that the pension under clause (a) and the additional pension under (b) together shall in no case exceed [Rs. 15,00,000] per annum in the case of a Chief Justice and [Rs. 13,50,000] per annum in the case of any other Judge.” 7. In terms of clause (2) of Part III, the petitioner has to be paid (a) the pension to which he would be entitled under the Rules of service if he were not appointed as a Judge of the High Court; and (b) a special additional pension of Rs 45,016 per annum in respect of each completed year of service for pension. 1062 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 8. Section 14A of Act 28 of 1954 provides for the addition of a period of ten years with effect from 1 April 2004 for the purpose of pension to the service of a Judge who is appointed as a Judge of the High Court under Article 217(2)(b) of the Constitution. Article 217(2) provides for the qualifications for appointment as a Judge of the High Court.2 Clause (a) provides for the appointment of a person who has held judicial office for a period of at least ten years, while clause (b) provides for an Advocate who has been an Advocate of a High Court for at least ten years. Section 14A provides for an addition of a period of ten years for the purpose of pension to persons who fall under Article 217(2)(b). 9. The issue is as to whether the petitioner would be entitled to the addition of a similar benefit. In this context, it would be necessary to refer to the of this Court in Union of India vs Justice (Retd) Raj Rahul Garg,3 wherein it was held thus: ““30. Acceptance of the submission of the Union of India would discriminate against Judges of the High Court based on the source from which they are drawn. A member of the Bar is entitled to the addition of ten years of service by virtue of the provisions of Section 14A. On the addition of the years of service, their pensionary benefits would be computed on the basis of the last drawn salary as a Judge of the High Court.