Vidyanadam (supra), whereas in the present case, the Legal Notice has been issued after more than six and a half years. The relevant paragraphs from K.S. Vidyanadam (supra) read as under: ‘10.It has been consistently held by the courts in India, following certain early English decisions, that in the case of agreement of sale relating to immovable property, time is not of the essence of the contract unless specifically [2024] 1 S.C.R. 385 Alagammal and Ors. v. Ganesan and Anr. provided to that effect. The period of limitation prescribed by the Limitation Act for filing a suit is three years. From these two circumstances, it does not follow that any and every suit for specific performance of the agreement (which does not provide specifically that time is of the essence of the contract) should be decreed provided it is filed within the period of limitation notwithstanding the time-limits stipulated in the agreement for doing one or the other thing by one or the other party. That would amount to saying that the time-limits prescribed by the parties in the agreement have no significance or value and that they mean nothing. Would it be reasonable to say that because time is not made the essence of the contract, the time-limit(s) specified in the agreement have no relevance and can be ignored with impunity? It would also mean denying the discretion vested in the court by both Sections 10 and 20. As held by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Chand Rani v. Kamal Rani [(1993) 1 SCC 519]: (SCC p. 528, para 25) “… it is clear that in the case of sale of immovable property there is no presumption as to time being the essence of the contract. Even if it is not of the essence of the contract, the Court may infer that it is to be performed in a reasonable time if the conditions are (evident? ): (1) from the express terms of the contract; (2) from the nature of the property; and (3) from the surrounding circumstances, for example, the object of making the contract.” In other words, the court should look at all the relevant circumstances including the time-limit(s) specified in the agreement and determine whether its discretion to grant specific performance should be exercised. Now in the case of urban properties in India, it is well-known that their prices have been going up sharply over the last few decades — particularly after 1973 [ It is a well-known fact that the steep rise in the price of oil following the 1973 Arab-Israeli war set in inflationary trends all over the world. Particularly affected were countries like who import bulk of their requirement of oil.]. In this case, the suit property is the house property situated in Madurai, which is one of 386 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the major cities of Tamil Nadu. The suit agreement was in December 1978 and the six months’ period specified therein for completing the sale expired with 15-6-1979.