The contempt petitions were subsequently directed to be closed by another Coordinate Bench of this Court and to that effect was passed on 19.04.2022. In this , it was, inter-alia, observed:- [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1035 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. Adani Power Rajasthan Ltd. & Anr. “With regard to the first question it may only be observed that by dated 25.02.2022 passed in these contempt petitions, this court, in paragraph no. 9, has observed as under: “The further claim of late payment surcharge, amounting to Rs.2477.70 crores, as per the petitioner, would be a subject matter which the petitioner, if so advised, can claim before the appropriate forum, as the same is not the subject in question in the present proceedings, regarding which no directions have also been issued by this Court.” As such, since according to the respondent(s) the payment made is only towards the principal amount plus 9% interest per annum, we are not inclined to pass any further s as we have already left the question of late payment surcharge open, which the petitioner, if so advised, can claim before the appropriate forum. As regards the second question of the alleged non- compliance, by the respondents after November, 2021 of the and dated 31.08.2020, we would not like to make any observation as there is neither. any material before us with regard to that nor the same was in question when the contempt petitions were filed. As such, we leave this question open to be agitated by the petitioner, of it is so advised. With regard to the last issue raised by the respondents, which is to the effect that the claim of the Rajasthan Utilities against the petitioner outside the dated 31.08.2020 be permitted to be made, we would only like to observe that the same cannot be a matter to be considered in a contempt petition and as such neither we are inclined to grant any such relief nor stop them from raising any such issue, if the respondents are so advised and found entitled under the law. With the aforesaid observations, we close these contempt petitions.” 8. After institution of the present application on 19.07.2022, it was heard from time to time and finally on 24.01.2024, when this matter was 1036 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports called on for hearing, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned senior counsel, appearing for the applicant, sought leave to withdraw the application. Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned senior counsel appearing for the Rajasthan Discoms, however, opposed such prayer and his case was that the present application, having been taken out in an appeal which stood disposed of, did not lie and it should be dismissed on the ground that it is not maintainable. Mr. Dave drew our attention to paragraph 67 of the of the three-Judge Bench, which we have quoted above. The issue of LPS has been dealt with by the three-Judge Bench in the said passage. 9. In the course of hearing, it was projected as an application for clarification, though the same was registered as a miscellaneous application.