Accordingly, preliminary decree shall follow…” RIVAL CONTENTIONS 7. We have heard Mr. Ragenth Basant and Mr. S. Nagamuthu, learned senior counsel for the appellants, and Mr. V. Prabhakar, learned senior counsel for the respondents. We have also perused the written submissions filed by the parties. 8. The appellants submit chiefly, as under : 8.1 The Courts have correctly and concurrently rejected the defence of oral partition; thus, this issue has obtained finality; 8.2 What flows from the above is that the rights under the settlement deed of 1963 have not been given up and were enforceable. However, the High Court holding that this deed was actually a gift deed and not a settlement deed, was a position being 2336 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports not open to the Court. This instrument and the rights flowing therefrom have been admitted in the written statement, wherein a specific defence has been taken stating thus : “The right under the 1963 settlement deed were given up before the Panchayatdars in view of the family arrangements.” 8.3 Once such a defence of family arrangement stood rejected, the plaintiff has to necessarily succeed. This is more so in the view, that the High Court would not ordinarily disturb concurrent findings of fact. 8.4 The settlement deed in favour of Govindammal was executed since she had been looking after the food and shelter needs of her father and uncle and, subsequently, she would perform charitable work therewith. Such documents have been repeatedly held to be settlement deeds and not gift deeds. 8.5 In furtherance of the submissions made the appellants have submitted a compilation of case laws. 9. Mr. V. Prabhakar, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, submitted as under :- 9.1 The nomenclature of the document hardly makes any difference. It is the contents of the document, that are to be taken into consideration. The document although, may be styled as a settlement deed, was, in fact, a gift deed. 9.2 The intention has been manifested by both express language and necessary implication. There is no reservation of power of life estate or vesting rights. 9.3 The appellants have never questioned the nomenclature of the document and that the document in question, was not a gift deed. The term ‘settlement’ is used in terms of settlement of a dispute. 9.4 There is no element of consideration in Ex.A1 (settlement deed) and love and affection are not elements of ‘consideration’ under the law. 9.5 Documentary evidence such as separate pattas, kist, receipts, adangals, drive home the point of oral partition. The exclusive [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2337 Ramachandra Reddy (Dead) Thr. LRs. & Ors. v. Ramulu Ammal (Dead) Thr. LRs. enjoyment of properties under separate pattas and separate sub- divisions cannot be ‘brushed aside.’ OUR VIEW 10. In the above backdrop, the question for us to decide is whether, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court was justified in overturning the concurrent findings of the Trial as well as the First Appellate Court.