While Chief Justice Ray defined equality in opportunity in terms of equality in representation and efficiency of service, Justice Mathew defined it in terms of equality in representation of the backward class. Additionally, Chief Justice Ray identified the beneficiary class as the ‘unrepresented’ class without laying down the basis of the under- representation. Justice Mathew on the other hand, identified the beneficiary class not merely on the basis of under-representation but on the cause for under-representation. It was this difference in the opinions that brooded over the post-NM Thomas era. In the subsequent section, we will discuss the impact of Chief Justice Ray’s reading of the principle of efficiency into Article 16 on the scope of reservation policies. II. The “efficiency” of reservation 53. The expansive reading of the constitutional ideal of equality, noticed above, was not sufficient to realize the full potential of affirmative action. A barrier was raised through Article 335. Article 335 emphasizes that the State shall maintain efficiency of administration while deciding the claims of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in appointments to services.70 This Court, while deciding the following four important questions relating to reservations, placed considerable emphasis on the efficiency of service to limit the scope of reservation: a. Whether reservation is limited to initial appointment; b. If reservation is extendable to promotions, the method to be employed to ascertain seniority; 69 (1976) 2 SCC 310 [Justice Krishna Iyer, 136] 70 335. The claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be taken into consideration consistently with the maintenance of efficiency of service, in the making of appointments to services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of a State. Provided that nothing in this article shall prevent in making of any provision in favour of the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes for relaxation in qualifying marks in any examination or lowering the standards of evaluation, for reservation in matters of promotion to any class or classes of services or posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of a State. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1367 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. c. Whether lowering the standard of evaluation for backward classes violates the equal opportunity principle in Article 16; and d. The permissible method for calculating vacancies to be filled through reservation. The central theme that governed these four issues was whether the expansion of the scope of reservations would dilute the overall efficiency of the service. 54. In General Manager, Southern Railway v. Rangachari,71 the issue was whether Article 16(4) permits reservations in promotions. Writing for the majority of the Constitution Bench, Justice Gajendragadkar observed that though reservations in promotions are detrimental to “efficiency”, a reading of Article 16(4) to include reservations in promotions would further substantive equality72: “27. It is true that in providing for the reservation of appointments or posts under Article 16(4) the State has to take into consideration the claims of the members of the backward classes consistently with the maintenance of the efficiency of administration.