The learned Solicitor General relied on the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of State of Bihar v. Union of India and Another (supra). In the said case, the State of Bihar had filed 9 suits against the Union of India who was the first defendant in all of the said suits. Whereas in 6 suits, the second defendant was Hindustan Steel Limited and in 3 others, the second defendant was Indian Iron and Steel Company Limited. The cause of action in all the said suits was that “due to the negligence or deliberate action of the servants of both defendants, there was a shortage in the delivery of iron and steel material ed by the plaintiff to various sites in the State of Bihar in connection with the construction work of the Gandak Project”. It will be relevant to refer to the following observations made in the said : “3. Clauses (a), (b) and (c) of the article specify the parties who can appear as disputants before this Court. Under clause (a) it is the Government of India and one or more States; under clause (b) it is the Government of India and one or more States on one side and one or more other States on the other, while under clause (c) the parties can be two or more States without the Government of India being involved in the dispute. The specification of the parties is not of an inclusive kind. The express words of clauses (a), (b) and (c) exclude the idea of a private citizen, a firm or a corporation figuring as disputant either alone or even along with a State or with the Government of India in the category of a party to the dispute. There is no scope for suggesting that a private citizen, a firm or a corporation can be arrayed as a party by itself on one side and one or more States including the Government of India on the other. Nor is there anything in the article which suggests a claim being made by or preferred against a private party jointly or in the alternative with a State or the Government of India. The framers of the Constitution appear not to have contemplated the case of a dispute in which a private citizen, a firm or a corporation is in any way involved as a fit subject for [2024] 7 S.C.R. 693 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India adjudication by this Court under its exclusive original jurisdiction conferred by Article 131. ………….. 9. So far as the proceedings of the Joint Committee on Indian Constitutional Reform and the report of the Committee on the same are concerned, they make it clear that the object of conferring exclusive original jurisdiction on the Federal Court was that the disputes of the kinds specified between the Federation and the Provinces as the constituent units of the Federation, should not be left to be decided by courts of law of a particular unit but be adjudicated upon only by the highest tribunal in the land which would be beyond the influence of any one constituent unit.