Parliament, in its wisdom, has accepted what the Law Commission recommended. Resultantly, what the statute prohibits, cannot be permitted by the Court. If permitted, the Court would be acting contrary to law. What the Parliament has done, the Court cannot undo unless the law enacted by the Parliament is declared ultra vires. The vires of the Explanation not being under challenge during more than four decades of its existence, it is not for the Court to ignore the Explanation. 91. It is worthwhile to also note at this stage the decision dated 3rd November, 2020 in Shri Ram Sahu and others v. Vinod Kumar Rawat.43 Upon consideration of the decisions in Moran Mar Basselios Catholics (supra), Haridas Das (supra), Kamal Sengupta (supra), etc., this Court speaking through the Hon’ble presiding Judge of the said Division Bench was of the opinion that the court of review has a limited jurisdiction, it cannot overstep such jurisdiction and has to strictly adhere to the grounds mentioned in Rule 1 of XLVII. It is a pity that the respondent landowners did not cite the aforesaid decision before the Hon’ble presiding Judge where the law has been correctly laid down by His Lordship. 92. Concededly, the Constitutional courts have inherent powers and this Court is also vested by Article 142 of the Constitution with powers to pass such decree or make such as is necessary to do complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it. 93. Insofar as inherent powers are concerned, it has been held by this Court in Indian Bank v. Satyam Fibres 44 that: 43 [2020] 11 SCR 865 : (2021) 13 SCC 1 44 [1996] Supp. 4 SCR 464 : (1996) 5 SCC 550 996 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “22. The judiciary in India also possesses inherent power, specially under Section 151 CPC, to recall its or if it is obtained by fraud on court. In the case of fraud on a party to the suit or proceedings, the court may direct the affected party to file a separate suit for setting aside the decree obtained by fraud. Inherent powers are powers which are resident in all courts, especially of superior jurisdiction. These powers spring not from legislation but from the nature and the constitution of the tribunals or courts themselves so as to enable them to maintain their dignity, secure obedience to its process and rules, protect its officers from indignity and wrong and to punish unseemly behaviour. This power is necessary for the ly administration of the court’s business.” 94. A superior court, in exercise of its inherent power, is authorized to do such justice that the cause before it demands. Upon satisfaction being reached by a court that a mistake has been committed by it, which is gross and palpable, it is not the law that the mistake has to be corrected by exercising the power of review only. Such power can be exercised, only if the person aggrieved by the or decree applies therefor.