611 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. of the purpose of being so employed.251 The Manual also describes “non-habitual prisoners of good character” as someone who “by social status, education and habit of life have been accustomed to a superior mode of living”. Conversely, habitual prisoners are accustomed to an inferior mode of living.252 The Odisha Manual and Rajasthan Manual also prohibit employment on extramural work of “Prisoners who have shown, or are likely to have, a strong inclination to escape or are members of a wandering or criminal tribe”. The Odisha Rules253 and Tamil Nadu Rules254 prescribe the separation of habitual offenders from other prisoners. The Maharashtra Rules state that “Habitual women prisoners; prostitutes and procuress and young women prisoners shall be segregated.”255 175. The tendency to treat members of denotified tribes as habitual to crime or having bad character reinforces a stereotype, which excludes them from meaningful participation in social life. When such stereotypes become a part of the legal framework, they legitimize discrimination against these communities. Members of the denotified tribes have faced the brunt of colonial caste-based undertones of discriminating against them, and the prison Manuals are reaffirming the same discrimination. Discrimination against denotified tribes is prohibited under the ground of “caste” in Article 15(1), as the colonial regime considered them as belonging to separate hereditary castes. (iv) Whether a “practice” of untouchability? 176. At the risk of repetition, we must reproduce some of the impugned provisions. Rule 289(g) of the Uttar Pradesh Manual provides: “A convict sentenced to simple imprisonment,… shall not be called upon to perform duties of a degrading or menial character unless he belongs to a class or community accustomed to perform such duties; but may be required to carry water for his own use provided he belongs to the class of society the members of which are accustomed to perform such duties in their own homes.” Rule 158 states: “Remission to convicts on scavenging duty - Subject to good 251 Rule 448, Andhra Pradesh Manual 1979 252 Rule 1036, Andhra Pradesh Manual 1979 253 Rule 4, Odisha Rules 2020 254 Rule 214, Tamil Nadu Prison Rules 1983 255 Chapter XLI, Section II: Rule 3, Maharashtra Rules 612 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports work and conduct in jail, convicts of the scavenger class working as scavengers in jails…” 177. Rule 694 of West Bengal Manual provides: “… Interference with genuine religious practices or caste prejudices of prisoners should be avoided”. Rule 741 states: “Food shall be cooked and carried to the cells by prisoner-cooks of suitable caste, under the superintendence of a jail officer…” Rule 793 provides: “The barber should belong to the A class. Sweepers should be chosen from the Mether or Hari caste, also from the Chandal or other castes, if by the custom of the district they perform similar work when free, or from any caste if the prisoner volunteers to do the work.” Rule 1117 states: “Any prisoner in a jail who is of so high a caste that he cannot eat food cooked by the existing cooks shall be appointed a cook and be made to cook for the full complement of men.” 178.