Recovery of certain dues as arrears of land revenue (1) Where any sum is recoverable from a defaulter – (a) by the State Governemnt, such officer as it may, by notificaitaon, appoint in this behalf; (b) by a Corporation or a Government company, the Managing Director thereof, shall determine the sum due from the defaulter. (2) The Officer or the Managing Director, as the case may be, referred to in sub-section (1), shall send a certificate to the Collector mentioning the sum due from the defaulter and requesting that such sum together with the cost of proceedings be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue. (3) A certificate sent under sub-section (2) shall be conclusive proof of the matters stated therein and the Collector, on receipt of such certificate, shall proceed to recover the amount stated therein as an arrear of land revenue. (4) No civil court shall have jurisdiction – (a) to entertain or adjudicate upon any case; or (b) to adjudicate upon or proceed with any pending case; 248 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports relating to the recovery of any sum due as aforesaid from the defaulter. The proceedings relating to the recoery of the sums due from the defaulters, pending at the commencement of this Act in any civil court, shall abate.” (emphasis supplied) 17. It will be clear from Section 32-G of the State Financial Corporations Act that the Section confers a right of recovery on the financial corporation, without prejudice to any other mode of recovery which includes the right to file a suit. The conferment of such a right to recover an ‘amount due’ as arrears of land revenue, notwithstanding any other remedy, is for a public purpose and in public interest. 18. At this point, we deem it appropriate to refer to a passage from Salmond on Jurisprudence, 12th Edition, on the concepts of “Right” and “Power” [Page 224, 229 & 230]: “42. Legal rights in a wider sense of the term We must now consider the wider use of the term, according to which rights, do not necessarily correspond with duties. In this generic sense, a legal right may be defined as any advantage or benefit conferred upon a person by a rule of law. Of rights in this sense there are four distinct kinds. These are (1) Rights (in the strict sense), (2) Liberties, (3) Powers, and (4) Immunities. Each of these has its correlative, namely (1) Duties, (2) No-Rights, (3) Liabilities, and (4) Disabilities. A debt is not the same thing as a right of action for its recovery. A former is the right in the strict and proper sense, corresponding to the duty of the debtor to pay; the latter is a legal power, corresponding to the liability of the debtor to be sued. That the two are distinct appears from the fact that the right of action may be destroyed (as by prescription) while the debt remains A power may be defined as ability conferred upon a person by the law to alter, by his own will directed to that end, the rights, duties, liabilities or other legal relations, either of himself or of other persons.