These observations have been repeated in other cases. 151. What is true and applicable for men of commerce and business may not be equally true and apply in case of laymen and to those who are not fully aware of the effect of an arbitration clause or had little option but to sign on the standard form contract. Broad or narrow interpretations of an arbitration agreement can, to a great extent, effect coverage of a retroactive arbitration agreement. Pro-arbitration broad interpretation, normally applied to international instruments, and commercial transactions is based upon the approach that the arbitration clause should be considered as per the true contractual language and what it says, but in case of doubt as to whether related or close disputes in the course of parties’ business 3 [2018] 4 SCR 826 : (2018) 6 SCC 534 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 991 Tarun Dhameja v. Sunil Dhameja & Anr. relationship is covered by the clause, the assumption is that such disputes are encompassed by the agreement. The restrictive interpretation approach on the other hand states that in case of doubt the disputes shall not be treated as covered by the clause. Narrow approach is based on the reason that the arbitration should be viewed as an exception to the court or judicial system. The third approach is to avoid either broad or restrictive interpretation and instead the intention of the parties as to scope of the clause is understood by considering the strict language and circumstance of the case in hand. Terms like “all”, “any”, “in respect of”, “arising out of”, etc. can expand the scope and ambit of the arbitration clause. Connected and incidental matters, unless the arbitration clause suggests to the contrary, would normally be covered. 152. Which approach as to interpretation of an arbitration agreement should be adopted in a particular case would depend upon various factors including the language, the parties, nature of relationship, the factual background in which the arbitration agreement was entered, etc. In case of pure commercial disputes, more appropriate principle of interpretation would be the one of liberal construction as there is a presumption in favour of one-stop adjudication.” The first portion of the arbitration clause is clear and states that, at any time during the continuance of the partnership or after the retirement of any partner, if any dispute or difference arises between the partners or their respective heirs or anyone claiming from them, the same shall be referred to arbitration. Therefore, the legal representatives or anyone claiming through a partner is entitled to invoke the arbitration clause. In the present case, the legal representative of the deceased partner, Yeshwant Boolani, invoked the arbitration clause. Reliance placed on the second portion of the arbitration clause, which states that if any dispute arises, the arbitration shall be optional and the Arbitrator will be appointed by the partners with their mutual consent, is not to be read in isolation but in the context of the earlier portion of the arbitration clause. This means that the arbitration clause can be invoked by an aggrieved party who wants to take recourse to arbitration.