Consequently, the arbitral [2024] 12 S.C.R. 197 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad proceedings stood commenced sometime in middle of April, 2002. The application under Section 11(5) of the Act is an application or a petition in relation to arbitral proceedings which have commenced with the issuance of a request for the reference of disputes to arbitration (Section 2(b) of the Limitation Act). Since Limitation Act, 1963 specifically applies to arbitrations, Section 5 of the Limitation Act would also apply to an application/petition under Section 11 (5) of the Limitation Act. Any application (other than under the provisions of 21 of CPC) may be admitted after the prescribed period, if the applicant satisfies the Court that he had sufficient cause for not preferring or making the application within such period. In my view, therefore, Section 5 of the Limitation Act would apply to, and be available to the petitioner filing an application/petition under Section 11 (5) of the Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 120. The necessary pre-condition for availing the remedy under Section 5 of the Limitation Act is that the applicant must satisfy the court that there was a sufficient cause which prevented him from instituting the application within the prescribed time period. Although it is a general practice that a formal application under Section 5 of the Limitation Act has to be filed by the applicant, yet no such requirement can be gathered from a bare reading of the statute. Thus, even in the absence of a formal application, a court or tribunal may consider exercising its discretion under Section 5 of the Limitation Act subject to the applicant assigning sufficient cause for condoning the delay. A similar view was taken by this Court in Sesh Nath Singh v. Baidyabati Sheoraphuli Coop. Bank Ltd. reported in (2021) 7 SCC 313 wherein it was observed thus: “63. Section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 does not speak of any application. The Section enables the Court to admit an application or appeal if the applicant or the appellant, as the case may be, satisfies the Court that he had sufficient cause for not making the application and/or preferring the appeal, within the time prescribed. Although, it is the general practice to make a formal application under Section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963, in to enable 198 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Court or Tribunal to weigh the sufficiency of the cause for the inability of the appellant/applicant to approach the Court/Tribunal within the time prescribed by limitation, there is no bar to exercise by the Court/Tribunal of its discretion to condone delay, in the absence of a formal application. 64. A plain reading of Section 5 of the Limitation Act makes it amply clear that, it is not mandatory to file an application in writing before relief can be granted under the said section. Had such an application been mandatory, Section 5 of the Limitation Act would have expressly provided so. Section 5 would then have read that the Court might condone delay beyond the time prescribed by limitation for filing an application or appeal, if on consideration of the application of the appellant or the applicant, as the case may be, for condonation of delay, the Court is satisfied that the appellant/applicant had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal or making the application within such period.” (Emphasis supplied) 121.