However, even from the majority view, it appears that in the facts and circumstances of the said case, the majority found that quite apart the petitioner placing any material on record to discharge the burden, there was not even a single statement on affidavit with regard to discrimination. 472 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 40. In the case of D.S. Reddy v. Chancellor, Osmania University and Others,14 the Constitution Bench of this Court was considering the constitutional validity of Section 5 of the Osmania University (Second Amendment) Act, 1966 which introduced Section 13A into the original Act. The challenge of the petitioner therein was that, by virtue of Section 13A, a differentiation was made between the appellant who was a Vice-Chancellor on the date of the commencement of the said Act and other persons who were to be appointed Vice-Chancellors thereafter. It was argued that the differentiation was without any basis and that such a classification did not have any reasonable relation to the main object of the legislation. 41. It will be relevant to refer to the observations of the Constitution Bench in the said case, which read thus: “There can be no controversy that Section 13-A, introduced by Section 5 of the Second Amendment Act, deals only with the appellant. In fact, the stand taken on behalf of the respondents in the counter affidavit filed before the High Court, was to the effect that the legislature had chosen to treat the Vice-Chancellor holding office at the time of the commencement of the Second Amendment Act, as a class by himself and with a view to enable the Chancellor to make fresh appointments, Section 13-A of the Act was enacted. Therefore, it is clear that Section 13-A applies only to the appellant. Though, no doubt, it has been stated, on behalf of the respondents, that similar provisions were incorporated, at about the same time, in two other Acts, relating to two other Universities viz. the Andhra University and the Sri Venkateswara University, and though this circumstance has also been taken into account by the learned Judges of the High Court, in our opinion, those provisions have no bearing in considering the attack levelled by the appellant on Section 13-A of the Act. This is a clear case where the statute itself directs its provisions by enacting Section 13-A, against one 14 [1967] 2 SCR 214 : 1966 INSC 259 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 473 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another individual viz. the appellant; and before it can be sustained as valid, this Court must be satisfied that there is a reasonable basis for grouping the appellant as a class by himself and that such reasonable basis must appear either in the statute itself or must be deducible from other surrounding circumstances according to learned Counsel for the appellant, all Vice- Chancellors of the Osmania University come under one group and can be classified only as one unit and there is absolutely no justification for grouping the appellant under one class and the Vice-Chancellors to be appointed in future under a separate class.