[Paras 69, 71] Scheme and mechanism of s.6A Citizenship Act, 1955 – s.6A – Scheme and mechanism of s.6A – Stated. (per Pardiwala, J.) [Paras 91-102] Legislative competence to enact s.6A Citizenship Act, 1955 – s.6A – Legislative competence to enact s.6A: Held: (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) Art. 11 gives the Parliament broad powers [2024] 10 S.C.R. 981 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 to enact laws on citizenship, notwithstanding any inconsistencies with any other provision in Part II of the Constitution – It grants the Parliament the power to make ‘any’ provision regarding citizenship – Thus, the Parliament indeed possesses the legislative power to enact laws concerning citizenship and that this authority is not restricted by the provisions of Part II of the Constitution. [Para 140-142] – (per Pardiwala, J.) (Concurring) [Para 11, 15] Object sought to be achieved by the prescription of two separate cut-off dates Citizenship Act, 1955 – s.6A – Special provisions as to citizenship of persons covered by the Assam Accord – Object sought to be achieved by the prescription of two separate cut-off dates-01.01.1966 and 24.03.1971: Held: (per Pardiwala, J.) (Dissenting) s.6A was enacted to give statutory effect to the political settlement arrived at in the form of Assam Accord – Object sought to be achieved by the prescription of two separate cut-off dates was adopting a humanitarian approach towards the immigrant population in Assam; and on the other, ensuring that large scale immigration does not result into the loss of culture, economy and the political rights of the people of Assam – Purpose behind the introduction of an additional cut-off date of 01.01.1966 and the corresponding concept of detection and deletion from the electoral rolls was to assuage the apprehensions of the protesting students – Intention of the legislature was to confer citizenship on the immigrants in a graded manner – To say that the sole object sought to be achieved by s.6A was to confer benefits on the immigrants alone would amount to taking a reductive view of the historical context in which the provision was enacted. [Paras 107-120] Onus of detection of foreigners of the 1966-71 stream lies on the State Citizenship Act, 1955 – s.6A – Special provisions as to citizenship of persons covered by the Assam Accord – Onus of detection of foreigners of the 1966-71 stream, if lies on the State: Held: (per Pardiwala, J.) (Dissenting) No provision which prescribes or provides for self- declaration/registration or voluntary detection as a foreigner within a given time period for availing 982 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the benefit of citizenship by registration u/s.6A (3) – Mechanism of implementation of s.6A is set into motion with the first step of reference of a suspected foreigner to the foreigner’s tribunal – As soon as a reference is made to the tribunal, the onus is on the suspected person to either establish that he or she is an Indian citizen, or to establish that he or she is an immigrant eligible to avail the benefit available u/s.6A – It appears as illogically unique that a person wanting to avail the benefit of citizenship by registration u/s.6A(3) has to await identification as a suspicious immigrant and subsequent reference to the tribunal – No plausible reason why it should be impermissible for him or her to set the mechanism of s.6A into motion by voluntarily choosing to get detected as a foreigner of the class specified in s.6A, or to make an application for conferment of citizenship – Statutory scheme of s.6A(3), which does not envisage voluntary detection at the option of the immigrant, marks a clear departure, for no intelligible reason, from the prevalent scheme noticed under the rest of the Citizenship Act – Thus, there is no discernible reason why the mechanism prescribed u/s.6A does not require, or at the very least, permit an immigrant to come forward and make an application to avail the benefit.