The parties are duty bound to act in accordance with common sense. It is axiomatic that a party should obey both the letter and the spirit of a court , and it is neither open for the parties to adopt a myopic and blinkered view of such decision nor any such interpretation or view that sub-serves their own interests. It is ultimately the purpose for which the was granted that will be the lodestar in guiding the parties as to the true effect of the and determination of the court. 1732 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 206. If at all the parties are in doubts over the and of a court, the correct approach is to prefer a miscellaneous application for seeking clarification rather than proceeding to presume a self-serving interpretation of the decision. At this stage, we may also explain the correct approach to be adopted by the other courts and forums where a party seeks to espouse a cause based on its own understanding or interpretation of a decision of an higher authority. In such situations, the courts or forums should neither aid the parties in their attempt to reinterpret the decision of a higher court nor should they embark on an inquisitorial exercise of their own in to derive the scope or intent of the in question. The courts and tribunals should not conflate a decision of a higher court that declares a law with a decision that declares the inter-se rights of a parties, the former only operates as a precedent and thus, it is open for the lower courts to apply their minds to assess whether the same is applicable to the issues before it or what law has been laid down therein. However, the latter not only has precedential value but also carries with it the weight of determination of the issues directly involved between the very parties before it, the subject-matter itself and by extension the entire cause of action. Since such decisions have directly decided or given a finding on the inter-se rights and issues of the same parties that are before it and as such has to a certain extent a direct and palpable effect on the cause of action before it, in such circumstances, the courts and tribunals should refrain from interpreting or examining the scope or effect of such decisions on their own as the same would amount to relitigating the very same issues and rather should relegate the parties to seek clarification from the court that passed the and adjourn further proceedings sine die. 207. We further take note of the fact that both the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee made several attempts to prevent the effective implementation of the judgement and dated 21.09.2023 passed by this Court and thereby thwart the attempts of the Bank to hand over the physical possession and the original title deeds of the Secured Asset to the petitioner. (i) First, both the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee addressed a letter to the MIDC in whose industrial area the Secured Asset was situated asking them not to entertain any request from the Bank or the petitioner regarding the transfer of the leasehold rights of the Secured Asset in favour of the petitioner.