of the Constitution and thus, the Explanation(s) to Rule 38 of the MCR, 2016 and Rule 45 of the MCDR, 2017 is liable to be struck down. i. Whether the manner or mechanism of computation of royalty under the MCR, 2016 and MCDR, 2017 is manifestly arbitrary? 46. In M.P. Oil Extraction & Anr. v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors, reported in (1997) 7 SCC 592, this Court held that policy decisions are the domain of the executive authority of the State and that the courts should not embark on the unchartered ocean of public policy and should not question the efficacy or otherwise of such policy so long the same does not offend any provision of the stature or the Constitution of India. It further observed that unless the policy framed is absolutely capricious or not informed by reasons, the court cannot and should not outstep its limit and tinker with the policy decision of the executive functionary of the State. The relevant observations read as under: - "41. After giving our careful consideration to the facts and circumstances of the case and to the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties, it appears to us that the Industrial Policy of 1979 which was subsequently revised from time to time cannot be held to be arbitrary and based on no reason whatsoever but founded on mere ipse dixit of the State Government of M.P. The executive authority of the State must be held to be within its competence to frame a policy for the administration of the State. Unless the policy framed is absolutely capricious and, not being informed by any reason whatsoever, can be clearly held to be arbitrary and founded on mere ipse dixit of the executive functionaries thereby offending Article 14 of the Constitution or such policy offends other constitutional provisions or comes into conflict with any statutory provision, the Court cannot and should not outstep its limit and tinker with the policy decision of the executive functionary of the State. This Court, in no uncertain terms, has sounded a note of caution by indicating that policy decision is in the domain of the executive authority of the State and the Court should not embark on the unchartered ocean of public policy 92 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and should not question the efficacy or otherwise of such policy so long the same does not offend any provision of the stature or the Constitution of India. The supremacy of each of the three organs of the State i.e. legislature, executive and judiciary in their respective fields of operation needs to be emphasised. The power of judicial review of the executive and legislative action must be kept within the bounds of constitutional scheme so that there may not be any occasion to entertain misgivings about the role of judiciary in outstepping its limit by unwarranted judicial activism being very often talked of in these days. The democratic set-up to which the polity is so deeply committed cannot function properly unless each of the three organs appreciate the need for mutual respect and supremacy in their respective fields.” (Emphasis supplied) 47.