EVMs offer significant advantages. They have effectively eliminated booth capturing by restricting the rate of vote casting to 4 votes per minute, thereby prolonging the time needed and thus check insertion of bogus votes. EVMs have eliminated invalid votes, which were a major issue with paper ballots and had often sparked disputes during the counting process. Furthermore, EVMs reduce paper usage and alleviate logistical challenges. Finally, they provide administrative convenience by expediting the counting process and minimizing errors. 73. ECI has been categoric that the glass window on the VVPAT has not undergone any change. The term used in Rule 49M is ‘transparent 448 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports window’. The tinted glass used on the VVPAT printer is to maintain secrecy and prevent anyone else from viewing the VVPAT slips. The voter in the voting compartment who is viewing the glass from the top can have clear view of the slip for 7 seconds. Marginal tint on the VVPAT glass window, or the fact that the cutting and dropping of the slip from the roll in to the drop box of the printer is not visible, does not violate Rule 49M. The words ‘before such slips get cut’ in the proviso to Rule 49M(3) indicate and require that the slip should be cut from the roll after the elector has seen the print through the glass window. Use of glass window prevents damage, smudging, attempt to deface or physically access the VVPAT slip. The rule ensures that the voter is able to see the slip along with the serial number with name of the candidate and the symbol for whom they have voted. 74. Similarly, we would reject the submission that any elector should be liberally permitted as a routine to ask for verification of vote. Rule 49MA permits the elector to raise a complaint if she/he is of the view that the VVPAT paper slip did not depict the correct candidate/ political party she/he voted. However, whenever a challenge is made, the voting process must be halted. An overly liberal approach could cause confusion and delay – hindering the election process and dissuading others from casting their votes.25 ECI has stated that only 26 such requests in terms of Rule 49MA were received, and in all cases, the allegation was found to be incorrect. 75. We have conducted an in-detail review of the administrative and technical safeguards of the EVM mechanism. Our discussion aims to address the uncertainties and provide assurance regarding the integrity of the electoral process. A voting mechanism must uphold and adhere to the principles of security, accountability, and accuracy. An overcomplex voting system may engender doubt and uncertainty, thereby easing the chances of manipulation. In our considered opinion, the EVMs are simple, secure and user-friendly. The voters, candidates and their representatives, and the officials of the ECI are aware of the nitty-gritty of the EVM system. They also check and ensure righteousness and integrity. Moreover, the 25 However, we refrain from making any comments on the application of Section 177 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.