No.403 of 2022 reiterated the contention that materials not relied upon by the State of Gujarat while deciding on the question of remission for respondent Nos.3 to 13 cannot be used to justify the decision retrospectively. Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in OPTO Circuit India Ltd. vs. Axis Bank, (2021) 6 SCC 707 (“OPTO Circuit”). That contrary to the submission of the learned ASG, the State has to consider the gravity of the offence while deciding whether to grant remission or not. That in cases, where the crimes are of a much less serious nature, remission has not been granted owing to the perceived seriousness of the offences by the State but in these cases of gruesome crime, remission has been simply granted. Further, there is a need to consider the fact that the victim and the convicts live in close proximity while granting remission, which fact has been considered in other cases but not in the impugned remission s. Points for consideration: 21. Having heard learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the respective petitioners as well as learned ASG, learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the respondents, the following points would arise for our consideration:- 1) Whether the petition filed by one of the victims inWrit Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022 under Article 32 of the Constitution is maintainable? 2) Whether the writ petitions filed as Public Interest Litigation (PIL) assailing the impugned s of remission dated 10.08.2022 are maintainable? 3) Whether the Government of the State of Gujarat was competent to pass the impugned s of remission? 4) Whether the impugned s of remission passed by the respondent-State of Gujarat in favour of respondent Nos.3 to 13 are in accordance with law? 5) What ? The aforesaid points shall be considered in seriatim. A detailed narration of facts and contentions would not call for reiteration at this stage. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 819 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others Re: Point No.1:“Whether the petition filed by one of the victims in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022under Article 32 of the Constitution is maintainable?” 22. Sri Rishi Malhotra, learned counsel for respondent No.3, while placing reliance on the decisions of this Court, made a specific plea regarding maintainability of Writ Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022 filed by the victim by contending that the said petitioner had filed a review petition challenging the dated 13.05.2022 passed in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.135 of 2022 and the same was dismissed. Therefore, the only remedy open to the petitioner was to file a curative petition in terms of the of this Court in Rupa Ashok Hurrah and not challenging the remission s by filing a fresh writ petition. We shall answer this contention in detail while considering point No.3. 22.1. One of the contentions raised by learned Senior Counsel, Sri S. Guru Krishna Kumar appearing for one of the private respondents was that the petitioner inWrit Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022, Bilkis Bano, ought to have challenged the s of remission before the Gujarat High Court by filing a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution rather than invoking Article 32 of the Constitution before this Court.