It was alleged that the appellant had signed the said report. 3. A first information report was registered on 27th April 2017 in the Police Station, Gurugram, alleging the commission of an offence punishable under Section 23 of the Pre-Conception and Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act, 1994 (for short, ‘the Act of 1994’). It was followed by a complaint filed by the District Appropriate Authority under Section 28(1) of the Act of 1994 before the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Gurugram, alleging the commission of punishable offences against the appellant, the said Dhanpati and Anju. The allegation against the appellant and the co- accused was of indulging in the illegal activity of sex determination of a foetus by using ultrasound. 4. The appellant filed a petition for quashing the complaint and the FIR before the High Court. By the impugned , the High Court declined to quash both the complaint and FIR. SUBMISSIONS 5. Learned counsel appearing for the appellant invited our attention to the provisions of the 1994 Act. He pointed out a notification issued on 7th November 2013 by the Government of Haryana under sub- section (2) read with clause (b) of sub-section (3) of Section 17 of the 1994 Act by which Appropriate Authorities were constituted for each District consisting of Civil Surgeon, District Programme Officer, Women and Child Development Department and District Attorney. He submitted that the search /raid purportedly conducted under the s of the Appropriate Authority of the District under Section 30(1) of the 1994 Act was completely illegal as there was no [2024] 9 S.C.R. 401 Ravinder Kumar v. State of Haryana passed by the Appropriate Authority authorising the conduct of the raid. He submitted that only the Civil Surgeon signed the authorising officers to conduct the raid. But, two other members of the Appropriate Authority did not sign the said . He pointed out an affidavit filed by Dr. Virender Yadav, the Chairman of the District Appropriate Authority-cum-Civil Surgeon, Gurugram. He stated that the Civil Surgeon accepted that he alone constituted the raiding team vide dated 27th April 2017 and issued the authorising the search. He submitted that the so-called raid under Section 30(1) is the only basis of the FIR and the complaint. He submitted that the raid was completely illegal as it was not conducted by the officers authorised by the Appropriate Authority. 6. The learned counsel appearing for the State did not dispute that the appointing officers to conduct the raid was issued and signed only by the Civil Surgeon, the Appropriate Authority’s Chairman. He submitted that as there was an emergency, the Civil Surgeon had to take action. He submitted that the complaint under sub-Section (1) of Section 28 has been filed by an officer authorised by the Appropriate Authority. The decision to file the complaint is made by the Appropriate Authority. The learned counsel appearing for the respondent would, therefore, submit that even if there is a defect in the procedure adopted while appointing the officers to conduct the raid, it does not amount to illegality, but it is a curable irregularity which has been cured by subsequent of the Appropriate Authority to file a complaint.