1 when examined as PW-2 did not speak anything about what she had mentioned in her application and that though the final report was filed as early as on 11.07.2013, respondent no. 1 has filed the application for further investigation only in January, 2020. Though, the trial court held that no further investigation could be ed at the post cognizance stage, we have, as explained above, not proceeded on that reasoning, since that is clearly erroneous. vii. The High Court has not recorded any reason whatsoever and has not set out any legal principle which is relevant and applicable to the facts. All that is said is the Section 311 petition of the respondent no. 1 has been denied on the ground that [2024] 10 S.C.R. 15 K. Vadivel v. K. Shanthi & Ors. she has not filed a petition for further investigation; that denial of relief would cause prejudice to respondent no. 1; that PW-1 has turned hostile and that being a murder case, it is decided to for further investigation. Not one of the legal principles adverted to hereinabove has been considered by the Court. viii. As pointed out hereinabove, the failure to claim further investigation at that stage was not the only basis for the High Court to reject the revision against the dismissal of the Section 311 application. The High Court had given other detailed reasons also like PW-1 and PW-2 not whispering about the additional witnesses, when they deposed in Court. 38. We are convinced that ing the additional charge sheet to be taken on record at this stage pursuant to the further investigation will not be in accordance with law. It will be contrary to the settled principles as laid down by this Court. We have also to satisfy ourselves examined the additional charge sheet placed before us. Primarily, apart from explaining the motive which is already set out in the evidence of PW-2, there is a reference to three of these witnesses named in this application as having come to rescue of the deceased after hearing the noise raised by the deceased. It is now alleged that A-5 tried to prevent the said two witnesses from approaching Kumar and threatened them with the sickle. It is also alleged that at that point these witnesses saw A-1 and A-4 committing overt acts on the deceased. 39. As pointed out earlier, when the application under Section 311 Cr.P.C. was filed on 22.10.2019, the State, in its response and in the arguments before the Court vehemently opposed the application. Even before the High Court in the Revision filed against the dismissal of the application under Section 311 Cr.P.C., the Additional Public Prosecutor appearing for the State had expressly contended that the respondent no. 1 was examined more than five times by the investigating officer and even in her deposition in court had not adverted to any of these aspects. 40. Before the trial court and the High Court in the present set of proceedings concerning the application for further investigation, the State had opposed the prayer contending that the investigation of the case has been done properly and charge-sheet had been duly filed arraigning all the allegedly involved individuals.