[2023] 6 SCR 56 : 2023 SCC Online 592 – referred to. 764 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports List of Acts Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. List of Keywords Exercise of power under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 32 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996; Abandonment of claim; Arbitral proceeding becoming unnecessary and impossible; Express and implied abandonment of claim; Absence in arbitral proceedings; Fixing of date of hearing by Arbitral Tribunal. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.6462 of 2024 From the and dated 03.07.2023 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in ARBP No.472 of 2021 Appearances for Parties Nakul Divan, Sr. Adv., Gaurav Agarwal, Mahesh Agarwal, Rishi Agrawala, Ankur Saigal, Gaurav Mehta, Ms. S. Lakshmi Iyer, Vikrant Shetty, Ms. Vidisha Swarup, Ms. Tansi Fotedar, Ms. Soumil Jhanwar, E. C. Agrawala, Advs. for the Appellants. Shekhar Naphade, Sr. Adv., Vikas Mehta, Farah Hashmi, Ms. Aishwarya Dash, Prashant Pratap, Adith Nair, Vinayak Sharma, Sahil Gandhi, Ruben Vakil, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Abhay S. Oka, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. In this appeal, the issue involved is about the legality and validity of the of termination of the arbitral proceedings under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of Section 32 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short, ‘the Arbitration Act’) passed by the Arbitral Tribunal. FACTUAL ASPECTS 3. A brief reference to the factual aspects will be necessary to appreciate the issue. The first appellant, Dani Wooltex Corporation, is a partnership firm that owned certain land in Mumbai. The first [2024] 6 S.C.R. 765 Dani Wooltex Corporation & Ors. v. Sheil Properties Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. respondent, Sheil Properties (for short, ‘Sheil’), a private limited company, was engaged in real estate development. The second respondent, Marico Industries (for short, ‘Marico’), is also a limited company in the consumer goods business. A part of the first appellant’s property was permitted to be developed by Sheil under the Development Agreement dated 11th August 1993 (for short, ‘the Agreement’). A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was executed by and between the first appellant and Marico, by which the first appellant agreed to sell another portion of its property to Marico. Under the MOU, Marico was given the benefit of a certain quantity of FSI/TDR. Marico issued a public notice inviting objections, to which Sheil submitted an objection and stated that any transaction between the first appellant and Marico would be subject to the Agreement. The dispute between the first appellant and Sheil led Sheil to institute a suit (Suit no.2541 of 2006) for the specific performance of the MOU as modified by the alleged consent terms. The first appellant and Marico were parties to the said suit. Marico also filed a suit (Suit no.2116 of 2011) against the first appellant herein, and Sheil was also made a party defendant to the suit. A consensus was reached amongst the three parties, and a senior Member of the Bar was appointed as the sole Arbitrator.