In any event, it is also urged that the said classification has no relation or nexus to the object of the enactment. …………… In our view, the Vice-Chancellor, who is appointed under the Act, or the Vice-Chancellor who was holding that post on the date of the commencement of the Second Amendment Act, form one single group or class. Even assuming that the classification of these two types of persons as coming under two different groups can be made nevertheless, it is essential that such a classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes the appellant from the Vice-Chancellor appointed under the Act. We are not able to find any such intelligible differentia on the basis of which the classification can be justified. …………….. For the above reasons, we accept the contentions of the learned Counsel for the appellant, and hold that Section 5 of the Second Amendment Act (Act 11 of 1966), introducing Section 13-A in the Act, is discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution and, as such, has to be struck down as unconstitutional. The result is that the appeal is allowed, and the appellant will be entitled to his costs in the appeal, payable by the respondents, here and in the High Court.” [emphasis supplied] 474 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 42. It can thus be seen that the Constitution Bench found that Section 13A was applied only to the appellant therein. The Court further found that the Vice-Chancellor, who was appointed under the said Act or the Vice-Chancellor who was holding that post on the date of the commencement of the Second Amendment Act, formed one single group or class. The Court found that though the classification of these two types of persons as coming under two different groups could be made, however, the same could not be made unless the classification was founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguished the appellant from the Vice-Chancellor appointed under the Act. The Court found that before upholding an enactment applicable to one individual, this Court must be satisfied that there is a reasonable basis for grouping such an individual as a class by himself and that such reasonable basis must appear either in the statute itself or must be deducible from other surrounding circumstances. The Court found that there was no such intelligible differentia on the basis of which such classification could be justified. 43. In the case of S.P. Mittal v. Union of India and Others,15 the Constitution Bench of this Court was considering the provisions of Auroville (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1980. In the said case also, an argument was advanced that a legislation singling out Sri Aurobindo Society amounted to hostile treatment. Dealing with the said argument, speaking for the majority, R.B. Misra, J. observed thus: “163. It was further contended by Mr Venugopal that if the management of the institution had been taken over by the Government on the ground of mismanagement, there could be other institutions where similar situation might be prevailing.