One of the many recognizable inflection points in India is the Budget Speech of 1991 delivered by India’s then Finance Minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh, July 24th, 1991, who whilst paraphrasing Victor Hugo said, “No power on earth can stop an idea whose time has come.” 6.10 The reforms that were to follow have been colloquially termed as Liberalisation, Privatisation and Globalisation. In practice, the country saw the dismantling of licence Raj, some years later an active disinvestment framework and quite openly, an expression of willingness to let globalized market forces signal directions to the economy. Much need not be laboured on this aspect. 204 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6.11 Having seen India’s potential and political commitment to a modern market economy, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) provided assistance leading to macroeconomic stabilization. In the years since, several policies such as import liberalization, unrestricted FDI inflows in some sectors, tax exemptions, promotion of exports, etc. have been adopted which would have seemed antithetical to the very idea and core of Indian economy and societal structure to the most earnest well-wishers of India only some decades ago. 6.12 While the status of health or inequity indicators is not being used as an aid for constitutional interpretation, I must also note that the “LPG policy” of 1991 can also be credited for providing the much needed impetus to the Central and State Governments for fulfilling several goals set out in the Directive Principles of State Policy which had been earlier difficult to achieve. 6.13 The golden thread throughout India’s economic history post- independence has been to focus on a transformative socio- economic growth of the people of India by way of experimentation through various plans, projects and pipe dreams. The mid-1980s was a turning point when the need for innovation, modernisation and concomitant avenues for development ushered in the Reforms of 1991 as the country faced shortages in foreign exchange reserves and foreign debts were mounting and there was a crisis of balance of payments. There has been no looking back since then except to usher in various schemes/ programmes for the welfare of the people which earlier had not really percolated to the deserving and eligible citizens for reasons which are well known. 6.14 It is in the period between the late 1960s and early 1980s that this Court gleaned the thrust to economic policies of the State and sought to provide a judicial imprimatur for the success of the economic policies. Thus, bank nationalisation, road transport nationalisation, amendments to Land Reforms laws, urban land ceiling laws, acquisition of lands, abolition of land tenures etc. were upheld by this Court while at the same time tightening the powers of amendment of the Constitution. This was by the evolution of the basic structure doctrine which found its strong voice in Kesavananda Bharati and [2024] 11 S.C.R. 205 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. perpetrated in Minerva Mills and Waman Rao vs. Union of India, AIR 1981 SC 271 (“Waman Rao”) in the year 1980 and in subsequent decades.