[2024] 12 S.C.R. 1269 Amar Sardar v. The State of West Bengal 3. The appellant was charged with offences under Sections 376, 511, 354 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short “IPC”). The learned Additional District and Sessions Judge, Fast Track, 3rd Court, Howrah by dated 07.01.2019 convicted the appellant herein and sentenced him to rigorous imprisonment for a period of two years with fine of Rs.2,000/- and in default simple imprisonment for a period of one month with regard to Section 354 of the IPC, and also, sentenced him to rigorous imprisonment for a period of seven years with fine of Rs.10,000/- and in default simple imprisonment for a period of three months for the offence punishable under Sections 376 and 511 of the IPC. The sentences are to run concurrently. 4. Being aggrieved by the and sentences imposed by the Fast Track Court, the appellant herein preferred C.R.A. 111/2019. By the impugned , the High Court has dismissed the appellant’s appeal and has sustained the of conviction and sentence passed by the Fast Track Court. Hence, this appeal. 5. Learned counsel for the appellant at the outset submitted that on a reading of the impugned , it is apparent that the High Court has not independently considered the evidence on record. As the High Court was considering an appeal against conviction passed by the Fast Track Court, the High Court ought to have considered the evidence on record independently and passed a one way or the other in the appeal; however, instead a reading of the would indicate that the High Court has simply reaffirmed the conviction and sentence imposed by the Fast Track Court in the absence of any independent reasoning given by the High Court. 6. In this regard, learned counsel for the appellant pointedly drew our attention to the various portions of the and contended that the is erroneous owing to lack of any reasoning. He therefore, submitted that impugned may be set aside and relief may be given to the appellant herein. 7. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent-State supported the impugned and submitted that the High Court was after all sustaining the conviction and sentence imposed by the Fast Track Court. Therefore the High Court has considered whether the Fast Track Court was justified in passing a of conviction and imposing the sentences. The High Court has considered the evidence on record and thereafter analysis of the evidence of the Fast Track 1270 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Court and has rightly dismissed the appeal. There is no merit in this appeal and hence, the same may be dismissed. 8. We have considered the arguments advanced at the bar in light of the impugned and perused the material on record. On a perusal of the impugned , we note that the has been sub-divided into the following sub-topics, namely, the Appeal, the Prosecution, the Defence, the Evidence and Analysis of evidence which is based on the Fast Track Court’s findings in the matter and thereafter the appeal has been dismissed.