18.13 It was also pointed out that under the EP Act, 1986, and the Insecticides Act, 1968, use of herbicide is, anyway, not permitted in the field for cultivation of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11. III. Yield: 18.14 Learned Attorney General contended that in the BRL-I and BRL-II trials, an increase in per-hectare yield by 25-30 per cent has been demonstrated against national check Varuna and zonal check RL1359. Only after the environmental release of DMH-11, significant clarity would emerge from the trials that are conducted by ICAR. Therefore, environmental release is the first step in a long process of evolution of this technology which will lead to even better hybrids in future. 18.15 According to the learned Attorney General, there is proven use and safety of genes used in transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11. The three genes, barnase, barstar and bar have more than twenty years of safe history of being in the food chain in GE rapeseed, a sister crop of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11. The regulatory authorities in the USA, Canada and Australia have allowed the cultivation of GE rapeseed containing the bar, barnase and barstar genes. Between 1996 – 2003, parental lines and hybrids were released for cultivation in Canada, USA and Australia. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2039 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 18.16 It was submitted that under Rule 4 of the 1989 Rules, the following bodies namely, GEAC, Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee (RDAC), RCGM, IBSC and SBCC have been constituted and the applicable guidelines have been enumerated above. 18.17 Emphasising that the RCGM and GEAC together examine the safety assessment data submitted by the applicant at every step of the regulatory process, the learned Attorney General noted that the regulatory mechanism is completely transparent. All the data, reports, decisions etc. are made publicly available. Therefore, the conditional approval for environmental release prior to commercial release is subject to necessary regulatory and technical oversight and the approval has been granted after following detailed and exhaustive procedure in law, including after considering biosafety data and rigorous scrutiny over a period of twelve years. GEAC considered the application for environmental release only when the applicant had completed three years of BRL Trials (two years of BRL-I trials and one year of BRL-II trials) and a 3251 page dossier containing results of all the biosafety studies was submitted to GEAC and its sub-committees. As per the public consultation process prescribed in the Risk Analysis Framework 2016, the AFES Report was uploaded on the official website of MoEF&CC for inviting comments from 05.09.2016 to 05.10.2016 and about twenty-nine persons personally inspected the complete dossier at the premises and provided their comments. 18.18 It was submitted that in fact, the permission for environment release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 is granted for following limited purpose: i. To use the events of environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 for developing new parental lines and hybrids under the supervision of ICAR. ii. To undertake seed production of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 and its testing as per existing ICAR guidelines and other extant rules/regulations prior to its commercial release.