The statement of the appellant-Prem Prakash, the summary of which, as given in the complaint, reads as under:- “8.23 Prem Prakash - In his statement dated 04.08.2023 (RUD No.41) recorded in judicial custody at Birsa Munda Central Jail, Hotwar, Ranchi, he stated that he knows Bishnu Kumar Agarwal as a businessman and sometimes, he has met him during marriage events. He further stated that Punit Bhargava is like his younger brother and he is from his native place, so he knows him since childhood. From his statement dated 03.08.2023, (RUD No.40) it reveals those three persons including Afshar Ali used to visit him for the Cheshire Home Road property. He introduced them with Rajdeep Kumar and got the property verified. After some time, with the consent of Punit Bhargava, he got the property registered in the name of Punit Bhargava and later this property was sold to Bishnu Kumar Agarwal at a consideration price of Rs. 1.78 crores. His statement also reveals that Rajdeep used to visit Chhavi Ranjan on his instructions for the landed properties. However, in his statement dated 15.08.2023, he started concealing facts regarding meeting between Afshar Ali, Md. Saddam Hussain and others with Chhavi Ranjan. It may be mentioned that Rajdeep is a person who worked under Prem Prakash as his employee and had visited the office of the accused Chhavi Ranjan on directions of Prem Prakash with the accused persons Afshar All and Md. Saddam Hussain. This fact has also been admitted by Rajdeep Kumar in his statement under section 50 of PMLA, 2002 recorded on 24.04.2023. (RUD No. 76) Further, several calls have also been identified to have taken place during the scrutiny of the CDR which have also been mentioned below in the relevant para.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 8 S.C.R. 971 Prem Prakash v. Union of India Through The Directorate of Enforcement 20. In his statement of 04.08.2023, he stated that he knew Bishnu Kumar Agarwal and has met him during Marriage Events; that Punit Bhargava was like his younger brother who hailed from his native place, and he had known him since childhood. That in his statement of 03.08.2023, he stated that persons including Afshar Ali used to visit him for the Cheshire Home property and that he introduced him to Rajdeep Kumar and got the property verified. That with the consent of Punit Bhargava, he got the property registered in the name of Punit Bhargava and later the property was sold to Bishnu Kumar Agarwal at a consideration of Rs. 1.78 crore. The statement, as summarized, taken as it is does not prima facie make out a case of money laundering against the appellant. It also does not point to the involvement of the appellant prima facie in the forgery. 21. Independent of the above, there is one important issue which arises in this case. It has to be pointed out that the appellant has been in judicial custody from 25.08.2022 in connection with another ECIR, namely, ECIR No. 4 of 2022 and while in judicial custody his arrest was shown in the current ECIR, namely, ECIR No.