6. Having heard and considered the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the parties and after going through the impugned s and the record, we are of the opinion that the reasoning assigned by the High Court, that the perquisites/allowances in the nature of house rent, flexible benefit plan and Company contribution to provident fund would have to be excluded from the gross income for the purpose of applying future prospects, is erroneous on the face of record. There cannot be any two views on the aspect that 1438 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports these perquisites/allowances admissible to a salaried employee do not remain static and continue to rise generally proportionate to the length of the service of the employee. These allowances are generally fixed on a pro rata basis with reference to the basic salary. 7. As per the service conditions and pay scales of the Government officials, the house rent allowance is payable between 8% and 30% of the basic salary. Therefore, the house rent allowance is paid in a fixed ratio proportionate to the basic salary. With the increase in basic salary, the quantum of house rent allowance also increases proportionately. The flexible benefit plan and Company contribution admissible to a person employed in private service would also not remain static and are bound to increase with the length of service. The only bone of contention in this appeal is whether perquisites/ allowances referred to above should also be taken into account while applying the future prospects. Therefore, entirely excluding these components from the salary of the employee for applying the principle of future prospects would be unjustified. Consequently, we have no hesitation in holding that these allowances cannot be ignored and have to be added to the salary when assessing the rise in income due to future prospects of a person employed in private service. This Court has carved out a rational formula to fix the percentage of rise of income by future prospects. In the case at hand, the said percentage has been fixed at 50% by both, the Accident Claims Tribunal as well as the Division Bench of the High Court. In view of the discussion made supra, the perquisites/allowances have to be added to the basic salary of the deceased before applying the rise by future prospects. 8. In Raghuvir Singh Matolya and Others v. Hari Singh Malviya and Others,4 this Court held that the house rent allowance ought to be included for determining the income of the deceased. The relevant paras are extracted hereinbelow for ready reference:- “6. Dearness allowance, in our opinion, should form a part of the income. House rent allowance is paid for the benefit of the family members and not for the employee alone. What would constitute an income, albeit in a different fact 4 [2009] 5 SCR 379 : (2009) 15 SCC 363 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1439 Meenakshi v. The Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. situation, came up for consideration before this Court in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Indira Srivastava [(2008) 2 SCC 763] wherein it was held: “19.