More so, when the FIR alleges an act which is reflective of a dishonest conduct of the accused. 20. In the instant case, the FIR alleges that the accused took original complainant’s Truck/Trailor on hire for a period starting from 14.07.2014 up to 31.03.2016 at a monthly rent of Rs.33,000/- but, after payment of 1st month rent, the rent was not paid despite false assurances. The allegation that rent was not paid by itself, in ordinary course, would presuppose retention of possession of the vehicle by the accused. In such circumstances as to what happened to that Truck becomes a matter of investigation. If it had been dishonestly disposed of by the accused, it may make out a case of criminal 900 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports breach of trust. Therefore, there was no justification to quash the FIR at the threshold without looking into the materials collected during the course of the investigation. 21. In our view, the High Court ought to have considered the materials collected during investigation before taking a call on the prayer for quashing the FIR, the cognizance and the proceedings in pursuance thereof. 22. To peruse the police report and to understand as to what type of investigation was carried out by the police, on 19.07.2024 we required the State to place the charge-sheet on record. However, unfortunately, though the State filed its affidavit, the charge-sheet was not produced. The affidavit filed by the State only indicates that they were not able to trace out the Truck/Trailor. In these circumstances, we have no option but to remit the matter to the High Court to decide the quashing petition afresh in accordance with law after considering the materials collected by the investigating agency during the course of the investigation. 23. Accordingly, the appeal is allowed. The impugned of the High Court is set aside. The quashing petition shall be restored to its original number and shall be decided afresh by the High Court in accordance with law and in the light of the observations above. All contentions and pleas are kept open for the parties to urge before the High Court. 24. Pending application(s), if any stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey