24. The requirement of exercise of jurisdiction by the First Appellate Court under Section 96 of CPC has been dealt with by this Court in Chintamani Ammal vs. Nandagopal Gounder and Anr.7, wherein after noticing the previous s of this Court, the following has been held in paragraphs 18, 19 and 20 thus: - “18. Furthermore, when the learned trial Judge arrived at a finding on the basis of appreciation of oral evidence, the first appellate court could have reversed the same only on assigning sufficient reasons therefor. Save and except the said statement of DW 2, 7 [2007] 2 SCR 903 : (2007) 4 SCC 163 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 405 Lehna Singh (D) By Lrs. v. Gurnam Singh (D) By Lrs. & Ors. the learned Judge did not consider any other materials brought on record by the parties. 19. In Madholal Sindhu v. Official Assignee of Bombay, it was observed: (AIR p. 30, para 21) “It is true that a judge of first instance can never be treated as infallible in determining on which side the truth lies and like other tribunals he may go wrong on questions of fact, but on such matters if the evidence as a whole can reasonably be regarded as justifying the conclusion arrived at, the appeal court should not lightly interfere with the .” (See also Madhusudan Das v. Narayanibai) 20. In Rajbir Kaur v. S. Chokesiri and Co., this Court observed: (SCC pp. 39-41, paras 48-52) “48. Reference on the point could also usefully be made to A.L. Goodhart’s article in which, the learned author points out: ‘A judge sitting without a jury must perform dual function. The first function consists in the establishment of the particular facts. This may be described as the perceptive function. It is what you actually perceive by the five senses. It is a datum of experience as distinct from a conclusion. It is obvious that, in almost all cases tried by a judge without a jury, an appellate court, which has not had an opportunity of seeing the witnesses, must accept his conclusions of fact because it cannot tell on what grounds he reached them and what impression the various witnesses made on him.’ 49. The following is the statement of the same principle in ‘The Supreme Court Practice’: ‘Great weight is due to the decision of a judge of first instance whenever, in a conflict of testimony, 406 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the demeanour and manner of witnesses who have been seen and heard by him are material elements in the consideration of the truthfulness of these statements. But the parties to the cause are nevertheless entitled as well on questions of fact as on questions of law to demand the decision of the court of appeal, and that court cannot excuse itself from the task of weighing conflicting evidence, and drawing its own conclusions, though it should always bear in mind that it has neither seen nor heard the witnesses and should make due allowance in this respect.