33. Once again, at the cost of repetition, as there has been no serious attempt to challenge the enhancement in quantum from Re.1 per square foot to Rs.10 per square foot, we refrain from delving into that aspect, which as of now has also become very old as it pertains to the year 2007. At this juncture, the Court would refer to the Written Submissions filed on behalf of Respondent No.1, where at Paragraph No.19, following is the stand: “Without prejudice, to the preceding paragraphs and submissions, it is submitted that till no regulations are framed by the State Government, the respondent no.1 agrees to pay royalty to the Municipal Corporation at the enhanced rate of Rs.10 per sq. ft. per annum, prospectively. However, the same may be adjustable with the future demands ought to be raised by the Municipal Corporation after the Regulations under the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007, comes into effect.” 34. To the above, we only observe that payment of enhanced rate of Rs.10 per square foot was not made retrospective by the Corporation, as it was made effective from November, 2007, i.e., 10 months after the resolution which was passed in January, 2007, and thus, we do not find any occasion to interfere in such demand from the date it [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1401 The Patna Municipal Corporation & Ors. v. M/s Tribro Ad Bureau & Ors. was made effective by the Corporation as there is no element of retrospectivity involved. 35. Yet, we hasten to add that future enhancement, if any, in the rate of royalty cannot be made to operate and/or have effect retrospectively. The same would have effect and operate only prospectively. 36. Accordingly, in view of the discussions hereinabove, the Court finds that the decision of the Corporation, to charge Rs.10 per square foot with regard to hoarding(s)/advertisement(s) as communicated at the relevant point of time to the concerned parties needs no interference. However, the imposition of penalty for non-payment needs to be interfered with as no such power exists. It is held thus, but with the clarificatory caveat that the Corporation would not be precluded from charging interest over delayed payment(s). Obviously, interest on delayed payment(s) would not be a ‘penalty’ but rather, in the realm of ‘compensation’ for late/delayed payment of amounts which were payable on/from an earlier date. This Court expressed a similar view in Alok Shanker Pandey v Union of India (2007) 3 SCC 545, as under: ‘9. It may be mentioned that there is misconception about interest. Interest is not a penalty or punishment at all, but it is the normal accretion on capital. For example if A had to pay B a certain amount, say 10 years ago, but he offers that amount to him today, then he has pocketed the interest on the principal amount. Had A paid that amount to B 10 years ago, B would have invested that amount somewhere and earned interest thereon, but instead of that A has kept that amount with himself and earned interest on it for this period.