): 1. The purpose of the reservation clause is to remedy the inadequate representation in public services of 1328 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports certain “classes” – The intent of Article 16(4) is to cover those classes which have been inadequately represented because of their backwardness. [Paras 165, 166] 2. However, adequacy of representation when determined purely from a numerical perspective without accounting for factors such as representation vis-à-vis posts would dilute the purpose of the provision – The objective of Article 16(4) is to ensure effective representation of the class in the services of the State across posts and grades – The objective of the provision is not to emulate the existing social hierarchy where the low-grade posts are occupied by the socially backward while supervisory and managerial posts continue to be occupied by the advanced classes – If the objective of Article 16(4) is to be achieved in the truest sense, the inadequacy of representation must not be determined only on the basis of the total number of members of the backward class in the services of the State but by assessing the representation of the class across various posts. [Paras 167, 168] 3. Since the purpose of Articles 15(4) and 16(4) is to ensure equality of opportunity of the socially backward classes, the criterion for sub-classification within a class (be it the Other Backward Classes or the Scheduled Castes or Tribes) must be an indicator of social backwardness – The yardstick for classification must differentiate the class based on inter-se social backwardness – The inter-se backwardness could be identified based on the same or different identity. [Para 174] 4. Since the State can use any yardstick to determine inter-se backwardness, it is not necessary that the criteria for sub- classification and the criteria used to distinguish the class from the other classes must be the same – How does the State identify inter-se social backwardness within the Scheduled Castes? The inter-se backwardness can, inter alia, be identified based on inadequacy of effective representation – However, it must be proved that inadequacy of effective representation of a caste is because of its social backwardness – The State must prove that the group/caste carved out from the larger group of Scheduled Castes is more disadvantaged and inadequately represented. [Paras 175, 177] 5. While the State may embark on an exercise of sub-classification, it must do so on the basis of quantifiable and demonstrable data bearing on levels of backwardness and representation in the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1329 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. services of the State – It cannot merely act on its whims or as a matter of political expediency – The decision of the State is amenable to judicial review – When its action is challenged under Article 226 or before this Court under Article 32, the State must provide justification and the rationale for its determination – No State action can be manifestly arbitrary – It must be based on intelligible differentia which underlie the sub-classification – The basis of the sub-classification must bear a reasonable nexus to the object sought to be achieved.