C. CONTENTIONS OF THE PARTIES Petitioners’ submissions 32. Mr. Shyam Divan, Mr. Vijay Hansaria and Mr. K.N. Choudhury, Learned Senior Advocates, appeared for the Petitioners. Their contentions are detailed hereinbelow: i. The Petitioners argued that the operation of Section 6A violates the preambular values enshrined in the Constitution. They urged that the Constitution upholds national fraternity, not global fraternity and that the presence of Bangladeshi immigrants in Assam poses a threat to the unity and integrity of the country. ii. They contended that Section 6A, which grants citizenship to immigrants, contradicts Articles 6 and 7 of the Constitution, which prescribe a different regime for granting citizenship to people who migrated to Pakistan or who migrated to India from Pakistan. Instead, they argued that the Parliament ought to have passed a constitutional amendment in this regard. The Petitioners also claimed that while Article 11 and Entry 17 of List I grant the Parliament the authority to alter these constitutional provisions, it does not include the power to override other provisions of Part II. iii. The Petitioners further contended that Section 6A violates Article 9 of the Constitution and Section 9 of the Citizenship Act, as it allows dual nationality by not requiring immigrants to renounce their previous citizenship. iv. They contended that Section 6A contradicts Section 5(2) of the Citizenship Act, which mandates every citizen to take the oath of allegiance. v. The Petitioners argued that Section 6A violates Article 14, treating equals unequally by applying the provision only to Assam without any intelligible differentia. They asserted that [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1033 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 this geographical basis lacks justification. The Petitioners further urged that Section 6A goes against the principles of democracy, federalism, and the rule of law, being susceptible to being struck down on grounds of ‘manifest arbitrariness.’ They also highlighted the lack of rationale in the cut-off dates and the absence of a mechanism to determine ‘ordinary residence.’ vi. The Petitioners claimed that Section 6A infringes on Article 21 by impinging upon the rights of the indigenous Assamese community and violating their right to self-governance under Article 1 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). They contended that the inclusion of an unidentified migrant population burdens the country’s natural resources, which goes against sustainable development mandated under Article 21. vii. The Petitioners further urged that the demographic shift due to the influx of migrants from East Pakistan threatens Assamese culture and breaches Article 29(1). viii. They asserted that Section 6A violates the voting rights of the Assamese people under Article 326 and has led to the marginalisation of their political rights. ix. The Petitioners contended the violation of Article 355 on the ground that the continued presence of millions of Bangladeshi immigrants has precipitated violent ethnic clashes amounting to ‘external aggression’ and resulting in ‘internal disturbance’. They argued that, consequently, it becomes the duty of the Union to undertake necessary measures to protect the state of Assam. x.