No research has been undertaken to assess the adverse effects of such transfers. 7.16 Moreover, GM crops could directly impact the economic prospects of a large section of the population that works in the agricultural sector. Small and marginal farmers are likely to be the most disadvantaged. Other socio-economic risks include market concentration, the loss of livelihood of small farmers, and restriction on the consumers’ right to choose. 1968 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Writ Petition (Civil) No.260 of 2005: 8. The petitioner who is a public-spirited citizen in this case has made the following prayers and has averred as follows in the context of GM Technology and GM Crops: “The petitioners therefore, pray that in the facts and circumstances of the case, this Hon’ble Court may be pleased to issue appropriate writs or directions to: A) Direct the Union of India not to allow any release of GMOs into the environment by way of import, manufacture, use or any other manner unless the following precautions are taken. (a) a protocol for all the required bio-safety tests of the GMOs proposed to be released is prepared by the GEAC after processes of public notice and public hearing. (b) The GMO has been subjected to all the required bio-safety tests, prepared on the basis of the required Biosafety tests on the basis of the above protocol, by agencies of independent expert bodies, and results of which have been made public. B) Direct the Union of India to ban the import of any biological organism, food or animal feed unless they have been certified and labelled to be GM free, by the exporting country. C) Direct the Union of India to put in place rules to ensure that it shall be compulsory for any dealer or grower selling GMOs to label them as such. D) Pass such other and further s as this Hon’ble Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case.” (i) According to this petitioner, there are outstanding safety concerns linked with Genetically Engineered (GE) technology. Transgenic contamination is unavoidable and there can be no co-existence between GM and Non-GM agriculture. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1969 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (ii) That research shows that Bt proteins, incorporated into 25% of all transgenic crops worldwide, to be harmful to a range of non-target insects, worms and amphibians. Some of them are potent immunogens and allergens. In fact, glyphosate and the Roundup herbicide used on most herbicide resistant crops is shown by studies to be lethal to amphibians. (iii) That GM crops have led to an increase in pesticide use, financially hurting farmers and harming the environment. (iv) That GE technology is a fit case for the application of the precautionary principle which necessitates that if there are reasonable scientific grounds for believing that a new process or product may not be safe, it should not be introduced until convincing evidence of reasonable certainty of no harm is obtained.