7. This Court also recorded the prayers in an interlocutory application seeking certain facilities for visually handicapped lawyers in the High Courts and this Court. All the High Courts and the Secretary General of this Court were directed to submit their response to the reliefs sought in the application before the next date of hearing. ii. Assignment to NALSAR-CDS 8. On 29 November 2023, when the case was placed before this Court, it was noted that several s had already been passed regarding the poor progress made by the Union, States and Union Territories in implementing the provisions of the RPWD Act. Therefore, this Court was of the view that a comprehensive exercise was necessary to assess the situation on the ground. Accordingly, the NALSAR-CDS was directed to submit a report on the steps required to be taken in accordance with the guidelines and the Accessible India Campaign to, inter alia, make all State and Central Government buildings, airports, railway stations, public transport carriers, all Government websites, all public documents and the ICT ecosystem fully accessible to PWDs. It was directed that the report be completed within six months and the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment cooperate with the NALSAR-CDS by providing necessary logistical assistance. 980 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. On 12 January 2024, pursuant to an email sent by Professor Amita Dhanda, Head of the NALSAR-CDS, this Court noted that NALSAR- CDS had accepted the assignment. It was further directed that the expenses which are incurred by the NALSAR-CDS shall be borne by the Union Ministry of Justice and Empowerment, and all reimbursements shall be made within a fortnight of the submission of invoices. The head of the NALSAR-CDS was granted liberty to chalk out the modalities for implementing the work, including engaging requisite experts and field workers to carry out the exercise in the States and Union Territories. 10. Pursuant to the directions of this Court, the NALSAR-CDS submitted its report, which is aptly titled “Finding Sizes for All: A Report on the Status of the Right to Accessibility in India” to this Court. The NALSAR-CDS conducted surveys, expert interviews and first-person accounts to prepare its report and document accessibility barriers across various spheres. 11. Before discussing the NALSAR-CDS report, we will briefly discuss the underlying theoretical framework that governs the right to accessibility and gives it meaning. B. Understanding Accessibility 12. Accessibility refers to the design of products, services, environments, and systems to ensure that all individuals, including those with disabilities, can access, use, and benefit from them fully and independently. This encompasses physical access, such as entry to buildings and transport, as well as access to information, communication, and digital platforms. It is essential for promoting inclusion and enabling participation in all aspects of public life. 13. The World Report on Disability published by the World Health Organization and World Bank stresses that inaccessibility within the built environment, transport systems, and communication channels severely limits the opportunities for PWDs to live fully in society.5 This inaccessibility leads to exclusion from education, employment, healthcare, and public services, effectively reinforcing the social and 5 World Health Organization and World Bank, World Report on Disability (2011).