(Paras 52, 111 and 84) (emphasis supplied) 186. Moreover, right from the beginning, the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were treated as a separate category and nobody ever disputed identification of such classes. So long as “creamy layer” is not applied as one of the principles of equality, it cannot be applied to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. So far, it is applied only to identify the socially and educationally backward classes. We make it clear that for the purpose of reservation, the principles of “creamy layer” are not applicable for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.” 70. In view of the above, I am of the opinion that though Indra Sawhney had sought to define “backward class” in terms of social backwardness, while considering the ambit of “backward class” for the purpose of Article 16(4), it did not deal with the issue qua the Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes particularly in the light of Article 341/342, rather it categorically kept the Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes outside the purview of consideration. The Scheduled Castes being the most backward class amongst the backward classes, and having acquired a special status by virtue of Article 341, the question of defining “backward class” qua the “Scheduled Castes” did not arise, and rightly not dealt with in Indra Sawhney for the purposes of Article 16(4) of the Constitution. 71. In so far as Article 15(4) and 15(5) are concerned, the use of the word “any” before the words “socially and educationally backward classes” and the use of the word “the” before “Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes” clearly indicate that the said provisions pertain to the “Other Backward Classes” which are socially and educationally backward, and that the said provisions also pertain to the “Scheduled Castes” and “Scheduled Tribes”, however the“Scheduled Castes” do not require any further identification once they are notified under Article 341. As rightly held in Ashok Kumar Thakur,* the “creamy * [2007] 7 SCR 63 : (2008) 6 SCC 1 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1639 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. layer” principle is one of the parameters to identify backward classes. The “Scheduled Castes” having already been specified in the Presidential List under Article 341, the said creamy layer principle cannot be applied to the “Scheduled Castes” for their identification as backward class.In my opinion, the Five-Judge Bench has thoroughly misread and misinterpreted Indra Sawhney, to opine that Indra Sawhney permitted sub-classification of backward classes including the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes, rather they were categorically kept outside the purview of consideration by the Nine- Judge Bench in Indra Sawhney. 72. The reliance placed on Jarnail Singh is also thoroughly erroneous. In Jarnail Singh, the Five-Judge Bench was called upon to examine the correctness of the law laid down in Nagaraj. In para-17 of Jarnail Singh, the Bench observed that: - “The in Chinnaiah has been referred by the three Judge Bench to a larger bench by an dated 20th August, 2014. This is because, according to the three Judge Bench,Chinnaiah is contrary to Article 338 of the Constitution of India and Indra Sawhney.