VeRdicTs of The TRiAl couRT And The high couRT 6. The Trial Court framed and answered the issues as follows: 6.1 Whether the agreement for sale dated 20th January, 2005, is true, valid and legally enforceable? Answered in the affirmative. 6.2 Whether as per the agreement for sale, the plaintiff was ready and willing to pay the balance sale consideration and get the sale deed executed? Answered in the negative. 11 Trial Court, hereafter [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1107 R. Kandasamy (Since Dead) & Ors. v. T.R.K. Sarawathy & Anr. 6.3 Whether the plaintiff is entitled for a decree directing the defendants to receive the balance sale consideration and execute the sale deed? Answered in the negative. 6.4 Whether the plaintiff is entitled to the alternative relief of refund of Rs.25,00,000 with 18% interest p.a. from the defendants? Answered in the negative. 7. As has been noticed above, the fortune of the parties changed before the Trial Court and the High Court. High Court, in appeal, decreed the suit of the buyer. High Court observed that time was not of essence as the sellers had received payments, without protest, even after the final date fixed for the performance of the Agreement. After analysing the documents on record, the High Court observed that the buyer was ready and willing and found no reason which disentitled her from the discretionary relief of specific performance. ARgumenTs 8. Mr. Dwivedi, learned senior counsel for the sellers, argued that the impugned is completely flawed and hence, the appeal deserves interference. 8.1. Firstly, Mr. Dwivedi contended that the terms of the Agreement clearly provided that leaving aside the sum paid as advance, the time period for making payment of the balance sale consideration would be four months commencing from the date of such Agreement, i.e., 20th January, 2005. Admittedly, the buyer did not make the payment as agreed by and between the parties and time being the essence of the contract, the Trial Court was justified in dismissing the suit (although on the point of time being the essence of the contract, it had held otherwise). 8.2. Secondly, Mr. Dwivedi invited our attention to the letter dated 23rd February, 2006 sent by the sellers to the buyer whereby the sellers cancelled the Agreement and refunded the advance amount. The relevant part of the said letter is reproduced below: “…….You failed to pay the balance sale consideration within the period of 4 months and get the sale deed executed.” In reply to the above, the buyer sent a letter dated 24th February, 2006 to the sellers. Nowhere in this reply letter did the buyer 1108 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports expressly mention that the period of four months is to be counted from the date of vacation of the property by the tenants. Hence, the assertion that the period of four months was to be counted from the date of vacation is merely an afterthought. 8.3. Thirdly, Mr. Dwivedi asserted that vide telegram dated 11th March, 2006, the sellers gave one last opportunity to the buyer to pay the balance amount and register the sale deed before 24th March, 2006.