There is also a dying declaration. 11. After hearing the learned counsel for the parties and then examining the evidence placed by the prosecution, we find that there is an overwhelming evidence placed by the prosecution before the Trial Court regarding the incident itself. The prosecution has been able ever does any act under such circumstances, that if he thereby caused death he would be guilty of cul- pable homicide, and does by such act cause the death of a quick unborn child, shall be punished with im- prisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine. 994 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt regarding the incident itself inasmuch as the incident took place on midnight of 26.01.2007 and 27.01.2007, and the appellant who was in an inebriated state, picked a quarrel with his wife and while she was cooking his meal in the kitchen, poured kerosene on her as a result of which she sustained burn injuries and subsequently died. 12. The fact that the appellant had quarreled with the deceased and had poured kerosene on her is well established. The statement given by the deceased herself, which the prosecution has placed as a dying declaration, categorically states that she was being tortured at the hands of her husband and that her husband was having an affair with another woman, and that on the fateful day, he returned late at night in an inebriated state had a fight with her and then threw kerosene on her, as a result, she sustained burn injuries. But then, she also states that he also tried to extinguish the fire and as a result, he too got burn injuries. The other evidence as we have stated above, is in the form of PW-7, Chaturabai Tukaram Kale, who is the maternal grand mother of the deceased, who was residing with the deceased and her husband (appellant) eight to nine days prior to the incident, and was taking care of the deceased as she was on the family way. She also supports the story that the appellant was having an affair with another woman which was the main reason for the quarrel between the couple. On the fateful day, the two were quarreling because of this reason alone and the appellant, thereafter, threw kerosene on his wife, and set her on fire. Having witnessed the incident she came out of the house and started shouting that my grand daughter has been set on fire. 13. Another prosecution witness which is worth mentioning here is PW-8 i.e. Vimal Suryakant Salunkhe, who is the maternal aunt, of the deceased and the daughter of PW-7. This witness was told by the deceased that the appellant had kept a mistress and this resulted in frequent fights between husband and wife (i.e., the deceased). Deceased had also informed her that her husband i.e., the accused, was addicted to liquor. She was told about the incident by her mother (PW-7) at about 1 ‘O’ Clock in the night, and the fact that the burn injuries were caused by the act of the accused (the appellant).