On 14th March 2022, Mr Mahesh Ingale, the District Superintendent of Land Records, who is a survey officer under the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966 (for short, ‘the MLR Code’), filed an affidavit. In paragraph 9 of his affidavit, he stated thus: “9. I say that after the measurement, as aforesaid, was carried out and the original records maintained by my office were verified in that context it appears that, there are various lands situate within survey number 173 in respect of which, as a result of proceedings initiated in the Bombay Tenants and Agricultural Lands Act, various persons have become owners of the lands of various pockets that have been marked in red colour, in the map, which has been produced on 14.03.2022 before this Hon’ble Court. There are also certain persons to whom the petitioner and others have sold small portions of the lands and thus these persons have become owners and are in possession thereof. If a compound wall is constructed as desired by the petitioner, the aforesaid pieces of land owned by the third parties and lawfully possessed by them are likely to get land locked. Therefore, in my submission, while constructing the aforesaid compound wall, appropriate arrangements will have to be made to provide due access to these lawful owners and occupiers of various parcels of lands that is likely to be get land-locked on account of the construction of the proposed wall.” (emphasis added) It is pertinent to note that the land bearing survey no. 173 is a part of the property which is the subject matter of Arbitration Petition in which consent terms were filed. 9. The Division Bench did not notice the specific contentions raised by both the Government officers and did not direct the 1st and 2nd respondents to implead the affected tribals as parties. Instead of [2024] 5 S.C.R. 163 Ajay Ishwar Ghute & Ors. v. Meher K. Patel & Ors. either directing impleadment of the affected parties or dismissing the Writ Petition for non-joinder of necessary parties, the Division Bench passed an in terms of the “Minutes of ” dated 16th March 2022 signed by the advocate for 1st and 2nd respondents and Panel-B counsel representing all Government officers including the Superintendent of Police, the Collector and Superintendent of Land Records. One Sambhaji Kharatmol purported to sign as an advocate for interveners. The relevant part of the “Minutes of ” makes interesting reading. Paragraph 2 reads thus: “2. Mr. Kumbhakoni, the Learned Advocate General for the State of Maharashtra, has tendered the plan showing the land of Mrs. Meher Khushru Patel and Others (Parsi Dairy Farm) S No. 173/1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,10,15,16,18, S. No. 55, 61, 200 and 202 Situated at Village – Varwada, Taluka – Talasari, Dist. – Palghar. The same is taken on record and marked as ‘X’ are stated to belong to third parties. However, the survey numbers mentioned against serial no. 1. 5. 8 and 10 to 12 in the legend in the plan marked ‘X’ are now confirmed by the Petitioners to belong to the Petitioners’ firm – Parsi Dairy Farm.” Paragraph 4 notes both the affidavits dated 14th March 2022, which we have referred to above and records that the statements of the said officers were accepted.