At an age which must be instructed by the ability to make mistakes and learn from life experiences, children are stunted and forcibly fit into boxes. The multi-dimensional assault of child marriage is therefore not only oppressive to heterosexual girls and boys but also to all gender and sexual minorities. Choices in matters of sexuality are integral to human desire. Our Constitution recognises the right a person has over all aspects of their sexuality.259 The control of the sexuality of a girl child from orthodox moral virtues restricts her ability to experience life in its fullest dimension. Sexuality is not only the orientation a person may have in matters of romance and intimacy but also the ability to navigate the desires of a person regardless of their choice of partner or the option not to have a partner. Men and women alike are victimised by compulsory heterosexuality. In child marriage, their limited agency within heteropatriarchy is also taken away in infancy. 178. Upon marriage, a girl is expected to bear children and prove her fertility. Decisions of reproduction are withdrawn from the girl and placed in the hands of the family. The right to choice and autonomy of a woman who is married as a child is violated by the system of child marriage. When minor girls are forced to make conjugal relations, they experience post-traumatic stress and depression emanating from sexual abuse by an elder partner.260 Child marriage leads to irreversible physical and psychological damage in girls. Her choice is eviscerated in matters of selection of partner, time of marriage, reproductive freedom and sexuality. Article 21 protects these rights.261 179. In X v. Principal Secretary,262 a three-Judge Bench of this Court speaking through one of us (DY Chandrachud, CJ) held that the right to choice and autonomy includes the right to reproductive freedom. Elucidating on the contours of this right, the Court held as follows: 259 Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India (2018) 10 SCC 1; Joseph Shine v. Union of India (2019) 3 SCC 39. 260 NCPCR (2017). A Statistical Analysis of Child Marriage in India, Based on Census, 2011. Young Lives and National Commission for Protection of Child Rights. 261 Shafin Jahan v. Ashokan KM (2018) 10 SCC 1; X v. Principal Secretary (2023) 9 SCC 433 262 [2022] 12 SCR 246 : (2023) 9 SCC 433 1604 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “101. The ambit of reproductive rights is not restricted to the right of women to have or not have children. It also includes the constellation of freedoms and entitlements that enable a woman to decide freely on all matters relating to her sexual and reproductive health. Reproductive rights include the right to access education and information about contraception and sexual health, the right to decide whether and what type of contraceptives to use, the right to choose whether and when to have children, the right to access safe and legal abortions, and the right to reproductive healthcare. Women must also have the autonomy to make decisions concerning these rights, free from coercion or violence.” 180.