It is submitted that the appointment to the post of Technical Assistants has been provided under G.O. MS. No. 1972 dated 18th November 1985. The said G.O. provided that the general and special rules applicable to the holders of the permanent posts in the Tamil Nadu Engineering Subordinate Service shall apply to the holders of the temporary posts of Technical Assistants Civil, Electrical and Mechanical. However, that was subject to the modifications specified therein. The appointing authority to the said posts was the Superintending Engineer of PWD. 5. Smt. Divan submitted that by G.O. MS. No. 1356 dated 2nd August 1980, the State provided for appointment to the post of Junior Engineers (now Assistant Engineers) from the cadre of Draughtsman Grade III, Overseers and Technical Assistants, who, on acquiring degree qualification in Engineering have rendered 5 years of service as Draughtsmen, Overseers, Technical Assistants. 6. Smt. Divan submitted that the appointment of Technical Assistants as Assistant Engineers is totally illegal, violative of Right to Equality under Article 14 of the Constitution of India and also violative of Article 335 of the Constitution of India which mandates efficiency in public administration. It is further submitted that the entry of Assistant Engineers is through competitive examination on the basis of merit whereas the entry of Technical Assistants is through a backdoor entry i.e. appointment by the Superintending Engineer. It is therefore submitted that, permitting the Technical Assistants to march ahead of the Assistant Engineers would, apart from being anti-meritian, would also promote the persons who have entered through backdoor. 7. Smt. Divan further submitted that the temporary appointments of Technical Assistants have neither been regularized nor has 552 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports their probation commenced. It is therefore submitted that without regularization and declaration of probation in the category of Assistant Engineers as mandated by Rule 7 of Special Rules to Tamil Nadu Engineering Service, they cannot be made as Assistant Engineers. 8. Reliance is placed on the of this Court in the case of Direct Recruit Class II Engineering Officers’ Association v. State of Maharashtra and Others1 in support of the proposition that unless the appointment is in accordance with the rules, the same is not valid. Reliance is also placed on the of this Court in the case of A.K. Bhatnagar and Others v. Union of India and Others2 contending that this Court has categorically rejected the argument to consider the appointment of ad-hoc appointees without regularization. 9. Shri N. Subramaniyan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants supplemented the arguments advanced by Smt. Divan. He submitted that sub-rule (1) of Rule 2 of Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Services Rules postulates that a person is said to be ‘appointed to a service’ when in accordance with the said Rules or in accordance with the Rules applicable at the time, he discharges, for the first time the duties of a post borne on the cadre of such service or commences the probation, instruction or training prescribed for members thereof.