What we are looking at is a change over of management in a school which imparts education to school going children and therefore the “public element” in this transaction has always to be kept in mind. 28. We also have to appreciate the “legitimate expectations” of the petitioners who expect equity, fair-play and justice, from a public authority which respondent nos. 2, 3 and 7 indeed are and, therefore, they must meet such standards as a public authority ought to 15 have. The new management of the School, including respondent no.2, 3 and 7 are hereby directed not to change or vary the conditions of the petitioners to their disadvantage. 29. The writ petition, consequently, succeeds. The dated 28.02.2012, since it is only in the nature of letter, need not be quashed. All the same, a mandamus is hereby issued to the respondents not to change, vary or resent any of those conditions on which the petitioners (teaching as well as non teaching staff of the school) were appointed, to the disadvantage of the petitioners.” (Emphasis supplied) 19. Thus, the error is in para 27 when the learned single Judge says that since the school imparts education, the public element should be kept in mind. Undoubtedly, any institution imparting education discharges public duty and, therefore, public element may be involved. However, the learned single Judge overlooked the fact that the dispute between the school and the teachers and also the non-teaching staff is relating to their service conditions. In such circumstances, public element will not come into play. 2196 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports F. APPEAL COURT 20. We should also look into the impugned and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court affirming the above referred of the learned single Judge. The relevant findings are as under:- “16) The Parliament in its wisdom has enacted the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, considering it as a fundamental right of children. The institution is affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education. The Central Government has accorded affiliation to the CBSE to impart education as per its syllabus. Thus, there is a discharge of public function of the institutions recognized and affiliated with CBSE. Though the learned Single Judge has recorded the reasons in holding that the writ petition is maintainable against the appellant but, at the cost of repetition, we deem it necessary to deal with the issue and after having considered the provisions of Article 12 and 226 of the Constitution of India and the catena of s, we are of considered opinion that the writ petition against the appellant was maintainable and has rightly been held maintainable by the learned Single Judge. 17) Second issue before the learned Single Judge and this Court is - as to whether the cancellation of regular appointment of the teaching and non-teaching employees of the institution run by joint venture and giving the ad hoc appointment to the teachers is valid or not?