The genesis of the opportunity to conduct tax audits was not regulation of a practice essential to the Chartered Accountant profession per se but rather to take assistance of auditors, in discharge of their public duties, for plugging tax leakage and thereby saving the time of the Assessment Officers on presentation of quality tax audit reports in a prescribed format. Therefore, it is for 848 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports these intents and purposes, the privilege of conducting tax audits was extended to Chartered Accountants by creating a privilege to conduct such audits subject to reasonable restrictions. 27. We must be careful in our delineation between a right and a privilege. As discussed above, the idea of compulsory tax audits was neither an inherent part of the practice of a Chartered Accountant nor an essential function which could be claimed as a fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g). Furthermore, an examination of the nature of the supposed right that was being enjoyed by Chartered Accountants reflects that in practice, an assessee, seeking to comply with the requirements of Section 44AB, would approach a Chartered Accountant to obtain a certificate of audit. We have already observed and noted that Section 44AB, IT Act, 1961 was inserted to assist the Revenue Department in public. Thereby, it is only through the extension of statutory privilege by the presence of Section 44AB, IT Act, 1961, that a Chartered Accountant gets the opportunity to undertake tax audits under the said section. If the Parliament, in its wisdom, at a certain future date, due to technological developments or any other reason, finds that expeditious and accurate assessments can be ensured without imposing on assessees the burden of additional requirement of tax audit report and thereby deletes Section 44AB from the IT Act, 1961, it could not be possibly argued that the right under Article 19(1)(g) has been abridged. What follows is that when a privilege is being granted, as a privilege by statute, which could be effaced completely, a reasonable restriction could also be imposed, the latter being a restriction of a lesser degree than a complete ban on an activity. 28. On the scope of restrictions imposed to maintain quality of service where a privilege had been extended by the Government to medical officers, this Court, in Sukumar Mukherjee vs. State of W.B., (1993) 3 SCC 723, (“Sukumar Mukherjee”), held that the restriction was reasonable where the State of West Bengal had, vide Section 9 of the West Bengal State Health Service Act, 1990, prohibited private practice by members of W.B. Medical Education Service who were also teaching in medical institutions. It was held that where the State Government had concluded that the regime of permitting private practice of those teaching in medical institutions led to a considerable decline in quality of teaching, such restriction was reasonable and in the interest of general public as the ban on private-practice would [2024] 6 S.C.R. 849 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others make available to the teachers-doctors the time required for reading and research which was absolutely essential for maintaining quality in their main profession as teachers in medicine.