28. We hold that Division Bench in Manav Dharam Trust does not lay down the law correctly. Given the several binding precedents which are available and the provisions of the 2013 Act, we cannot follow the decision in Manav Dharam Trust […].” 47. Counsel representing the landowners have contested the correctness of the decision in Shiv Kumar (supra) and urged this Court to refer it to a larger Bench for reconsideration. This was a contention raised in desperation overlooking that Shiv Kumar (supra) has been approved by the Constitution Bench in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra). We are, thus, not impressed by the aforesaid contention and reiterate that Shiv Kumar (supra) represents the correct exposition of law. 48. Coming to the specifics of each case qua subsequent purchasers or disputes regarding the title of the subject lands, we have already clarified the scope of our inquiry in Tejpal (supra). At the expense of reiterating, as far as the concealment of material facts regarding subsequent sale transactions, earlier round of litigations etc. are concerned, it is noted that the landowners and affected parties are under no obligation to either confirm or deny the allegations levelled against them. Nor have we directed the appellants to furnish original records or documents to substantiate their claim of concealment and suppression of material facts. Engaging in a factual inquiry at such an advanced stage of the legal process, especially without providing adequate opportunities to all parties, may not be fair. The cases listed in Group E involve complex questions of fact and we being the Court of the last resort, ought not to be involved in such elaborate fact-finding exercise. We, therefore, deem it appropriate to remit these cases to the High Court for proper adjudication on points of law as well as facts. G. CONCLUSION 49. The following conclusion has been reached regarding each category of cases outlined at the beginning: [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1197 Government of NCT of Delhi & Anr. v. M/s BSK Realtors LLP & Anr. a) So far as the cases falling under GROUP A and B.1 are concerned (for which we have already condoned delay and have granted leave through para 1 and 2 of this ), we hold that, owing to the exceptional and unprecedented situation having arisen for the reasons already discussed elaborately, we do not deem it necessary to draw any distinction among the cases classified under Group A and B.1 vis-à-vis cases falling in Group C. Consequently, taking an overall view of the matter and upon due consideration of the principles of uniformity, consistency, and public interest involved, we exercise the jurisdiction conferred upon this Court by Article 142 of the Constitution and issue the following directions in each of the cases that have been dealt with by this and classified under Groups A and B.1: i. The time limit for initiation of fresh acquisition proceedings in terms of the provisions contained in section 24(2) of the 2013 Act is extended by a year starting from 01st August, 2024 whereupon compensation to the affected landowners may be paid in accordance with law, failing which consequences, also as per law, shall follow; ii.