Solutions to such societal problems of universal magnitude pertaining to horizons of basic human rights, culture, dignity and decency of life and dictates of necessity in the pursuit of social justice should be invariably left to be decided on considerations other than religion or religious faith or beliefs or national, sectarian, racial or communal constraints. Bearing this aspect in mind, we have to interpret the provisions of the Act in question.” 21. The provisions of the 1986 Act came to be upheld by the Constitution Bench of this Court in Danial Latifi. I may notice the clear conclusion that the Constitution Bench arrived at as under: “36. While upholding the validity of the Act, we may sum up our conclusions: 1290 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (1) A Muslim husband is liable to make reasonable and fair provision for the future of the divorced wife which obviously includes her maintenance as well. Such a reasonable and fair provision extending beyond the iddat period must be made by the husband within the iddat period in terms of Section 3(1)(a) of the Act. (2) Liability of a Muslim husband to his divorced wife arising under Section 3(1)(a) of the Act to pay maintenance is not confined to the iddat period. (3) A divorced Muslim woman who has not remarried and who is not able to maintain herself after the iddat period can proceed as provided under Section 4 of the Act against her relatives who are liable to maintain her in proportion to the properties which they inherit on her death according to Muslim law from such divorced woman including her children and parents. If any of the relatives being unable to pay maintenance, the Magistrate may direct the State Wakf Board established under the Act to pay such maintenance. (4) The provisions of the Act do not offend Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution of India.” 22. This Court, while interpreting the 1986 Act, specifically repelled the contention that the 1986 Act was enacted to undo the effect of Shah Bano in the following words: “26. A reading of the Act will indicate that it codifies and regulates the obligations due to a Muslim woman divorcee by putting them outside the scope of Section 125 CrPC as the “divorced woman” has been defined as “Muslim woman who was married according to Muslim law and has been divorced by or has obtained divorce from her husband in accordance with the Muslim law”. But the Act does not apply to a Muslim woman whose marriage is solemnised either under the Indian Special Marriage Act, 1954 or a Muslim woman whose marriage was dissolved either under the Indian Divorce Act, 1869 or the Indian Special Marriage Act, 1954. The Act does not apply to the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1291 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. deserted and separated Muslim wives. The maintenance under the Act is to be paid by the husband for the duration of the iddat period and this obligation does not extend beyond the period of iddat.