५. Union of India & Ors. has been credited) to the ECI in a sealed cover. The prayer for interim relief was rejected by observing that the operations under the scheme are not placed behind “iron curtains incapable of being pierced”: “25. The financial statements of companies registered under the Companies Act, 2013 which are filed with the Registrar of Companies, are accessible online on the website of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs for anyone. They can also be obtained in physical form from the Registrar of Companies upon payment of prescribed fee. Since the Scheme mandates political parties to file audited statement of accounts and also since the Companies Act requires financial statements of registered companies to be filed with the Registrar of Companies, the purchase as well as encashment of the bonds, happening only through banking channels, is always reflected in documents that eventually come to the public domain. All that is required is a little more effort to cull out such information from both sides (purchaser of bond and political party) and do some “match the following”. Therefore, it is not as though the operations under the Scheme are behind iron curtains incapable of being pierced.” 27. The petitioners have also challenged the introduction of the Finance Act as a Money Bill under Article 110 of the Constitution. The issue of the scope of Article 110 has been referred to a seven-Judge Bench and is pending adjudication. *’ The petitioners submitted that they would press the grounds of challenge to the Finance Act independent of the issue on Money Bills in view of the upcoming elections to Parliament. 28. By an dated 31 October 2023, the batch of petitions was directed to be listed before a Bench of at least five-Judges in view of the provisions of Article 145(8) of the Constitution. It is in this background that the challenge to the Electoral Bond Scheme and the amendments is before the Constitution Bench. 47 Roger Mathew v. South Bank of India, CA No. 8588/2019 466 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Issues 29. The present batch of petitions gives rise to the following issues: a. Whether unlimited corporate funding to political parties, as envisaged by the amendment to Section 182(1) of the Companies Act infringes the principle of free and fair elections and violates Article 14 of the Constitution; and Whether the non-disclosure of information on voluntary contributions to political parties under the Electoral Bond Scheme and the amendments to Section 29C of the RPA, Section 182(3) of the Companies Act and Section 13A(b) of the IT Act are violative of the right to information of citizens under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. C. Submissions Submissions of petitioners 30. Mr Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel made the following submissions: a. There is no rational basis for the introduction of electoral bonds. The main objective of introducing the Electoral Bond Scheme as reflected in the article written by the then Finance Minister, Mr. Arun Jaitley was that it would enhance transparency in electoral funding since electoral bond transactions can only be made through legitimate banking channels.