13. In view of the above, it is clear that the reasoning adopted by the High Court in holding that there is a delay of 2 years, 4 months in filing the application is erroneous. 14. We will have to consider if there is sufficient cause for not filing the application before 31.03.2023. In the application for extension, the appellant has submitted that the reasons for extension of time are as follows: (i) the Arbitral Tribunal proceeded with online hearings in 2022, but was required to adjourn the proceedings on several occasions at the request of the respondents’ counsel as the panel from which the arbitrator was appointed had been changed. (ii) That the dispute involved technical and legal questions, and the record of the case is bulky. (iii) That the delay is neither attributable to the parties, nor to the Arbitral Tribunal, who have acted in a prompt and cautious manner. (iv) The hearing is complete, and only the award needs to be declared, thereby leading to hardship to the parties if the time for making the award is not extended. On these grounds, the appellant prayed for a one-month extension under Section 29A(4). 15. Efficiency in the conduct of arbitral proceedings is integral to the effectiveness of the dispute resolution remedy through arbitration. Efficiency is inextricably connected with expeditious conclusion of arbitral proceedings. While the statute incorporates party autonomy even with respect to the conduct and conclusion of arbitral proceedings, there is a statutory recognition of the power of the Court to step in wherever it is necessary to ensure that the process of resolution of the dispute is taken to its logical end, if according to the Court, the circumstances so warrant. It is in this context that the Arbitration and Conciliation Act adopts the well-known language of 860 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports limitation statutes and provides that the Court can extend the time if it finds that there is sufficient cause. 16. The meaning of ‘sufficient cause’ for extending the time to make an award must take colour from the underlying purpose of the arbitration process. The primary objective in rendering an arbitral award is to resolve disputes through the agreed dispute resolution mechanism as contracted by the parties. Therefore, ‘sufficient cause’ should be interpreted in the context of facilitating effective dispute resolution. 17. Having taken note of the fact that the pandemic had commenced even before the expiry of 12 months from the completion of pleadings, this Court excluding the period between 15.03.2020 to 28.02.2023 in Re: Cognizance for Extension of Limitation (supra), and the agreement between the parties on 05.05.2023 to seek extension of time by filing an application before the Court, we are of the opinion that there is sufficient cause for extension of time. 18. In view of the above, we allow the Civil Appeal arising out of SLP (C) No. 2272/2024 and set aside the and passed by the High Court in MCA No. 1/2023 dated 03.11.2023, and extend the period for making of the award by the Arbitral Tribunal till 31st December, 2024.