The accused were taken into custody on the date of the . 8. Aggrieved by their conviction and sentence, the four accused preferred three separate appeals before the High Court. Appeal No.4982/2019 was preferred by Rajesh Kumar @ Pappu, 5346/2019 was preferred by Radhey Shyam Lal and 5347/2019 was preferred by Pratap and Jagannath. The High Court, by the impugned and dated 1st November, 2023 recorded that the accused did not get a fair trial as their counsel had admitted the documents of the prosecution and had dispensed with its formal proof. This resulted into a serious 3 CrPC [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1731 Shyam Narayan Ram v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. Etc. and fatal illegality and as such in to extend to the accused a fair trial, it was expedient to remit the matter back to the Trial Court for further trial from the stage of recording of evidence of PW 2 (he had not been cross-examined by the defence), after affording liberty to cross-examine PW 2. The prosecution would produce its formal witnesses and the defence would have liberty to cross-examine them also and only thereafter the trial may be concluded and decided. 9. Aggrieved by the said of remand, the informant has preferred the present appeals. 10. The submission advanced on behalf of the appellant is to the effect that the High Court fell in error in remanding the matter and giving liberty to the accused to first cross-examine PW 2 and thereafter allow the prosecution to lead further evidence in the form of formal witnesses to prove the police papers and only thereafter proceed further with the trial, maybe by recording a further statement under section 313 CrPC. 11. According to the learned counsel for the appellant, if the of the High Court is allowed to stand, it would render the provisions of section 294 CrPC redundant and otiose. It was also submitted that it is not for any error or oversight of defence counsel that they had admitted the genuineness of the police papers by dispensing formal proof of the same, rather they had repeatedly confirmed their stand of admitting the genuineness of the documents and had opposed the recall of witnesses by the Public Prosecutor on two occasions, once in 2005 and again in 2019. It was thus submitted that the High Court ought to have decided the appeal on merits on the basis of evidence led during the trial and there was no justification for remanding the matter. 12. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent-State of U.P. has supported the case of the appellant and submitted that despite the Public Prosecutor having repeatedly requested the Trial Court to allow them to produce the formal witnesses but on account of strong opposition by the counsel for defence, the Trial Court had rejected the said request as such there was no justification for remitting the matter back to the Trial Court for a further trial from the stage of recording of evidence of PW 2.