The establishment of MAO College was spearheaded by late Sir Syed Ahmed Khan35, a national leader who envisioned the idea of a modern and Western educational institution for the Muslim community, distinct from the traditional madrasas, which otherwise prevailed. There is no contest to the fact that that MAO College was established specifically for the educational advancement of the Muslims; it is what comes thereafter which is the point of contention and calls for being noticed, to the extent relevant, and addressed. 62. Upon Sir Syed’s death in 1898, the Muslim community in his honour started collecting funds with the goal to raise a sum of Rs 1,00,000/- (Rupees one lakh only) so that MAO College could evolve into a university. It is the appellants’ submission that over a period of 22 (twenty-two) years, the Muslim community, through the Muslim University Association, collected a staggering sum of Rs 30,00,000/- (Rupees thirty lakh only) which finally led the British Government to agree with the demands for a university, leading to the establishment of AMU in 1920. 63. Travelling down memory lane, one is bound to trace the emergence of the movement for a Hindu university which, over a period of time, took shape with the establishment of the Banaras Hindu University36 through a similar statute, viz. the Banaras Hindu University Act, 191537. Despite all the efforts of Sir Syed, who did not consider Muslims to be in any way inferior, and the later endeavours to have 35 Sir Syed, hereafter 36 BHU, hereafter 37 BHU Act, hereafter 1884 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports a university established with full control being exercised by the Muslim community, refusal of the imperial government to succumb to the demand was a blow to the aspirations that many of the leaders of the Aligarh movement harboured. There emerged two disputing factions within the Aligarh movement – that of the Loyalists headed by Aftab Ahmad Khan and the other by Maulana Mohammad Ali, the latter being vexed with the increasing control of the imperial government over the proposed AMU. Once the BHU Act had been passed leading to establishment of the BHU, the Loyalists realised that they were caught between the devil and the deep sea, i.e., they either accede to the British envisioning of AMU, which was under overwhelming government control, or they stick to their demands and lose out on the proposed university altogether. Writ large was the fact that since BHU had not been granted the right of affiliation, it seemed to be inevitable that the proposed Muslim university will also be governed by similar such provisions governing BHU. In a decisive meeting of the Muslim University Association, the decision was put to a vote and the Loyalists emerged the winner, leading to the eventual walkout of the dissenting faction headed by Maulana Mohammad Ali, who would go on to establish Jamia Milia Islamia. A salient feature of Jamia was that it was independently funded and thrived without any aid from the imperial government.