3. Respondent no.2 was the owner of Survey No.13 Hissa No.1 measuring 3.40 Hectares situate in village Shelwali, Tehsil Palghar, District Thane, Maharashtra. Half of the total area which would come to 1.70 Hectares on the western side is the suit land purchased by the appellants. Remaining half was purchased by collaterals of the appellants. 4. Relevant facts for appropriate adjudication of this appeal are as follows: (a) Respondent no.2 herein executed a Sale Deed in favour of appellant no.1 and his minor brother Ambrish Mishra (since deceased) on 02.12.1985 with respect to suit land and the appellant no.1, along with his brother, was put into possession of the same. (b) On the same date another Sale Deed was executed by the respondent no.2 in favour of one Param Umakant Mishra and Sohardha Jagdish Mishra (collaterals of the appellants) for the remaining half portion. (c) On 05.12.1985 both the aforementioned Sale Deeds were presented for registration before the Sub-Registrar, Palghar. (d) The Sale Deed in favour of Param Mishra and Sohardha Mishra was registered and later on their names were mutated in the revenue records. However, on account of deficiency in stamp duty, the Sale Deed in favour of the appellant no.1 and his minor brother could not be registered and remained pending for registration before the Sub-Registrar. As such their names could not be incorporated in the revenue records and the name of the respondent no.2 continued to be recorded. (e) It would be relevant to mention that in the Sale Deed it was mentioned that the appellant no.1 is aged 18 years whereas [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2303 Kaushik Premkumar Mishra & Anr. v. Kanji Ravaria @ Kanji & Anr. his brother Ambrish, was a minor and was represented through his natural guardian-mother (Smt. Malti). (f) On 8th October, 1999, brother of the appellant Ambrish passed away issueless and later on his widow re-married, as such, his parents became the successors and legal heirs of the estate of Ambrish. (g) On 3rd December, 2010 respondent no.2 executed a Conveyance Deed with respect to the suit land in favour of respondent no.1. It is the same land which was transferred in favour of the appellant no.1 and his brother in December, 1985. (h) On 8th June, 2011 the appellants came to know about inspection of the suit land by some strangers, so they went to the spot. They found that respondent no.1, along with some musclemen, was trying to take possession of the suit land but on account of suit land being protected by fencing, they could not enter. It was at that time the appellant no.1 came to know about a conveyance deed in favour of respondent no.1 on the basis of which he was trying to take possession. (i) The appellants thereafter made inquiries in the office of the Sub-Registrar and came to know that there was a sale deed dated 3rd December, 2010 in favour of respondent no.1 (j) After obtaining a certified copy of the said Deed, which was received on 14th June 2011, the picture became clear to the appellant.