3.2 The High Court’s observations can be summarized thus:- (a) The CFA, 1870 is a pre-constitutional enactment which no longer applies to the State of Maharashtra after the enactment of the Bombay Court Fees Act, 19595. In reaching this conclusion, reliance was placed on a of a co-ordinate bench in Pushpabai Shankerlal Sura v. The Official Liquidator, Sholapur Oil Mills Ltd.6 (b) The use of CFA, 1870 in LSA, 1987 is a case of “legislation by incorporation”, the same analogy cannot be applied to the s passed by courts on settlement of disputes. Decrees passed by courts on the basis of settlement cannot be equated to awards passed by Lok Adalat. Since the BCFA, 1959 would be applicable, no error can be found in the State issuing a notification under Section 43(2) thereof. 5 Hereinafter, BCFA, 1959. 6 1968 SCC OnLine Bom 62 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 871 Sanjeevkumar Harakchand Kankariya v. Union of India & Ors. 3.3 Disposing of the writ petition, the Court made the following observations: “16. While disposing of the writ petition, we deem it appropriate to recommend the State Government to issue necessary notification or to bring out necessary amendment incorporating provision in respect of refund of Court fees to the extent of 100% in respect of the matters which are disposed of by the Courts on adaptation of any of the modes prescribed under section 89 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. Such a step would be in consonance with the directives issued by the Supreme Court in Salem Advocates Bar Association v. Union of India (supra), as well as it would bring parity with the provisions of section 21 of the Legal Services Authorities Act and section 16 of the Court Fees Act, 1870. Thus, in to bring uniformity in the matter of refund of Court fees and to eliminate discrepancies so far as matters disposed of in view of the award passed by Lok Adalat, and such of those matters which are disposed of in terms of the settlement arrived at on the basis of observance of any of the modes prescribed under section 89 of the Code of Civil Procedure, a direction needs to be issued by the State of Maharashtra to take effective steps. Such a positive move will also give boost to the movement of Alternate Disputes Resolution, which, in fact, curtails precious time of the Court as well as avoids unnecessary and prolonged indulgence in litigation before the Court. We hope and trust that respondent-State would consider this suggestion earnestly and take measures expeditiously.” 4. We have heard Mr. Sandeep Sudhakar Deshmukh, learned Advocate- on- Record for the Appellant, Mr. Vikramjit Banerjee, learned Additional Solicitor General, and Ms. Rukmini Bobde, Learned Counsel, for the Respondents. We have also perused the parties’ written submissions. 4A. Submissions on behalf of Appellants 4A.1 Section 16 of the CFA, 1870 contemplates a refund of court fees in its entirety if the dispute inter se the parties is settled. The same is irrespective of the stage of the lis.