It would not even in a case where aid is received unless it is substantial in nature. The control of the State is another issue to hold a writ petition to be maintainable against an authority or a person.” (Emphasis supplied) 71. We owe a duty to consider one relevant aspect of the matter. Although this aspect which we want to take notice of has not been highlighted by Respondent 1, yet we must look into the same. We have referred to the CBSE Affiliation Bye-laws in the earlier part of our . Appendix IV of the Affiliation Bye-laws is with respect to the minority institutions. Clause 6 of Appendix IV is with respect to the disciplinary control over the staff in a minority educational institution. We take notice of the fact that in Clause 6, the State has the regulatory power to safeguard the interests 2238 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of their employees and their service conditions including the procedure for punishment to be imposed. 72. For the sake of convenience and at the cost of repetition, we quote Clause 6 once again as under: “6. Disciplinary control over staff in Minority Educational Institutions.—While the managements should exercise the disciplinary control over staff, it must be ensured that they hold an inquiry and follow a fair procedure before punishment is given. With a view to preventing the possible misuse of power by the management of the Minority Educational Institutions, the State has the regulatory power to safeguard the interests of their employees and their service conditions including procedure for punishment to be imposed.” (Emphasis supplied) 73. It could be argued that as the State has regulatory power to safeguard the interests of the employees serving with the minority institutions, any action or decision taken by such institution is amenable to writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. 74. In the aforesaid context, we may only say that merely because the State Government has the regulatory power, the same, by itself, would not confer any such status upon the institution (school) nor put any such obligations upon it which may be enforced through issue of a writ under Article 226 of the Constitution. In this regard, we may refer to and rely upon the decision of this Court in Federal Bank (supra). While deciding whether a private bank that is regulated by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 discharges any public function, this Court held thus:- (Ramakrishna Mission case, SCC pp. 315-16, paras 33-35) “33. … ‘33… ‘in our view, a private company carrying on banking business as a scheduled bank, cannot be termed as an institution or a [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2239 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. company carrying on any statutory or public duty. A private body or a person may be amenable to writ jurisdiction only where it may become necessary to compel such body or association to enforce any statutory obligations or such obligations of public nature casting positive obligation upon it.