134. It is doubtful whether any of us, as Judges,would lay a claim to be omniscient. The limitations of a Judge’s expertise would negate any assertion of authority in extra-legal areas as well as to claim special knowledge of what the canvas was prior to 1920 when AMU came to be established. Conscious as I am of my limitations, it would be a misadventure on my part to agree with the majority opinion and command the appropriate bench to determine whether AMU was established by the minority community based on the indicium [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1913 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. proposed therein, post-independence decisions of this Court and liberal ideas of present times, without there being credible material of proof that AMU, all along, was perceived as an educational institution established ‘by the Muslim community’, as distinguished from ‘for the Muslim community’, even during the pre-Constitution days. Whether or not an educational institution has been established by a particular community has to be judged bearing in mind all antecedent, attending and surrounding circumstances of the relevant time. No one can claim with certainty that the entirety of the dialogue/correspondence/ incidents/events, which did precede the establishment of AMU, have been placed before us and that too with cent percent accuracy. Such being the state of affairs, we ought not to substitute historical facts by our appreciation of half-baked evidence. Notwithstanding the knowledge, erudition and eminence that some of us have been gifted with, I am sceptical as to whether any of us can claim to be more learned than those who played significant roles in framing of the Constitution. It is not as if they were wholly unaware of the circumstances of the yesteryears. If ‘establish’ were to be read as ‘found’, there is no reason as to why the framers did not express themselves differently by using ‘to found’ instead of ‘to establish’ or, in the alternative, both - but one after the other. 135. Tinkering with understanding of a Constitutional provision, which has been consistent and has stood the test of time since its inception, in the name of interpretation and overruling of longstanding precedents is too frequent an occurrence which judicial activism has brought about, sometimes unnecessarily, in the past couple of decades. It is time that we refrain from such an approach, unless absolutely required, and allow the people’s will to prevail and the Constitution to reign supreme. 136. Turning to the point of indicia, the tests employed for identifying post-Constitution minority educational institutions cannot be the same as for identification of pre-Constitution institutions, more so when a college established by the minority is elevated to the status of a university upon establishment and incorporation through statute. There can be no dispute that an educational institution undoubtedly established prior to the Constitution coming into force by a minority community, either based on religion or language, and administered as well by such community would be entitled to the protection envisaged in Article 30(1). However, if there is a serious 1914 [2024] 11 S.C.R.