Notably, the investigation also revealed that the aforesaid transactions were carried out fraudulently i.e., (i) without the requisite documentation and / or on the basis of forged and fabricated documentation; (ii) on the basis of an erroneous certificate dated 21.06.2010 issued by the Original Plaintiff; and (iii) in connivance with certain identified government officials. Accordingly, in view of the aforesaid, a complaint dated 25.07.2015 came to be furnished by the Tehsildar, Khategaon to the investigating agencies (the “Complaint”). 2.4 In furtherance of the Complaint, the FIR came to be registered by the investigating agencies against 22 (twenty-two) persons including inter alia the Respondents. Aggrieved by the registration of the FIR, application(s) came to be preferred under Section 482 CrPC before the High Court seeking the quashing of the FIR (the “Quashing Petition”). Vide the Impugned , the High Court quashed the FIR and the proceeding(s) emanating thereof. The operative paragraph(s) of the Impugned are reproduced as under: “05. Considering the above submissions and the evidence on record in the form of the s of the trial Court as well as the appellate Court that the respondent-state has been unable to prove its title. The suit as well as the appeal have been dismissed and in this light filing of criminal proceedings as alleged by the Counsel for the petitioners is nothing but a ploy to subjugate the petitioners. It has ben consistently stated by the Counsel for the petitioners that the 376 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports petitioners are in possession of the said land for more than 90 years and Counsel has relied on several s of the Hon’ble Apex Court as well as this Court in the matter of Mohammed Ibrahim and others Vs. State of Bihar and another [(2009) 8 SCC 751], Ramesh Dutt and others Vs. State Punjab and others [(2009) 15 SCC 429], Rajib Ranjan and others Vs. R Vijaykumar [(2005) 1 SCC 513], Mr. Stephen V. Gomes and another [2015 (II) MPWN 149], Savitri Pandey and another v. State of UP and others [AIR 2015 SC 2501], AK Sharma (Cdr.) vs. State of MP 2015(3) JLJ 213 and Chandran Ratnaswami Vs. KC Palanisamy and others [2013 (6) SCC 740] to state that the Hon’ble Supreme Court and this Hon’ble Court have repeatedly held and quashed FIR and criminal proceedings relating to a dispute of title of property and other civil disputes and Counsel prayed for quashment of the FIR. 06. Besides Counsel also submitted that there was no allegation against the petitioners regarding their having forged any document or their having manipulated any documents or cheating. Then under the circumstances offences could not be made out against the petitioners. Counsel has vehemently urged that the action of the Tehsildar in lodging the FIR and registration of the offences is a gross misuse of the power and invoking the criminal law and procedure is purely contrary to the principles of natural justice as well as the provisions of the law since civil proceedings established title and the State has lost on both these counts.