The biosafety studies were supported by public funding of around Rs.8 crores. The GEAC in its 133rd meeting held on May 11, 2017, recommended the environmental release of the parental lines and the first generation hybrid DMH-11 and permitted the development of a new generation of hybrids. Unfortunately, a few days later the MoEFCC website displayed the Ministry’s decision – ‘matters related to environmental release of Mustard transgenic are kept pending for further review’. Later in communication from GEAC, some additional experiments on honey bees were sought but no efforts were made to facilitate the execution of those experiments. We pointed out to GEAC that such tests were not required. The technology we have used for hybrid seed production in mustard was first deployed in rapeseed, a sister crop of mustard – in 1996 in Canada, in 2002 in the USA, and in 2003 in Australia. Rapeseed hybrids developed using the GE technologies are currently being cultivated in Canada on almost 9-10 million hectares. No untoward effect of GE rapeseed has been reported either from Canada or from USA and Australia. Canada is a big exporter of rapeseed [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2103 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. oil and meal to all parts of the world as well as honey. There is no record of any harm to apiculture in Canada or from any other country that has released the GE hybrid seed production system. The point I want to make for your kind consideration is that the GE technology for hybrid seed production developed by us for mustard is well tested, has been used for more than 20 years in rapeseed, and over and above – we have carried out all the necessary biosafety tests on the transgenic mustard lines. I request that the MoEFCC may accept the recommendations of the 133rd meeting of GEAC recommending the environmental release of the GE-based technology for hybrid seed production in mustard. If required, GEAC could meet again. We would be very happy to interact with GEAC to resolve any lingering doubts or questions. I would be most grateful for your kind help in resolving the issue of the environmental release of GE-based hybrid seed production technology. With kind regards, Yours sincerely, Deepak Pental SERB-National Science Chair Former Professor of Genetics and Vice-Chancellor, University of Delhi Cc: Chairman, GEAC” On receiving the said communication, immediately comments were sought from the DBT, DARE and ICAR. On 25.08.2022, the applicant once again made a presentation of the proposal for environmental release of DMH-11 to GEAC at its 146th meeting. At that meeting, GEAC once again constituted another Expert Committee to examine the request letter dated 10.05.2022 with respect to availability of adequate evidence about impact of transgenic mustard on honeybees and other pollinators in to assess the need for conducting field demonstration studies on honeybees and other pollinators. The reason for constitution of another Expert Committee is not known or forthcoming. This Expert Committee, headed by 2104 [2024] 7 S.C.R.