(3) Where any such under sub-section (1) is made in relation to any area, then, without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (2) any member of the Delhi Special Police Establishment of or above the rank of Sub-Inspector may subject to any s which the Central Government may make in this behalf, exercise the powers of the officer in charge of a police station in that area and when so exercising such powers, shall be deemed to be an officer in charge of a police station discharging the functions of such an officer within the limits of his station.” 60. A perusal of sub-section (1) of Section 5 of the DSPE Act would reveal that the Central Government, by an , is entitled to extend to any area including Railway areas in a State, not being a Union Territory, the powers and jurisdiction of members of the DSPE for the investigation of any offences or classes of offences specified in a notification under Section 3 of the DSPE Act. Sub-section (2) thereof provides that when by an under sub-section (1), the powers and jurisdiction of members of the DSPE are extended to any such area, a member thereof may, subject to any s which the Central Government may make in this behalf, discharge the functions of a police officer in that area and shall, while so discharging such functions, be deemed to be a member of the police force of that area and be vested with the powers, functions and privileges and be subject to the liabilities of a police officer belonging to that police force. Again, under sub-section (3) thereof, where any such under sub-section (1) is made in relation to any area, then, without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (2), any member of the DSPE of or above the rank of Sub-Inspector may, subject to any s which the Central Government may make in this behalf, exercise the powers of the officer in charge of a police station in that area and when so exercising such powers, shall be deemed to be an officer in charge of a police station discharging the functions of such an officer within the limits of his station. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 721 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India 61. Section 6 of the DSPE Act reads thus: “6. Consent of State Government to exercise of powers and jurisdiction.—Nothing contained in section 5 shall be deemed to enable any member of the Delhi Special Police Establishment to exercise powers and jurisdiction in any area in a State, not being a Union Territory or railway area, without the consent of the Government of that State.” 62. A perusal of Section 6 of the DSPE Act would reveal that nothing contained in Section 5 shall be deemed to enable any member of the DSPE to exercise powers and jurisdiction in any area in a State, not being a Union Territory or railway area, without the consent of the Government of that State.