The other plea taken by learned counsel for the respondent that in any case, the Criminal Court did not find any merit in the case that was trivial in nature and the respondent was accordingly acquitted vide dated 22nd October, 2014 passed by the learned Judicial Magistrate, Mainpuri also does not hold any water inasmuch as the itself notes that the prosecution had failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt and for that reason, it was considered appropriate to absolve the respondent and the other co-accused by giving them benefit of doubt. In other words, it was not a case of clean acquittal but a case of paucity of evidence that led to the acquittal of the respondent and the other co-accused. In any event, in our opinion, not much would turn on the subsequent acquittal of the respondent on the basis of the dated 22nd October, 2014 for the reason that the termination of his services is not premised on the pendency of the criminal cases or their outcome, but on the failure on the part of the respondent to have truthfully disclosed in the Verification Roll that criminal cases were pending against him at the relevant point in time. JUDICIAL PRECEDENTS AND THEIR APPLICATION 20. Without burdening this with a catena of judicial precedents on the aspect of suppression of material information, submission of false information in the Verification Roll by an aspirant of a job when the incumbent has faced criminal prosecution or has been arrested or on account of pendency of a criminal case, we may directly cite the much quoted decision of a three-Judges Bench of this Court in 924 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Avtar Singh v. Union of India and Others11 where broad guidelines were laid down regarding the yardstick to be applied for verification of disclosures made by a candidate to the employer so as to decide as to whether the applicant would be fit for appointment or not. Following were the pertinent observations made in Avatar Singh (supra): “29. The verification of antecedents is necessary to find out fitness of incumbent, in the process if a declarant is found to be of good moral character on due verification of antecedents, merely by suppression of involvement in trivial offence which was not pending on date of filling attestation form, whether he may be deprived of employment? There may be case of involving moral turpitude/serious offence in which employee has been acquitted but due to technical reasons or giving benefit of doubt. There may be situation when person has been convicted of an offence before filling verification form or case is pending and information regarding it has been suppressed, whether employer should wait till outcome of pending criminal case to take a decision or in case when action has been initiated there is already conclusion of criminal case resulting in conviction/acquittal as the case may be. The situation may arise for consideration of various aspects in a case where disclosure has been made truthfully of required information, then also authority is required to consider and verify fitness for appointment.