12. Significantly, the prosecution did not gather any further evidence in relation to this conviction at Raipur. No witness from Raipur was examined to identify and prove that it was the very same Shama who 3 Erewhon (1872), a satire by Samuel Butler. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 759 Manik & Ors. v. The State of Maharashtra had suffered the conviction there. In the absence of clinching proof of Shama being actually alive, the only possible inference that can be drawn from his established and prolonged torture by the appellants is that he would have died while in their custody. No doubt, the High Court, in its wisdom, chose to disbelieve the fingerprint evidence and did not sustain the Trial Court’s finding that the body that was exhumed at the behest of the appellants was that of Shama. At best, the exclusion of this evidence would only mean that the dead body of Shama was not traceable. However, as rightly pointed out by my learned brother, production of a dead body to prove a murder is not necessary in the eye of law. ‘Corpus Delicti’ is a Latin phrase that broadly means – ‘body of the crime’. Generally, this principle has reference to the requirement of the prosecution proving that the crime has been committed, so as to charge the delinquent and secure a conviction. 13. In Sevaka Perumal and another vs. State of Tamil Nadu,4 this Court observed that it is not an absolute necessity or an essential ingredient to establish the corpus delicti in a trial for murder, as the factum of death must be established like any other fact. To base a conviction for murder, this Court held that there must be reliable and acceptable evidence that the offence of murder was committed and it must be proved, either by direct or circumstantial evidence, even if the dead body is not traceable. 14. Merely because the appellants were clever enough to trump up a story of Shama escaping from their custody and the happenstance of the exhumed body, recovered at their instance, no longer figuring in the picture due to rejection of the fingerprint evidence, it would be improper to proceed on the assumption that the law laid down in Sevaka Perumal (supra) would not be applicable. Doing so would impel the Court to fall into the trap of the ingenious and wily appellants, who have cunningly concocted and falsified records to escape their just deserts. 15. This is the major point of divergence between our views. My learned brother has acted upon the premise that once the dead body is said 4 [1991] 2 SCR 711 : (1991) 3 SCC 471 760 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to have been traced and it is, then, not proved to be of that person, it would be fatal to the case of the prosecution. Permitting this premise to gain acceptance would mean that those in the police organization, who resort to such nefarious methods, can take this easy way out to ward off a finding of guilt.