However, if the argument of the Union of India is accepted, the pension of a Judge who was a former District Judge would be computed on the basis of their salary as a District Judge. A similar principle, as applicable to Judges appointed from the Bar, must be applied for computing the pension of a member of the district judiciary who is appointed to the High Court. Any other interpretation would result in a plain discrimination between the Judges of the High Court based on the source from which they have been 2 217 Appointment and conditions of the office of a Judge of a High Court (2) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Judge of a High Court unless he is a citizen of India and— (a) has for at least ten years held a judicial office in the territory of India; or (b) has for at least ten years been an advocate of a High Court or of two or more such Courts in succession 3 2024 INSC 2009 : [2024] 3 SCR 848 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1063 Justice Shailendra Singh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. drawn. Such an interpretation would do disservice to the importance of the district judiciary in contributing to the judiciary of the nation, and would be contrary to the overall scheme and intendment of Chapter III of the statute. It would go against the anti-discriminatory principles stipulated by this Court in so far as Judges drawn from various sources are concerned.” (emphasis supplied) 10. The petitioner qualified for appointment as a Judge of the High Court since he had held judicial office for at least ten years within the meaning of Article 217(2)(a). However, the petitioner was also a member of the Bar for over fourteen years and eight months prior to his appointment as a Judge of the High Court. 11. In this backdrop, we are of the view that it would be appropriate, particularly having regard to the law which has been enunciated in the above decision, to direct that the pensionary payments due to the petitioner be recomputed after giving him the benefit of an addition of ten years of service. However, it is clarified that the maximum basic pension which is payable to a Judge of the High Court of Rs 13,50,000 per annum shall continue to apply to the petitioner. The petitioner retired from service on 26 August 2002. The difference in pensionary payments payable to the petitioner shall be computed with effect from the date of his retirement within a period of three months and the arrears that are due and payable in terms of the present shall be paid over by 31 March 2025. 12. The petition is allowed in the above terms. 13. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Result of the case: Petitions allowed. Communication quashed. Authorities directed to open GPF accounts for petitioners with retrospective effect and return NPS contributions within four weeks. †Headnotes prepared by: Harshit Anand, Hony.