4.13 Krishna Iyer, J. adjudicated on the construction of “material resources of the community” in the backdrop of a constitutional, economic and social culture that gave primacy to the State over the individual in a broad-sweeping manner. As a matter 194 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of fact, the 42nd Amendment had, inter alia, inserted the word “Socialist” into the Preamble to the Constitution. By abundant caution, I must observe that “Socialist” is starkly distinguished from “Socialism”, which is an economic policy of organising society and the political economy of the country. Regardless, on a conspectus understanding of all contributing factors such as the discussions in Constituent Assembly and the tide of the times that found in the broad house of economic democracy a legitimate State policy, can we castigate former judges and allege them with “disservice” only for reaching a particular interpretive outcome? Re: Second issue: Submissions: 5. Learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the intervenors contended that Article 39(b) read with Article 31C give primacy to the Directive Principles as opposed to the fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 and 19. That unless a material resource is transformed as a “material resource of the community”, “the ownership and control” of the said material resource cannot be distributed by the State. That there is a distinction between “material needs” and “material resources of the community”. An individual’s resources cannot be a part of the resources of the community. In other words, merely because an individual is a member of the community, his resources cannot be construed as resources of the community. That “material resources of the community” must produce goods and services for the community or wealth for the community. The opinion of Krishna Iyer, J. in State of Karnataka vs. Ranganatha Reddy, AIR 1978 SC 215 (“Ranganatha Reddy”) and the in Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Co. vs. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. (1983) 1 SCC 147 : AIR 1983 SC 239 (“Sanjeev Coke”) were entered in the context of nationalisation and cannot be applied in other contexts. It was further submitted that Article 39(b) deals with “distribution of ownership and control of the material resources of the community”. It does not deal with acquisition of privately owned material resources for the purpose of subsequent distribution by the State. 5.1 Learned Attorney General, Sri R. Venkataramani, leading the arguments on behalf of the respondents and intervenors [2024] 11 S.C.R. 195 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. submitted that under Article 39 (b) and (c), there cannot be a narrow reading of the expression “material resources of the community”. That there cannot be any limitation on the said expression. Sri Rakesh Dwivedi, learned senior counsel appearing for the State of West Bengal contended that the expression “material resources” excludes only resources which are meant for personal use; otherwise all other resources would come within the scope and ambit of the aforesaid expression. The term “community” cannot be equated with State/Government. It is a term of wider import and encompasses all citizens who would form a community of individuals.