Thus, the judiciary is the guardian of the rule of law and the central pillar of a democratic State. Therefore, the judiciary has to perform its duties and function effectively and remain true to the spirit with which they are sacredly entrusted to it. In our view, this Court must be a beacon in upholding rule of law failing which it would give rise to an impression that this Court is not serious about rule of law and, therefore, all Courts in the country could apply it selectively and thereby lead to a situation where the judiciary is unmindful of rule of law. This would result in a dangerous state of affairs in our democracy and democratic polity. 64. Further, in a democracy where rule of law is its essence, it has to be preserved and enforced particularly by courts of law. Compassion and sympathy have no role to play where rule of law is required to be enforced. If the rule of law has to be preserved as the essence of democracy, it is the duty of the courts to enforce the same without fear or favour, affection or ill-will. 65. The manner of functioning of the court in accord with the rule of law has to be dispassionate, objective and analytical. Thus, everyone within the framework of the rule of law must accept the system, render due obedience to s made and in the event of failure of compliance, the rod of justice must descend down to punish. It is mainly through the power of judicial review conferred on an independent institutional authority such as the High Court or the Supreme Court that the rule of law is maintained and every organ of the State is kept within the limits of the law. Thus, those concerned with the rule of law must remain unmindful and unruffled by the ripples caused by it. Rule of law does not mean protection to a 906 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports fortunate few. The very existence of the rule of law and the fear of being brought to book operates as a deterrent to those who have no scruples in killing others if it suits their ends. In the words of Krishna Iyer, J., “the finest hour of the rule of law is when law disciplines life and matches promise with performance”. In ADM, Jabalpur vs. Shivakant Shukla, H.R. Khanna, J. in his dissenting said, “rule of law is the antithesis of arbitrariness”. 66. In this context, it would also be useful to refer to the notion of justice in the present case. It is said that justice should remain loyal to the rule of law. In our view, justice cannot be done without adherence to rule of law. This Court has observed “the concept of “justice” encompasses not just the rights of the convict, but also of the victims of crime as well as of the law abiding section of society who look towards the courts as vital instruments for preservation of peace and the curtailment or containment of crime by punishing those who transgress the law.