496 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports agency, should be given full effect. If the interpretation of the terms of the contract as adopted by the tribunal was not even a possible view, the award is perverse.30 48. Clause 29.5.1(i) entitles the concessionaire to terminate the agreement if DMRC “failed to cure such breach or take effective steps for curing such breach” within the cure period. Pertinently, the clause uses two separate phrases, “cure” and “effective steps to cure”. The clause reads as follows: “29.5.1 The Concessionaire may after giving 90 (ninety) days’ notice in writing to DMRC terminate this Agreement upon the occurrence and continuation of any of the following events (each a “DMRC Event of Default”), unless any such DMRC Event of Default has occurred as a result of Concessionaire Event of Default or due to a Force Majeure Event. (i) DMRC is in breach of this Agreement and such breach has a Material Adverse Effect on the Concessionaire and DMRC has failed to cure such breach or take effective steps for curing such breach within 90 (ninety) days of receipt of notice in this behalf from the Concessionaire;” (emphasis supplied) 49. The Tribunal found that since certain defects remained after the cure period, this was indicative of the fact that the defects were not cured and that no effective steps were taken. However, logically, the fact that defects existed at the end of the cure period relates to one aspect of the termination clause – that the defects were not completely cured. It does not explain whether effective steps were taken within the cure period. Effectively, the Tribunal considered that in-progress steps that had not yet culminated into completely cured defects were not “effective steps” to offset termination. This places the two components i.e. ‘curing of defects’ and ‘taking effective steps to cure defects’ at par, to mean that only the completed curing of defects is relevant. The Tribunal fails to explain what amounts to an ‘effective step’ and how the steps taken by DMRC were not effective, within the meaning of the phrase. 30 Konkan Railway Corporation Limited v. Chenab Bridge Project Undertaking, 2023 9 SCC 85. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 497 Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. v. Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt. Ltd. 50. Evidently, this could not have been the intention of the parties, because they have clearly agreed to include the phrase “effective steps”. They clearly intended that once a cure notice was served on a party, it would be open to them to either cure defects or to initiate effective steps, even if they could not culminate into the complete curing of defects within the cure period. Incremental progress, even if it does not lead to complete cure, is an acceptable course of action to prevent termination according to the 2008 Agreement. 51. The Tribunal did not appreciate the individual import of the two phrases separately from each other. This was not a matter of mere “alternate interpretation” of the clause, but an unreasonable and uncalled for interpretation of the clause, which frustrated the very provision, and which no reasonable person would have accepted considering the terms of the clause.