The power under Section 437(1) of the Code is exercised by the court, other than the High Court or the Sessions Court. In other cases, Section 437(3) of the Code will apply. Gurcharan Singh (supra) distinguishes between the language of two sub-sections of Section 437 – Section 437(1) and 437(7). It is observed that 437(7) does not apply at the investigation stage, but rather after the conclusion of trial and before the court delivers its . Thus, the use of the expression ‘not guilty’ pertains to releasing the accused who is in custody, on a bond without surety, for appearance to hear the delivered. Notably, Section 437(6) states that if the trial of a person accused of a non-bailable offence is not completed within sixty days from the first date fixed for taking evidence, the magistrate to their satisfaction shall release such person on bail, provided they have been in custody throughout this period. The magistrate may direct otherwise only for reasons recorded in writing. Section 439 of the Code, which relates to the power of the High Court or the Sessions Court to grant bail, remains free from the legislative constraints applicable in cases covered by Section 437(1) of the Code. However, Section 437(3) of the Code when applicable applies. 41. DoE has drawn our attention to the use of the expression ‘material in possession’ in Section 19(1) of the PML Act instead of ‘evidence in possession’. Though etymologically correct, this argument overlooks the requirement that the designated officer should and must, based on the material, reach and form an opinion that the arrestee is guilty of the offence under the PML Act. Guilt can only be established on admissible evidence to be led before the court, and cannot be based on inadmissible evidence. While there is an element of hypothesis, as oral evidence has not been led and the documents are to be proven, the decision to arrest should be rational, fair and as per law. Power to arrest under Section 19(1) is not for the purpose of investigation. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2397 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement Arrest can and should wait, and the power in terms of Section 19(1) of the PML Act can be exercised only when the material with the designated officer enables them to form an opinion, by recording reasons in writing that the arrestee is guilty. 42. DoE relies upon the language of Sections 227 and 228 of the Code, pertaining to discharge and framing of charge, respectively. Section 227 uses the words – ‘sufficient grounds for proceeding against the accused’. Section 228 uses – ‘grounds of presuming that the accused has committed an offence’. Thus, DoE contends that grave suspicion is sufficient to frame a charge and put the accused to trial. This contention should not be accepted, since we are not dealing with the trial, framing of charge or recording the evidence. The issue before us, which has to be examined and answered, is whether the arrest of the person during the course of investigation complies with the law.