1889 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. the premier research organisation for co-ordinating, guiding and managing research and education in agriculture including horticulture, fisheries and animal sciences in the entire country. With over 97 ICAR institutes, 53 agricultural universities, 6 Bureaux, 18 National Research Centres, 25 Project Directorates, and 89 All India Coordinated Research Projects spread across the country this is one of the largest national agricultural research systems in the world. Mission Interfacing agricultural research and technology, higher education and frontline extension initiatives with institutional, infrastructural and policy support for sustainable growth of agriculture. Major Functions • To look after all aspects of the agricultural research and Education (including horticulture, natural resources management, agriculture engineering, agricultural extension, animal science, economic statistics and marketing and fisheries) involving coordination between the central and state agencies. • To attend all matters relating to Indian Council of Agricultural Research. • To attend all matters concerning the development of new technology in agriculture, horticulture, natural resources management, agriculture engineering, agricultural extension, animal science, economic statistics and marketing and fisheries, including such functions as plant and animal introduction and exploration and soil and land use survey and planning. • International co-operation in the field of agricultural research and education including relations with foreign and international agricultural research and educational institutions and organizations, including 1890 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports participation in international conferences, associations and other bodies dealing with agricultural research and education and follow-up decisions at such international conferences etc. • Fundamental, applied and operational research and higher education including co-ordination of such research and higher education in agriculture including agro forestry, animal husbandry, dairying, fisheries, agricultural statistics, economics and marketing.” (Emphasis Supplied) 25 (b) 3. Taking in consideration all the above aspects, one cannot possibly fault the GEAC in asking for the opinion and understanding of these two departments. Having so received their comments, an expert committee within the GEAC was formed to evaluate the presence/absence of sufficient literature regarding the effect of GM crops on honeybees, exemption from further trial for which, was sought by the applicant. This Committee then, also considered such comments and gave its finding, in conformity with the mandate given to it. 25 (b) 4. Also, it is to be noted that the conditional release of DMH-11 was made subject to several conditions including, among others, that the MoEFCC/GEAC may impose further conditions as may be necessary. Such conditions include the revocation of approval in case adverse impact is shown on environment or human health; it is made subject to other statutory clearances including the clearance from Food Safety and Standards Authority of India, Seeds Act. Additionally, it imposes certain obligations on the applicant including obligation to inform regulatory bodies as soon as any adverse impact is shown; obligation to submit annual/seasonal report of the yield etc. to the GEAC. 25 (b) 5. Therefore, the contentions that the primary function of the GEAC has been delegated to the expert committee and that it was granted without application of mind is sufficiently contravened by record.