Positive secularism allows the State to treat some persons differently to treat all persons equally.94 The 89 Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society (supra) [92] 90 P A Inamdar (supra) [121] [“121. […] the urge or need for affiliation or recognition brings in the concept of regulation by way of laying down conditions consistent with the requirement of ensuring merit, excellence of education and preventing maladministration. For example, provisions can be made indicating the quality of the teachers by prescribing the minimum qualifications that they must possess and the courses of studies and curricula. The existence of infrastructure sufficient for its growth can be stipulated as a prerequisite to the grant of recognition or affiliation. However, there cannot be interference in the day- to-day administration. The essential ingredients of the management, including admission of students, recruiting of staff and the quantum of fee to be charged, cannot be regulated.”] 91 Supriyo v. Union of India, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1348 [158] 92 T M A Pai Foundation (supra) [160-161] 93 T M A Pai Foundation (supra) [157] 94 St Stephens College v. University of Delhi (1992) 1 SCC 558 [97] [“97. The Constitution establishes secular democracy. The animating principle of any democracy is the equality of the people. But the idea that all people are equal is profoundly speculative. It is well said that in to treat some persons equally, we must treat them differently. We have to recognise a fair degree of discrimination in favour of minorities. But it is impossible to have an affirmative action for religious minorities in religious neutral way. In to get beyond religion, we cannot ignore religion. We must first take account of religion. It [2024] 11 S.C.R. 411 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. concept of positive secularism finds consonance in the principle of substantive equality. 71. In Joseph Shine v. Union of India,95 one of us (Justice D Y Chandrachud) held that the notion of formal equality is contrary to the constitutional vision of a just social . On the contrary, substantive equality is aimed at producing equality of outcomes through different modes of affirmative actions or state support.96 Substantive equality is directed at eliminating individual, institutional and systemic discrimination against disadvantaged groups which effectively undermines their full and equal social, economic, political, and cultural participation in society.97 Enactment of special provisions or giving preferential treatment by the State allows the disadvantaged individual or community to overcome social and economic barriers and participate in society on equal terms.98 72. The Madarsa Act secures the interests of the minority community in Uttar Pradesh because: (i) it regulates the standard of education imparted by the recognised Madarsas; and (ii) it conducts examinations and confers certificates to students, allowing them the opportunity to pursue higher education. The Madarsa Act is consistent with the positive obligation of the State to ensure that students studying in the recognised Madarsas attain a minimum level of competency which will allow them to effectively participate in society and earn a living.99 Therefore, the Madarsa Act furthers substantive equality for the minority community.