…” [Emphasis supplied] D.3.2 What is the meaning of the term ‘establish’ and whether AMU was ‘established’ by the Muslim community? 58 In re the Kerala Education Bill, 1957,1958 SCR 995. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1793 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 69. The Court in Azeez Basha (supra) interpreted the term ‘establish’ in Article 30 to mean ‘to bring into existence.’ To determine whether AMU was established by the Muslim community, the Court examined the legal framework for the establishment of a university. It was found that prior to independence, a private individual could create a university independently, with State intervention only required for the purposes of recognition of the degree conferred. In this context, it observed that though Muslims had the option to establish a university without any state involvement, they opted for State intervention to secure degree recognition. Consequently, this Court concluded that AMU was established vide the AMU Act, 1920, which was enacted by the then Parliament. It therefore held that AMU was established by an act of the Central Legislature and not by the Muslim community: “22. There was nothing in 1920 to prevent the Muslim minority, if it so chose, to establish a university; but if it did so the degrees of such a university were not bound to be recognised by Government. It may be that in the absence of recognition of the degrees granted by a university, it may not have attracted many students, and that is why we find that before the Constitution came into force, most of the universities in India were established by legislation. […] It is clear therefore that even though the Muslim minority could have established at Aligarh in 1920 a university, it could not insist that degrees granted by such a university should be recognised by Government. Therefore, when the Aligarh University was established in 1920 and by Section 6 its degrees were recognised by Government, an institution was brought into existence which could not be brought into existence by any private individual or body for such individual or body could not insist upon the recognition of the degrees conferred by any university established by it. The enactment of Section 6 in the 1920. Act is a very important circumstance which shows that the Aligarh University when it came to be established in 1920 was not established by the Muslim minority, for the minority could not insist on the recognition by Government of the degrees conferred by any university established by it.” 1794 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “26. […] But if the M.A.O. College was to be converted into a university of the kind whose degrees were bound to be recognised by Government, it would not be possible for those who were in-charge of the M.A.O. College to do so. That is why the three institutions to which we have already referred approached the Government to bring into existence a university whose degrees would be recognised by Government. The 1920 Act was then passed by the Central Legislature and the university of the type that was established thereunder, namely, one whose degrees would be recognised by Government, came to be established.