It will also be relevant to refer to his cross-examination which reads thus: “It is true to say that on 4th itself I realized that the alive injured is the important witness in this case. I went on 10th in the hospital to meet that injured. Before that I did not [2024] 10 S.C.R. 763 Vishwajeet Kerba Masalkar v. State of Maharashtra go to the hospital. That injured was not in a position to speak and therefore, I have not visited the hospital before 10th. Prior thereto I have not written letter to the doctor It is true to say that till 10th. I have not received information from the hospital about the state of that injured.” 16. It can be seen that PW-14 has admitted that on 4th October 2012 itself, he realised that Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) was an important witness in this case, but he did not go to the hospital before 10th October 2012 and for the first time, he went to the hospital on 10th October 2012. He further admitted that prior to 10th October 2012, he did not write a letter to the doctor as well. 17. Thus, the delay of 6 days in recording the statement of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) particularly when the evidence of Dr. Abhijit Sudhakar Bele (PW-13) shows that Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) had given the history of the incident and Dr. Tushar Madhavrao Kalekar (PW-16) admitted that Exhibit 93-A showed that Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) was conscious and oriented casts a serious doubt on the testimony of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12). No doubt that a conviction could be based solely on the basis of the evidence of a solitary witness, however, the testimony of such a witness is required to be found to be credible and trustworthy. It is also necessary to examine the testimony of such a witness critically. A reliance in this respect could be placed on the three-Judges Bench of this Court in the case of Chuhar Singh v. State of Haryana5 which has been followed in a catena of cases. 18. As discussed hereinabove, on a deeper scrutiny of the testimony of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12), we do not find that the testimony of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) is one which would inspire confidence in the mind of the Court to base the conviction for the offence punishable under Section 302 of IPC. Firstly, the statement of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) is recorded after 6 days. Secondly, when the evidence shows that he was conscious and oriented on the date of the incident, no neighbourer has been examined to corroborate the testimony of Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12) though even according to Madhusudhan Kulkarni (PW-12), after the incident, the neighbourers had come and he himself had asked them to get 5 (1976) 1 SCC 879 764 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the doctor there only. Thirdly, his testimony does not show that he has witnessed the incident and he himself admitted that he had given the statement after he was informed by the police that the present appellant had committed the crime.