The Foreign Awards Act, 1961 has no application to the award in question which has been made on an arbitration agreement governed by the law of India. xxx 53. All substantive rights arising under the agreement including that which is contained in the arbitration clause are, in our view, governed by the laws of India. In respect of the actual conduct of arbitration, the procedural law of England may be applicable to the extent that the ICC Rules are insufficient or repugnant to the public policy or other mandatory provisions of the laws in force in England. Nevertheless, the jurisdiction exercisable by the English [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1205 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze courts and the applicability of the laws of that country in procedural matters must be viewed as concurrent and consistent with the jurisdiction of the competent Indian courts and the operation of Indian laws in all matters concerning arbitration insofar as the main contract as well as that which is contained in the arbitration clause are governed by the laws of India.” (Emphasis supplied) 46. What has been conveyed in so many words by this Court in NTPC (supra) is that the law which governs the contract including the arbitration agreement, the courts of that system of law will have the supervisory jurisdiction over the arbitration. Where however the parties have expressly chosen a place of arbitration or selected a court of particular country for submission to the jurisdiction or selected the law for conduct of arbitration i.e., curial law, such place will only be regarded as venue, unless such factor is supported by relevant connecting factor sufficient to draw an inference as to what the parties would have intended as regards the applicable law. Thus, a mere place chosen by the parties will only be regarded as a venue and will not be construed as seat unless there is a significant link with such place to be ascertained by applying the ‘Closest Connection Test’ to determine which place or system of law has the most real with the transaction or dispute. 47. Similarly, in Enercon (India) Ltd. & Ors. v. Enercon GMBH & Anr. reported in (2014) 5 SCC 1 this Court, held that where the parties have expressly agreed that the law governing the contract, the law governing the arbitration agreement and the law of arbitration / curial law would be Indian laws, then the seat or place of arbitration would be India. It further observed that mere mentioning of London as the place of arbitration will not designate it as the seat of arbitration, in the absence of anything to connect it to the arbitration agreement. This Court applying the closest connection test, held that the place with the closest and most real connection with the arbitration agreement and the law of arbitration was India and not London. The relevant observations read as under: - "98. We find much substance in the submissions of Mr Nariman that there are very strong indicators to suggest 1206 [2024] 11 S.C.R.