The contractor and the Indian Council of Arbitration224 challenged the appointment of the State’s arbitrator on the ground that he was a former employee of the State government. The issue before this Court was whether Section 12(5) read with the Seventh Schedule disqualifies a former employee from being appointed as an arbitrator. 119. Justice Indu Malhotra, writing for the Bench of two judges, held that the apprehension of bias against the State’s arbitrator was unjustified because: (i) the arbitrator was employed by the State over ten years ago; (ii) the use of the expression “is an” under Entry 1 of the Seventh Schedule indicates that an arbitrator is disqualified 224 “ICA” 2254 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports only if they are current employees of one of the parties; and (iii) the expression “other” under the said entry indicates a relationship other than an employee. It was observed that the expression “other” cannot “be used to widen the scope of the entry to include past/ former employees.”225 120. The categories mentioned under the Seventh Schedule are such that it is difficult to distinguish the interests of an arbitrator from those of a party to which an arbitrator is connected. In such cases, the issue is whether the outcome of the arbitration will realistically affect the arbitrator’s interests. The law prioritises the objective criterion of independence over the subjective criterion of impartiality. Once it is established that an arbitrator falls under any of the categories mentioned in the Seventh Schedule, they are automatically disqualified without any investigation into whether or not there is any real likelihood of bias. Since the ineligibility envisaged under Section 12(5) goes to the root of the appointment, an application may be filed under Section 14(2) of the Arbitration Act to the court to decide on the termination of the arbitrator’s mandate.226 121. An objection to the bias of an adjudicator can be waived.227 A waiver is an intentional relinquishment of a right by a party or an agreement not to assert a right.228 The Arbitration Act allows parties to waive the application of Section 12(5) by an express agreement after the disputes have arisen. However, the waiver is subject to two factors. First, the parties can only waive the applicability of Section 12(5) after the dispute has arisen. This allows parties to determine whether they will be required or necessitated to draw upon the services of specific individuals as arbitrators to decide upon specific issues. To this effect, Explanation 3 to the Seventh Schedule recognizes that certain kinds of arbitration such as maritime or commodities arbitration may require the parties to draw upon a small, specialized pool.229 The 225 G F Toll Road (supra) [23] 226 HRD Corporation v. GAIL (India) Ltd. (2018) 12 SCC 471 [12] 227 Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association (supra) [30] 228 State of Punjab v. Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar (2011) 14 SCC 770 [41] 229 “Explanation 3 – For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that it may be the practice in certain specific kinds of arbitration, such as maritime or commodities arbitration, to draw arbitrators from a small, specialized pool.