changed. The I.P.C.L. once a public sector enterprise is no longer in existence, the same has been taken over by the Reliance Industries Limited. At no point of time, the legality and validity of the amalgamation of the I.P.C.L. with the Reliance Industries Limited arose before any Court. In such circumstances, I find it extremely difficult to hold that this writ application is maintainable and that too by applying the provisions of 22 Rule 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Ultimately, the whole issue boils down as to how a writ can be issued against a private entity.” 16. Learned senior counsel further placed reliance upon the decision of the High Court of Delhi in Asulal Loya vs. Union of India and Ors.19, wherein learned Single Judge20 arrived at the same conclusion, while dealing with a writ petition filed against the Bharat Aluminium Company Limited(BALCO) in the year 1991 and decided in 2008 i.e., post-privatization of BALCO in 2001. The relevant portions from the said as relied upon are extracted hereinbelow: - “3. It is fairly well settled that a writ petition is not maintainable against a private limited company or a public limited company in which the State does not exercise all 17 2016 SCC OnLine Guj 10186 18 HMJ J.B. Pardiwala (as his lordship then was) 19 ILR (2009) I Delhi 450 20 HMJ Sanjeev Khanna (as his lordship then was) [2024] 6 S.C.R. 947 Mr. R.S. Madireddy and Anr. etc. v. Union of India & Ors. etc. pervasive control. In Binny Limited v. V. Sadasivan, reported in (2005) 6 SCC 657, the Supreme Court has held that a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution is normally issued against public authorities and can also be issued against private authorities when they are discharging public functions and the decision which is sought to be corrected or enforced must be in discharge of a public function. In the present case, the issues and questions involved do not relate to public functions. *** 10. In these circumstances, the present writ petition is dismissed without going into the merits of the matter upholding the preliminary objection raised by the respondent company that it is not a State and, therefore, not amenable to writ jurisdiction. It is, however, observed that the petitioner is at liberty to approach any forum for redressal of his grievance, if so advised and the time spent by him in these proceedings shall be taken into consideration for the purpose of limitation. In the facts and circumstances of the case, there will be no as to costs.” 17. Learned senior counsel further submitted that this Court in the case of Kaushal Kishor (supra) has held that a writ cannot be issued against non-state entities that are not performing any ‘Public Function’. He further pointed out that it is the conceded case of the appellants that post privatisation, respondent No. 3(AIL) does not perform any ‘Public Function’ and in any case running a private airline with purely a commercial motive can never be equated to performing a ‘Public Duty’.