learned Single Judge passed the dated 19.04.2017. Learned Single Judge, firstly, held that it was no longer open to examine the question as to whether the respondent had any right to approach the learned Arbitrator to seek clarification or whether the learned Arbitrator had become functus officio since the Division Bench had expressly permitted the respondent to seek clarification from the learned Arbitrator which decision was not interfered with by this Court. Thereafter, the decision of the Single Bench setting aside the clarification of the learned Arbitrator which was affirmed by the Division Bench were set aside by this Court in the civil appeal of the respondent with liberty to the respondent to seek execution as per the law laid down in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. Secondly, learned Single Judge clarified that the respondent would be entitled to post-award interest not only on the claims as awarded but also on the pre-award interest as well as on the interest pendente lite. The quantum of pre-award interest and the interest pendente lite would be calculated and included in the amount awarded i.e. the ‘sum’ and the post-award interest would run on the said ‘sum’ i.e. principal amount plus interest (pre-award interest plus interest pendente lite). 56. When the appellant assailed this before the Division Bench, vide the impugned dated 01.07.2019, the Division Bench held as follows: 17. We, thus, reject the contentions of the learned counsel for the appellant for the reason that in the dated 12.03.2015, the Supreme Court has directed that the High Court would decide the issue of interest component payable to the respondent in accordance with law laid down in M/s Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra) and not in accordance with law laid down in S.L. Arora (supra). The other reason for rejecting the contentions of the appellant is that the grounds, which are sought to be urged before us, are not available to the appellant at this stage in these proceedings, which are execution proceedings. The matter had attained finality upto the Apex Court and we cannot interfere on the merits of the case at this stage. 1616 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 18. However, in view of the submissions of the parties with respect to the quantity, with the consent of the parties, we set aside the operative part of the dated 19.04.2017 pertaining only to the calculations and permit both the parties to make submissions restricted to the quantum of the amount payable to the respondent. 57. Thus, as can be seen, the impugned is a consent . Division Bench of the High Court after taking the consent of the parties had remitted the matter back to the High Court only as to the calculations permitting both the parties to make submissions before the learned Single Judge on the quantum payable to the respondent. If that be the position, it is not open to the appellant to assail the aforesaid . 58. The issue raised by the appellant in the present proceeding i.e.