The inception of the requisite culpable mens rea begins and takes shape from the intention specified under sub-section (1), then gradually continues to transform into the intention stipulated under sub-section (2) and finally culminates into the intention prescribed under sub-section (3). Under Section 15 sub-section (1) of the POCSO, the requisite intention therein is still in fieri i.e., in process of developing and culminating into either the intention under sub-section(s) (2) or 228 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (3). Whenever, the said intention ultimately crystalizes into the intention either under sub-section(s) (2) or (3), the other provisions would automatically become inapplicable. 108. Yet one another important aspect, that the police and the courts should be mindful of is that while examining any matter involving the storage or possession of any child pornography, it finds that particular sub-section of Section 15 is not attracted, it must not jump to the conclusion that no offence at all is made out under Section 15 of the POCSO. The police at the time of investigation and the courts at the time of taking cognizance, should keep this aforesaid aspect in mind. In other words, both should try to ascertain that if offence is not made out in one particular sub-section, whether the same is made out in the other two sub-sections or not. II. Concept of ‘Possession’, ‘Constructive Possession’ and ‘Immediate Control’ under Section 15 of the POCSO. 109. During the course of hearing, our attention was also drawn to a recent news article that reported how on social media, links to view child pornography were being circulated and sold for anywhere between Rs. 40 to Rs. 5,000. The news report indicates, how social media platforms are rife with child sexual abuse, and gave certain insight about the modus operandi of the distribution of such material on these platforms. It explained how the sellers and distributors of child pornographic material rather than sharing any downloads to such material, would ingeniously only share links to such material instead in lieu of money, so as to circumvent the penal provisions of the POCSO and IT Act, which criminalized only the storage of such material. By indefinitely forwarding links, they completely bypass the requirement of first storing such material onto any device, and similarly those who view such material also only use the links, without ever downloading such material onto their device. 110. As earlier mentioned, prior to the 2019 Amendment Act, Section 15 of the POCSO only criminalized the storage of any child pornographic material for any commercial purpose. Thereafter, the legislature in view of the increasing number of child sexual abuse cases, amended Section 15 of the POCSO, to recognize and criminalize three distinct forms or manner of storage of child pornographic material, as has been discussed in the preceding parts of this . [2024] 10 S.C.R. 229 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. 111. One another subtle but significant change that was made to all three sub-sections of Section 15 was the inclusion of the word “possession” in addition to storage, which was earlier not there in the erstwhile provision of Section 15 of the POCSO.