10. Per contra, the learned senior counsel for the respondent submitted that the respondent passed the bill on 29.07.2009 and the cheque was made ready on 30.07.2009 and no work was pending with him as on 05.08.2009 and hence, he did not demand any bribe amount from the complainant as alleged by the prosecution. Taking note of the same and also after analysing the oral and documentary evidence let in by the parties, the High Court rightly allowed the appeal filed by the respondent and set aside the of conviction passed by the trial Court and hence, the same need not be interfered with by this court. 11. We have considered the submissions made by the parties and perused the materials available on record carefully and meticulously. 12. In the instant case, the respondent was charged under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d) r/w Section 13(2) of the Act, for demand and acceptance of bribe amount of Rs.2,000/- from the complainant (P.W.1) for passing the bill of encashment of Earned Leave Surrender for Rs.43,323/- pertaining to the complainant and three non-teaching staff of his school. Though the trial Court found him guilty of the aforesaid offences and sentenced him for the same, the High Court reversed the said findings and acquitted the respondent from the charges framed against him. Thus, this appeal is against the of acquittal of the respondent. 13. Section 7 of the Act deals with public servants accepting or attempting to accept illegal gratification other than their legal remuneration. Its 1480 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports essential ingredients are (i)that the person accepting the gratification should be a public servant; and (ii)that he should accept the gratification for himself, and the gratification should be as a motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any official act or for showing or forbearing to show, in the exercise of his official function, favour or disfavour to any person.6 Insofar as Section 13(1)(d) of the Act, it was amended by the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018, with effect from 26th July, 2018. However, in view of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, Section 13(1)(d) prior to the amendment, is applicable to the facts of the present case, as the offence was stated to have been committed on 05.08.2009. Thus, its essential ingredients are (i)that he should have been a public servant; (ii)that he should have used corrupt or illegal means or otherwise abused his position as such public servant, and (iii)that he should have obtained a valuable thing or pecuniary advantage for himself or for any other person. 14. The law is well settled. In C.M.Girish Babu v. CBI7 and in B.Jayaraj v. State of A.P.,8 while considering the case under Sections 7, 13(1) (d)(i) and (ii) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, it is reiterated that it has to be proved beyond reasonable doubt that the accused voluntarily accepted money knowing it to be bribe; absence of proof of demand for illegal gratification and mere possession or recovery of currency notes is not sufficient to constitute such offence; and the presumption under Section 20 of the Act can be drawn only after demand for and acceptance of illegal gratification is proved.