(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not be applicable,— (a) where bye-elections have been held on the seats specified in sub-section (1) before the date of commencement of this Act ; or 186 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) where a member whose application of Validity Certificate has been rejected by the Scrutiny Committee. 4. All legal proceedings pending immediately before the date of commencement of this Act, before any court or authority relating to disqualification of a member or Sarpanch of Village Panchayat, Councillor or President of Zilla Parishad or member or Chairman of Panchayat Samiti, for not submitting the Validity Certificate by them in cases where extension of period for submission of Validity Certificate is granted under this Act, shall abate.” 30. The statement of objects and reasons leading to the passing of the Temporary Extension Act, 2023 w.e.f. 10.07.2023 are important. They are extracted hereinbelow:- “Sections 10-1A and 30-1A of the Maharashtra Village Panchayats Act (III of 1959) and sections 12A, 42 and 67 of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayats Samitis Act, 1961 (Mah. V of 1962) provides that, every person desirous of contesting elections to a seat of a member or Sarpanch of the Village Panchayat, Councillor or President of the Zilla Parishad or member or Chairman of Panchayat Samiti reserved for persons belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or, as the case may be, Backward Classes of Citizens, shall submit alongwith the nomination paper, Caste Certificate issued by the Competent Authority and the Validity Certificate issued by the Scrutiny Committee. 2. The abovementioned sections of the said Acts are amended with a view to allow the persons, desirous of contesting for such reserved seats in certain general or bye-elections and have applied to the Scrutiny Committee for obtaining Validity Certificate, to submit the Validity Certificate within twelve months from the date on which they were declared elected. 3. As the Scrutiny Committees are overburdened with the work of verification of Caste Certificates, the elected members were facing difficulties in obtaining the Validity Certificates from the Scrutiny Committees [2024] 2 S.C.R. 187 Sudhir Vilas Kalel & Ors. v. Bapu Rajaram Kalel & Ors. within the period specified in the said Acts. The applications of such elected members are still pending before the Scrutiny Committees. However, due to pending applications of such members before Scrutiny Committees more than seven thousand duly elected members were disqualified or might be disqualified for not submitting Validity Certificates for no fault of their own. Also it had caused hindrance in the local self-governing process. It was, therefore, necessary to ensure that such elected candidates shall not be deprived to hold such offices merely because of non-issuance of validity certificates in time by the Scrutiny Committees when their applications are still pending with the Scrutiny Committees. 4. It was, therefore, considered expedient to make a law to provide for extension of a period of twelve months for submitting Validity Certificates by persons elected on reserved seats of member, Sarpanch, Councillor, President and member and Chairman in certain general or bye-elections to Village Panchayats, Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis and for the matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.