Krishna Iyer, J. in Mohammad Giasuddin vs. State of A.P., (1997) 3 SCC 287, quoted George Bernard Shaw the famous satirist who said, “If you are to punish a man retributively, you must injure him. If you are to reform him, you must improve him and, men are not improved by injuries.” According to him, humanity today views sentencing as a process of reshaping a person who has deteriorated into criminality and the modern community has a primary stake in the rehabilitation of the offender as a means of social defence. 29.1. Further, quoting a British Buddhist-Christian Judge, it was observed that in the context of karuna (compassion) and punishment for karma (bad deeds), ‘The two things are not incompatible. While an accused is punished for what he has done, a quality of what is sometimes called mercy, rather than an emotional hate against the man for doing something harmful must be deserved. This is what compassion is about.’ 30. Learned senior counsel Sri Sidharth Luthra, drew our attention to the principles covering grant of remission and distinguished it from concepts, such as commutation, pardon, and reprieve, with reference to a of this Court in State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) vs. Prem Raj, (2003) 7 SCC 121 (“Prem Raj”). Articles 72 and 161 deal with clemency powers of the President of India and the Governor of a State, and also include the power to grant pardons, reprieves, respites or remissions of punishment or to suspend, remit or commute the sentences in certain cases. The power under Article 72 inter alia extends to all cases where the punishment or sentence is for an offence against any law relating to a matter to which the executive power of the Union extends and in all cases where the sentence 828 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is a sentence of death. Article 161 states that the Government of a State shall have the power to grant pardons, reprieves, respites or remissions of punishment or to suspend, remit or commute the sentence of any person convicted of any offence against any law relating to a matter to which the executive power of the State extends. It was observed in the said that the powers under Articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution of India are absolute and cannot be fettered by any statutory provision, such as, Sections 432, 433 or 433-A of the CrPC or by any prison rule. 30.1. It was further observed that a pardon is an act of grace, proceeding from the power entrusted with the execution of the law, which exempts the individual on whom it is bestowed from the punishment the law inflicts for a crime he has committed. It affects both the punishment prescribed for the offence and the guilt of the offender. But pardon has to be distinguished from “amnesty” which is defined as a “general pardon of political prisoners; an act of oblivion”. An amnesty would result in the release of the convict but does not affect disqualification incurred, if any.