Thus we arrive at the constitutional truism that the State may classify, based upon substantial differentia, groups or classes and this process does not necessarily spell violation of Articles 14 to 16.” 111. After referring to Dr. Ambedkar’s speech, the Learned Judge observed that equality being a dynamic concept with flexible import, this Court has read into Articles 14 to 16 the pragmatic doctrine of classification and equal treatment to all who fall within each class. He, however, warns that classification should not be pushed to such an extreme point as to make the fundamental right to equality cave in and collapse. 112. The Learned Judge further observed as under: “76. Proceeding on this footing, the fundamental right of equality of opportunity has to be read as justifying the categorisation of SCs & STs separately for the purpose of “adequate representation” in the services under the State. The object is constitutionally sanctioned in terms, as Articles 16 (4) and 46 specificate. The classification is just and reasonable. We may, however, have to test whether the means used to reach the end are reasonable and do not outrun the purposes of the classification. Thus the scope of the case is narrowed down.” 113. His Lordship observed that the fundamental right of equality of opportunity must be read as justifying the categorization of SCs & STs separately for the purpose of “adequate representation” in the services under the State. He observed that the object is constitutionally sanctioned in terms, as Articles 16 (4) and 46 specificate. 114. While rejecting the argument that reservation in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes could affect the efficiency in the administration, the Learned Judge observed thus: [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1513 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. “94. It is fashionable to say — and there is, perhaps, some truth in it — that from generation to generation there is a deterioration in efficiency in all walks of life from politics to pedagogy to officialdom and other professions. Nevertheless, the world has been going forward and only parties whose personal interest is affected forecast a doom on account of progressive deficiency in efficiency. We are not impressed with the misfortune predicted about governmental personnel being manned by morons merely because a sprinkling of harijans/girijans happen to find their way into the services. Their apathy and backwardness are such that in spite of these favourable provisions, the unfortunates have neither the awareness nor qualified members to take their rightful place in the administration of the country. The malady of modern India lies elsewhere, and the merit-mongers are greater risks in many respects than the naive tribals and the slightly better off low castes. Nor does the specious plea that because a few harijans are better off, therefore, the bulk at the bottom deserves no jack-up provisions merit scrutiny. A swallow does not make a summer. Maybe, the State may, when social conditions warrant, justifiably restrict harijan benefits to the harijans among the harijans and forbid the higher harijans from robbing the lowlier brethren.” [emphasis supplied] 115.