(3) All regulations made by the Council under this Act shall be subject to the condition of previous publication and to the approval of the Central Government. (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- sections (1) and (2) the Central Government may frame the first regulationsfor the purposes mentioned in this Section, and such regulations shall be deemed to have been made by the Council, and shall remain in force from the date of the coming into force of this Act, until they are amended, altered or revoked by the Council.” 7.11 Section 30B deals with laying procedure before the Parliament and the same is extracted as under: 832 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “30B. Rules, regulations and notifications to be laid before Parliament Every rule and every regulation made and every notification issued under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made or issued, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule, regulation or notification, or both Houses agree that the rule, regulation or notification should not be made or issued, the rule, regulation or notification, shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule, regulation or notification.” 7.12 Chapter VIII of the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1988, framed under the provisions of the 1949 Act, relates to ‘Meetings and Proceedings of the Council’. Regulation 163 provides that the President of the respondent-Institute will assume the Chairmanship of the Council. Regulation 166 prescribes the manner of passing of resolution at a meeting. The aforesaid regulations are reproduced as under: “163. Chairman of meeting At a meeting of the Council, the President, or in his absence the Vice-President, shall preside, or in the absence of both, a member elected from among the members who are present, shall preside. x x x 166. Passing of resolution at a meeting At a meeting of the Council, a resolution shall be passed by a majority of the members present unless otherwise require by the Act or these Regulations, [2024] 6 S.C.R. 833 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others and in the case of equality of votes, the Chairman of the meeting shall have a casting vote.” 7.13 The Council of the respondent-Institute, in exercise of its powers conferred by clause (ii) of Part II of the Second Schedule of the 1949 Act, issued a Notification bearing No.1/CA(7)/3/88 dated 13.01.1989 specifying that a member of the Institute in practice shall be deemed to be guilty of professional misconduct, if he accepts in a financial year, more than specified number of tax audit assignments under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961, the specified number being thirty (now sixty) in a financial year, whether in respect of corporate or non-corporate assesses.