Santosh Shukla. The statement of PW-1 is as follows: “I am posted to the post of Senior Executive H.R. in Godawari Steel Plant Gidhali since January, 2009. It is the matter of first week of the January of this year, at that time I was on duty at night shift. On the night in between about 2 to 3, the Guard of the plant informed me that one boy in burning condition has come inside the plant and then reaching out from the office I saw that the boy was burnt at leg, back and hand etc., he had worn underwear only. On enquiring by me, the boy told that, “My friends carried me to the forest and burnt me and looted money from me”. Then I phoned to the Police-station of Daundilohara and had also phone to Sanjivani 108. Thereafter, Sanjivani Ambulance reached and had taken the boy to Daundilohara Hospital for treatment. 50 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS Police personnel Station House Officer Sahu had come to investigate the incident and had prepared Nazari map (Exhibit P-01) of the incident, part A to A of which bears my signature. Similarly, Halka Patwari had prepared the Nazari map (Exhibit P-02) of the incident, part A to A of which bears my signature. The police personnel had seized pants, which was burnt, burnt shirt and pants jeep in burnt condition, disposal glass, cigarette box etc. before me and two hand cuff persons. The said seizure proceeding of above articles was done according to Seizure memo (Exhibit P-3), from the place of the incident in the presence of accused Neeraj Sharma, present in the Court, wherein at part A to A, there was my signature. The Police personal had recorded my statement after enquiry.” 11. The importance of injured witness in a criminal trial cannot be over stated. Unless there are compelling circumstances or evidence placed by the defence to doubt such a witness, this has to be accepted as an extremely valuable evidence in a criminal Trial. In the case of Balu Sudam Khalde v. State of Maharashtra 2023 SCC OnLine SC 355 this Court summed up the principles which are to be kept in mind when appreciating the evidence of an injured eye-witness. This court held as follows: “26. When the evidence of an injured eye-witness is to be appreciated, the under-noted legal principles enunciated by the Courts are required to be kept in mind: (a) The presence of an injured eye-witness at the time and place of the occurrence cannot be doubted unless there are material contradictions in his deposition. (b) Unless, it is otherwise established by the evidence, it must be believed that an injured witness would not allow the real culprits to escape and falsely implicate the accused. (c) The evidence of injured witness has greater evidentiary value and unless compelling reasons exist, their statements are not to be discarded lightly. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 51 NEERAJ SHARMA v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH (d) The evidence of injured witness cannot be doubted on account of some embellishment in natural conduct or minor contradictions.