881 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2017, shall be deemed to be null and void and notwithstanding such transfer, continue to vest in the Custodian under this Act.” 10.16 Section 24 states that certain s made under the Defence of India Rules, 1962, to continue in force and the same is extracted as under: “24. Certain s made under the Defence of India Rules, 1962, to continue in force. - (1) Every which was made under the Defence of India Rules, 1962, by the Central Government or by the Custodian of Enemy Property for India appointed under those Rules, relating to enemy property and which was in force immediately before the expiration thereof shall, in so far as such is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, be deemed to continue in force and to have been made under this Act. (2) Every which was made under the Defence of India Rules, 1971 by the Central Government or by the Custodian of Enemy Property for India appointed under those rules relating to enemy property and which was in force immediately before the expiration thereof shall, in so far as such is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, be deemed to continue in force and to have been made under this Act.” The Enemy Property Rules, 2015: 10.17 The Enemy Property Rules, 2015 deal with procedure for identification of immovable property, procedure for declaration and vesting of the enemy property. While Rule 5 deals with procedure for preservation, management and control of immovable property, Rule 6 deals with procedure for taking possession of moveable property; on the other hand, Rule 7 deals with procedure for taking possession of certain moveable property. Rule 15 deals with procedure for divestment of enemy property vested in Custodian which reads as under: “15. Procedure for divestment of enemy property vested in Custodian.- (1) The Central Government may, on a reference or complaint or on its own motion, 882 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports initiate process for divestment of an enemy property vested in the Custodian, to the owner thereof or to such other person. (2) An officer of the rank of Joint Secretary or above in the Government of India shall be the Chairperson of the proceedings for divestment of the enemy property under this rule. (3) The Chairperson shall give thirty days’ notice to all concerned including the Custodian, requiring them to submit a reply, produce all documentary evidence and appear in person or through authorised representative: Provided that if any party fails to appear on the date fixed for hearing, then a second and final notice shall be served through registered post and if he again fails to appear after the second notice, then the proceedings shall be heard ex parte: Provided further that the Chairperson shall record the reasons for such ex parte proceedings. (4) The notices shall be served on all concerned parties before each hearing.