As per Section 29, there is only one class of persons entitled to practice the profession of law, namely Advocates, and as per Section 30, every advocate whose name is entered in the State roll is entitled as of right to practice in all Courts including the Supreme Court and before any Tribunal or any other authority or person before whom such advocate is by or under any law for the time being in force entitled to practice. The disciplinary powers for taking action against the Advocates and impose punishment for their misconduct have been conferred upon the State Bar Councils and Bar Council of India as the case may be under the Chapter V of the Advocates Act. The Bar Council of India Rules framed under the Advocates Act lay down the restrictions on the Senior Advocates, and also lay down the standards of professional conduct and etiquette, which include the duties of the advocate to the Court, to the client, to the opponent and to the colleagues. Thus, comprehensive provisions are contained in the Advocates Act, 1961 and the Bar Council of India Rules framed thereunder, to take care of the professional misconduct of the Advocates, and prescribing the punishments if they are found guilty of professional or other misconduct by the Disciplinary Committees of the State Bar Council or the Bar Council of India as the case may be. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 515 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr. 35. In the light of the above provisions of the Advocates Act, let us consider some of the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act 1986/2019. The definition of “Service” contained in Section 2(1)(o) of the CP Act 1986 and in Section 2(42) of the CP Act 2019 is the same which reads as under: - “Service means service of any description which is made available to potential users and includes, but not limited to, the provision of facilities in connection with banking, financing, insurance, transport, processing, supply of electrical or other energy, telecom, boarding or lodging or both, housing construction, entertainment, amusement or the purveying of news or other information, but does not include the rendering of any service free of charge or under a contract of personal service.” 36. There is slight difference in the definition of ‘Deficiency’ in Section 2(1)(g) of 1986 Act and Section 2(11) of 2019 Act. The same is reproduced as under: - Section 2(1)(g) of CP Act, 1986:- “Section 2(1) (g) -”Deficiency” means any fault imperfection, shortcoming or inadequacy in the quality, nature and manner of performance which is required to be maintained by or under any law for the time being in force or has been undertaken to be performed by a person in pursuance of a contract or otherwise in relation to any service.” Section 2(11) of CP Act, 2019:- Section 2(11) - “Deficiency “ means any fault, imperfection, shortcoming or inadequacy in the quality, nature and manner of performance which is required to be maintained by or under any law for the time being in force or has been undertaken to be performed by a person in pursuance of a contract or otherwise in relation to any service and includes- (i) any act of negligence or omission or commission by such person which causes loss or injury to the consumer; and 516 [2024] 6 S.C.R.