14.2 The s in Hingir-Rampur and M.A. Tulloch were considered. It was observed that the power to impose the cess was not available after the Central Acts of 1948 and 1957 came into force. It was contended that since the cess was payable only in the event of the mining lessee winning the mineral and no royalty was paid when no minerals were extracted, it was in effect a tax on the minerals won and, therefore, on mineral rights. However, this argument was not accepted. It was observed that when a question arises as to the precise head of legislative power under which a taxing statute has been passed, the subject for enquiry is, what in truth and substance, is the nature of the tax. It was observed that, no doubt, cess has a remote connection to the mineral won but that does not stamp it as a tax on either the extraction of minerals or on the mineral rights. The Court found it unnecessary for the purpose of this case to examine the question, as to what exactly is a tax on mineral rights seeing that such a tax is not leviable by Parliament but only by the State and the sole limitation on the State’s power to levy the tax is that it must not interfere with a law made by Parliament as regards mineral development. It was observed that there was no law enacted by Parliament which [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1783 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. was contrary to the State power to levy the tax and in effect the cess under Sections 78 and 79 of the Madras Act was a “tax on lands” within Entry 49 - List II. In the circumstances, it was observed that the cess was lawfully imposed upon land and hence, the appeals and writ petitions were dismissed. 14.3 This Court, in India Cement held at para 34 that royalty is a tax and did not approve the dictum in HRS Murthy. It is the above conclusion which was doubted by a five-judge Bench in Kesoram and other cases which has led to the constitution of this nine-judge Bench in to consider the correctness of the aforesaid verdicts. Therefore, it is necessary to consider the facts and the reasoning in India Cement. India Cement: 15. In India Cement, Section 115 of Madras Panchayats Act, 1958 as amended by the Madras Act, 1964 came up for consideration. The demand of a local cess on royalty on exercise of a mineral right was questioned. The appellant therein was engaged in mining operations and on execution of the lease deed had paid royalties, dead rents and other amounts payable on the said deed. The imposition of the local cess was with retrospective effect along with local cess surcharge under Section 116 of the aforesaid Act. The contention of the appellant therein was that the cess on royalty could not be levied. According to the seven-judge Bench, the question which fell for consideration and determination was whether cess on royalty could be a valid levy imposed by the State of Tamil Nadu.