19,00,000/- was partly decided in favour of the respondent-plaintiff and partly against him. The trial Court recorded the following findings: - a. It was an admitted fact that the appellant-defendant was the owner of the suit land and respondent-plaintiff while appearing [2024] 10 S.C.R. 87 Lakha Singh v. Balwinder Singh & Anr. as PW-1 produced on record the agreement to sell,9 duly signed by the appellant-defendant. b. The respondent-plaintiff testified that the appellant-defendant had agreed to sell the suit land in his favour and received a sum of Rs. 16,00,000/- as earnest money with a condition to execute the sale deed on 19th September, 2008. c. On the date fixed as per the disputed agreement, the appellant- defendant failed to appear at the office of the Sub-Registrar whereas the respondent-plaintiff got his presence marked by way of an affidavit attested by the Executive Magistrate-cum- Sub-Registrar, Khem Karan. d. The version of the respondent-plaintiff was also corroborated by the attesting witnesses namely, Major Singh (PW-4) and Balwinder Singh (PW-2). e. That the respondent-plaintiff had proved the execution of the disputed agreement and his willingness to get the sale deed executed by cogent evidence. f. That the possession of the suit land was never handed over to the respondent-plaintiff although this fact was mentioned in the disputed agreement. g. That the person who pays a huge amount and fixes a long date for the execution of the sale deed, would not be expected to wait for possession to be taken in future. However, in the case at hand, the date fixed for the execution of the sale deed was after a period of about a year and four months from the date of the execution of the disputed agreement. 13. Based on the aforesaid findings, the trial Court concluded that the transaction between the parties appeared to be a loan transaction rather than an agreement for sale and purchase of the property and held that the respondent-plaintiff was not entitled to the relief of specific performance of the agreement in respect of the suit land. However, the respondent-plaintiff was held to be entitled to recover the earnest money paid to the appellant-defendant at the time of the execution of the agreement along with interest. 9 ‘disputed agreement’ 88 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. The trial Court decreed the suit vide dated 18th February, 2013 and directed the appellant-defendant to refund the earnest money to the tune of Rs. 16,00,000/- with pendente lite interest @ 9% per annum and future interest @ 6% per annum to the respondent-plaintiff. 15. As noted above, the first appeal as well as the second appeal preferred by the appellant-defendant against the and decree rendered by the trial Court stood rejected by the First Appellate Court and the High Court, respectively vide s dated 20th March, 2017 and 25th April, 2018. These s are subjected to challenge in this appeal by special leave. 16. Shri Ankit Goel, learned counsel for the appellant-defendant, vehemently and fervently contended that the findings of facts recorded by the Courts below, though concurrent, are perverse on the face of the record and thus, it is a fit case warranting interference by this Court in exercise of the jurisdiction conferred by Article 136 of the Constitution of India.