No has been passed by the National Commission permitting the Respondent nos.1 and 2 to represent the interest or act on behalf of any consumer. An application under section 13(6) of the Act seeking permission to act “on behalf of consumers” was only filed by the Complainants, at the stage of conclusion of arguments, and being reserved. 43. Since, this Court has held that the requirement of I Rule 8, prescribed in Section 13(6) is to be read into section 12(1) of the 1986 Act,10 the requirement of obtaining prior permission from the Commission, for any consumer to act in a representative capacity, can in no way be dispensed with. 10 Rameshwar Prasad Shrivastava & Ors. vs. Dwarkadhis Projects Private Limited & Ors, 3 (2019) 2 SCC 417 1506 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 44. The Respondent nos.1 and 2 have also handed over the Trust Deed dt 06.06.1994 only during the course of arguments, to demonstrate that the Complainants are a registered association representing consumer rights, does not help the cause insofar as a trust, whether registered under the Indian Trust Act, or the State Trust Registration Act, is not a “person” as defined under Section 2(1)(m) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. The decision in Pratibha Pratisthan Vs Canara Bank11 by this Hon’ble Court that a trust is not a person & therefore not a consumer and consequently cannot invoke provisions or file a consumer dispute under the provisions of this Act. The issue whether a Trust would come within the purview of consumer has been referred to a larger bench in Administrator Smt. Tata Bai Desai Charitable Opthalmic Trust Hospital, Jodhpur Vs Managing Director, Supreme Elevators India Pvt. Ltd. & Ors.12 vide dated 04.10.2019; however, the ratio in Pratibha Pratisthan Vs Canara Bank (supra), is the position of law in force. 45. We are further of the considered view that the consumer Complainant fails to disclose any deficiency in service or violation and is in fact a public interest litigation in guise of a purported consumer dispute. We also agree with the contention of the Appellants, that the Respondents had approached the National Commission at the behest of the Respondent no. 3, a credit card holder with Citibank, purportedly claiming an amount of Rs. 90,000/- against excess interest charged by the bank, which is barred by the pecuniary jurisdiction of the Commission. 46. Even otherwise, the administrative policy decisions of banks, do not constitute provisions/facilities of banking, which may come under the umbrella of ‘service’, defined under section 2(1)(o) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. A policy decision pertaining to the rate of interest, and trade practices carried out by the banks across the country, is a regulatory function within the specific statutory domain of the Reserve Bank of India and cannot come under the purview of judicial scrutiny by the National Commission. 11 Pratibha Pratisthan Vs Canara Bank (2017) 3 SCC 712 12 Administrator Smt. Tata Bai Desai Charitable Opthalmic Trust Hospital, Jodhpur Vs Managing Director, Supreme Elevators India Pvt.