It was observed that Regulation 34 as it stood at the relevant time provided that in certain circumstances, the development potential of a plot of land could be separated from the land itself and could be made available to the owner of the land in the form of TDR which would be subjected to Regulation 34 and Appendix-VII. It was observed that Appendix-VII titled “Regulations for the grant of Transferable Development Rights (TDRs) to owners/developers and conditions for grant of such rights” had a scheme for the award of TDR to the owner of the plot of land which was reserved for public purpose and for additional amenities in the form of FSI. As per the conditions set out therein, such award would entitle the owner of the land to FSI in the form of DRC which he could use for himself or transfer to any other person. Para 5 of the Appendix provided that the built- up area for the purposes of FSI credited in the form of DRC shall be equal to the gross area of the reserved plot to be surrendered and will proportionately increase or decrease according to the permissible FSI of the zone where the TDR has originated. Para 6 provided that when an owner or a lessee also developed or constructed an amenity on the surrendered plot at his own cost, subject to such stipulations which may be prescribed and to the satisfaction thereof and hands over the developed or constructed 846 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports amenity to the Commissioner or the appropriate authority free of cost, he would be granted further DR in the form of FSI equivalent to the area of construction/development done by him, utilisation of which would be subject to the regulations contained in the said Appendix. 5.1 Contrasting Regulation 34 with Regulation 33, it was observed that the latter pertained to additional FSI which may be allowed to certain categories. Sub-regulation (1) as it stood at the relevant time, provided that the Commissioner could permit the additional FSI on 100% of the area required for road widening or for construction of new roads under the development plan. Such FSI so surrendered would be utilisable on the remainder of the land up to a limit of 40% in respect of the plots situated in Mumbai city and 80% in respect of the plots situated in suburbs and extended suburbs. The balance FSI remaining thereafter was allowed to be utilised as a development right in accordance with the regulations governing TDRs. In the said case, it was again contended on behalf of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation that the petitioner therein having utilised 100% FSI for surrender of land without cost on the same layout, was governed by Regulation 33 and therefore, could not claim any additional FSI/TDR for having constructed the amenities. This contention, in fact, was squarely identical to those in the case of Apurva Natwar Parikh & Co. Pvt. Ltd which case is discussed later. 5.2 It was pointed out that till the amendment on 17.06.2010, there was no provision in Regulation 33 for claiming FSI for construction of amenities and the same could be claimed only in terms of Regulation 34 read with Para 6 of Appendix-VII.