The employee who has rendered his service with the Central Government is thereafter absorbed in the State Government. Thereafter, it was found that he has not completed the qualifying service while working with the State Government. In that case for the purpose of qualifying service, the service rendered by him as a Central Government employee is required to be counted and that too for the purpose of qualifying service. 7. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case, Rule 25 of the above Rules would not be applicable. 8. Under the circumstances, as observed hereinabove, the petitioner has been paid the pension/pensionary/terminal benefits of the State Government where he last worked, considering the service rendered by him with the State Government.” 8. Mr. Rishabh Parikh, Ld. Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant has drawn the attention of the Court to Rule 25(ix) of the Pension Rules. In the aforesaid context, he has submitted that the Appellant has served as Postal Assistant in the Gandhinagar Postal Division between ‘1983 and ‘1993 i.e., service under the Central Government having a pension scheme, and thereafter served the State Government for the Subject Period. Accordingly, it was his principal contention that the Appellant was absorbed by the State Government and consequently, in terms of Rule 25(ix) of the Pension Rules, the Appellants’ terminal benefits / pensionary benefits could not be limited to merely the Subject Period but must also include 10 (ten) years of service rendered by him to the Central Government. 9. On the other hand, Ms. Swati Ghildiyal, AOR appearing on behalf of Respondent No. 1 i.e., the State of Gujarat has vehemently opposed the aforesaid submission(s). The main thrust of her argument(s) before this Court is that that the Appellant was not entitled to seek [2024] 2 S.C.R. 159 Vinod Kanjibhai Bhagora v. State of Gujarat & Anr. the benefit of Rule 25(ix) of the Pension Rules on account of the Appellants’ appointment in the State Government emanating from a fresh recruitment i.e., pursuant to an invitation for application(s) to the post of Senior Assistant in the Ministry of Health and Medical Services issued by the State Government. 10. As a precursor, it would be relevant to consider the raison d’etre qua the grant of pension. Similarly, it would be equally important to clarify that pension is earned by a government servant in lieu of tireless service rendered by him / her (as the case may be) during the course of their employment; and often is an important consideration for person(s) seeking government employment. Accordingly, in our considered opinion, the raison d’etre qua the grant of pension by the State Government would inextricably be linked to a concentrated effort by the State Government to enable its former employee(s) to tide over the vagaries and vicissitudes associated with old age vide a pension scheme. 11. In this context, we must now examine Rule 25(ix) of the Pension Rules. For ease of reference the same is reproduced as under: “Rule 25.