80. In that view of the matter, I am of the opinion that the law laid down by the Five-Judge Bench in E.V. Chinnaiah is the correct law and deserves to be confirmed. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1645 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. Pankaj Mithal, J. Index* 1. Introduction 4-10 Amendments to Constitution with reference to 2. 10-23 Case Laws Central Government and State Government 3. 23-33 Commissions on SC/ST and OBC’s 4 The Ramifications of Reservation 33-39 Casteless Society - Caste System vis-à-vis the 5. 39-45 Varna System Reservation is only a medium of facility and its 6. 45-48 execution revives Casteism 7. Conclusion 49-54 INTRODUCTION 1. The issue under reference to this Constitution Bench as succinctly described by the Chief Justice in his opinion is whether sub-classification of the scheduled castes is constitutionally permissible for the purposes of reservation. 2. The issue arose as the Punjab legislature enacted the Punjab Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes (Reservation in Services) Act, 2006, inter alia providing for reservation of 25% in favour of scheduled castes and that 50% of the aforesaid percentage shall be offered to particular scheduled castes such as Balmikis and Mazhbi Sikhs in direct recruitment. 3. The validity of providing 50% reservation in favour of the above two categories of scheduled castes, out of the various mentioned in the Presidential list of scheduled castes, was challenged before the High Court by invoking the writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The High Court of Punjab and Haryana relying upon the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in E.V. Chinnaiah vs. State of Andhra Pradesh and Ors.1 declared Section 4(5) of * Ed. Note: Pagination as per the original . 1 (2005) 1 SCC 394 1646 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the aforesaid Act which sub-classified the scheduled castes and provided for 50% reservation of the 25% admissible to the scheduled castes in favour of the above two categories of scheduled castes only to be invalid. 4. The Chinnaiah case (supra) arose from the decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court whereby it rejected the challenge to the provision of Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Castes (Rationalization of Reservations) Act, 2000, which provided for apportionment of reservation among scheduled castes by classifying them into four groups: 1% for Group A, 7% for Group B, 6% for Group C and 1% again for Group D. 5. The Constitution Bench in Chinnaiah’s case was of the unanimous opinion that the provision of the above Act of sub-classifying the scheduled castes into four groups and apportioning the reservation criteria group wise was unconstitutional. It was held that the sub- classification permitted by Indra Sawhney and Ors. vs. Union of India and Ors.2 was limited only to backward and other backward classes and is not applicable to scheduled castes. 6. It is in the above background that the Constitution Bench dealing with one of the cases at hand i.e. State of Punjab and Ors. vs. Davinder Singh and Ors.