[2024] 2 S.C.R. 1071 Najrul Seikh v. Dr. Sumit Banerjee & Anr. 14. Under these circumstances, both the SCDRC and the NCDRC ought to have examined the evidence in totality, especially since this plea was urged by the Counsel for the Appellant in both the forums. Instead, both the forums have mechanically and exclusively relied upon the Medical Council report and reiterated its findings without any reference to the evidence of Dr. Gupta. While the report of the Medical Council can be relevant for determining deficiency of service before a consumer forum, it cannot be determinative, especially when it contradicts the evidentiary findings made by a consumer forum. In these circumstances, the appellate forum is tasked with the duty of undertaking a more thorough examination of the evidence on record. On this failing alone, the s of the SCDRC and DCDRC deserve to be set aside. 15. As it stands today, the specific findings made by the DCDRC regarding lapses in post-operative care by the Respondents and the resultant development of Retinal detachment remains unchallenged by the other evidence on record. In fact, the holding of the DCDRC is strengthened not only by the report of the Medical Council which states that development of Retinal Detachment is not uncommon in cases of blunt trauma as in the case of Irshad, but also by the admission of the Respondent No. 1 itself that management and rehabilitation of traumatic cataract for a child is very difficult, unpredictable, and prone to complications. That being the case, and in view of the established principle of law that in cases of deficiency of medical services, duty of care does not end with surgery, we have no hesitation in affirming the finding of the DCDRC that there was a deficiency in the medical services provided by the Respondents to the Appellant’s son. 16. In view of the aforesaid, the present appeal succeeds and the of the NCDRC and the SCDRC are set aside. Accordingly, the Respondents are directed to comply with the of the DCDRC within one month from the date of this . 17. Resultantly, the appeal stands allowed. 18. Pending applications, if any, shall also stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeal allowed.