However, in the aforesaid context, we would like to sound a note of caution. Although the conduct of an accused may be a relevant fact under Section 8 of the Evidence Act, yet the same, by itself, cannot be a ground to convict him or hold him guilty and that too, for a serious offence like murder. Like any other piece of evidence, the conduct of an accused is also one of the circumstances which the court may take into consideration along with the other evidence [2024] 6 S.C.R. 203 Anees v. The State Govt. of NCT on record, direct or indirect. What we are trying to convey is that the conduct of the accused alone, though may be relevant under Section 8 of the Evidence Act, cannot form the basis of conviction. iv. Cross-examination by the public prosecutor of a hostile witness 62. In the case at hand, Shaheena (PW-3) was the most important witness for the prosecution, being the solitary eye witness to the incident. Shaheena (PW-3) at the relevant point of time was just five years old. Her childhood might have been very disturbed on account of the strained relations of her parents. The unfortunate incident must have had a lasting effect on her. However, when she entered the witness box, she decided to resile from her previous statement. Had she deposed as stated by her in her police statement then, probably, the prosecution would not have felt the need to invoke Section 106 of the Evidence Act. There could be innumerable reasons for a witness to resile from his/her police statement and turn hostile. Here is a case in which a five-year-old daughter might have resiled thinking that having lost her mother, the father was the only person who may take care of her and bring her up. However, why she turned hostile is not important. What is important is the role of the public prosecutor after a prime witness, more particularly a child witness of tender age, turns hostile in a murder trial. When any prosecution witness turns hostile and the public prosecutor seeks permission of the trial court to cross-examine such witness then that witness is like any other witness. The witness no longer remains the prosecution witness. 63. Section 162 Cr.P.C. bars the use of statement of witnesses recorded by the police except for the limited purpose of contradiction of such witnesses as indicated therein. The statement made by a witness before the police under Section 161(1) Cr.P.C. can be used only for the purpose of contradicting such witness on what he has stated at the trial as laid down in the proviso to Section 162(1) Cr.P.C. The statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C. recorded during the investigation are not substantive pieces of evidence but can be used primarily for the limited purpose: (i) of contradicting such witness by an accused under Section 145 of the Evidence Act; (ii) the contradiction of such witness also by the prosecution but with the leave of the Court; and (iii) the re-examination of the witness if necessary.