679 Delhi Race Club (1940) Ltd. & Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. ji said that the bill would be made in the name of Delhi Horse Trainers Association, Race Course Road, New Delhi and the Head and Secretary of the same association have now been made separately. They will make the payment for the goods given by you. Till the year 2017, the applicant’s firm’s payment continued to be regular and now at present the payment of Rs 9,11,434/- is outstanding from the applicant’s firm when the applicant talked about this to the current President of the Race Club, J.S. Vedi and the current Secretary then the secretary said that you should demand your dues from Delhi Horse Trainers Association only. Then the applicant tried to meet Kajim Ali but he refused to talk to the applicant and got into a scuffle. The above two associations and officials unanimously cheated the applicant and obtained goods from the applicant’s firm and do not want to pay for the goods given by the applicant. The applicant had given a legal notice to the above people through his advocate on 18 June 2020 but even after receiving the notice, the above people neither gave any reply to the notice nor paid the outstanding amount of the applicant. In this context, the applicant gave an application to Khurja Nagar police station and on 06.08.2021 an application was given to SSP Bulandshahar but no action has been taken till date. On behalf of the complainant, he got himself examined under Section 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and under Section 202 CrPC, the statement of witnesses Ankit Aggarwal as PW-1 and Manish Kumar Sharma as PW-2 was recorded. In which they supported the statements mentioned in the complaint. One copy of the application sent by the complainant to the Senior Superintendent of Police as documentary evidence in support of his statements, a photocopy of the registry receipt, one copy of the net receipt postal registry, five copies of the bill book, one true 680 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports copy of the remaining balance, one copy of receipt of goods, one copy of remaining balance, one copy of legal notice were filed per receipt. The complainant has stated in his statement under Section 200 CrPC, “after five years of 1990, these people said that we will not make the payment. A separate organization has been formed for payment, which will do it. An organization named Delhi Trainers Association has been formed. Now I owe these people nine lakh eleven thousand four hundred thirty-four rupees. When we asked for money several times, we did not receive it. The President of Delhi Race Course is not ready to talk. I am suffering from cancer. Business is seen by children only. We also gave them legal notice but nothing happened.” Perused the entire evidence material available on file. On the basis of the evidence presented by the complainant under section 200 CrPC and section 202 CrPC, there is prima facie basis for summoning the opposition parties Delhi Race Course Club, Delhi Race Horse Trainers Association, JS Bedi, HK Uppal, Kazim Ali Khan and Sanjeev Charan for consideration under section 406 IPC.