By the Service Agreement, the petitioner was appointed as a Director of respondent no.1 and its Dubai subsidiary. Among his responsibilities in relation to respondent no.1, the petitioner was also required to carry on the responsibilities of the full operations of [2024] 12 S.C.R. 115 Aslam Ismail Khan Deshmukh v. Asap Fluids Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. the Dubai subsidiary. He was obligated to hold office for an initial period of 3 years w.e.f. 01.01.2011. The Service Agreement provided for the remuneration and benefits that the petitioner was entitled to. The relevant clauses from the same are reproduced hereinbelow: "3. TERM 3.1 The Director shall hold the office for a period of three years commencing from ________ subject to the determination thereof as hereinafter provided. xxx xxx xxx 10. TERM AND TERMINATION […] 10.2 Aslam Khan shall not for a period of three (3) years from the Effective Date (Initial Term), terminate this Agreement. In case if he terminates his employment prior to Initial Term, he shall transfer all the equity shares held by him in favour of the Promoter of the Company at zero consideration implying his outstation from the register of members of the Company.” 8. On the same day, i.e., on 18.10.2011, the petitioner signed an Agreement for Transfer of Commercial Expertise (hereinafter referred to as “Commercial Expertise Agreement”) with respondent nos. 1 and 2 respectively, agreeing to the transfer of all his commercial expertise, knowledge and experience in the field of getting approvals from the government, and handling administrative and legal aspects of the business to respondent no. 1. In return, respondent no. 1 agreed to issue 4,00,000 equity shares of Rs. 10/- each to the petitioner for consideration other than cash. The relevant recitals and clauses from the same are reproduced hereinbelow: “ WHEREAS […] 3. The Parties have agreed before starting this venture that the Transferor shall transfer all his commercial expertise knowledge and experience in the field of getting the approvals of government. handling administrative and legal aspects of the Business (“Commercial Expertise·’) to the 116 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Transferee and the Transferee shall issue him 400,000 equity shares of Rs.10/- each in the Transferee Company for the consideration other than cash for transferring such Commercial Expertise to the Transferee and continuing with the transferee Company for minimum period of three (3) years and the such shares allotted to him shall be under lock in for three years. xxx xxx xxx 3. TRANSFER OF COMMERCIAL EXPERTISE AND ISSUE OF SHARES 3.1 It is hereby agreed by and between the parties hereto that all the Commercial Expertise of the Transferor pertaining to or referable to all expertise in the management of the Business and its related activities including Administration, ensuring smooth performance, high efficiency and productivity along with knowledge on tender participations etc. shall be transferred to and unto the transferee and the Transferor shall work for a minimum period of 3 years for the Transferee or its affiliate or group company either in India or Overseas effective from 1st January 2011 and the Transferee shall issue and allot 400,000 Equity Shares of Rs.