This would indicate that after an has been made, inter alia, under Section 12 of the Act, such as in the instant case granting Rs.12,000/- as maintenance per month, if there is any change in the circumstance, the same could be a ground for seeking alteration, modification or revocation of such an . Such circumstances could be illustratively stated in the context of the present case as the wife on divorce having been given an alimony or the wife earning an amount higher than the respondent-husband and, therefore, not in need of maintenance or such other circumstances. The said change in the circumstance must occur only after an initial is made under Section 12 of the Act and cannot relate to a period prior to the passing of an under Section 12 of the Act. 11. The Act is a piece of Civil Code which is applicable to every woman in India irrespective of her religious affiliation and/or social background for a more effective protection of her rights guaranteed under the Constitution and in to protect women victims of domestic violence occurring in a domestic relationship. 50 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. Section 25(2) of the Act contemplates an eventuality where an passed under the Act can be altered, modified or revoked. Section 25(2) of the Act provides that the aggrieved person or the respondent, as defined under the Act, may approach the Magistrate by filing an application for alteration, modification or revocation of “any ” made under the Act. Thus, the scope of Section 25(2) of the Act is broad enough to deal with all nature of s passed under the Act, which may include s of maintenance, residence, protection, etc. If any such application is filed before the Magistrate by any of the two parties, i.e., the aggrieved person or the respondent, then the Magistrate may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, pass an as he may deem appropriate. Thus, an passed under the Act remains in force till the time that is either set aside in an appeal under Section 29 of the Act, or altered/modified/revoked in terms of Section 25(2) of the Act by the Magistrate. 13. However, the Magistrate while exercising his discretion under Section 25(2) of the Act has to be satisfied that a change in the circumstances has occurred, requiring to pass an of alteration, modification or revocation. The phrase “a change in the circumstances” has not been defined under the Act. The said phrase was present under Section 489 of the now repealed Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, as well as under Section 127(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (CrPC, 1973), now repealed, as is also found under Section 146(1) of the present Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (BNNS, 2023), but the legislature (Parliament) has intentionally not provided a definition for the same in the repealed Codes or the present Sanhita. Thus, the Magistrate has to adjudge the change in the circumstances based on the material put forth by the parties in a case and having regard to the circumstances of the said case.