Protection of the society being the paramount consideration, the laws, procedures and police practices must be such as to ensure that the guilty are apprehended and punished with utmost dispatch and in the process the innocent are not harassed. The aim of the investigation and, in fact, the entire Criminal Justice System is to search for truth. ……The standard of police investigation in India remains poor and there is considerable room for improvement. The Bihar Police Commission (1961) noted with dismay that “during the course of tours and examination of witnesses, no complaint has been so universally made before the Commission as that regarding the poor quality of police investigation”. Besides inefficiency, the members of public complained of rudeness, intimidation, suppression of evidence, concoction of evidence and malicious padding of cases…..’ 40. Echoing the same sentiment in its Report No. 239 in March, 2012, the Law Commission of India observed that the principal causes of low rate of conviction in our country, inter alia, included inept, unscientific investigation by the police and lack of proper coordination between police and prosecution machinery. Despite passage of considerable time since these gloomy insights, we are dismayed to say that they remain sadly true even to this day. This is a case in point….” 23. A perusal of the of the Trial Court shows that for both counts before it, reliance primarily has been placed on PW-1 to PW-3. Apart from these three-star prosecution witnesses, the Investigating Officer (PW-22), by virtue of having been “in the driver’s seat” of the case, acquires importance. The salient points that can be appreciated from an assay of their respective testimonies may be referred to as follows:- [2024] 3 S.C.R. 759 Periyasamy v. The State Represented by the Inspector of Police 23.1 PW-1 is Sakthivel, S/o Muthuveeran. It was stated that upon information that D-1 and Senthilkumar were quarreling with the owner of the wine shop, he and Sakthivel, S/o Kathan rushed to the shop. It is there that upon the instigation of A-2, who handed A-1 a knife he stabbed the witness thrice in the stomach of PW-1 and PW-2, D-1, and D-2 as well. SI, Kulithalai, interrogated him at 4.30 a.m. on 4th March 2002, and the statement made thereunder is Exh.P-1. In his cross-examination, it has come forth that upon his arrival at Seahorse Hospital by 10:00 p.m., he was conscious, and it is upon administration of anesthesia for surgery that he became unconscious. Regarding the location of a wine shop, it has been deposed that the same is located in a crowded area and has a regular stream of visitors in and around the area. 23.2 With respect to A-2, it has been deposed that whether or not he was an owner of the wine shop is unclear, but he certainly was a visitor. 23.3 However, he contradicts his earlier version that upon reaching the hospital, he was not in a position to speak and had not informed the doctor of the incident, and instead, it was the people who accompanied him who briefed the doctor.