So long a final passed by a court is not set aside in appeal/revision or recalled in exercise of review jurisdiction or an interim is vacated at a subsequent stage of the proceedings, it continues to bind the parties to the proceedings and it would amount to subversion of the rule of law if any party, in breach, were encouraged to continue such breach. An of a court has to be complied with and it would not amount to a valid defence that in the contemnor’s own understanding or because of legal opinion tendered to him, the did not warrant compliance being erroneous. This Court in Commissioner, Karnataka Housing Board v. C. Muddaiah 38 has held that once a direction has been issued by a competent court, it has to be obeyed and implemented without reservation; the of the court cannot be rendered ineffective on the specious plea that no such direction could have been given by the court. A party, though perceiving an to be erroneous, allowing it to attain finality by reason of acceptance thereof cannot escape the rigours of compliance. He has to pursue his appellate or other remedy to escape the consequences that can visit him, should the high court hold him guilty of contempt. Such a compliance is insisted upon for securing the majesty, dignity and prestige of the court. 47. Insofar as an interim is concerned, despite an element of contempt being involved, if a defence appearing to be valid in law and having substance is raised before the high court by a party in default which shakes the very foundation of the alleged to have been violated and upon the high court reaching a satisfaction of such a defence being valid to the extent that the subject ought not to have been passed, it would always be open to the said court, depending on the nature of and the breach alleged, to first 38 [2007] 9 SCR 784 : (2007) 7 SCC 689 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1107 S. Tirupathi Rao v. M. Lingamaiah & Ors. secure compliance of the by allowing the contemnor to purge the contempt without prejudice to his rights and contentions and, after such compliance, to revisit the as per law and the circumstances present before it and then pass appropriate s. There could be exceptional situations where the consequences of complying with an interim , apparently erroneous or without jurisdiction and which has attained finality, could bring about irretrievable consequences. In such a case, where the high court is satisfied that securing compliance of its would cause more injustice than justice, notwithstanding the finality attached to such , the high court’s authority ought to be conceded to pass such as the justice of the case before it demands. 48. Lord Denning in Hadkinson v. Hadkinson 39 had observed: “The court would only refuse to hear a party to a cause when the contempt impeded the course of justice by making it more difficult for the court to ascertain the truth or to enforce its s and there was no other effective means of securing his compliance.