The ballot paper is then folded and placed in the ballot box. The entire record (including the ballots in question) has been produced before this Court in secure custody. 26. The entirety of the dispute turns on the eight ballot papers which were treated to be invalid by the Presiding Officer. We have perused the ballot papers in question. All the ballot papers contain the name of the appellant in the upper half and the name of the eighth respondent in the lower half. Below the names of the candidates is the signature of the Presiding Officer. After the ballots are cast, the Presiding Officer is required to initial each ballot in terms of Regulation 6(11). Each of the ballot papers bears two signatures of the Presiding Officer. It is evident from the physical inspection of the eight ballots which were treated to be invalid that in each of those cases, the vote was cast by the member in favour of the appellant. The Presiding Officer has placed a line in ink by way of a mark at the bottom half of each of the ballots which have been treated to be invalid. During the course of the hearing yesterday, the Presiding Officer informed this Court that he did so because he found that the ballots had been defaced. Before recording the statement of the Presiding Officer in the above terms, we had placed him on notice of the serious consequences [2024] 2 S.C.R. 707 Kuldeep Kumar v. U.T. Chandigarh and Others which are liable to ensue if he was found to have made a statement before this Court which was incorrect. 27. The eight ballots which have been perused before the Court have also been perused by the counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant and for the successful candidate among others. It is evident that in each of the eight ballots, the vote had been duly cast in favour of the appellant. Further, the Presiding Officer has evidently put his own mark on the bottom half of the ballots to create a ground for treating the ballot to have been invalidly cast. 28. In doing so, the Presiding Officer has clearly acted beyond the terms of his remit under the statutory regulations. These regulations have been framed by the Municipal Corporation in exercise of powers conferred by Section 65 of the Act as extended to the Union Territory of Chandigarh. Clause (10) of Regulation 6 provides for three eventualities, as already noticed earlier, in which a ballot can be treated as invalid, namely: (i) Where a member has voted for more than one candidate; (ii) Where a member places any mark on the paper by which he may be identified; and (iii) If the mark indicating the vote is placed on the ballot paper in such a manner as to make it doubtful over which candidate the vote has been cast. 29. None of the above eventualities are fulfilled in the present case. 30. There is absolutely no dispute about the factual position that in each of the eight ballots the vote was cast for one person which is evident from the rubber stamp appearing on the upper half of the ballot in each of those cases.