The Abkari Acts have generally defined the phrase ‘liquor’ to mean liquids containing alcohol including denatured alcohol. However, the Abkari Acts do not define the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’. In Excise Acts, ‘liquor’ was defined to mean ‘intoxicating liquor’ and included liquids containing alcohol. Thus, none of the pre-constitutional statutes have defined the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ for it to have acquired a legal meaning. The phrase was defined in the Licensing (Consolidating Act) 1910 which regulated the United Kingdom. It cannot be concluded that the phrase used in the Indian Constitution has acquired a legal meaning based on a definition clause in one statute which applied to the United Kingdom. The definition of ‘liquor’ in pre-constitutional statutes as liquids containing alcohol cannot be transposed to interpret the legislative entry. The phrase used in the legislative entry is ‘intoxicating liquor’. The definition of one part of the expression in statutes cannot be used to interpret expressions that are 164 The Licensing (Consolidating Act) 1872; Section 74 165 Spirits Act 1880; Section 3 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2015 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons used to indicate a collective meaning, particularly when the common parlance definition starkly varies. The common parlance meaning of ‘intoxicating liquor’ means liquor which causes intoxication, that is, which causes someone to lose control. Thus, the three-prong test to identify if “Intoxicating Liquor” has acquired legislative meaning has not been satisfied. c. Evolution of the legislative lists on ‘intoxicating liquor’ 88. We proceed to consider the evolution of the legislative field relating to ‘intoxicating liquor’ to determine the meaning of the expression. The evolution of the legislative entries must be traced from the Devolution Rules formulated under the 1919 Act.166 The Devolution Rules classified legislative subjects for the purpose of distinguishing the functions of the local legislatures from those of the federal legislature. Alcohol was placed in the ‘Provincial List’ of the First Schedule to the Devolution Rules (equivalent to List II or the State List in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution). Entry 16 of the Provincial List concerned alcohol. It is reproduced below: “16. Excise, that is to say, the control of production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of alcoholic liquor and intoxicating drugs, and the levying of excise duties and licence fees on or in relation to such articles, but excluding, in the case of opium, control of cultivation, manufacture and sale for export.” (emphasis supplied) 89. Instead of two distinct entries, one which covered taxation and the other which covered regulation, the Devolution Rules contained a single entry in the Provincial List which extended to both aspects. The Entry related to (a) levy of excise duties; (b) levy of fee; and (c) general regulation. That it concerned taxation is evident from the term ‘excise’ and the ‘levying of excise duties’. The words “the control of production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale” indicate that the Entry extended to regulation as well. The expression used in Entry 16 was ‘alcoholic liquor’ as opposed 166 The Devolution Rules were made by the Governor General in Council with the sanction of the Secretary of State in Council in exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 45A and 129A of the Government of India Act 1919.