Since Part I of the Act, 1996 is inapplicable, the parties cannot confer any jurisdiction to a court which otherwise has no jurisdiction even if such conferment is permissible as per the Distributorship Agreement. 64. Clause 27 of the aforesaid Distributorship Agreement reads as follows: “This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of UAE and shall be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Dubai Courts”. The expression “non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Dubai Courts” occurring in the said clause cannot be singled out and construed devoid of its context. The said clause provides the law governing the entire Distributorship Agreement and the stipulation that it shall be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Dubai Court only relates to the substantive agreement and not the arbitration agreement contained in the preceding clause. The said clause can at best be construed to stipulate that any substantive part pertaining to such agreement which might not fall within the scope of ‘disputes’ covered under Clause 26 i.e.., those disputes which are not arbitrable between the parties will then in turn be amenable to the jurisdiction of Dubai Courts or any other courts. The said clause in no manner can be construed to mean that there exists no ‘seat’ or ‘situs’ of arbitration and that parties merely because there is no court that has been conferred exclusive jurisdiction in respect of the said agreement. It is the seat of arbitration which determines which court will have exclusive jurisdiction and not vice-versa. a. Doctrine of Forum non Conveniens 65. The aforesaid may be looked at from one another angle, through the doctrine of forum non conveniens. The term ‘forum non conveniens’ is a latin term which means “an inconvenient forum” and provides that a court which otherwise might have jurisdiction may decline jurisdiction over a case if there is a more appropriate forum available to the parties, and is typically invoked in respect of cross-b subject-matters that are amenable to multiple concurrent jurisdictions. Depending upon the nature of the dispute, the subject-matter involves and the parties thereto, the courts by invoking this doctrine proceed to determine which one of the available forums may be more convenient and fair for entertaining and adjudicating the matter. 1226 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 66. In to apply the doctrine of forum non conveniens an dequate alternative forum must exist where the subject-matter may be espoused. The alternative forum must be capable of providing a fair and adequate remedy for the dispute, however this does not mean that the alternative forum must offer identical remedies, and this doctrine may be applied as long as the other alternative forum offers a reasonably fair process of remedy and is more convenient or appropriate in the opinion of the court invoking the doctrine. Courts in doing so must weigh the relative importance of private and public interest factors. In doing so, they exercise a high level of discretion and often issue rulings that are fact-specific.