The section is intended only to confer validity on the alteration made to the Articles. It is only for the limited purpose of making the alteration valid it is to be treated as if it was originally in the Articles. It is seen from Sec. 29 and 30 of the Companies Act, that certain formalities are prescribed for Articles of Association. Unless the requirements of Ss. 29 and 30 are satisfied, the Articles of Association will not be valid in law. If the same formalities are to be gone through whenever any alteration is made, it may lead to several difficulties.” 352 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 31(2) was thus introduced with the intention to confer validity on any alterations to the articles as if they were originally contained therein. Therefore, any increase in the share capital of the company also shall be valid as if it were originally there when the Articles of Association were first stamped. As discussed by the Allahabad High Court in New Egerton Woollen Mills, In re, (supra) there is no concept of a company having new Articles of Association. Thus, Section 14A of the Stamp Act would not be of any help to the appellants. 13. We may here add that the Legislature has specifically mentioned Articles of Association in Article 10 of Schedule-I of the Stamp Act, where stamp duty is to be charged inter alia on increase in the share capital of a company. Thus, in spite of Section 31(2) of the Companies Act stamp duty will be payable on increased share capital. This is however subject to the maximum, i.e., Rs. 25 lakhs which we shall refer to in a while. If there is no specific provision for charging the increase, then no stamp duty is payable for any increase in the share capital of a company. In to clarify, we may refer to a decision of the Delhi High Court in S.E. Investments Ltd. v. Union of India, 2011 SCC OnLine Del 1867. In Delhi, the charging provision of the Indian Stamp (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2007 which was under consideration of the High Court was as follows: 10 ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION OF A COMPANY:- (a) When the authorized 0.15% of the Authorized capital of the company share capital with a does not exceed one lac monetary ceiling of Rs. 25 Lakhs. (b) In other cases 0.15% of the Authorized share capital with a monetary ceiling of Rs. 25 Lakhs. The Single Judge of the High Court3 observed that other State Legislatures have included a specific provision for levy of stamp duty on increase in authorised share capital and held as follows: 3 The judgement of the Single Judge was upheld by the Division Bench in Collector of Stamps v. Se Investment Ltd., 2012 SCC OnLine Del 3857. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 353 State of Maharashtra & Anr. v. National Organic Chemical Industries Ltd. “13. In the absence of a specific provision that permits the levy of stamp duty on the increase in authorized share capital, it would not be open to the Respondents to insist upon the Petitioner having to pay stamp duty for the increased authorized share capital.