in transit, at the rate mentioned hereinafter. The total quantity of bottled foreign liquor transported or exported shall be the basis for computation of permissible losses. 1 Hereinafter referred to as “the Act”. 2 Hereinafter referred to as “the 1996 Rules”. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 671 Pernod Ricard India (P) Ltd. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. (2) Wastage allowances on the spirit transported to the premises of FL 9 or FL 9-A licensee shall be the same as given in sub-rule (4) of Rule 6 of the Distillery Rules, 1995. (3) Maximum wastage allowance for all exports of bottled foreign liquor shall be 0.25% irrespective of distance. (4) Maximum wastage allowance for all transports of bottled foreign liquor shall be 0.1% if the selling licensee and the purchasing licensee belong to the same district. It shall be 0.25% if they belong to different districts. (5) If wastages/losses during the export or transport of bottled foreign liquor exceed the permissible limit prescribed in sub-rule (3) or (4), the prescribed duty on such excess wastage of bottled foreign liquor shall be recovered from the licensee.” 3.2 If the permissible limits of loss of liquor are exceeded, the 1996 Rules prescribe imposition of penalty. Rule 19 providing for penalty that could be imposed during the relevant license period of 2009-2010 was about four times the maximum duty payable on foreign liquor. The relevant portion of Rule 19 is as follows: - “Rule 19. Penalties3. – (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of the Act, or condition No. 4 of license in Form F.L. 1, condition No. 7 of license in Form F.L 2, condition No. 4 of license in Form F.L 3, the Excise Commissioner or the Collector may impose a penalty not exceeding Rs. 50,000 for contravention of any of these rules or the provisions of the Act or any other rules made under the Act or the issued by the Excise Commissioner. (2) On all deficiencies in excess of the limits allowed under Rule 16 and Rule 17, the F.L. 9 or FL 9-A, 3 Hereinafter “the old Rule”. 672 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports F.L. 10-A or F.L. 10-B licensee shall be liable to pay penalty at a rate exceeding three times but not exceeding four times the maximum duty payable on foreign liquor at that time, as may be imposed by the Excise Commissioner or any officer authorized by him: Provided that if it be proved to the satisfaction of the Excise Commissioner or the authorized officer that such excess deficiency or loss was due to some unavoidable cause, like fire or accident and its first information report was lodged in Police Station, he may waive the penalty imposable under this sub-rule. (3) The Excise Commissioner or the Collector may suspend or cancel the license under Section 31 of the Act upon a contravention of any of these rules or provisions of the Act, or any other rules made under the Act, or the s issued by the Excise Commissioner.” 4.