Rather, it is the of the High Court which is based on conjectures and surmises. 17. After reproducing the aforementioned two s of this Court, discussing the settled law on the scope of an appeal against acquittal, the Division Bench of the High Court observed thus: “15. As discussed above, we find that there is sufficient ground to reverse the impugned the . Dr. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 61 Ballu @ Balram @ Balmukund and Another v. The State of Madhya Pradesh J.P.Parsai (PW-8) examined respondent No. 1 Ballu. He found some injuries on the body of respondent no. 1 which also indicate that before the death, the deceased struggled to save himself from the respondents. Dr. J.P.Parsai took sample of nails of both the hands of the deceased and sent them for FSL examination.” 18. After discussing this, the High Court noted that the articles which were seized by S.K. Banerjee/Investigating Officer (PW-15) contained blood stains as per the FSL report. The High Court observed that the accused failed to offer any explanation with regard to the presence of blood on these articles. The High Court observed thus: “18...Respondent No. 1 did not offer any explanation with regard to presence of blood on these articles. This is a strong link along with the blood marks of dragging found from the house of the respondent to the spot where the body of the deceased was lying. This establishes that the respondents committed murder of the deceased Mahesh because he had love relation with Anita. After his death, six love letters of Anita were found in the pocket of the deceased which indicates that Anita also wanted to reside with the deceased against the will and consent of her family members.” 19. At the cost of repetition, we are compelled to say that the findings of the High Court are totally based on conjectures and surmises. Though the High Court has referred to the law laid down by this Court with regard to the scope of interference in an appeal against acquittal, the High Court has totally misapplied the same and a very well-reasoned based upon the correct appreciation of evidence by the trial Court has been reversed by the High Court, only on the basis of conjectures and surmises. 20. The High Court could have interfered in the criminal appeal only if it came to the conclusion that the findings of the trial Judge were either perverse or impossible. As already discussed hereinbefore, no perversity or impossibility could be found in the approach adopted by the learned trial Judge. 21. In any case, even if two views are possible and the trial Judge found the other view to be more probable, an interference would not have 62 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports been warranted by the High Court, unless the view taken by the learned trial Judge was a perverse or impossible view. 22. In that view of the matter, we find that the passed by the High Court is totally unsustainable in law.