Article 8 guarantees the right to respect private and family life. The ECHR considered Article 42 of the Constitution of the Russian Federation which states, “Everyone has the right to a favourable environment, to reliable information about its state, and to compensation for damage caused to his health or property by ecological offences.” The ECHR acknowledged that given the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2117 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. information asymmetry between the claimant of a rights violation and the State, it would be impossible to apply the rule of affirmanti, non neganti, incumbit probation (the burden of proof is upon him who affirms - not on him who denies) rigorously. It was held that the very strong combination of indirect evidence and presumptions makes it possible to conclude that the applicant’s health deteriorated as a result of her prolonged exposure to the industrial emissions from the Severstal steel plant. Even assuming that the pollution did not cause any quantifiable harm to her health, it inevitably made the applicant therein more vulnerable to various illnesses. Moreover, there can be no doubt that it adversely affected her quality of life at home. Therefore, the ECHR accepted that the actual detriment to the applicant’s health and well-being reached a level sufficient to bring it within the scope of Article 8 of the Convention and cast a positive duty on the State to take reasonable and appropriate measures. Having held so, it was concluded that the State had failed to design or apply effective measures to protect the local population from pollution. (iii) Therefore, the application of a rigorous reasoning process that emphasizes potential consequences, as manifested in the final report of the TEC, is expedient when there exists a fundamental asymmetry between the probability and consequences of the activity, such as the environmental release of GMOs. The failure to conduct chronic and transgenerational studies to study the impact on human health is a significant omission within the risk assessment process in the instant case. As noted hereinabove, conducting the said studies was a critical facet of the TEC’s recommendations and the same was fortified by the PSC Report, 2017. In my view, this asymmetry between probable benefits and adverse consequences cannot be adequately counter- balanced by economic or policy safeguards because of the serious and irreversible public and environmental health effects if such consequences occur. In this regard, the reasoning of this Court in T.N. Godavarman 2118 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Thirumulpad (104) vs. Union of India, (2008) 2 SCC 222 (“T.N. Godavarman”) fortifies my view. It was reasoned therein that while mining was a revenue generating industry, the constitutional requirement of sustainable development could not be lost sight of. It was held that courts are required to balance development needs with the protection of the environment and ecology. It is the duty of the State under our Constitution to devise and implement a coherent and coordinated programme to meet its obligation of sustainable development based on inter-generational equity.