Supreme Court Reports Both the above cited s were recently followed in T.P. Gopalakrishnan v. State of Kerala.32 (c) State v. Nalini:33 “236. The well-known maxim “nemo debet bis vexari pro eadem causa” (no person should be twice vexed for the same offence) embodies the well-established common law rule that no one should be put to peril twice for the same offence. The principle which is sought to be incorporated into Section 300 of the Criminal Procedure Code is that no man should be vexed with more than one trial for offences arising out of identical acts committed by him. When an offence has already been the subject of judicial adjudication, whether it ended in acquittal or conviction, it is negation of criminal justice to allow repetition of the adjudication in a separate trial on the same set of facts. 237. Though Article 20(2) of the Constitution of India embodies a protection against a second trial after a conviction of the same offence, the ambit of the clause is narrower than the protection afforded by Section 300 of the Criminal Procedure Code. It was held by this Court in Manipur Admn.v. Thokchom Bira Singh [AIR 1965 SC 87 : (1965) 1 Cri LJ 120] that “if there is no punishment for the offence as a result of the prosecution, Article 20(2) has no application”. While the clause embodies the principle of autrefois convict Section 300 of the Criminal Procedure Code combines both autrefois convict and autrefois acquit. …” (d) Monica Bedi v. State of A.P.34: “22. Article 20(2) embodies a protection against a second trial and conviction for the same offence. The fundamental right guaranteed is the manifestation of a long struggle by the mankind for human rights. A similar guarantee is to be found in almost all civilised societies governed by rule of law. The well-known maxim nemo debet bis vexari pro una 32 (2022) 14 SCC 323 33 (1999) 5 SCC 253 34 (2011) 1 SCC 284 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1579 P. Manikandan v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. et eadem causa embodies the well-established common law rule that no one should be put on peril twice for the same offence. Blackstone referred to this universal maxim of the common law of England that no man is to be brought into jeopardy of his life more than once for the same offence. 23. The fundamental right guaranteed under Article 20(2) has its roots in common law maxim nemo debet bis vexari — a man shall not be brought into danger for one and the same offence more than once. If a person is charged again for the same offence, he can plead, as a complete defence, his former conviction, or as it is technically expressed, take the plea of autrefois convict. This in essence is the common law principle. The corresponding provision in the American Constitution is enshrined in that part of the Fifth Amendment which declares that no person shall be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb.