[2024] 11 S.C.R. 1899 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 101. The governing structure of AMU gives me compelling indications to hold that there is a deep and pervasive control of the State over the administration of the University. The governance structure, funding, admissions, and appointments in the University demonstrates an involvement of the State which goes way beyond mere regulatory oversight and into its absolute control over the administration of the University. 102. Hence, I find myself being drawn to the irresistible conclusion that AMU has not been administered by a minority community at any point in time. The Act places the ultimate control of the University with the Central Government and the Central Government and its predecessor have been administering AMU since 1920. Conjunctive Interpretation of Establish and Administer 103. Now that the two aspects of establishment and administration have been examined individually, it is apposite to investigate whether the two rights, as guaranteed by the Constitution, have to be read as disjunctive or conjunctive rights. In view of the consensus on the point that ‘and’ between ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ has to be read and understood as ‘and’ and not ‘or’, the discussion is rendered practically academic. However, some discussion on the topic is considered worthwhile having regard to the re-referral in Aligarh Muslim University (supra). 104. The Constitutional Debates on the drafting of Article 30 have been brought to the fore by the respondents, and while the provision underwent multiple revisions, what remained constant was the use of the word “and” in the phrase “establish and administer”. This is also evident from the Hindi version of Article 30(1) in Devnagari script, reading as follows: A perusal of Article 30(1) in Hindi reveals that the conjunction used to connect establish (स्थाापनाा) and administer (प्रशाासना) is “और”, i.e.,“and” as opposed to the word “याा” which means “or”. It is well settled that the word “and” connotes a conjunctive nature whereas the word “or” connotes a disjunctive meaning. Though the terms can be, in 1900 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports exceptional circumstances, interchangeably interpreted with the aim of fulfilling the legislative intent, there is nothing in the provision, which impels us to read and understand the word other than what is conveyed by its ordinary meaning. Therefore, this Court in multiple decisions has interpreted the right to establish and administer as conjunctive rights rather than disjunctive. 105. The perusal of the Hindi version also buttresses the position that establishment has to only be read as so, rather than being expansively interpreted as founding. This is evident from the use of the word “स्थाापनाा” by the Constitution framers, which means ‘to establish’ rather than the use of the word “उद्ावनाा” which means ‘to conceive’ or ‘to found’. As discussed above, words have to be interpreted literally, unless the context requires otherwise, which in this case, it does not. 106. This Court,in Dayanand Anglo Vedic (DAV) College Trust and Management Society vs. State of Maharashtra46, held that: “34. After giving our anxious consideration to the matter and in the light of the law settled by this Court, we have no hesitation in holding that in to claim minority/linguistic status for an institution in any State, the authorities must be satisfied firstly that the institution has been established by the persons who are minority in such State; and, secondly, the right of administration of the said minority linguistic institution is also vested in those persons who are minority in such State.