Although the statute does not specifically bar an ineligible person from appointing an arbitrator, TRF (supra) and Perkins (supra) rightly held that an ineligible person could not appoint an arbitrator or curate a panel of arbitrators. The thread running through TRF (supra) and Perkins (supra) is that if a person has an interest in the outcome of the dispute, 2202 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports such person should not have any role in the process of appointing an arbitrator, including curation of a panel of potential arbitrators; d. TRF (supra) and Perkins (supra) only carved out an exception for situations where both parties are permitted to appoint an arbitrator of their choice; e. A unilaterally appointed panel is contrary to the principle of equal treatment of parties enshrined under Section 18, which is a mandatory provision. Although Section 18 is part of Chapter V dealing with the conduct of arbitral proceedings, it also applies at the stage of the constitution of arbitral tribunals. A lack of mutuality in the appointment process is a violation of Section 18 because it gives an unfair advantage to one party; f. In Lombardi Engineering Limited v. Uttarakhand Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited,17 this Court held that arbitration agreements must conform with the Constitution. An arbitration clause authorizing one party to unilaterally appoint an arbitrator or curate a panel of arbitrators is unconscionable and violative of Article 14. Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act 187218 also prohibits unconscionable contracts; g. In Voestalpine (supra), this Court directed the constitution of a broad-based panel of arbitrators. However, the constitution of such a panel restricts the choice of the other party and falls foul of the requirement of equality and impartiality; and h. CORE (supra) does not consider Voestalpine (supra), Section 11(8), and the principle of an independence and impartiality under Section 12. Further, the counter-balancing test evolved in Perkins (supra) is only applicable in situations where both parties have an equal and unfettered choice in appointing their arbitrators. It does not apply to situations where one party’s choice of arbitrators is restricted to a pre-selected list by the other party; and i. The prohibition on a person ineligible under Section 12(5) from nominating an arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators can be traced 17 [2023] 13 SCR 943 18 “Contract Act” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2203 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company to Section 18. Further, if the panel of arbitrators is curated and controlled by one party, it gives rise to “justifiable doubts” as to the independence and impartiality of the arbitrator under Section 12. 16. Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India, Mr K M Nataraj, Additional Solicitor General of India, Mr Arvind Kamath, Additional Solicitor General of India, Mr Mahesh Jethmalani, Ms Madhavi Divan, Mr Guru Krishna Kumar, Mr Anand Padmanabhan, Mr Naresh Kaushik, Mr Nakul Dewan, Mr P V Dinesh, senior counsel, and Mr Shashank Garg, counsel, made the following submissions: a. The principle of party autonomy is ingrained in the entire architecture of the Arbitration Act.