Its national goals in this regard require a holistic understanding of sustainable development that balances immediate needs with long-term sustainability, ensuring that present actions do not compromise the well-being of future generations. It acknowledges that solutions to today’s challenges must not only address pressing issues but also lay the groundwork for a resilient and equitable future. 60. While balancing two equally crucial goals - the conservation of the GIB on one hand, with the conservation of the environment as a whole on the other hand - it is necessary to adopt a holistic approach which does not sacrifice either of the two goals at the altar of the other. The delicate balance between the two aims must not be disturbed. Rather, care must be taken by all actors including the state and the courts to ensure that both goals are met without compromising on either. Unlike other competing considerations, these do not exist in 1354 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports disjunctive silos. Therefore, a dilemma such as the present one does not permit the foregrounding of one of these as a priority, at the cost of the other. If this Court were to direct that the power transmission lines be undergrounded in the entire area delineated above, many other parts of the environment would be adversely impacted. Other endangered species may suffer due to the emission of harmful gases from fossil fuels. Rising temperatures and the attendant evils of climate change may not be halted in a timely fashion, leading to disastrous consequences for humankind and civilisation as a whole. The existential threat may not be averted. 61. Moreover, the decision on whether to convert the overhead power transmission lines into underground lines is a matter of environmental policy. While adjudicating writ petitions which seek reliefs which are of the nature sought in the present case, this Court must conduct judicial review while relying on domain experts. Those who are equipped and trained to assess the various facets of a problem which is litigated before the Court must be consulted before a decision is taken. If this is not done, the Court may be in danger of passing directions without a full understanding of the issue in question. Consequently, in the absence of evidence which forms a certain basis for the directions sought, this Court must be circumspect in issuing sweeping directions. In view of the implications of the direction issuing a blanket prohibition on overhead transmission lines, we are of the view that the direction needs to be recalled and it will be appropriate if an expert committee is appointed. The committee may balance the need for the preservation of the GIB which is non-negotiable, on one hand, with the need for sustainable development, especially in the context of meeting the international commitments of the country towards promoting renewable sources of energy, on the other hand. By leveraging scientific expertise and engaging stakeholders in meaningful consultations, this approach ensures that conservation efforts are grounded in evidence and inclusive of diverse perspectives.