The reason for political contributions by companies is as open as day light. Even the learned Solicitor General did not deny during the course of the hearings that corporate donations are made to receive favors through guid pro quo arrangements. 202. In KesavBhaaratin v. aStante dof aKeral a,? '° the majority of this Court held that “republican and democratic form of government” form the basic elements of the constitutional structure. Subsequently, in Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Raj Narain,?" Justice H R Khanna reiterated that the democratic set up of government is a part of the basic features of the Constitution. Elections matter in democracy because they are the most profound expression of the will of the people. Our parliamentary democracy enables citizens to express their will through their elected representatives. The integrity of the electoral process is a necessary concomitant to the maintenance of the democratic form of government.?'? 203. This Court has also consistently held that free and fair elections form an important concomitant of democracy.?'? In Kuldip Nayar 210 [1973] Suppl. 1 SCR 1 : (1973) 4 SCC 225 211 [1927 S8CR ]40 5 : (1975) Supp SCC 1 212 In Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Raj Narain, [1927 SC8R ]405 : (1975) Supp SCC 1, Justice Khanna observed that periodical elections are a necessary postulate of a democratic setup as it allows citizens to elect their representatives. He further observed that democracy can function “only upon the faith that elections are free and fair and not rigged and manipulated, that they are effective instruments of ascertaining popular will both in reality and form and are not mere rituals calculated to generate illusion of defence to mass opinion.” 213 Digvijay Mote v. Union of India, (1993) 4 SCC 175; Union of India v. Association for Democratic Reforms, (2002) 5 SCC 294. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 552 Digital Supreme Court Reports Uv. nioof nIndi a,? '* a Constitution Bench of this Court held that a democratic form of government depends on a free and fair election system. In People’s Union for Civil Liberties v. Union Iofn dia,? '* this Court held that free and fair elections denote equal opportunity to all people. It was further observed that a free and fair election is one which is not “rigged and manipulated and the candidates and their agents are not able to resort to unfair means and malpractices.” 204. The integrity of the election process is pivotal for sustaining the democratic form of government. The Constitution also places the conduct of free and fair elections in India on a high pedestal. To this purpose, Article 324 puts the Election Commission in charge of the entire electoral process commencing with the issue of the notification by the President to the final declaration of the result.2"° However, it is not the sole duty of the Election Commission to secure the purity and integrity of the electoral process. There is also a positive constitutional duty on the other organs of the government, including the legislature, executive and the judiciary, to secure the integrity of the electoral process.