The portion of the cross-examination has to be read in the context of the earlier statements occurring therein. They are as follows: “It is not true that Manojbhai’s shop is located at the distance of half kilometer from my house. It is true that Manojbhai’s shop is in the market it is true that Manojbhai runs business of ice cream and other goods. Kaliya’s shop is located in the other market. I had reached Manojbhai’s shop at about 1 o’clock. It is true that the market was open and there was movement of people. It is true that I had not seen Shambhu passing by the shop along with the son of Pravin. Pravin bhai Maharaj is my friend. I do not know his family members.” It will be seen that PW-13.1 states that he reached Manojbhai’s shop at about 1 O’clock and that market was open and there was movement of people and thereafter the statement occurs that he had not seen appellant passing by along with the son of Pravingiri. Mrs. Swati Ghildiyal, learned counsel for the State, in her written submissions, has furnished the portion as in Gujarati which was also read to us and translated at the time of the oral hearing. According to the learned counsel for the State, the particular sentence only meant that PW-13.1, did not see the appellant leaving or going away from the shop and that this was only because he had gone into his house prior to that. We are inclined to accept the meaning as it comes out from the Gujarati version. The small discrepancies insofar as the timings are concerned are only natural as the witnesses were deposing nearly two years after the incident. They are not material discrepancies. 17. Hence, it is undisputed that between 12:00 and 01:00 PM, the appellant went to the neighborhood of the house of the deceased and partook water from the aunt PW-10, engaged in a conversation with her and in spite of being dissuaded, took the deceased child under the pretext of buying him ice-cream. The time lag between the accused being last seen and the sighting of the dead body lying 1082 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports is also extremely short. PW-11 Manoj Kumar states that at about 5 O’clock in the evening when they were searching for the victim and when they were near the boundary wall of the lake near the Dargah, some persons informed them that a dead body was lying in the acacia bushes behind the Dargah. 18. The incident has clearly occurred between 12:00 noon and 05:00 PM on 13.04.2016. The timing is also corroborated by the doctor PW-8 who did the postmortem on 14.04.2016 between 03:35 PM and 04:45 PM and he further deposed that death would have occurred 24 to 36 hours before the postmortem. There are some important aspects which require to be noticed here and that is what brings out the clinching nature of the case against the appellant. 19.