In short, the proposition of law raised is – when an application seeking anticipatory bail filed by a person apprehending arrest is pending without any interim protection, whether initiation of proceeding for issuance of proclamation under Section 82, Cr. PC would make that application worthy for further consideration on its own merits? According to the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants even in such envisaged circumstances and despite 426 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the pendency of non-bailable warrant, the pending application for anticipatory bail is liable to be considered on its own merits and at any rate, on the aforesaid grounds the pending application of pre- arrest bail could not be dismissed. 7. Per contra, the learned counsel appearing for the State vehemently opposed the proposition(s) mooted on behalf of the appellants. It is submitted that the issuance of non-bailable warrant and initiation of the proceedings under Section 82, Cr.PC are justiciable. Certainly, in the absence of an interim protection, there can be no legal trammel for issuing non-bailable warrant or for initiating proceedings under Section 82, Cr. PC. merely because of the pendency of an application for anticipatory bail though more often than not, under such circumstances subordinate Courts would wait for s of the High Court. It be so, existence of any such circumstance would disentitle a person to press for pre-arrest bail. Even a pending application is not maintainable, it is contended. 8. It is thus obvious from the catena of decisions dealing with bail that even while clarifying that arrest should be the last option and it should be restricted to cases where arrest is imperative in the facts and circumstances of a case, the consistent view is that the grant of anticipatory bail shall be restricted to exceptional circumstances. In other words, the position is that the power to grant anticipatory bail under Section 438, Cr. PC is an exceptional power and should be exercised only in exceptional cases and not as a matter of course. Its object is to ensure that a person should not be harassed or humiliated in to satisfy the grudge or personal vendetta of the complainant. (See the decision of this Court in HDFC Bank Ltd. v. J.J.Mannan & Anr.4). 9. When a Court grants anticipatory bail what it actually does is only to make an that in the event of arrest, the arrestee shall be released on bail, subject to the terms and conditions. Taking note of the fact the said power is to be exercised in exceptional circumstances and that it may cause some hinderance to the normal flow of investigation method when called upon to exercise the power under Section 438, Cr.PC, courts must keep reminded of the position that law aides only 4 [2009] 16 SCR 590 : 2010 (1) SCC 679 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 427 Srikant Upadhyay & Ors. v. State of Bihar & Anr. the abiding and certainly not its resistant. By saying so, we mean that a person, having subjected to investigation on a serious offence and upon making out a case, is included in a charge sheet or even after filing of a refer report, later, in accordance with law, the Court issues a summons to a person, he is bound to submit himself to the authority of law.