7. The said assertion of the prosecution is substantiated with medical evidence which reveal ante-mortem injuries sustained by the deceased. The Postmortem Report i.e., Exhibit P-3 prepared by Dr. Venkatesh, P.W.-10 reveals that 3 external injuries over the left upper arm, left shoulder, right shoulder and neck & the hyoid bone was found to be broken. The relevant extract of Postmortem Report is reproduced as under: "1. Multiple contusions over left arm upper 1/3rd and left shoulder (anterior aspect) each of size 2 x 2 cms (3 Nos) 1762 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2. Multiple contusions right shoulder (anterior aspect) 3. Contusion in front of neck 6 x 2 cm extending from right sternocleidomastoid to left sternocleidomastoid.” 8. P.W.-10, Dr. Venkatesh, in his examination-in-chief further makes it clear that the fracture on the hyoid bone was found broken before the demise of the Deceased. He disclosed that the death of the Deceased occurred from suffocation in breathing. There was no chance of consuming liquid for a person whose hyoid/Navaldi bone had been fractured and the person could have died due to pressure on the neck & problem in breathing. The relevant extract of his examination-in-chief is reproduced as under: “I started the Postmortem at 4.15 p.m. Rigor Mortis present in hands and legs. The dead body was kept lying on its back. There are external injuries. It was broken on the inner side. Food pipe was found callus. At 5.15 p.m., the Postmortem was completed. Internal organs of the dead body were sent to Chemical analysis. Navaldi bone was sent to the professor. In the Navaldi bone investigation, it was found broken before the death. Based on the report, Chemical Analysis Department, there is no poison found on the internal ~ organs, I have stated the said information in the Postmortem Report. I opined the aforesaid person would have died due to the pressure given to aforesaid person on his neck and I issued the Postmortem Report Ex.P.3. Visera Report is Ex.P.4.” ……. The wounds 1 and 2 noted in the Post Mortem Report would have caused due to the pressure made on his neck. Blood clots in the neck and the congestion in the food pipe due to pressing of the neck. The fracture of Navaldi bone found on the internal side is caused due to the pressure made on the neck. There is no chance of liquid consumption to a person whose Navaldi bone was fractured. There is no chance for demise of a person whose Navaldi bone was fractured. Breathing problem may be caused and then the death may occur.” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1763 Uma & Anr. v. The State Rep. by the Deputy Superintendent of Police 9. P.W.-11, Muppidathi, Scientific Assistant, who prepared the Viscera Report, also deposed on 18.09.2008 that there was no poison found in the internal organs of the deceased and it was her ultimate opinion that the Deceased appeared to have died of compression over neck. The Postmortem Report prepared by Dr. Venkatesh, Assistant Doctor (P.W.-10) as well as Exhibit P-4 (Visera Report) prepared by the Muppidathi, Scientific Assistant, clearly establish that the Deceased had sustained external as well as internal ante-mortem injuries, which could not have been a natural consequence of consuming paint, as alleged by the Appellants.