1605-R(CH)-55/589 dated March 26, 1955. 2 Partap Das v. Nand Singh, AIR 1924 Lah 729 (1); Captain Parmodh Singh v. Labh Singh, AIR 1955 P&H 49. 700 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports In any case, before the enforcement of Transfer of Property Act, 1882, the transfer of immovable property in India was governed by the principles of English laws of equity. Sections 126 and 127 of the TPA where provisions regarding the suspension or revocation of gifts and onerous gifts is defined respectively are quoted below: Section 126. When gift may be suspended or revoked.— The donor and donee may agree that on the happening of any specified event which does not depend on the will of the donor a gift shall be suspended or revoked, but a gift which the parties agree shall be revocable wholly or in part at the mere will of the donor is void wholly or in part, as the case may be. A gift may also be revoked in any of the cases (save want or failure of consideration) in which, if it were a contract, it might be rescinded. Save as aforesaid, a gift cannot be revoked. Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to affect the rights of transferees for consideration without notice. Illustrations (a) A gives a field to B, reserving to himself, with B’s assent, the right to take back the field in case B, and his descendants die before A. B dies without descendants in A’s lifetime. A may take back the field. (b) A gives a lakh of rupees to B, reserving to himself, with B’s assent, the right to take back at pleasure Rs. 10,000 out of the lakh. The gift holds good as to Rs. 90,000 but is void as to Rs. 10,000 which continue to belong to A. Section 127. Onerous gifts.—Where a gift is in the form of a single transfer to the same person of several things of which one is, and the others are not, burdened by an obligation, the donee can take nothing by the gift unless he accepts it fully. Where a gift is in the form of two or more separate and independent transfers to the same person of several [2024] 12 S.C.R. 701 Smt. Naresh Kumari & Ors. v. Smt. Chameli & Ors. things, the donee is at liberty to accept one of them and refuse the others, although the former may be beneficial and the latter onerous. Onerous gift to disqualified person.—A donee not competent to contract and accepting property burdened by any obligation is not bound by his acceptance. But if, after becoming competent to contract and being aware of the obligation, he retains the property given, he becomes so bound. Illustrations (a) A has shares in X, a prosperous joint stock company, and also shares in Y, a joint stock company, in difficulties. Heavy calls are expected in respect of the shares in Y. A gives B all his shares in joint stock companies.