81. In this regard, members of the AIS have asserted that they are “underprivileged”, or have made “sacrifices”, which entitles them to the privilege of preferential land allotment at a discounted rate. We reject this argument as fallacious and untenable. Government servants, elected legislators, Judges in the Supreme Court and High Court, and prominent journalists do not belong to the “weaker” or per se deserving sections of our society, warranting special State reservations to land allotment. 82. Land is a finite and highly valuable resource, particularly in densely populated urban areas, where access to land for housing and economic activities is increasingly scarce. When the government allocates land at discounted rates to the privileged few, it engenders a system of inequality, conferring upon them a material advantage that remains inaccessible to the common citizen. This preferential treatment conveys the message that certain individuals are entitled to more, not due to the necessities of their public office or the public good, but simply because of their status. Such practices foster resentment and disillusionment among ordinary citizens, who perceive these actions as corrupt or unjust, thereby eroding trust in democratic institutions. This policy undermines solidarity and fraternity, reinforcing societal hierarchies rather than actively working to dismantle them. 83. The policy has wider economic ramifications as well. When land is offered at a discounted rate, it distorts the natural market forces that govern the value of land. The true market price of land reflects its demand and utility, but when individuals receive land at a discount, it artificially devalues the property and consequently diminishes public revenue. This has severe financial ramifications for the public exchequer. 84. In Ram & Shyam Co. v. State of Haryana,71 this Court observed that, typically, the State is under an obligation to sell public property 71 [1985] Supp. (1) SCR 541 : (1985) 3 SCC 267 1420 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports only at the market price, with the sole exception of achieving a constitutionally recognised public purpose: “…Disposal of public property partakes the character of a trust in that in its disposal there should be nothing hanky panky and that it must be done at the best price so that larger revenue coming into the coffers of the State administration would serve public purpose viz. the welfare State may be able to expand its beneficient activities by the availability of larger funds. This is subject to one important limitation that socialist property may be disposed at a price lower than the market price or even for a token price to achieve some defined constitutionally recognised public purpose, one such being to achieve the goals set out in Part IV of the Constitution. But where disposal is for augmentation of revenue and nothing else, the State is under an obligation to secure the best market price available in a market economy…A welfare State exists for the largest good of the largest number more so when it proclaims to be a socialist State dedicated to eradication of poverty.