Thus, the High Court on considering the of this Court in Godrej & Boyce I observed that the 840 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports additional TDR was required to be granted as per DCR and in particular Para 6 of Appendix-VII equivalent to the area constructed or developed and not on the basis of the value of the development of the amenity. Hence, the High Court observed that when a land which is reserved in the development plan under the MRTP Act for a public purpose is surrendered by the owner or lessee free of cost and the amenity is developed thereon, on its surrender, the owner or lessee will be entitled to FSI/TDR equivalent to the area of the surrendered land and an additional TDR equivalent to the area of the amenity developed or constructed by him. 4.3 While considering the arguments on behalf of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation with regard to Regulation 33, the High Court observed that the said Regulation provided that only a part of the land FSI can be used on the remaining portion of the land and the balance FSI had to be provided in the form of TDR, as per Appendix-VII. That Appendix-VII read with Regulation 34 dealt only with grant of TDR and the conditions on which TDR can be granted. Even the TDR available in terms of the Regulation 33(1) will be governed by Regulation 34 read with Appendix-VII. This is particularly so, as per Para 5 of Appendix-VII which applied to the grant of TDR in respect of land covered by Regulation 33(1). That Para 6 of Appendix-VII dealt with both situations, i.e., where the entire land held by the owner or lessee was reserved or a part thereof was reserved and the land was surrendered to the Corporation. Para 6 also dealt with grant of an additional TDR for construction of an amenity in terms of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 126 of the MRTP Act. Regulation 33(1) dealt with FSI or TDR in lieu of surrender of land required for roads whereas Para 6 of Appendix-VII dealt with the grant of FSI or TDR in respect of the road developed at the cost of the owner or the lessee. That this Court in Godrej & Boyce I had considered Regulation 33 also. 4.4 Considering Regulation 33 which had undergone an amendment on 17.06.2010, the High Court observed that prior to the amendment, the said Regulation did not deal with FSI or TDR in lieu of the construction of road. It dealt with only FSI or TDR against the surrender of land reserved for road. However, after amendment, when a road constructed as per the stipulation of [2024] 9 S.C.R. 841 Kukreja Construction Company & Others v. State of Maharashtra & Others the Commissioner was handed over to the Commissioner free of cost, an initial FSI equivalent to 25% of the area of construction of road can be granted. A part of the FSI can be consumed on the remaining land and the remaining part of the FSI will be provided in the form of TDR.