Thus, the scope of Entry 8 of List II cannot be limited to the ‘production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale’ of Intoxicating Liquor. II. Product or industry based entry 56. The Seventh Schedule differentiates between an industry and the product of the industry. Entry 24 of List II deals with industries. Entries 26 and 27 of List II deal with products of industries. Entry 26 deals with “Trade and commerce within the State subject to the provisions of Entry 33 of List III”. Entry 27 provides for “Production, supply and distribution of goods subject to the provisions of Entry 33 of List III”. Entry 33 of List III enables both Parliament and the State Legislature to enact laws with respect to trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of, inter alia, the products of the industry where control by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be in the public interest. Thus, if the Union has control over an industry under Entry 52 of List I, both Parliament and the State Legislature will have the competence with respect to the products in terms of Entry 33 of List III. Under Entries 26 and 27 of List II, the State Legislature has the exclusive power to enact laws with respect to the products of the industries covered by Entry 24 of List II. Parliament has the competence to legislate on any ‘industry’ provided that it satisfies the condition stipulated in Entry 52 of List I (control by the Union being declared by a law of Parliament to be in the public interest). The necessary corollary of the enactment of the law under Entry 52 is that the products of the industry are shifted to the Concurrent list from the State List. 57. The scope of Entry 8 must be interpreted in this background. If Entry 8 is a product-based Entry, it will only cover the consumable end-product. However, if it is an industry-based Entry, it would cover 104 [1955] 1 SCR 568 : (1954) 2 SCC 152 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1995 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons the production of the product as well.105 Entries 24, 26 and 27 of List II are general entries relating to industry and the products of the industries. A distinction between industry and product is made in List II to give effect to the legislative scheme by which certain industries may be controlled by the Union under Entry 52 of List I but products of those industries which are placed in the Concurrent list under Entry 33. To give effect to this unique demarcation, it was necessary to separate the entries relating to industries and products in List II. However, Entry 8 is a specific entry dealing only with ‘intoxicating liquor’. The distinction made between industry and products in the general entries to give effect to the scheme of legislative distribution on industries is not adopted in Entry 8. We have in the preceding sections emphasised that the primary principle of interpreting entries in the legislative lists is to provide a wide meaning to them.