24. The decision in Hansraj Gupta (supra) was in the context of an application filed by the Official Liquidator praying that the Appellants therein, in their capacity as contributories, must be ed to pay a debt owed by them to the Company. This Application was made under Section 186(1) of the Indian Companies Act, which provides as follows: “Court may, at any time after making a winding-up , make an on any contributory for the time being settled on the list of contributories to pay, in manner directed by the , any money due from him or from the estate of the person whom he represents to the company exclusive of any money payable by him or the estate by virtue of any call in pursuance of this Act.” 256 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The decision in Hansraj Gupta (supra) involved interpretation of the words ‘any money due’ occurring in Section 186(1) of the Indian Companies Act. The Privy Council, while following and affirming the of the Lahore High Court in Sri Narain v. Liquidator, Union Bank of India, ILR 4 Lah. 109, held that a time-barred debt could not be enforced by a summary under Section 186 since the section did not create new liability or confer new rights and since it merely created a summary procedure for enforcing existing liabilities. 25. Additionally, in Hansraj (supra) the Limitation Act applied to the company court, since it was a ‘court’. Section 46-B of the State Financial Corporations Act provides that the said Act was to have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law. The authority under the Recovery of Dues Act not being a ‘court’, the provisions of the Limitation Act cannot proprio vigore apply. 26. The decision of this Court in Kalu Ram (supra) is again based fully on the interpretation of the Privy Council in Hansraj (supra). That apart, the decision in Kalu Ram (supra) involved the interpretation of the words ‘arrears of rent payable’ under Section 7 of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1958. The Court noted that the word ‘payable’ generally means ‘that which should be paid’ and thereafter concluded that the word can only be interpreted to mean dues which are legally recoverable. The provisions herein use the words ‘amounts due’ and are provisions which create a right to recover through a separate mechanism, notwithstanding the right to file a civil suit. 27. At this juncture, we also deem it fit to note the decision of this Court in KGU Trust (supra).The decision in KGU Trust (supra) was rendered while interpreting the words ‘entire amount of rent due’ occurring in Section 20(4) of the U.P Buildings (Regulation of Letting, Rent and Eviction) Act, 1972. While the landlord could file an eviction suit on the ground that the tenant is in arrears of rent, the Tenant was given an option to resist this eviction suit by depositing this ‘entire amount of rent due’. While the decision in V.R.