The use of the term ‘guidelines’ rather than ‘rules’ in most of these documents is not a mere difference in nomenclature, but is evident in the content of these documents as well.75 To better appreciate this, we may refer to one of these standards, namely, HG 2021 which is prescribed under Rule 15(1)(a). The stated objectives of this document are as follows: “1.2 Objectives […] following are the key objectives of these guidelines: 1. Sensitize diverse stakeholders regarding the various accessibility needs and provisions for diverse population groups in the built environment. 2. Introduce and orient universal design perspectives to all stakeholders for creating inclusive built environments for all. 75 Gulf Goans Hotels Co. Ltd. v. Union of India (2014) 10 SCC 673 [15-16]. 1008 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3. Recommend specific built environment elements along with their accessibility attributes and specifications. 4. Develop a holistic approach to accessibility through integration of appropriate technologies. 5. Guide accessibility assessment and implementation in built environments.” (Emphasis Supplied) 69. The objectives extracted above indicate that the idea of the document is not to lay down rules, which are non-negotiable and have tangible consequences in case of non-compliance, but rather to merely “sensitize”, “recommend” and “guide”. Over 400 pages long, the HG 2021 contains guidelines which are couched in the language of a policy document. It uses discretionary terms, such as “recommend”, “may”, “it is desirable for…” and so on while laying down the standards of accessibility. It is impractical, as to how guidelines framed in such terms, can be understood as “non-negotiable”, failing which certain consequences follow under the RPWD Act, including no permission to build, holding back of completion certificates or penal fines. 70. Similar objectives are found in the guidelines prescribed in other clauses of Rule 15 as well. Illustratively, at random, we may refer to the (i) Guidelines for Accessibility Standards in the Port Sector issued by the Ministry of Port Shipping and Waterways; and (ii) Accessibility Standards and Guidelines for Civil Aviation 2022. The stated objectives of these documents are as follows: “Accessibility Standards in the Port Sector “The guidelines provided here are illustrative in nature and not exhaustive. They intend to meet the immediate requirements of Accessibility to ensure that the facilities are made usable by the persons with disability and reduced mobility. Besides these guidelines, the sector specific detailed guidelines made by Experts such as the guidelines on Accessibility Standards prepared by Tourism and Travel Department, Transport Department, Hotel Industry, Commercial and Industrial Department may also be, to the extent relevant, relied upon and used at different places in the Port, Harbours and Piers. To this [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1009 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. extent, these guidelines are not conclusive; but are open to continual improvement.” These guidelines can be used as broad guiding principles for planning of Accessibility Standards at the time of construction of Cruise and Passenger Terminals, Transport Hubs in the Ports and harbours as also in retrofitting the existing structures.