Courts have witnesses that the authorities have no independence and, their tenure is also short. Additionally, the functioning of these statutory authorities gives an indication that there could be a regulatory capture; vii) Another concern which exists is about the effectiveness of statutory remedies: Statutory remedies are ineffective and at the same time, lacking in accountability and vii) Judicial review proceedings under Art. 226 cannot be a long- term solution: We have given details of the number of writ petitions pending before the High Court in Para 33. 1472 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 35. The above-referred problems arising out of the statutory scheme and policy framework should have come under review by the State of Maharashtra. Assessment of the working of the statute to realise if its purpose and objective achieved or not is the implied duty of the executive government. Reviewing and assessing the implementation of a statute is an integral part of Rule of Law. It is in recognition of this obligation of the executive government that the constitutional courts have directed governments to carry performance audit of statutes. 36. Four aspects for achieving justice are well founded and articulated as, i) distribution of advantages and disadvantages of society, ii) curbing the abuse of power and liberty, iii) deciding disputes and, iv) adapting to change.17 Adapting to change is important for achieving justice, as failure to adapt produces injustice and is, in a sense, an abuse of power. Thus, failure to use power to adapt to change is in its own way an abuse of power. In fact, the issue is not one of change or not to change, but of the direction and the speed of change and such a change may come in various ways, and most effectively through legislation. Legal reform through legislative correction improves the legal system and it would require assessment of the working of the law, its accessibility, utility and abuse as well. The Executive branch has a constitutional duty to ensure that the purpose and object of a statute is accomplished while implementing it. It has the additional duty to closely monitor the working of a statute and must have a continuous and a real time assessment of the impact that the statute is having. As stated above, reviewing and assessing the implementation of a statute is an integral part of Rule of Law. The purpose of such review is to ensure that a law is working out in practice as it was intended. If not, to understand the reason and address it quickly. It is in this perspective that this court has, in a number of cases, directed the Executive to carry a performance/ assessment audit of a statute or has suggested amendments to the provisions of a particular enactment so as to remove perceived infirmities in its working.18 17 See: Justice in Adapting to Change, in R.W.M. Dias, Jurisprudence, 305-327 (5th edn., 2013). 18 State of Haryana v. Mukesh Kumar (2011) 10 SCC 404; Pravin Electricals (P) Ltd. v. Galaxy Infra & Engineering (P) Ltd. (2021) 5 SCC 671; Preeti Gupta v. State of Jharkhand (2010) 7 SCC 667; Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. Aptech Ltd. (2024) 5 SCC 313; Public Interest Foundation v. Union of India (2019) 3 SCC 224.