We are also aware that recently, Section 17-A of the Act has been brought in by way of an amendment to introduce the requirement of prior permission of the Government for investigation or inquiry under the Prevention of Corruption Act. 7. We are also aware that this will place you in the peculiar situation, of having to ask the accused himself, for permission to investigate a case against him. We realise that your hands are tied in this matter, but we request you to at least take the first step, of seeking permission of the Government under Section 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act for investigating this offence and under which, “the concerned authority shall convey its decision 574 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under this section within a period of three months, which may, for reasons to be recorded in writing by such authority, be extended by a further period of one month”.” (emphasis supplied) 118. Therefore, the petitioners have filed the complaint fully knowing that Section 17-A constituted a bar to any inquiry or enquiry or investigation unless there was previous approval. In fact, a request is made to at least take the first step of seeking permission under Section 17-A of the 2018 Act. Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 298 of 2018 was filed on 24-10-2018 and the complaint is based on non-registration of the FIR. There is no challenge to Section 17-A. Under the law, as it stood, both on the date of filing the petition and even as of today, Section 17-A continues to be on the statute book and it constitutes a bar to any inquiry or enquiry or investigation. The petitioners themselves, in the complaint, request to seek approval in terms of Section 17-A but when it comes to the relief sought in the writ petition, there was no relief claimed in this behalf.” The same view has been reflected in the case of Tejmal Choudhary (supra). 26. One point which has been urged in relation to this authority is that this was not a contention raised by the parties in the of Yashwant Sinha (supra) and was not dealt with by the majority opinion. Hence, according to the respondents a concurring opinion could not be a binding authority on a point which has not been dealt with by the majority of the Hon’ble Judges in the Bench. Mr. Rohatgi relied on a decision in the case of Rameshbhai Dabhai Naika -vs- State of Gurajat and Others [(2012) 3 SCC 400] on this point. The ratio of this decision would not apply in the context of the delivered in the case of Yashwant Sinha (supra), as in the latter authority the majority view does not reflect any discord over the concurring view. In my opinion, however, position of law laid down in a concurring ought to be treated as part of the main and that opinion would form a binding authority. I should not distinguish between the main and the concurring view and isolate the reasoning contained in the concurring opinion and hold the reasoning contained in the main opinion (of majority of the judges) only to have the status of a binding precedent.