He also offered to get the aforesaid place of occurrence identified. The aforesaid disclosure statements of the accused were reduced into writing as per their version, which were attested by ASI Dharamvir and HC Sultan Singh as witnesses (objected to being inadmissible). .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..” (emphasis added) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1435 Randeep Singh @ Rana & Anr. v. State of Haryana & Ors. 15. Sections 25 to 27 of the Evidence Act read thus: “25. Confession to police-officer not to be proved.–– No confession made to a police-officer, shall be proved as against a person accused of any offence. 26. Confession by accused while in custody of police not to be proved against him.–– No confession made by any person whilst he is in the custody of a police- officer, unless it be made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate, shall be proved as against such person. Explanation.––In this section “Magistrate” does not include the head of a village discharging magisterial functions in the Presidency of Fort St. George or elsewhere, unless such headman is a Magistrate exercising the powers of a Magistrate under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1882 (10 of 1882). 27. How much of information received from accused may be proved.–– Provided that, when any fact is deposed to as discovered inconsequence of information received from a person accused of any offence, in the custody of a police-officer, so much of such information, whether it amounts to a confession or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be proved.” 16. A perusal of the deposition of PW-27, which we have quoted above, shows that he attempted to prove the confessions allegedly made by the accused to a police officer when they were in Police custody. There is a complete prohibition on even proving such confessions. The learned Trial Judge has completely lost sight of Sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act and has allowed PW-27 to prove the confessions allegedly made by the accused while they were in police custody. PW-27 stated that the appellant “suffered disclosure statement at Exhibits ‘P55’ and ‘P56’ respectively”. Obviously, he is referring to disclosure of the information under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. The law on disclosure under Section 27 is well settled right from the classic decision of the Privy Council in the case of Pulukuri Kotayya & Ors. v. King-Emperor.2 In the case of 2 1946 SCC OnLine PC 47 : AIR 1947 PC 67 1436 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports K. Chinnaswamy Reddy v. State of A.P.,3 this Court relied upon the decision of the Privy Council and in paragraph 9 held thus: “9. Let us then turn to the question whether the statement of the appellant to the effect that “he had hidden them (the ornaments)” and “would point out the place” where they were, is wholly admissible in evidence under Section 27 or only that part of it is admissible where he stated that he would point out the place but not that part where he stated that he had hidden the ornaments.