The precise elements of compensable non-economic loss vary by jurisdiction. Pain and suffering may be used as a catch-all category for the jury’s consideration of all non-pecuniary losses in a case of a non-fatal injury, subsuming other qualitative categories such as mental anguish and humiliation. More commonly, though, other non-economic elements – such as “loss of enjoyment of life” are accorded independent standing …” Another important observation is that: “Whatever the categories of non-economic damages allowed in a given jurisdiction, the law provides no objective benchmarks valuing them. As one commentator notes, “Courts have usually been content to say that pain and suffering damages should [2024] 11 S.C.R. 847 K.S. Muralidhar v. R. Subbulakshmi & Anr. amount to ‘fair compensation’, or a ‘reasonable amount’, ‘without any definite guide’.” 13.7 Consideration of the above, underlines that while each discipline has its own conception of the meaning of pain/suffering, within its confines, the commonality that emerges is that a person’s understanding of oneself is shaken or compromised at its very root at the hands of consistent suffering. In the present facts, it is unquestionable that the sense of something being irreparably wrong in life, as spoken by Frank (supra); vulnerability and futility, as spoken by Edgar, is present and such a feeling will be present for the remainder of his natural life. 14. In respect of ‘pain and suffering’ in cases where disability suffered is at 100%, we may notice a few decisions of this Court:- 14.1 In R.D Hattangadi v. Pest Control (India) (P) Ltd.18 It was observed : “17. The claim under Sl. No. 16 for ‘pain and suffering’ and for loss of amenities of life under Sl. No. 17, are claims for non-pecuniary loss. The appellant has claimed lump sum amount of Rs.3,00,000 each under the two heads. The High Court has allowed Rs.1,00,000 against the claims of Rs.6,00,000. When compensation is to be awarded for ‘pain and suffering’ and loss of amenity of life, the special circumstances of the claimant have to be taken into account including his age, the unusual deprivation he has suffered, the effect thereof on his future life. The amount of compensation for non-pecuniary loss is not easy to determine but the award must reflect that different circumstances have been taken into consideration. According to us, as the appellant was an advocate having good practice in different courts and as because of the accident he has been crippled and can move only on wheelchair, the High Court should have allowed an amount of Rs.1,50,000 in respect of claim for 18 [1995] 1 SCR 75 : (1995) 1 SCC 551 848 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ‘pain and suffering’ and Rs.1,50,000 in respect of loss of amenities of life. We direct payment of Rs.3,00,000 (Rupees three lakhs only) against the claim of Rs.6,00,000 under the heads “‘pain and suffering’” and “Loss of amenities of life”. (Emphasis Supplied) 14.2 This was recently referred to by this Court in Sidram v. United India Insurance Company Ltd.19 reference was also made to Karnataka SRTC v. Mahadeva Shetty 20 (irrespective of the percentage of disability incurred, the observations are instructive), wherein it was observed : “18.