11.1 To support its contentions, the respondent-union relies on the evidence of MW3 and MW4, who were the personal manager and the project officer in the appellant company, respectively. While MW3 categorically admitted that the removal of spilled coal from the railway siding, the bunker and the Coal Handling Plant is regular and perennial in nature, MW4 stated that all 32 workers were engaged similarly. It is therefore submitted that their evidence proves that the 13 workers actively participated in tasks deemed regular and perennial. 11.2 Since there was no resolution of the claim of regularization of similarly placed workers, they have the right to pursue the remedy under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. It is submitted that Rule 58 of the Industrial Dispute (Central) Rules, 1957 under which the settlement occurred, nowhere poses a legal obstruction to the remedy. 11.3 It is finally submitted that the 13 workmen suffered for no fault of theirs and an of regularization must naturally lead to grant of consequential backwages. 12. Analysis and findings: Having heard the parties in detail, we are of the opinion that the present appeals can be disposed of for the following reasons. 13. At the outset, the appellant objected to the Tribunal entertaining the industrial dispute passing of the award on the ground that a settlement under S. 18(1) read with S. 36 of the Industrial Disputes Act is binding on all the parties under S. 19(2) of the Act. This is the substantive part of the submission on behalf of the appellant. The facts of this case, as they unfold, leading to the arrival of the settlement, followed by the reference to the Industrial Tribunal, and then the award, are necessary for our consideration. 634 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. At the first place, all the 32 workmen commenced their work through the contractor from 1984 and continued till 1994. In 1994, the respondent-union espoused the cause of all the 32 workers and the Asst. Labour Commissioner took up the entire cause. This culminated in the settlement dated 05.04.1997, relied upon by the appellant. 15. To appreciate the submission that the settlement is the last word and that the Tribunal could not have entertained the reference or passed the Award, the following facts become crucial. 16. The settlement itself talks about the claim of the 32 workers raised by the respondent-union. It then talks about the contention of the management that others are engaged in ‘purely casual’ nature of jobs. In the very next sentence, it agreed to regularize 19 contractors. It is important to note that, being conscious of the fact that the settlement provides for the regularization of 19 out of the 32 workmen, the Government invoked the power of reference to refer the matter to the Tribunal to adjudicate the interest of all the 32 workers. The Tribunal was naturally bound by the reference to consider the claim of all the 32 workers. 17. Despite the fact that there was a settlement with respect to some of the workmen, the Tribunal was tasked to examine the entire reference and give independent findings on the issue.