ii. Lacerated wound 1.5 cm x 1 cm bone deep on left side of head posterior to left pinna. It was transversally placed 2.5 cm below the upper end of left pinna. iii. Lacerated wound 2 cm x 1 cm on upper part of left pinna splitting the pinna into two parts. It was transversally placed in lines with injury No.2.” 4. The injuries were stated to be caused by blunt weapon and the cause of death was opined to be the head injury, which was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature. 712 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 5. Dr. Didar Singh (PW-1), Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, Dasuya conducted medical examination of Sharan Kaur (PW-5), the first informant, and took note of an incised wound admeasuring 2½ x ½ cm elipitcal in shape present on the left side of the abdomen 2 cms above the umblicus and 6 cms lateral to the mid line. However, the wound was not probed for finding of the depth and the case was referred to the Surgical Specialist for opinion and treatment. 6. The case took a different turn, when the first informant Sharan Kaur (PW-5) started raising allegations against the Investigating Officer of conducting partisan and tainted investigation in to favour the police. 7. Sharan Kaur (PW-5) filed two petitions in the High Court of Punjab and Haryana seeking transfer of investigation to the CBI or some other independent agency. In both these petitions, her allegation was that the second accused named Kulwinder Singh had been left out of the case for oblique reasons. 8. Be that as it may, two different police officials, conducted the investigation and filed closure reports alleging that the first informant- Sharan Kaur(PW-5) had falsely implicated the accused. However, the Magistrate did not agree with the opinion. The accused appellant- Kirpal Singh @ Lucky was arrested on 21st November, 1997 and charge sheet was filed against him for the offences punishable under Section 302 IPC and Section 307 IPC. Since both the offences were exclusively triable by the Court of Sessions, the case was committed to the Court of Additional Sessions Judge(Adhoc), Hoshiarpur (hereinafter being referred to as ‘trial Court’) for trial. 9. Learned trial Court framed charges against the accused appellant, who abjured his guilt and claimed trial. An application came to be filed by the prosecution under Section 319 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter being referred to as ‘CrPC’) which was allowed and the accused Kulwinder Singh was summoned to face trial along with the charge sheeted accused, i.e., the appellant herein. Fresh charge for the offences punishable under Sections 302, 307 read with Section 34 IPC were framed against both the accused to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. The prosecution examined ten witnesses to support its case. 10. The incriminating circumstances appearing in the prosecution evidence were put to the accused while recording their statements [2024] 4 S.C.R. 713 Kirpal Singh v. State of Punjab under Section 313 CrPC.