Some of the relevant stipulations in the Circular dated 15th December, 1992 are extracted hereinbelow for ready reference: “(1) Only persons who are members of the member- Societies and their dependants will be considered; (2) Only one person from one member-Society will be included in the list; (3) Preference will be given to members of the member- Societies first and only thereafter dependants will be considered; Xxxxxx (10) Those who are engaged in this manner will not be given any preference for permanent job.” 6. The Circular dated 10th December, 2010 has elaborated in para 1 that : “1. Only persons who are members of the member- Societies and their dependants will be considered (Dependants means children of member of Society, wife/ husband).” 7. On 29th January, 2011, the appellant-Society issued a Notification inviting applications for regular recruitment to several posts including the post of Plant Attender, Grade-III. It is not in dispute that the nature of work being undertaken by the respondents was that of 1240 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Plant Attenders which is the lowest post in that category. Aggrieved by the aforesaid notification, the respondents filed a writ petition in the High Court praying inter alia for quashing of the notification and for issuing directions to the appellant-Society to regularize them on the post of Plant Attenders in their establishment and further, not to alter the conditions of their service pending the conciliation of disputes raised by them. 8. We have specifically inquired from Mr. Kaleeswaram Raj, learned counsel for the respondents as to whether the respondents had subsequently invoked the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 19474 after the conciliation proceedings had failed and sought a reference of their dispute to the Competent authority. He submits that in view of the exigencies of the situation, where the appellant-Society had issued a notification inviting applications for appointments to the subject posts, the respondents were left with no other alternative but to invoke Article 226 of the Constitution of India and file a writ petition before the High Court. 9. A perusal of the averments made in the writ petition filed by the respondents shows that they claimed that they were working as casual labourers on contract basis with the appellant-Society herein for the past several years and they claimed that they were engaged continuously for a period of 60 days and thereafter, engaged for short intervals for the same work on rotational basis. 10. At the same time, in ground (A) taken by the respondents in the writ petition they have averred that all of them were in continuous service for a period of over 240 days in a period of 12 calendar months and therefore, ought to be treated as permanent workers under the provisions of ID Act. It has also been asserted that the appellant- Society herein is an organization covered under the provisions of the ID Act. Despite that, the respondent did not raise a dispute for it to be referred for adjudication by the State Government.