2 ,3 and 4.” 15.1 A mere perusal of the preface to Ex. B-6, mortgage deed, would show that Muthusamy Gounder treated Appellant No. 1, Respondent No. 1 and Respondent No. 3 as his sons. The document was executed for himself and on behalf of his minor sons. The statement is made by Muthusamy Gounder during the subsistence of his interest in the property mortgaged. Respondent No. 3 definitely claims through Muthusamy Gounder for the half share notionally partitioned in favour of Muthusamy Gounder. The Appellants also rely on the patta dated 27.04.1984 (Ex. B-3) standing in the name of Muthusamy Gounder and his sons; the voters lists, viz., Exs. B-4 and B-5, to show that Muthusamy Gounder and his sons lived as a family. By applying Sections 17 and 18 of the Act, we are convinced that Muthusamy Gounder made a statement describing Appellant No. 1 and Respondent No. 1 as his sons and treated as an admission by record. This statement satisfies the ingredients of Section 18 of the Act. Further, in the absence of contrary evidence and withdrawal of admission or explained through admissible evidence, the admission in the mortgage deed, viz., Ex. B-6, coupled with the joint patta and voters lists, declares the status of Appellant No. 1, Respondent No. 1, along with Respondent No. 3 as the sons of Muthusamy Gounder. At this juncture, we notice that the status derived through an admission in Ex. B-3 vis-à-vis Appellant No.1 as a natural corollary could be extended to Appellant No. 3 as a child/daughter of Muthusamy Gounder. This is an inescapable consequential conclusion which the Court has to record. 15.2 We make a useful reference to the judgement reported in Nirmala v. Rukminibai3. The Division Bench of the High Court of Karnataka considered a dispute nearer to the circumstances with the case on hand. The decision made in this case decided 3 AIR 1994 Kar 247 424 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the status of inheritance of one Narayanarao among the children born out of his second marriage. The Plaintiffs were the first wife and daughter of Narayanarao, who filed a suit for possession of the suit properties in the estate of Narayanarao, which devolved on the Defendants, i.e., Narayanarao’s second wife and children. The Trial Court decreed the suit in the Plaintiffs’ favour, against which the Defendants filed an appeal before the High Court of Karnataka. The Defendants relied on Section 18 of the Act to point out Narayanarao’s admission that he indeed treated the Defendants as his legally wedded wife and legitimate children. Accepting this argument, the High Court allowed the appeal holding that where the children from the first wife brought a suit for possession of their father’s property disputing the second marriage of their father, the admission of their deceased father that the defendant, as his legally wedded wife, was binding on the Plaintiffs. We are in agreement with the High Court of Karnataka’s consideration of the scope of the binding nature of admission by a common ancestor in a matter of inheritance under Section 18 of the Act.