We will dilate on this aspect a little later. 10. Now, in the context of the rival contentions, it is worthwhile to note that by the combined exercise of powers under Section 482, Cr.P.C., and Section 147, N.I. Act, the High Court, has actually compounded the offence, under Section 138, N.I. Act, despite the non-consent of 1482 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the complainant/ appellant herein therefor. Contextually, it is relevant to refer to paragraph 102 (6) of the decision of this Court in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal (AIR 1992 SC 604), which reads thus: - “Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institution and continuance of the proceedings and/or where there is a specific provision in the code or the concerned Act, providing efficacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved party.” (underline supplied) 11. It is thus well-neigh settled position that the inherent powers under Section 482, Cr.P.C., are invocable when no other efficacious remedy is available to the party concerned and not where a specific remedy is provided by the statute concerned. We may further add here that certainly the power under Section 482, Cr.P.C., is not invocable, ignoring the factor which is sine qua non for the exercise of power to compound the offence(s) under N.I. Act viz., the consent of the complainant. 12. Before delving into the question whether consent of the complainant, who is to compound the offence, is required to exercise the power under Section 147, N.I. Act, it is only appropriate to refer to paragraphs 12 and 13 of the impugned of the High Court. They read thus: - “12. Broadly speaking, in the considered opinion of this Court, the essence of all the aforesaid pronouncements by the Hon’ble Supreme Court coupled with Section 138 of the N.I. Act read together with the other provisions of the N.I. Act is that the consent of the complainant is not mandatory at the time of compounding of the offence under Section 138 of the N.I. Act, once the complainant has been equitably compensated. 13. In effect, whence the complainant has been reasonably compensated the accused can be discharged/ acquitted even without the consent of the complainant, in the interest of justice and to prevent the abuse of the process of law, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1483 A.S. Pharma Pvt. Ltd. v. Nayati Medical Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. since once an accused accepts his liability to pay the cheque amount, there will be no fruitful purpose in keeping the complaint alive.” (Underline supplied) 13. Having gone through the factual matrix of the case on hand and the afore-extracted paragraph Nos. 12 and 13 of the impugned , we are of the considered view that the understanding and exposition of law by the High Court on the question of invocation of the power under Section 482, Cr.P.C., and Section 147, N.I.