Digital Supreme Court Reports heritable, the heirs would be justified in claiming tenancy right subject to fulfilment of the residence requirement in section 2(h) of the Act of 1956 but unfettered by the other two conditions newly inserted and the stipulation of five years in section 2(g) of the Act of 1997. Law appears to be settled that provisions of a new statute which touch a right in existence at the date it is enforced are not to be applied retrospectively in the absence of express provision or necessary intendment. The Act of 1997 has not been given retrospective effect so as to bring within its coverage death of tenants occurring prior to July 10, 2001 and a different intention does not appear on a reading of the Act of 1997 so as to affect any right or privilege that has been acquired or has accrued in favour of the specified heirs of the deceased tenant under the Act of 1956, since repealed. Having regard to section 8(c) of the Bengal General Clauses Act, 1899, a vested right that accrued in favour of an heir like Subhra on the death of the tenant i.e. Sunil cannot be abrogated. There is a presumption against curtailment of or washing away a vested right by a repealing legislation, and a construction involving such curtailment of or washing away the right accrued ought not to be adopted unless a contrary intention clearly appears in the repealing legislation. It could not have been and it does not seem to be the intention of the legislature to fix July 9, 2006 as the last date fill which tenancy of an heir of a deceased tenant would continue (assuming all the other conditions were fulfilled), no matter when he died prior to July 10, 2001. The absurd result that the aforesaid extract of section 2(g) of the Act of 1997 has the potential of producing is best illustrated by the facts of the present case and needs no further elaboration. Insofar as situations (ii) and (iii) are concerned, it is obvious that the definition of tenant in section 2(g) of the Act of 1997 shall apply and for achieving the purpose that it seeks to achieve, it was not necessary to insert the phrase “or from the date of coming into force of this Act, whichever is later”. The period of five years mentioned in section 2(g) automatically would have application only in respect of [2024] 9 S.C.R. 657 Rajesh Mitra @ Rajesh Kumar Mitra & Anr. v. Karnani Properties Ltd. death of tenants occurring on and from July 10, 2001 and in such case the portion extracted above, is in my considered view, a piece of loose drafting and ought to be considered redundant unless in a given case, which I have been unable to perceive, the same is shown to have application. I hasten to record here that the above observation regarding redundancy has been made by me despite my best effort to make the statute effective with all the words that have been used by the legislature and conscious of the principle that legislature is presumed not to waste words.” Relying upon the above of Calcutta High Court, the counsel for the appellants would submit that similarly the tenancy in the present case had in fact devolved in favour of the present appellants way back in the year 1970 on the death of their father, who was the original tenant.