Overcharge of a sum of money for a purpose partakes the same character as the underlying charge and belongs to the same genus or class the basic charge. Any other kind of levy of money unrelated to the basic charge would, as held by the Gujarat High Court and the Hon’ble Supreme Court, indeed would not take the character of an overcharge. In the Gujarat High Court case the overcharge related to a charge relating to the use of sidings of the Railways and it did not entail an excess charge on the freight as in the instant case. So to in the case before the Hon’ble Supreme Court. In my considered [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1103 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. opinion, from the very enunciation of law by the Hon’ble Gujarat High Court in Mansukhlal Jethalal (Supra) and the Hon’ble Supreme Court in West Coast Paper Mills Ltd. (Supra) it is evident that the charge levied over the appellant-Company was qua the freight and movement of goods and nothing more excessive though it is alleged to be. It did not have a character different from the basic change. In fact the appellant-Company itself averred of realisation of an excess freight and specifically in para 6 of the plaint had itself averred that due to mistake in calculating of distance excess freight was realised at the rate of Rs.21.44 per qtl. instead of Rs.13.11 per qtl.. Further in the notice under Section 78B of the Act of 1890 R/w Section 80 CPC issued by the appellant-Company prior to the filing of the suit for recovery of money before the District Judge, Sirohi, it was submitted that due to mistake on the part of the booking staff of the Railways incorrect distance was computed from Banas siding to Thiyat Hamira railway station against the correct chargeable distance of 511 KMs and the distance was worked out to 946 KMs. which was the chargeable via Rewari. In para 4 of the suit it was stated that on the part of the Railway enhanced rate (emphasis mine) @ Rs.21.44 per qtl. was charged. In my considered opinion as also held by the learned Tribunal, the case set up by the appellant-Company makes it evidently clear that the refund was sought of the excess freight realized allegedly illegally and unauthorizedly. The excess freight without doubt related to freight otherwise payable for the movement / transportation of goods by the Railways and therefore was obviously an overcharge. Consequently, Section 78B of the Act of 1890 attracted to the claim petition filed. Admittedly notice with regard to the freight paid between 07.12.1985 and 11.02.1986 was issued on 17.02.1988 quite clearly beyond the period of six months as statutorily mandated. The Tribunal was right in so holding.” (Emphasis supplied) 55. Furthermore, the contention that retainment of excess freight by the railway due to the claim applications being time-barred would amount 1104 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to unjust enrichment of the Railway came to be negatived by the Rajasthan High Court in J.K. Lakshmi Cement (supra).