It held that the applicability of Part I of the Act, 1996 is limited only to arbitrations that take place in India. The said decision is in two-parts: - (i) First, it held that a plain reading of Section 2(2) makes it clear that Part I of the Act, 1996 is limited in its application to arbitrations which take place in India. It observed that although the UNCITRAL Model Law which was the basis for the Act, 1996 has not been boldly adopted, yet it does not mean that the territorial principle envisaged under the Model Law has not been accepted. It held that the Parliament through Section(s) 1(2) and 2(2) of the Act, 1996 has clearly given recognition to the territorial principle that Part I of the said Act will only apply to arbitrations having their place / seat in India. The relevant observations read as under: - “64. [...]Thereafter, this Court has given further instances of provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1996, not being in conformity with the Model Law and concluded that “… The Model Law and s and literature thereon are, therefore, not a guide to the interpretation of the Act and, especially of Section 11 thereof”. The aforesaid position, according to Mr Sorabjee has not been disagreed with by this Court in SBP & Co. We agree with the submission of Mr Sorabjee that the omission of the word “only” in Section 2(2) is not an instance of “casus omissus”. It clearly indicates that the Model Law has not been bodily adopted by the Arbitration Act, 1996. But that cannot mean that the territorial principle has not been accepted. We would also agree with Mr Sorabjee that it is not the function of the court to supply the supposed omission, which can only be done by Parliament. In our opinion, legislative surgery is not [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1187 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze a judicial option, nor a compulsion, whilst interpreting an Act or a provision in the Act. xxx 67. We are unable to accept the submission of the learned counsel for the appellants that the omission of the word “only” from Section 2(2) indicates that applicability of Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 is not limited to the arbitrations that take place in India. We are also unable to accept that Section 2(2) would make Part I applicable even to arbitrations which take place outside India. In our opinion, a plain reading of Section 2(2) makes it clear that Part I is limited in its application to arbitrations which take place in India. We are in agreement with the submissions made by the learned counsel for the respondents, and the interveners in support of the respondents, that Parliament by limiting the applicability of Part I to arbitrations which take place in India has expressed a legislative declaration. It has clearly given recognition to the territorial principle. Necessarily therefore, it has enacted that Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 applies to arbitrations having their place/seat in India.