The claim lodged by the 1st respondent-financial creditor was of Rs.241.27 crores. However, as per the resolution plan, the 1st respondent-financial creditor had to accept a haircut as it was provided therein that the 1st respondent-financial creditor would get only a sum of Rs.38.87 crores from the resolution applicant. LIABILITY OF GUARANTOR / SURETY 14. As far as the guarantee is concerned, the law is very well settled. The liability of the surety and the principal debtor is co-extensive. The creditor has remedies available to recover the amount payable by the principal borrower by proceeding against both or any of them. The creditor can proceed against the guarantor first without exhausting its remedies against the principal borrower. Chapter VIII of the Contract Act contains provisions regarding indemnity and guarantee. Section 126 is relevant for our purposes, which reads thus: “126. “Contract of guarantee”, “surety”, “principal debtor” and “creditor”.— A “contract of guarantee” is a contract to perform the promise, or discharge the liability, of a third person in case of his default. The person who gives the guarantee is called the “surety”; the person in respect of whose default the guarantee is given is called the “principal debtor”, and the person to whom the guarantee is given is called the “creditor”. A guarantee may be either oral or written.” A surety is also known as a guarantor. Section 128 reads thus: “128. Surety’s liability.— The liability of the surety is co- extensive with that of the principal debtor, unless it is otherwise provided by the contract.” It lays down the fundamental principle that the liability of the surety is co-extensive with that of the principal debtor unless otherwise provided by the contract. Sections 133 to 139 deal with the discharge of surety, which read thus: 2156 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “133. Discharge of surety by variance in terms of contract.— Any variance, made without the surety’s consent, in the terms of the contract between the principal debtor and the creditor, discharges the surety as to transactions subsequent to the variance. 134. Discharge of surety by release or discharge of principal debtor.— The surety is discharged by any contract between the creditor and the principal debtor, by which the principal debtor is released, or by any act or omission of the creditor, the legal consequence of which is the discharge of the principal debtor. 135. Discharge of surety when creditor compounds with, gives time to, or agrees not to sue, principal debtor.— A contract between the creditor and the principal debtor, by which the creditor makes a composition with, or promises to give time to, or not to sue, the principal debtor, discharges the surety, unless the surety assents to such contract. 136. Surety not discharged when agreement made with third person to give time to principal debtor.— Where a contract to give time to the principal debtor is made by the creditor with a third person, and not with the principal debtor, the surety is not discharged.