AIR 2008 SC 1657 wherein the Hon’ble Supreme Court has held that once the advertisement had been issued on the basis of the circular obtaining at that particular time, the effect would be that the selection process should continue on the basis of the criteria which was laid down and it cannot be on the basis of the criteria which has been made subsequently. The Review DPC had committed error while recommending the candidates belong to OBC category as if there was reservation for them as per the Notice dated 12-09-2006 and the State respondents had blindly accepted the same. In fairness and in to give equal opportunity, the State respondents ought to have given a notice to all the candidates that the OM dated 27-12-2006 would apply to the then onging selection process and all those candidates, including the petitioners, belonging to OBC category who could not get themselves sponsored as OBC candidates, could have been given an opportunity to do so. In other words, in case certain seats were to be reserved for the OBC, the State respondents must have ensured that all the candidates belonging to OBC category had got themselves sponsored by the Employment Officer. It appears that no such excercise had been done by the State respondents at all in the present case and no opportunity was granted to them. Denial of such opportunity to the petitioners has attracted the provisions of Article 16 of the Constitution of India. Failing to do that, the actions of the State respondents are unreasonable, arbitrary and illegal as being violative of Article 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. The part of the selection process, as indicated above, i.e., from the stage where the error had crept in, is arbitrary, illegal and is liable to be quashed and in other words, the recommendation of the Review DPC, Notification dated 04-09-2011 and the Government dated 09-12-2011 are liable to be quashed. [11] That since this court having held in the preceding para that the selection of as many as 242 candidates as Primary Teachers against the seats reserved for the OBC category, without the same being mentioned in the Notice dated 12-09-2006, is bad and liable to be quashed, no 28 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is required to be passed in this writ petition being W.P. (C) No. 127 of 2012 and accordingly, the writ petition stands disposed of.” 9. The learned Judge in the dated 06.10.2015 noted that for the written test conducted on 22.12.2006, the answer scripts were destroyed on 15.5.2008. The Court however opined that the Board of Secondary Education did not preserve the answer scripts because of paucity of space and also because of the practice followed by the Board for weeding out answer scripts within a fix time frame. When recruitment for public posts is being made by the State, the preservation of the answer scripts till reasonable time after the final declaration of result is the prudent course to adopt.