On the same point, certain other authorities were also referred to but we do not consider it necessary to individually cite those authorities and deal with them separately. 32. So far as the present case is concerned, the principle of law laid down in the authorities referred to in the preceding paragraph would not apply. In Section 4(3) of the 1988 Act it has been stipulated that when trying any case, a Special Judge may also try any offence other than an offence specified in Section 3, with which the accused [2024] 1 S.C.R. 579 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. may be charged with under the 1973 Code, at the same trial. In the case of Jitender Kumar Singh (supra), the public servant against whom allegations of commission of offences under the 1988 Act were brought, had died before framing of charge and other accused persons were not public servants. They were not charged with any offence under the 1988 Act. It was in this context the aforesaid was delivered. It has been submitted before us on behalf of the State that other co-accused persons have been implicated in offences under the 1988 Act. A similar line of reasoning was followed in the case of A. Sreenivasa Reddy -vs- Rakesh Sharma and Another [2023 INSC 682]. I have earlier observed that the offences against the appellant relate to the same or similar set of transactions in relation to which the Special Judge is proceeding with the case initiated by the F.I.R. dated 09.12.2021 against the other accused persons. In this context, I shall refer to Section 223 of the 1973 Code, which stipulates :- “223. What persons may be charged jointly.—The following persons may be charged and tried together, namely:— (a) persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction; (b) persons accused of an offence and persons accused of abetment of, or attempt to commit, such offence; (c) persons accused of more than one offence of the same kind, within the meaning of section 219 committed by them jointly within the period of twelve months; (d) persons accused of different offences committed in the course of the same transaction; (e) persons accused of an offence which includes theft, extortion, cheating, or criminal misappropriation, and persons accused of receiving or retaining, or assisting in the disposal or concealment of, property possession of which is alleged to have been transferred by any such offence committed by the first-named persons, or of abetment of or attempting to commit any such last named offence; 580 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (f) persons accused of offences under sections 411 and 414 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or either of those sections in respect of stolen property the possession of which has been transferred by one offence; (g) persons accused of any offence under Chapter XII of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) relating to counterfeit coin and persons accused of any other offence under the said Chapter relating to the same coin, or of abetment of or attempting to commit any such offence; and the provisions contained in the former part of this Chapter shall, so far as may be, apply to all such charges: Provided that where a number of persons are charged with separate offences and such persons do not fall within any of the categories specified in this section, the [Magistrate or Court of Session] may, if such persons by an application in writing, so desire, and [if he or it is satisfied] that such persons would not be prejudicially affected thereby, and it is expedient so to do, try all such persons together.” 33.