1045 State of Punjab v. Gurpreet Singh & Ors prompting them to alert the authorities. Furthermore, P.W.3 provided a clear and unequivocal identification of the accused-Respondents as the assailants at the police station, which was substantiated by a proper identification in the court. 12. Per contra, Mr. Karan Dewan, learned counsel on behalf of the Respondents, urged that this Court, in exercise of the power under Article 136 of the Constitution, should be extremely cautious in interfering with an of acquittal passed by the High Court. Further, the offence took place in the broad daylight, it is quite strange that none of the neighbours witnessed the occurrence. He maintains that the High Court has rightly cast doubt on the prosecution’s case as the testimony of P.W.2 and P.W.3 does not inspire confidence. He also contended that P.W.3 was a married girl, and it was highly unlikely that she was attending classes from her paternal home despite getting married only a few months ago. Analysis 13. Having heard the learned Counsel for the parties at a considerable length, we find that two questions fall for our consideration in the present appeal; (i) whether a case is made out for interference by this Court under Article 136; (ii) whether the acquittal of Respondents is sustainable, if the answer of the first question is in the affirmative. Scope of Interference 14. Learned counsel for the Respondents very passionately contends that the case does not fall within such exceptional category where this Court, while exercising its power under Article 136 of the Constitution, should interfere in a well-reasoned of acquittal passed by the High Court. 15. There is no gainsaying that once the appellate court acquits the accused, the presumption of innocence as it existed before conviction by the Trial Court, stands restored, and this Court, while scrutinizing the evidence, will proceed with great circumspect and will not routinely interfere with an of acquittal, save when the impeccable prosecution evidence nails the accused beyond any doubt. In other words, where on consideration of the material on record, even if two views are possible, yet this Court, while exercising powers under Article 136 of the Constitution, will not tinker with an of acquittal. 1046 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. State of Karnataka v. J. Jayalalitha1 does acknowledge that a of acquittal strengthens the presumption of innocence in favour of the accused. Nevertheless, the caveat is that the court must not shy away from its responsibility to prevent a miscarriage of justice and must intervene when necessary. If the acquittal is based on irrelevant grounds, if the High Court allows itself to be misled by distractions, if the High Court dismisses the evidence accepted by the Trial Court without proper consideration, or if the High Court’s flawed approach leads to the neglect of vital evidence, this Court is obligated to intervene to uphold the interests of justice and address any concerns within the judicial conscience. 17. In Rajesh Prasad v. State of Bihar2, this Court has outlined the principles guiding its intervention in acquittal s under Article 136.