In the New Central Jute Mills Co. Ltd. case, the Privy Council decision in the Hindusthan Cooperative Insurance Society Ltd. case was referred to and distinguished. It is, however, contended by the learned Solicitor General that both in Nathella Sampathu Chetty case as well as the New Central Jute Mills Co. Ltd. case this Court was considering the effects of the two Acts which 22 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports were made by Parliament by Central legislation and it is, therefore, not strictly a case of incorporation because the Central Legislature is deemed to have, while making the latter enactment, kept in view the provisions of the former Act. In our view this may not be conclusive. 32. In Ram Sarup v. Munshi [AIR 1963 SC 553 : (1963) 3 SCR 858] a of the Bench of five Judges of this Court held that the repeal of the Punjab Alienation of Land Act, 1900, had no effect on the continued operation of the Punjab Pre-emption Act, 1913, and that the expression “agricultural land” in the later Act had to be read as if the definition of the Alienation of Land Act had been bodily transposed into it. After referring to the observations of Brett, L.J. in Clarke case, Rajagopala Ayyangar, J. speaking for the Court observed at pp. 868-69: “Where the provisions of an Act are incorporated by reference in a later Act the repeal of the earlier Act has, in general, no effect upon the construction or effect of the Act in which its provisions have been incorporated. * * * In the circumstances, therefore, the repeal of the Punjab Alienation of Land Act of 1900 has no effect on the continued operation of the Pre-emption Act and the expression ‘agricultural land’ in the later Act has to be read as if the definition in the Alienation of Land Act had been bodily transposed into it.” The above decision of this Court is more in point and supports our conclusion. In our view, the intention of Parliament for modifying the Motor Vehicles Act has no relevance in determining the intention of the Orissa Legislature in enacting the Taxation Act.” [Emphasis supplied] 30. It is thus clear that this Court found that, if the vehicles do not use the roads, notwithstanding that they are registered under the Motor Vehicles Act, they cannot be taxed under the Orissa Taxation Act. This Court held that the intention of the Legislature could not have [2024] 5 S.C.R. 23 Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India v. Satyanarayan Bankatlal Malu & Ors. been anything but to incorporate only the definition in the Motor Vehicles Act, as it existed in 1943, as if that definition was bodily written into Section 2(c) of the Orissa Taxation Act. It further held that, if the subsequent Orissa Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1943, incorporating the definition of ‘motor vehicle’ referred to the definition of ‘motor vehicle’ under the Motor Vehicles Act, as it existed at the time of enactment of the subsequent Act; the effect of this legislative method would amount to an incorporation by reference to the provisions of Section 2(18) of the Motor Vehicles Act in Section 2(c) of the Orissa Taxation Act.