He observed that as soon as we clear up the confusion between equality in the moral sense and equality in the physical sense, it is just to promote certain equalities precisely to compensate for the 1488 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports fact that men are actually born different. He explains the theory of proportional equality and observed that the principle of proportional equality can be attained only when equals are treated equally and unequals unequally. He observed that if there is no significant respect in which persons concerned are distinguishable, differential treatment would be unjustified. But if there is significant respect in which persons concerned are distinguishable, the same would justify differential treatment. His Lordship observed that if two people are being treated or are to be treated differently there should be some relevant difference between them. Otherwise, in the absence of some differentiating feature what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. He observed that the real difficulty arises in finding out what constitutes a relevant difference. 74. His Lordship observed that if we all were to be treated in the same manner, the same would carry with it the requirement that none of us should be better or worse in upbringing and education than anyone else. He observed that the equality of opportunity for education cannot start in schools and hence requires uniform treatment in families which is an evident impossibility. His Lordship referred to Laski, who opined that parental character will inevitably affect the equality of the children whom it touches. His Lordship then observed that though complete identity of equality of opportunity is impossible in the world, compensatory measures in character calculated to mitigate surmountable obstacles to ensure equality of opportunity would not violate Article 16(1). 75. It will also be apposite to refer to the following observations of Mathew, J. in N.M. Thomas (supra): “64. It would follow that if we want to give equality of opportunity for employment to the members of the Scheduled Castes and scheduled tribes, we will have to take note of their social, educational and economic environment. Not only is the directive principle embodied in Article 46 binding on the law-maker as ordinarily understood but it should equally inform and illuminate the approach of the court when it makes a decision as the court also is ‘state’ within the meaning of Article 12 and makes law even though “interstitially from the molar to the molecular”. I have explained at some length the reason why court is “State” under Article 12 in my in His Holiness Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalavaru v. State of Kerala [(1973) 4 SCC 225 : 1973 Supp SCR 1] . [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1489 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 65. Equality of opportunity is not simply a matter of legal equality. Its existence depends, not merely on the absence of disabilities, but on the presence of abilities. It obtains insofar as, and only insofar as, each member of a community, whatever his birth or occupation or social position, possesses in fact, and not merely in form, equal chances of using to the full his natural endowments of physique, of character, and of intelligence.