Dias says that one of the tasks in the achievement of justice is adapting to change. Just as consonance with accepted ideas is an inducement to obey, so also when these change, tensions arise between the law on the one hand, and needs and outlook on the other, and there is then an inducement to ignore the law or to disobey. Failure to use power to adapt to change is, in its own way, an abuse of power. The issue is thus not one of change or no change, but of the direction and speed of change. According to Dias, no society is static. Changes develop gradually over the years in practically every sphere brought about by evolution in environmental, economic and political circumstances, national and global, as well as in religious and moral ideas. In the words of Dias “…They may occur slowly or rapidly; they may be ephemeral as with passing fashions, or permanent. What happens is that practices evolve which influence the ways in which laws actually operate, e.g. trade practices. When the behaviour of people has moved away from the law with a sufficient degree of permanence, tensions arise with varying results. The law itself may be stretched to take account of the development, or it may be ignored until it becomes a dead letter, or it may be repealed and a new law substituted. In these ways evolution gives direction to future development.” 217. For all the foregoing reasons, I have reached to the conclusion that Section 6A of the Citizenship Act deserves to be declared invalid with prospective effect and the same is accordingly declared so. 1240 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 218. I summarize my final conclusions as follows: - a. Immigrants who migrated before 01.01.1966 and were conferred deemed citizenship on the date of commencement of Section 6A(2), subject to fulfilment of all the conditions mentioned therein, shall remain unaffected. b. Immigrants who migrated between 01.01.1966 and 24.03.1971 (both inclusive) and have been granted citizenship after following the due procedure prescribed under Section 6A(3) shall remain unaffected. c. Immigrants who migrated between 01.01.1966 and 24.03.1971 (both inclusive) and who have been detected as foreigners and have registered themselves with the registering authority as per the prescribed rules, shall be deemed to be citizens of India for all purposes from the date of expiry of a period of ten years from the date on which they were detected as foreigners. d. Immigrants who migrated between 01.01.1966 and 24.03.1971 (both inclusive) and who have been detected as foreigners but have not registered themselves with the registering authority within the prescribed time limit as per the Citizenship Rules, 2009 will no longer be eligible for the benefit of citizenship. e. Immigrants who migrated between 01.01.1966 and 24.03.1971 (both inclusive) and whose applications are pending for adjudication before the Foreigners Tribunal, or who have preferred any appeal against any of such tribunal which is pending before any court will continue to be governed by Section 6A(3) as it stood immediately prior to the pronouncement of this , till their appeals are disposed of.