It is further contended that in the list of employees who had opted the VRS scheme, name of the deceased was not there. Deceased had not opted for voluntary retirement. This aspect attains importance. xxx xxx xxx 46. In the present case, the deceased was so much humiliated publicly that, just after the meeting, he went to his room and committed suicide. There is a direct link between the meeting and the commission of suicide. Deceased was being continuously humiliated and tortured to either accept the VRS or to accept the letter of working in the merchandising department, which is in lower grade than the grade wherein the deceased was functioning. It is the cause which instigated the deceased to take the extreme step. The accused Nipun Aneja, Z.I. Alvi and Manish Kumar Sharma are the officers of the employer- company, who were present in the meeting, had every reason to humiliate the deceased to an extent that he should accept their dictates, otherwise the deceased would have not taken the extreme step. In this reference, statement of wife of the deceased also attains importance wherein she has stated that 1494 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the deceased was under continuous mental pressure and depression due to behaviour of the accused. Specific allegations have been levelled by Jayant Kumar Ghatak and Sunil Kumar Ojha against the accused petitioners Nipun Aneja, Z.I. Alvi and Manish Mukar Sharma.” 11. Thus, according to the High Court, the deceased committed suicide on account of instigation in the form of harassment & humiliation at the end of the appellants. The question is in what manner the appellants could be said to have instigated the deceased that ultimately led him to commit suicide. 12. Prima facie, it appears that two things weighed with the High Court. First, the two police statements of the colleagues of the deceased referred to above & secondly, the act on the part of the appellants in handing over the letter to all the salesmen present in the meeting including the deceased containing instructions therein to do the work of merchandising. This according to the High Court amounted to demotion. 13. The law governing Section 306 of the IPC is well settled. Section 306 of the IPC reads as under:- "360. Abetment of suicide. ─If any person commits suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.” 14. Thus, the basic ingredients to constitute an offence under Section 306 of the IPC are suicidal death and abetment thereof. Abetment of a thing is defined under Section 107 of the IPC as under:- "107. Abetment of a thing.─ A person abets the doing of a thing, who─ First. ─ Instigates any person to do that thing; or Secondly.─ Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in to the [2024] 10 S.C.R.