10. It was also argued that the education of children is certainly a public function, but that is not the issue in the present matter. The only issue involved is the continuity of service and service conditions of employees of St. Gabriel’s Academy, a private minority institution. Neither the institution nor the posts held by the teachers are governed by any statutory obligation. Moreover, the burden of safeguarding such service conditions has been erroneously placed on the appellant. These service conditions are in clear contravention of those followed by all 137 schools run by the appellant society resulting in creating two sets of employees at the APS No. 2, Roorkee. A contract of purely personal service between the Respondents and their erstwhile employer, viz. St. Gabriels Academy cannot be executed against the appellant in a writ petition with whom there is no privity of contract. 11. It was further pointed out that the appellants are running an Army Public School under the aegis of the Army Welfare Education Society which is a self-financing school managing all expenditures from the school fees. It was submitted that if the impugned is allowed to operate and the arrangement made in the dated 06.01.2016 which continued so far smoothly for 8 years is disturbed, the school will suffer irreparable loss and might have to be closed down. The demands of the respondents are outrageous which can be gauged from the fact that the respondents have claimed an amount of Rs. 5.10 crore in their Counter affidavit filed in 2021. 12. In the last, it was pointed out that all the respondents are currently employed at APS No. 2, Roorkee, and their status is on par with any other APS staff member. They are availing the same perks and emoluments available to any APS No 2, Roorkee employee. The basic pay as per the AWES Rules and Regulations was maintained for the teaching staff in accordance with the recommendations of the VI Pay Commission. Furthermore, for the members of the teaching staff, experience of more than 5 years was accounted for with additional increments at 3% of Basic Pay for every block of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2189 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. three years of service or part thereof, as of April 2012. Subsequently, an annual increment of 3% of Basic Pay (as on March 31 of every financial year) was provided for every completed year. Dearness Allowance (DA), House Rent Allowance (HRA), and all other applicable allowances, including free education for the wards of staff, was considered as per the AWES Rules and Regulations, as prevailing in January 2016. The salary of office and Class IV staff was fixed as per the prevailing rules and seniority was catered to by additional increments at 10% of the annual increment for every three years of service. No employee came to be appointed after 2012 drawing a higher salary than the respondents. These staff members have been given even ten to twelve increments, a practice usually not followed in APS 2.