This was recorded in an passed on 25.02.2022 by a Coordinate Bench of this Court in a contempt action brought by the applicant [Contempt Petition (Civil) No(s) 877-878 of 2021]. We shall refer to the said proceeding later in this . We also need not delve into the question of eligibility of the applicant to get additional sum on account of change in law, as that question stands finally decided in the main . 4. The applicant had also raised another claim for additional payment before the RERC, under the head of carrying cost which was disallowed by the RERC. Rajasthan Discoms, being aggrieved by the grant of change-in-law compensation, as also the applicant, being aggrieved by rejection of the claim for carrying costs appealed against the of the RERC before the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (“APTEL”). By a common decision dated 14.09.2019, the APTEL found that the applicant’s claim based on “change in law” was valid and opined that the applicant was entitled to compensation for the loss caused to it because of change in law under a subsequent coal supply scheme, termed as the SHAKTI scheme, which failed to provide domestic coal linkage. The APTEL further found that the applicant would also be entitled for payment towards applicable carrying cost. The Rajasthan Discoms had appealed against the common decision of APTEL before this Court. The three-Judge Bench of this Court, by the judgement dated 31.08.2020, dismissed the appeals with the following observations and directions: - “66. Considering the facts of this case and keeping in view that the RERC and APTEL have given concurrent findings in favour of the respondent with regard to change in law, with which we also concur, we may now deal with the question of liability of appellants-Rajasthan Discoms with regard to late payment surcharge. In this regard, the 1030 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports following Articles 8.3.5 and 8.8 of PPA, which are relevant for the present purpose, are extracted hereunder: “8.3.5. In the event of delay in payment of a Monthly Bill by the Procurers beyond its Due Date, a Late Payment Surcharge shall be payable by such Procurers to the Seller at the rate of two percent (2%) in excess of the applicable SBAR per annum, on the amount of outstanding payment, calculated on a day to day basis (and compounded with monthly rest), for each day of the delay. The Late Payment Surcharge shall be claimed by the Seller through the Supplementary Bill. 8.8 Payment of Supplementary Bill 8.8.1 Either Party may raise a bill on the other Party (supplementary bill) for payment on account of: i) Adjustments required by the Regional Energy Account (if applicable): ii) Tariff Payment for change in parameters, pursuant to provisions in Schedule 4; or iii) Change in Law as provided in Article 10, and such Supplementary Bill shall be paid by the others party. 8.8.2 The Procurers shall remit all amounts due under a Supplementary Bill raised by the Seller to the Seller’s Designated Account by the Due Date and notify the Seller of such remittance on the same day or the Seller shall be eligible to draw such amounts through the Letter of Credit.