It provides that the Parliament may by law provide for the adjudication of such disputes or complaints excluding the jurisdiction of all courts including [2024] 7 S.C.R. 727 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India this Court. As such, ordinarily a dispute with respect to the use, distribution or control of the waters of, or in, any inter-State river or river valley between two States could have fallen under Article 131 of the Constitution but because of the words “subject to the provisions of this Constitution” used therein and in view of Article 262, such a dispute would not be entertainable under Article 131 of the Constitution. 77. Article 32 of the Constitution provides for remedy for enforcement of rights conferred by Part-III of the Constitution whereas Article 136 provides for remedy by way of special leave to appeal before this Court. These are the general remedies available to “any party”. Merely because, in any of the proceedings initiated under Article 32 or Article 136 or even Article 226 of the Constitution, one of the parties is common, in our view, the pendency of such proceedings would not come in the way of a specific party mentioned in Article 131 of the Constitution to take recourse to the remedy available therein. As already discussed hereinabove, a remedy under Article 131 of the Constitution is a special remedy available only to the parties mentioned therein and for the purposes mentioned therein. In our view, therefore, the interpretation as placed by the defendant - Union of India would not be in consonance with the constitutional scheme and as such, is liable to be rejected. e. Suppression of material fact: 78. The Union of India has also pressed that the present suit is liable to be dismissed on the ground of suppression of material facts. It is argued that many of the FIRs mentioned in the plaint are registered under the directions of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution. It is submitted that this fact is suppressed by the plaintiff and as such, the plaint is liable to be rejected on this ground. 79. No doubt that material suppression of fact would entail a plaint to be rejected. However, a very reading of the plaint including the prayer clause and specifically paragraph 13 of the plaint would reveal that the claim of the petitioner is with regard to the investigations except with respect to the FIRs registered under the of competent court of law. In that view of the matter, we find that the contention in that respect is also liable to be rejected. 728 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports f. Cause of action of the suit: 80. The next contention is with regard to non-disclosure of cause of action against the defendant. We have hereinabove extensively reproduced the averments made in the plaint. At the cost of repetition, it is only the averments in the plaint which can be gone into for considering as to whether the cause of action against the defendant arises or not.