It is only thereafter that a detenue could be in a [2024] 1 S.C.R. 273 Sarfaraz Alam V. Union of India & Ors. better position to take a decision as to whether he should challenge the detention in the manner known to law. This includes his decision to make a representation to various authorities including the detaining officer. Therefore, an effective knowledge qua a detenue is of utmost importance. 12. On the second aspect, a detenue has to be informed that he has a right to make a representation. Such a communication of his right can either be oral or in writing. This right assumes importance as a detenue in a given case may well be a literate, semi-literate or illiterate person. Therefore, it becomes a cardinal duty on the part of the authority that serves the grounds of detention to inform a detenue of his right to make a representation. 13. While the aforesaid two rights and duties form two separate parts of Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India, they do overlap despite being mutually reinforcing. Though they travel on different channels, their waters merge at the destination. This is for the due compliance of Article 22(5). The entire objective is to extend knowledge to the detenue leading to a representation on his decision to question the detention . Such a right is an inalienable right under scheme of the Constitution of India, available to the detenue, corresponding to the duty of the serving authority. 14. Having reiterated the said principle of law, the question for consideration is ‘to what extent a communication can be made both orally and in writing’. In a case where a detenue is not in a position to understand the language, a mere verbal explanation would not suffice. Similarly, where a detenue consciously declines to receive the grounds of detention, he has to be informed about his right to make a representation. In such a scenario, the question as to whether the grounds of detention contained a statement that a detenue has got a right to make a representation to named authorities or not, pales into insignificance. This is for the reason that a detenue despite refusing to receive the grounds of detention might still change his mind and receive them if duly informed of his right to challenge a detention by way of a representation. We may clarify, in a case where a detenue receives the ground of detention in the language known to him which contains a clear statement over his right to make a representation, there is no need for informing verbally once again. Such an exercise, however, would be required when the grounds of detention do not indicate so. 274 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. We would like to reinforce our position on the aforesaid exposition of law by placing reliance on the following decisions of this Court: ● Lallubhai Jogibhai Patel v. Union of India, (1981) 2 SCC 427 “20….“Communicate” is a strong word. It means that sufficient knowledge of the basic facts constituting the “grounds” should be imparted effectively and fully to the detenu in writing in a language which he understands.