The relevant observations read as under: - “23. On the preliminary issue of maintainability of the present writ petition, it is well-settled position of law that simply because a remedy exists in the form of Article 226 of the Constitution for filing a writ in the High Court concerned, it does not prevent or place any bar on an aggrieved person to directly approach the Supreme Court under Article 32 of the Constitution. It is true that the Court has imposed a self-restraint in its own wisdom on the exercise of jurisdiction under Article 32 where the party invoking the jurisdiction has an effective, adequate alternative remedy in the form of Article 226 of the Constitution. However, this [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1099 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. rule which requires the exhaustion of alternative remedies is a rule of convenience and discretion rather than a rule of law. At any rate it does not oust the jurisdiction of this Court to exercise its writ jurisdiction under Article 32 of the Constitution. We, therefore, reject the preliminary objection raised and proceed to examine the contentions raised in the writ petition on merits.” (Emphasis supplied) 39. In Maharashtra State Judicial Service Assn. & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Bombay & Ors. reported in (2002) 3 SCC 244 this Court held that where the issue pertained only to the interpretation of the relevant rules and there was no dispute as regards the facts of the case by either side, the same could be entertained under Article 32 even though the alternative remedy under Article 226 was available. The relevant observations read as under: - “1. [...] On behalf of the direct recruit respondents, a preliminary objection had been taken by Shri M.L. Verma that the dispute being one of inter se seniority within a cadre, the Court ought not to entertain a petition under Article 32, as the parties were entitled to approach the High Court under Article 226 against the administrative decision of the Bombay High Court. We have no doubt in our mind that an administrative decision of the Court could be assailed by filing a writ petition under Article 226 in the High Court itself, but this Court having entertained the petition under Article 32 by issuing rule on 8-12-2000 and the dispute being one which centres around interpretation of the relevant Rules and both the direct recruits and the promotees having made their stand known, and further, no disputed question on facts having arisen, we do not think it appropriate to direct the promotees to approach the High Court in the first instance. We, therefore, heard the parties at length on the merits of the matter.” (Emphasis supplied) 40. From the aforesaid, it is clear that the availability of an alternative remedy does not in any manner affect the maintainability of the writ 1100 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports petition under Article 32 of the Constitution. The rule behind relegating a party to first avail the alternative remedy before knocking the doors of this Court is a rule of self-restraint that is exercised by this Court as a matter of convenience.