(Emphasis supplied) 36. What has been conveyed in the aforesaid decision is that the court, on its own, should not try to read any other restriction as regards the exercise of its power to consider the plea for grant of anticipatory bail. Wherever parliament intends or desires to exclude or restrict the power of courts, it does so in categorical terms. This is very much evident from the plain reading of sub- section (4) of Section 438 of the CrPC itself. The dictum as laid is that the court should not read any blanket restriction nor should it insist for some inflexible guidelines as that would amount to judicial legislation. ii. Whether a person, while in custody for a particular offence, can have a “reason to believe” that he may be arrested in relation to some other non-bailable offence? 294 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 37. The line of reasoning adopted by the High Court of Rajasthan in Sunil Kallani (supra) was that once a person is taken in custody in relation to an offence, it is not possible thereafter to arrest him in relation to a different offence as one of the essential conditions for arrest is placing the body of the accused in custody of the police authorities by means of actual touch or confinement. As there cannot be any actual touch or confinement while a person is in custody, he cannot have a “reason to believe” that he may be arrested in relation to a different offence. 38. However, there are two fundamental fallacies in the reasoning adopted by the Rajasthan High Court. First, the High Court failed to consider the possibility of arrest of the person in custody in relation to a different offence immediately after he is set free from the custody in the first offence. In such a scenario, if it is held that the application seeking anticipatory bail in relation to an offence, filed during the period when the applicant is in custody in relation to a different offence, would not be maintainable, then it would amount to precluding the applicant from availing a statutory remedy which he is otherwise entitled to and which he can avail as soon as he is released from custody in the first offence. Thus, in cases where the accused has a “reason to believe” that he may be arrested in relation to an offence different from the one in which he is in custody immediately upon his release, the view taken by the Rajasthan High Court, if allowed to stand, would deprive him of his statutory right of seeking anticipatory bail because it is quite possible that before such a person is able to exercise the aforesaid right, he may be arrested. 39. In our opinion, no useful purpose would be served by depriving the accused of exercising his statutory right to seek anticipatory bail till his release from custody in the first offence. We find force in the submission of the respondent that if the accused is not allowed to obtain a pre-arrest bail in relation to a different offence, while being in custody in one offence, then he may get arrested by the police immediately upon his release in the first case, even before he gets the opportunity to approach the competent court and file an application for the grant of anticipatory bail in relation to the said particular offence.