Digital Supreme Court Reports the respondent-CBI. Only thereafter, did it arrive at a conclusion that there was nothing to demonstrate that any rejects generated by washing of the coal had been sold by the appellants or that KPCL had suffered an unlawful loss due to the same. (d) The Competent Authority in the Central Government who was approached by the respondent-CBI for sanction to prosecute Mr. Yogendra Tripathi, the then Managing Director of KPCL sought comments from two separate sources. The Government of Karnataka opined that no criminal intent could be attributed to the said officer. A proposal was also sent to the CVC for their advice. The CVC too recommended that the sanction for prosecuting the officer ought to be declined. The Competent Authority in the Central Government after going through the entire documents and material including the evidence submitted by the respondent-CBI and the opinions solicited, declined sanction for the prosecution of the aforesaid officer. (e) The respondent-CBI did not approach the Court to challenge the aforesaid decisions. Having accepted the decision taken by the Sanctioning Authority/Competent Authority in the Central Government and dropping the charges against the seniormost functionaries in KPCL, who were also holding positions in the Board of KECML, there is no justification to press charges against the appellants herein whose role is similar to them. (f) The decision dated 24th March, 2016 of the Karnataka High Court in a writ petition filed by KECML against KPCL has been wrongly overlooked. The High Court had an occasion to scrutinize the very same agreements and the CAG report that formed the basis of the investigation conducted by the respondent–CBI to return positive findings in favour of the appellants. The view taken by the Karnataka High Court has been upheld by this Court in a rendered on 20th May, 2022 which was just a few days after Charges were framed by the learned Special Judge, CBI on 3rd March, 2022. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1259 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation (g) Yet again, an interpretation of the very same clauses in the agreement relating to the manner of disposal off the coal rejects came up for consideration before the Karnataka High Court in a writ petition filed by Aryan Energy against KPCL. Having scrutinized the clauses forming a part of the agreement executed between the parties vide dated 22nd July, 2021, the Karnataka High Court clearly observed that KPCL did not have any claim over the coal rejects generated during washing of the coal. The submissions made by the respondent – CBI that the aforesaid came much after institution of the chargesheet by the, respondent-CBI is of no consequence. Even if that was so, nothing prevented the learned Special Judge, CBI from taking into consideration the view expressed in the said judgement at the time of framing charges, particularly, when the clause relating to disposal of the coal rejects in an environment friendly manner incorporated in the agreement between KPCL and Aryan Energy was identical to the one contained in the agreement between KPCL and KECML.