I want to say many things, but my mental condition is not proper so that I can properly dictate everything. Question: What is your complaint against police? Answer: Yes, I am beaten a lot, tortured also. Question: On which part of body beaten? Answer: Allowing me to sit and on the bottom of the leg beaten and beaten with belt written as Satyashodahk Yantra. Question: Who has beaten? Answer: Three officers were there, (1) ACP Gurjar Saheb, IPS and other two I can identify if I see them and they were in simple dress and name plate was not there. I have not given food since I went there. Complainant Abhishek or Akhilesh on whose face black spot is there was doing torturing arriving there. 248 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Question: What torturing was done? Answer: To give money, do settlement, this all belongs to my father and will not spare you. Question: Except this what is your complaint? Answer: Now I will state after taking lunch peacefully. Question: You are standing on your legs? Answer: Yes Question: Do you have any problem in standing? Answer: In left leg I feel more problem. Question: Do you came walking on your leg in the court? Answer: Yes Question: Any other thing you want to say against police now? Answer: Nothing now Above statement is read by me and thereafter I put my signature. After taking said statement of the accused on bottom portion of the leg of the accused I have done self-observation wherein no sign of beating is found. Before me Sd/- Illegible 16/12/23 (Kum. D.S. Thaker) Today, the accused who is present after completion of remand, made a complaint against the police stating that they have ill-treated him which has been registered as per the said statement of the accused. However, after a detailed checking from the bottom of the legs of the accused, no signs are found, as alleged. It is the complaint of the accused that he is beaten by “Satyashodhak Yantra written belt”, however, it is to be noted that the clothes the accused was wearing on the day when remand was granted to the accused are different from the clothes he is wearing today after three days of remand, it could be seen that the same is clean and proper. Even looking at [2024] 8 S.C.R. 249 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. the physical condition of the accused, it could be concluded that he was kept in good condition and he was provided with clean clothes by his family which was handed over to the accused by the police. It is the submission of the accused that he had not been provided with food on the day when he went on remand. Even if the statement of the accused is to be noted and believed to be correct, it could not be possible that after beaten with the belt, as alleged, the accused could stand properly on his leg today.