But if a Muslim woman has been married under the Special Marriage Act, such a Muslim woman who is divorced, cannot get the benefit of the 1986 Act. Such a Muslim woman, who is divorced, would have to proceed either under the provisions of the Special Marriage Act, 1954 and/ or under Section 125 of the CrPC. Therefore, the protective provision of Section 125 ought to remain available to every divorced Muslim woman to avoid the absurd outcome of a section of Muslim women being left remediless under the 1986 Act. As a corollary, it is held that such women who are covered under [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1305 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. the 1986 Act are also entitled to the benefit of Section 125 of the CrPC. Further, there can be no bar under the Explanation (b) to Section 125 of the CrPC so as to exclude any Muslim woman who has been divorced or has obtained a divorce from her husband and has not remarried. This is irrespective of the 1986 Act being applicable to only such divorced Muslim woman who qualifies within the definition of divorced woman under Section 2(a) of the 1986 Act. ii. Section 3 of the 1986 Act provides for a reasonable and fair provision of maintenance to a divorced Muslim woman only on certain terms and conditions within the iddat period by her husband. Once the iddat period expires, the personal law obligation to maintain the divorced Muslim woman by the husband ceases. Per contra, under Section 125 of the CrPC, any divorced wife who has not remarried is entitled to maintenance by her ex-husband who has sufficient means but has neglected or refused to maintain her. iii. Further, under Section 3(1)(b) of the 1986 Act, where a divorced woman maintains the children born to her before or after her divorce, a reasonable and fair provision and maintenance has to be made and paid by her former husband only for a period of two years from the respective dates of birth of such children and not beyond the said period. However, under Section 125 of the CrPC, there is no such restriction of maintenance to be provided only for a period of two years from the respective dates of birth of such children in the case of a divorced wife. The obligation is until the children attain the age of majority and in terms of the said Section. iv. What is of further significance is the fact that by Act 50 of 2001 [by Section 2(i)(a)] w.e.f. 24.09.2001, sub-section (1) of Section 125 of the CrPC has been amended to delete the words “not exceeding 500 rupees in the whole”. By way of this omission, there is no upper limit fixed for payment of maintenance under the said provision. Therefore, Section 125 of the CrPC is a more beneficial provision as compared to the provisions of the 1986 Act vis-à-vis a Muslim divorced woman in the context of the obligations of a former husband and the rights of a divorced Muslim woman.