In compliance of government circular dated 19.02.2002, the bank in its Board of Meeting dated 1310 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 20.06.2002 authorized the Executive Director of the Bank and said that the cases for appointment on compassionate ground shall not be considered where the major penalty was awarded/contemplated to employee on account of fraud/forgery/misappropriation and on account of any vigilance angle/negligence. The above letter does not debar the cases where disciplinary proceedings were pending or were in contemplation against the employee at the time of death which would prima facie result in award of major penalty. In our view, the decision of the bank in its Board Meeting dated 20.06.2002 is logical whereby the cases wherein the penalty was either awarded or contemplated to the deceased employee was not required to be considered. The letter is silent with respect to contemplation of the disciplinary proceedings against the deceased employee which would prima facie result in award of major penalty. In the facts of the case in hand, the deceased employee was not placed under suspension on account of contemplation of the disciplinary proceedings and the charge sheet was also not issued. It is merely said that the charge sheet was under preparation, however, in absence of any relevant material disclosed, it might not be presumed to be a case of prima facie award of major penalty on account of contemplation of disciplinary proceedings. Therefore, in our considered opinion, reasoning as given in the by the Division Bench is completely in consonance with the spirit of the Circular and it rightly affirmed the decision of the Single Bench to consider the case of the respondent for grant of compassionate appointment. 10. In view of the above discussion, we do not find any merit in the contention to interfere with the passed by the Single Bench and the Division Bench of the High Court. Accordingly, this appeal stands dismissed, being bereft of any merit. However, we direct that the passed by the High Court be now implemented within a period of four months from the date of the . Result of the case: Appeal Dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Himanshu Rai, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Liz Mathew, Sr. Adv.)