In response, the District Basic Education Officer nominated the Assistant District Basic Education Officer, Bahorikpur as a Member of the Selection Committee. The Selection Committee duly met and considered the twelve applications received by it. Seven out of the twelve applicants, including the three appellants herein, participated in the interview. By its letter of 27.12.1998, the Selection Committee informed the District Basic Education Officer that the appellants, on basis of their ability, have been selected and their case was being submitted for approval. The in which the Selection Committee has sent subject-wise names were as follows: i. Lal Chandra Kharwar – Science and Math ii. Radhey Shyam Yadav – English iii. Ravindra Nath Yadav – Agric & Gen.Topic It is not disputed that by an of 09.06.1999, the District Basic Education Officer granted approval for the appointment of the appellants. As stated earlier, they were appointed on 25.06.1999 and were working continuously. 6. The undisputed case is that from October, 2005, their salaries were stopped from being disbursed, forcing them to file Writ Petitions in the High Court, namely, Civil Misc. Writ Petition No. 10286 of 2007 and Civil Misc. Writ Petition No. 18641 of 2008. The three appellants, in all, filed two writ petitions. In the writ petitions, the prayer was for a writ of mandamus commanding the respondents to pay the arrears of salary from July, 1999 to January, 2002 and continue to pay salary from October, 2005. It was their case that from the date of appointment till January 2002, their salary had not been released. 7. The District Basic Education Officer filed counter affidavits to the writ petitions. It was his case that, by dated 26.12.1997, only two additional posts of Assistant Teacher were created by the Joint Director of Education. It was averred that manipulation was made by the management in collusion with the appellants to show that three posts of Assistant Teacher were sanctioned. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 25 RADHEY SHYAM YADAV & ANR. ETC. v. STATE OF U.P. & ORS. 8. Apart from this bare allegation, absolutely no material was placed on record to show how the appellants had colluded or were blameworthy for any manipulation. 9. Subsequent to the counter affidavit filed by the State, on 30.07.2013, a compliance affidavit was filed. It is averred therein that a detailed enquiry was conducted in the matter wherein it had transpired that manipulation was got done at the level of the School in question by overwriting the sanctioned posts of teachers of the School as “three” in place of “two”. 10. The Learned Single Judge, by dated 10.09.2013, held that if based on the forged , proceedings were initiated for the selection of Assistant Teacher, then the entire selection needs to be cancelled. It was also held that since forgery was committed by the persons involved in the selection of Assistant Teachers and since the selection process was not fair, being based on a forged letter, the candidates who were selected in the selection process are not entitled to be appointed and retained on the post of Assistant Teacher, and holding so, the writ petitions were dismissed.