75% of the crop composition of such lands should be of from forest species and b. Area should be either be contiguous to Government Forest land or in isolation the minimum area so identified should be 5 hectares. In case of mangroves, area less than 5 hectares is also considered a forest whether or not in contiguity to Government Forest land. c. Minimum 0.40 canopy density. Himachal Compact blocks of wooded land above 5 ha in extent. Pradesh Karnataka a. Government land parcels with area of 2 hectares and above, minimum density 50 naturally grown trees per hectares of girth at breast height 30 cm and above b. Block plantations on Government lands with area of 2 hectares and above having minimum density of 100 planted trees per hectares of 30 cm and above girth at breast height and c. Private lands with area of 5 hectares & above, minimum density of 50 naturally grown trees per hectares of 30 centimetres and above girth at breast height. Maharashtra Following parameters were followed a. An area which falls under the definition of word ‘forest’ and b. All the mangroves shall be treated as ‘forest’ 740 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Meghalaya An area would be ‘forest’ if it is a compact or continuous tract of minimum 4 hectares land, irrespective of ownership, and where- a. More than 250 naturally growing trees per hectare of 15 cm and highest diameter at breast height (DBH) over bark are present or b. More than 100 naturally growing bamboos clumps per hectare are present in case of the tracts containing predominantly sympodial bamboo. Odisha Those areas which are 5 hectares or more in extent in one continuous patch of private land covered with plantations and/or natural growth. Rajasthan Area not less than 5 hectares and having not less than 200 plants per hectare were treated as ‘forest’ by dictionary meaning. Sikkim Contiguous patch of minimum 10 hectares area having more than 0.40 crown density were treated as ‘Forest’ by dictionary meaning. Uttar Pradesh Minimum 3 hectares area with minimum 100 trees per hectare in Vindhya & Bundelkhand region and minimum 2 hectares area with minimum 50 trees in Terai & Plain areas were treated as ‘Forest’ by dictionary meaning, subject to the following conditions; a. Trees means naturally grown perennial trees b. Shrubs will not be counted among trees c. Minimum area of land will be based on gata-wise d. In case of private land, in case a gata is registered in name of several persons in the form of minjumula, then area of each minjumula will be considered for area limit. e. Plantations raised on government and private land will not be considered as forest. West Bengal Compact patches of minimum 1 hectare area having minimum crown density of 0.40 were treated as ‘forest’ by dictionary meaning. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 741 T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others Dadra & Nagar Private/Government areas with minimum 5 hectares Haveli or more having tree vegetation with species variations and required stocking area to be treated as ‘forest’ by dictionary meaning.