12. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-Section (1) read with clause (a), clause (m), clause (n), clause (o), clause (pp) and clause (w) of sub-section (2) of Section 73 of the PMLA, 2002, the Central Government has also framed the Rules called “the Prevention of Money-Laundering (Forms, Search and Seizure or Freezing and the Manner of Forwarding the Reasons and Material to the Adjudicating Authority, Impounding and Custody of Records and the Period of Retention) Rules, 2005”. As per Rule 11 of the said Rules, the Summoning Officer, while exercising the powers under sub-section (2) and (3) of Section 50 of the PMLA, has to issue Summons in Form V, appended to the said Rules. Rule 11 of the said Rules reads as under: - “Rule 11: - Forms of records. - The Summoning Officer shall, while exercising powers under sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 50 of the Act, issue summons in Form V appended to these rules.” 13. At the outset, it may be noted that as well settled by now, the provisions of PMLA are not only to investigate into the offence of money laundering but more importantly to prevent money laundering and to provide for confiscation of property derived from or involved in money laundering and the matters connected therewith and incidental thereto. As held by the Three-Judge Bench in Vijay Madanlal (supra), the PMLA is a self-contained Code and the dispensations envisaged thereunder, must prevail in terms of Section 71 thereof, which predicates that the provisions of the Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force, which includes provisions of the Cr.P.C. The Section 65 of the Act predicates that the provisions of the Cr.P.C. shall apply insofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the PMLA in respect of arrest, search and seizure, attachment, confiscation, investigation, prosecution and all other proceedings under the Act. It is pertinent to note that Section 4(2) of the Code states that all offences under any other law shall be investigated, inquired into, tried, and otherwise dealt with according to [2024] 9 S.C.R. 127 Abhishek Banerjee & Anr. v. Directorate of Enforcement the same provisions but subject to any enactment for the time being in force regulating the manner or place of investigating, inquiring into, trying or otherwise dealing with such offences. Further, Section 5 of the Code states that nothing contain in the Code shall, in absence of specific provision to the contrary, affect any special or local law for the time being in force, or any special jurisdiction or power conferred, or any special form of procedure prescribed, by any other law for the time being in force. Thus, having regard to the conjoint reading of Section 71 and Section 65 of the PMLA as also Section 4(2) and Section 5 of the Code, there remains no shadow of doubt that the provisions of PMLA will have the effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force, including the provisions of the Cr.P.C.