[Source: Lavanya Rajamani, ‘The precautionary principle’ in Shibani Ghosh (ed.) Indian Environmental Law (Orient Blackswan, 1994]. Certain anticipated environmental harms and available environmental data may warrant a strong and strict application, i.e., the potentially hazardous activity is banned until the proponent of the activity demonstrates that it poses no (or acceptable) risk. In such a case, the burden to prove the acceptable standard of risk shifts to the proponent of such an activity. In this context, reliance was placed upon an article authored by Charmian Barton, in Volume 22 of Harvard Environmental Law Review (1998) and inferred that the environmental decision-makers must acknowledge the inadequacy of information about environmental risks and ‘err on the side of caution’ to prevent serious and irreversible harm. (iii) In M.C. Mehta vs. Union of India, (2004) 12 SCC 118 (“M.C. Mehta”), this Court advanced the view that the precautionary principle enjoined the State to take affirmative action to prevent environmental harm, even when the nature and extent of such harm could not be anticipated with scientific precision and certainty. It was reasoned that when it was difficult to strike a balance between the protection of the environment and economic development due to prevailing uncertainty and lack of direct evidence of actual harm, reasonable suspicion of harm would be adequate to press the precautionary principle into service and take anticipatory action. Analysis and Findings: 34. In light of the aforesaid observations, the PSC Report, 2012 made a range of recommendations. The MoEF&CC responded to each of the recommendations in the Action Taken Report. The pertinent recommendations and the action taken are explained in the table below: 2088 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports S. Recommendation Action Taken Report No. 1. Conduct a thorough probe into the Views of Dr. Bhargava are Bt brinjal matter from the beginning his personal views and are till the imposing of moratorium not subscribed by most of the on its commercialization in scientists. Prof. Reddy has 09.02.2010. clarified that the pressure he adverted to was for meeting the deadline as he had been pre-occupied with his other responsibilities. 2. Review the organisational set-up GEAC comprises of both of GEAC. experts and bureaucrats, and takes aid of expert committees. 3. Sought information about IAASTD Report has been concrete action taken by the criticised by an independent Government on each of the evaluation group at the World findings contained in IAASTD Bank in its Global Programme Report during the four years after Review. The Government of the release of the Report. India recognises the importance of biosafety and sustainable agriculture and these goals remain its policy priority. 4. Fix responsibility for the laxity The Department of Consumer in regulating and labelling GM Affairs has issued a notification foods, and issue regulations on the labelling of GM foods. for labelling of GM products including food crops, food and food products 5. Upon consultation with all The BRAI Bill, 2013 has been stakeholders, immediately evolve pending in Parliament. Such an an all-encompassing umbrella Act would establish the National legislation on biosafety, which Biotechnology Regulatory is focused on ensuring the Authority.