is a party, after considering the aforesaid has distinguished the ratio by holding that the writ under Article 226 of the Constitution against a private educational institute would be justified only if a public law element is involved and if it is only a private law remedy no writ petition would lie. In the present cases, there is no question of public law element involved inasmuch as the grievances of the appellants are of personal nature. 8. We, accordingly, hold that writ petitions are not maintainable against the private institute. There is no infirmity in the passed by [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2223 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. the learned Single Judge and affirmed by the Division Bench. These appeals are devoid of merit and are, accordingly, dismissed. No costs.” (Emphasis supplied) 50. We may also refer to and rely upon the decision of this Court in Vidya Ram Misra v. Shri Jai Narain College (1972) 1 SCC 623 : AIR 1972 SC 1450. The appellant therein filed a writ petition before the Lucknow Bench of the High Court of Allahabad challenging the validity of a resolution passed by the Managing Committee of Shri Jai Narain College, Lucknow, an associated college of Lucknow University, terminating his services and praying for issue of an appropriate writ or quashing the resolution. A learned Single Judge of the High Court finding that in terminating the services, the Managing Committee acted in violation of the principles of natural justice, quashed the resolution and allowed the writ petition. The Managing Committee appealed against the . A Division Bench of the High Court found that the relationship between the college and the appellant therein was that of master and servant and that even if the service of the appellant had been terminated in breach of the audi alteram partem rule of natural justice, the remedy of the appellant was to file a suit for damages and not to apply under Article 226 of the Constitution for a writ or in the nature of certiorari and that, in fact, no principle of natural justice was violated by terminating the services of the appellant. The writ petition was dismissed. In appeal, this Court upheld the decision of the High Court holding that the lecturer cannot have any cause of action on breach of the law but only on breach of the contract, hence he has a remedy only by way of suit for damages and not by way of writ under Article 226 of the Constitution. 51. In Vidya Ram Misra (supra), this Court observed thus:- (SCC p. 629, paras 12-13) “12. Whereas in P.R.K. Jodh v. A.L. Pande (1965) 2 SCR 713], the terms and conditions of service embodies in Clause 8(vi)(a) of the 2224 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “College Code” had the force of law apart from the contract and conferred rights on the appellant there, here the terms and conditions mentioned in Statute 151 have no efficacy, unless they are incorporated in a contract.