His legal representatives i.e. his widow and two sons were brought on record. In fact, the complainants also had preferred their Revision Petition. The NCDRC reasoned that the legal representatives of the opposite party were liable both with regard to the monetary payments that the original opposite party was directed to pay and also liable to comply with [2024] 3 S.C.R. 135 Vinayak Purshottam Dube (Deceased), Through Lrs v. Jayashree Padamkar Bhat & Others the other directions issued by the District Forum as modified by the State Commission and thereafter modified by the NCDRC. 8. Learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the appellants as the legal representatives of the deceased opposite party are willing to make the payment as directed. But as far as the other set of the directions are concerned, it is not permissible for them to comply with them inasmuch as the said directions were issued by the District Forum as well as the State Commission personally against the opposite party who is since deceased. Those directions are with regard to construction of compound wall so as to give separate access in terms of Schedule II of the Development Agreement; to obtain and handover completion certificate to the complainants-respondents; to execute the conveyance deed and to give electricity connection and such other directions. 9. Learned counsel for the appellants contended that the aforesaid directions cannot now be complied with by the legal representatives of the deceased - original opposite party inasmuch as those were personal directions as issued against the original opposite party. He contended that the original opposite party was having the proprietorship concern and therefore, the estate of the deceased proprietor would be liable insofar as the satisfaction of the compensatory payments only but not for complying the other directions issued which cannot now fall on his legal representatives to comply. It was contended that the original opposite party had skills and expertise to comply with the said directions as a developer but on his demise, his legal representatives, namely, his widow and two sons, cannot be compelled to carry out those directions as they neither possess the necessary skills nor expertise and further, they are not continuing the proprietorship concern of the original opposite party which has now been wound up on the demise of the sole proprietor. Therefore, learned counsel for the appellants-opposite party contended that the various clauses of the Development Agreement which had placed duties and obligations on the original opposite party, who is since deceased, cannot now be enforced against and performed by his legal representatives or heirs. 10. Per contra, learned counsel for the complainants–respondents submitted that no doubt the legal representatives of the original opposite party would comply with the directions for payments from 136 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports out of the estate of the deceased opposite party but the complainants would be left high and dry insofar as the other obligations which had to be discharged by the opposite party and therefore, the NCDRC was justified in directing the legal representatives of the deceased opposite party to take steps for also complying with those directions.