16 in the transfer and posting proposals. This was done again without any proposal from the Forest Department and without the recommendation of CSB. (vii) That, it was only after the then Forest Minister demitted office that Mr. Kishan Chand, DFO was finally put under suspension. (d) ‘Public Trust’ Doctrine 133. It appears that the then Hon’ble Forest Minister and Mr. Kishan Chand had completely forgotten about the ‘Public Trust’ doctrine. 134. The importance of the ‘Public Trust’ doctrine in environmental and ecological matters has been explained by this Court in the case of M.C. Mehta v. Kamal Nath and others10. This Court has elaborately referred to various articles and the s on the issue to come to a conclusion that the ‘public trust’ doctrine is a part of the law of the land in the following paragraphs : 10 [1996] Supp. 10 SCR 12 : (1997) 1 SCC 388 : 1996 INSC 1482 264 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “23. The notion that the public has a right to expect certain lands and natural areas to retain their natural characteristic is finding its way into the law of the land. The need to protect the environment and ecology has been summed up by David B. Hunter (University of Michigan) in an article titled An ecological perspective on property : A call for judicial protection of the public’s interest in environmentally critical resources published in Harvard Environmental Law Review, Vol. 12 1988, p. 311 is in the following words : “Another major ecological tenet is that the world is finite. The earth can support only so many people and only so much human activity before limits are reached. This lesson was driven home by the oil crisis of the 1970s as well as by the pesticide scare of the 1960s. The current deterioration of the ozone layer is another vivid example of the complex, unpredictable and potentially catastrophic effects posed by our disregard of the environmental limits to economic growth. The absolute finiteness of the environment, when coupled with human dependency on the environment, leads to the unquestionable result that human activities will at some point be constrained. ‘Human activity finds in the natural world its external limits. In short, the environment imposes constraints on our freedom; these constraints are not the product of value choices but of the scientific imperative of the environment’s limitations. Reliance on improving technology can delay temporarily, but not forever, the inevitable constraints. There is a limit to the capacity of the environment to service … growth, both in providing raw materials and in assimilating by-product wastes due to consumption. The largesse of technology can only postpone or disguise the inevitable.’ Professor Barbara Ward has written of this ecological imperative in particularly vivid language : [2024] 3 S.C.R. 265 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal ‘We can forget moral imperatives. But today the morals of respect and care and modesty come to us in a form we cannot evade.