He is the person who participated in the protest held on 09.06.2022 against the remarks made by Nupur Sharma against Prophet Mohammad and Islam. In the said protest, not only was he a participant but an organizer and had been encouraging the protesters to use provocative slogans. Apart from this, there are allegations that he had taken first floor of Ahmad Palace on rent where activities of PFI were being carried out. Specific reference has been made to the meeting/training program of the PFI held on 29th May 2022 and 6th and 7th July 2022. 23. In these meetings, not only was there participation on the part of the Appellant but 30-40 other members of the PFI. The allegation against the Appellant is that he had organized the said meetings, used his own premises and had also stored and kept documents and material relatable to PFI which were objectionable. In the said meetings, discussions to fulfil the agenda of India 2047 rule of Islam in India was planned and steps to be taken for giving it effect were being worked upon. The members present were called upon to target and neutralize persons who make remarks against Prophet Mohammad and Islam. 5 [2024] 7 SCR 992 : 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1693 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1103 Athar Parwez v. Union of India 24. Reliance has been placed with regard to the statements of the protected witnesses especially X, Y and Z to substantiate the said allegations as also the recovered documents from the premises. The factual aspect with regard to the number of witnesses, the period of incarceration and that there are 40 accused in the case has not been disputed. Reference at this stage is to be made to the of this Court in Jalaluddin Khan v. Union of India6 which related to the co-accused of the Appellant whose appeal for grant of bail under the UAPA, 1967 along with that of the present Appellant was rejected by a common impugned of the High Court. The only distinction between the case of the present Appellant and Md. Jalaluddin was that he was the owner of the premises whereas the Appellant is a tenant thereof. Participation of the Appellant, as well as co-accused Md. Jalaluddin along with the other accused in the meeting of 6th and 7th July 2022 had not been disputed. The evidence against the Appellant as also the co-accused Md. Jalaluddin is almost the same. 25. The most prominent evidence is the testimony of the protected witness ‘Z’ who was alleged to be inducted into the PFI for providing physical training to its members. In his statement, there is no mention of the Appellant taking part in or leading any of those meetings/trainings where physical training was imparted teaching attack and defensive techniques using sticks, knives or other weapons. As regards the meeting held on 29th May 2022 at Ahmad Palace what has been stated by him is merely that the Appellant along with 40-45 persons participated in the meeting which was presided over by one Riyaz Firnagipet.