Unless any adverse findings were returned on those documents by Vigilance Cell, the Scrutiny Committee erred in not considering them and holding them as inadmissible. [See ‘Anand Vs. Committee for Scrutiny and Verification of Tribal Claims, (2012) 1 SCC 113’ – Para 22; ‘Priya Pramod Gajbe Vs. State of Maharashtra and Others, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 909’ – Para 8 to 12] ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY RESPONDENTS 6. The learned Senior Counsel Mr. Kapil Sibal mainly contested the case on the scope of interference with the Scheduled Castes , 1950 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Presidential ’) issued by President under Article 341 of Constitution of India and argued that it is constitutionally impossible to grant the caste certificate in favour of Appellant. He submitted that in absence of specific caste (‘Ravidasia Mochi’ or ‘Sikh Chamar’) being originally mentioned in the said Presidential for Maharashtra State, no caste certificate could have been conferred at the first instance in favour of Appellant. He further submitted that the issue of interfering with the Presidential is no more res-integra and has been long back well settled by catena of s passed by this Court including Constitution Bench s [See ‘Marri Chandra Sekhar Rao Vs. Seth G.S. Medical College, (1990) 2 SCC 130’; ‘Action Committee on Issue of Caste Certificate to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the State of Maharashtra and Another Vs. Union of India and Another, (1994) 5 SCC 244’; ‘State of Maharashtra Vs. Milind and Others, (2001) 1 SCC 4’], wherein it has been categorically held that the Presidential is to be read as it is and no further interpretation is permissible by any authority to such . The terminology used in the Presidential is to be read verbatim and if a caste is mentioned in the original , then only benefit of caste certificate can be issued in favour of an applicant belonging from one State and migrated to another. No kind of ‘prefix’ or ‘suffix’ can be taken 128 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports into consideration to expand the ambit of Presidential by any authority, and it is only the Parliament which is competent by law to include or exclude a caste/tribe from the list of notified Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. He further drew our attention to the extracts of Presidential and submitted that neither ‘Ravidasia Mochi’ nor ‘Sikh Chamar’ is mentioned or recognized therein. In such case, if a caste has not been particularly mentioned or notified for a State, then the benefit of recognition to an applicant belonging to a caste notified for that particular State cannot be granted. What cannot be done directly, cannot be done indirectly. Lastly, learned Senior Counsel concluded his arguments on the note that, once such is the situation where the Presidential itself is a self- speaking document, nothing survives in the case for adjudication and no interference of this Court is called for. 7. The assisting learned counsel Mr. Shadan Farasat mainly contended on the entirety of the facts and argued in support of the observations made by High Court by demonstrating as to how the Appellant obtained the caste claim certificate by submitting multiple forged and fabricated documents.