The only evidence led was in the form of copy of lease deed dated 27.08.1985 where the plaintiff appeared as PW1. 29. As recorded by the Trial Court, the respondents/plaintiffs had not been able to prove the document on the basis of which they were claiming a right of possession of the property in question. Even if the aforesaid document is considered, the sale was clearly violative of Rule 266 of the 1961 Rules, under which aforesaid alleged lease deed/sale deed has been issued in favour of the respondents/plaintiffs. In terms of Rule 266 of the 1961 Rules, only in certain specified situation, the land could be transferred by way of sale on private negotiation, namely, where any person has a plausible claim of title to the land and auction may not fetch reasonable price or it may not be the convenient mode for disposal of land or where such a course is regarded by the Panchayat necessary for advancement of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes or other Backward Classes. Another situation envisaged is where the person is in possession of land for more than 20 years but less than 42 years. Nothing was produced on record to show that the due process required for leasing out/sale of the land in favour of the respondents/plaintiffs by private negotiation was followed. Gram Panchayat from whom the land was taken was not impleaded as party to admit or deny the allegations made by the respondents/plaintiffs in the plaint. 30. For the reasons, mentioned above, we find merit in the present appeals. The same are accordingly allowed. The impugned s of the High Court as well as the First Appellate Court are set aside and that of the Trial Court is restored. Resultantly, the suits are dismissed. 31. Before parting with the , we are pained to note certain facts which show total casualness on the part of the appellants. As has been noticed above, in the bunch of five appeals bearing C.A.No(s).8977/2012, 468/2013, 524/2013, 467/2013 and Civil Appeal arising out of S.L.P. (C)No.25200/2013, challenge was to the passed by the High Court in five different second appeals. Five different suits were filed by five persons of the family which were assigned different numbers though decided on the same day by separate s. Five different appeals were filed before the [2024] 2 S.C.R. 667 The Tehsildar, Urban Improvement Trust And Anr. v. Ganga Bai Menariya (Dead) Through Lrs. And Others First Appellate Court and when the matter was taken to the High Court, five different appeals were filed. The same were disposed of on 18.04.2012. 32. When five different suits were filed by different persons while filing the documents with the paper book filed in this Court, it was incumbent upon the appellants to place on record correct copies of the s of the Trial Court as well as the First Appellate Court for each of the case. However, it is evident from the paper books of the aforesaid five appeals that in all the appeals the Trial Court placed on record was passed in Case No.60/2002 titled as Smt.