142. There are a couple of other aspects, which must not escape notice. 143. First, AMU is a creature of a statute and is engaged in discharging public duties. By passage of time, AMU happens to be one of the foremost Central Universities in the country. It is, however, entirely dependent on finances allocated by the Central Government. It is mandatorily required to function as per the AMU Act as well as provisions of other enactments. There can, thus, be no doubt that AMU is an Article 12 authority. Being an Article 12 authority, it is bound by all the articles in Part III of the Constitution which impose duty upon it inter alia to ensure equality and fairness in all its actions including Article 29(2). In the present context, Article 30(1) cannot be divorced from Article 29(2). The scope of ‘choice’ of the minority as in Article 30(1), if at all it has established AMU, could diminish for an institution such as AMU, for, it is always subject to the Constitutional provisions and the enactment that has created it. Whatever the Constitution as well as the AMU Act now provides or could provide in future, would represent the will of the people of India, and not the will of the minority. It, therefore, admits of no doubt that in administrative, functional and financial matters, the control of AMU vests in assigned entities not designated by the minority community. This being the status of AMU, it would be an indicium of not being an educational institution over which and in respect whereof the minority has a choice to administer it in the manner the minority prefers. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1917 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 144. Secondly, regard must be had to how TMA Pai Foundation (supra) answered questions 5(a), 5(b) and 5(c). The declaration of law seems to be clear that the minority community administering an aided minority educational institution does not enjoy full liberty to act as per its choice in matters relating to admission of students. Admission has to be on the basis of merit and it will also be permissible for the Government to provide that consideration should be shown to the weaker sections of the society. 145. Reservation is an element of substantive justice, and to deny it to the SC/ST community, does not bode well for the compliance of Article 15. We should be careful not to abridge the rights enumerated in Article 15 in our quest to expand and solidify the rights provided in Article 30. The architects of the Constitution were acutely aware of the stratified nature of our society. To minimise this stratification, the framers made a concerted effort towards integrating various communal identities into a composite national identity of “Indians”. The immediacy of this exercise can be garnered from the preamble to the Constitution, where we find the idea of fraternity, a brotherhood of Indians. 146. The idea of substantive equality, which arose as a remedy to the historical injustices suffered by the members of the SC/ST community, was central to this new national identity.