The majority could not find any compelling reason for India to be the first to do so. It, therefore recommended that there should be a moratorium on field trials for Bt in food crops (those that are directly used for food) intended for commercialization (not research) until there is more definitive information from sufficient number of studies as to the long-term safety of Bt in food crops. f. The majority also examined issues in relation to Herbicide Tolerant (HT) crops. The conclusion here was that HT crops would most likely exert a highly adverse impact over time on sustainable agriculture, rural livelihoods, and environment. The majority, therefore, found them completely unsuitable in the Indian context. g. The majority also highlighted how crops in their centres of origin and diversity often have a deep cultural significance that can get lost when utilitarian considerations predominate the discourse. Ceremonial and medicinal varieties can also be put at risk from GM crops by reduction of diversity and genetic purity. For example, in the case of brinjal, the Malapur variety in Karnataka is an essential accompaniment at temple festivals and religious ceremonies. Likewise, Oryza nivara, a medicinal rice, can also be at risk if GM rice comes to dominate the crop as has happened for example, in the case of cotton, in India. h. The release of a GM crop into its area of origin or diversity has far greater ramifications and potential for negative impact than for other species. To justify this, the majority suggested a requirement of extraordinarily compelling reasons. GM crops [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1985 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. that offer incremental advantages or solutions to specific and limited problems were not to be deemed sufficient reasons to justify such release. Not finding any such compelling reasons under the present conditions, it recommended that release of GM crops for which India is a centre of origin or diversity should not be allowed at all. (ii) Secondly, as for, when environmental release through open-field trials should be permitted, the majority recommended that the sequence of testing should be carried out in of increasing environmental exposure required to perform the test. Tests should be done under the minimum conditions of exposure required for the test. In other words, the testing should proceed in a progressive manner that increases confidence with regard to safety. While not covering all possible tests for all crops, it laid down certain minimum tests possible to carry out under contained conditions within the laboratory of greenhouse, before the GMO is taken out of containment. These include tests based on bioinformatics such as possible allergenicity and toxicity; acute toxicity of the purified protein; in-vitro digestibility and any other biochemical tests on the purified protein. Where appropriate and necessary, tests such as those for general growth characteristics and plant habit as part of event selections may be performed under confined conditions in consultation with the regulator. Those tests on the plant that can be performed under contained conditions as judged by the regulator on a case-wise basis should be performed under contained conditions.