Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. The report indicates that one of parties to the proceedings was represented by a lawyer who is a woman. The report also contains a narration of the proceedings which took place on 28 August 2024 and is reproduced below: “The proceedings on 28th August 2024, 4. On this day, in the court presided by the same Hon’ble Judge of the High Court of Karnataka, proceedings of House Rent Revision Petition No.28 of 2021 filed under Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 in Miss Rina Vitha D Souza Vs. Mr. A M Alwyn Pinto and another were underway. The Revision was against dated 20th March 2021 delivered in Rent Revision Petition No.7 of 2019 on the file of learned Principal District and Sessions Judge, Dakshina Kannada-Mangaluru dismissing the petition and confirming the dated 6th December 2018 passed in House Rent Case No.22 of 2013 by learned Principal Civil Judge, Dakshina Kannada-Mangaluru dismissing the petition filed, under Section 27(2)(a) (c)(r) and (o) read with Section 5 of the Karnataka Rent Act. 4.1 In the aforesaid proceedings in the Court, the Hon’ble Judge made the following observations and the remarks, “Hon’ble Judge: Even after that incident that happened where that van got upsided...capsized and then fell down and 3 small children died, no action, police is tally inactive. When something like this happens, one would stand for two days and blow whistle and say stop that, stop this. They are into lobby. Majority of the school are run by the so and so and so and so, so they manage. You don’t look into. Go to Mysuru Road flyover, every auto rickshaw has got 10 people, every auto rickshaw, it is not applicable because the Mysore Road flyover, till up to the market from Gori Palya is in Pakistan, not in India. This is the reality, this is the reality. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 673 In Re: Remarks By High Court Judge During Court Proceedings If you put any strict officer in that area, let me see who would catch such person, no channel will see it. This is the problem you know, 9 people 10 people in an auto rickshaw two beside the driver. Every two minutes, you will find one auto rickshaw dropping the people there in soon after city market, no Rule is applicable. That is the problem. So, it is all there. People are also of that nature. [The above submissions, conversations and comments in the video clipping is available from 18.37 to 20.05 minutes] 4.2 The reproduction of the observations is in exact words as were made in the vernacular-Kannada language, with true translation in English of the part spoken in Kannada language. 4.3 The above conversation and comments are available through virtual access in the form of recorded video clipping. The part of the conversation took place in vernacular-Kannada language, which part is submitted with true translation. The text of the conversation is mentioned in the same form.” (emphasis supplied) 7.