The argument taken by the Insured before the NCDRC was that NIACL was not justified in computing depreciation at 60% while the surveyors in the reports had recommended 32% as depreciation. The NCDRC observed that the effort by the Insured to install a lesser capacity 6 Hi Cold Rolling Mill was an effort in desperation. It also found the claim to be genuine. Addressing the issue of depreciation, it held that after the initial recommendation in the Joint Surveyors’ Report dated 11.12.2001 of computing 32% depreciation, the surveyors were persuaded by the letter of the Insurance Company dated 12.11.2002 to increase the depreciation to 60%. An additional affidavit was called for from the NIACL to justify the depreciation at 60%. After perusing the affidavit, the NCDRC held that there were no standard guidelines for calculating depreciation and that it had been calculated differently for different units. According to the NCDRC, the affidavit quoted the instances of very high depreciation just to suit the convenience of NIACL. It may be mentioned that the affidavit relied on certain cases where depreciation was computed at a maximum rate up to 75% - 80%. The NCDRC held that the issuance of the letter of the Insurance Company to the Surveyors seeking revision of calculation was issued eleven months after the Joint Surveyors’ Report dated 11.12.2001 and that this was not a healthy practice. So holding, it maintained the depreciation at 32% and directed the payments as noted above. Appeal to this Court: 15. The appeal by NIACL seeks depreciation to be fixed at 60%. The Insured also in its appeals has focused only on the issue of depreciation with the argument being that the base figure on which 32% depreciation was calculated should have been Rs.28 crores and not Rs.20.09 crores. There are no other grounds raised in the memo of the appeal. 292 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. However, the Insured during the course of submission, while candidly admitting that no other point had been raised in the memo of appeal, relied on the in Oswal Plastic Industries v. Manager, Legal Deptt N.A.I.C.O. Ltd., [2023 SCC OnLine SC 43] to contend that the reinstatement value should have been awarded in full and that in the case of reinstatement value no question of depreciation arises. This argument has been dealt with herein below at an appropriate stage. Contentions of NIACL:- 17. Appearing for NIACL, learned Senior Counsel Mr. Sanjay Jain contended that the insurance policy had a special condition in the form of Reinstatement Value Clause; that there are two methods of settlement of a claim depending on the nature of the policy, namely, the reinstatement value basis and market value basis (or depreciation basis); that under the Reinstatement Value Clause, the method of indemnity was to be the “cost of replacing or reinstating the same i.e. property of the same kind or type but not superior or more extensive than the insured property when new”; that the reinstatement was to be carried out by the Insured within 12 months or within such further extended time; that para 2 of the Special Provisions provided that until expenditure has been incurred by the Insured in replacing/ reinstating the damaged property, the Insurance Company shall not be liable to pay any amount in excess of the amount which would have been payable under the policy, if the said reinstatement clause had not been incorporated; para 4 of the Special Provisions provided that if the Insured expressed its intention to replace/reinstate the damaged property and the Insured is unable or unwilling to replace the damaged property on the same or another site, the reinstatement clause was to be rendered ineffective.