The plea of infringement of the right to privacy has no application at all if the donor makes the contribution, that too through a banking channel, to a political party. It is the transaction between the donor and the third person. The fact that donation has been made to a political party has to be specified and is not left hidden and concealed. '®' What is not revealed is the quantum of the contribution and the political party to whom the contribution is made. Further, when a donor goes to purchase a Bond, he has to provide full particulars and fulfil the KYC norms of the bank.’ His identity is then asymmetrically known to the person and the officers of the bank from where the Bond is purchased.'°? Similarly, the officers in the branch of the authorised bank'™ where the political party has an account and encashes the Bond are known to the officers in the said bank. '® 41. The argument raised by the Union of India that details can be revealed when an is passed by a court or when it is required for investigation pursuant to registration of a criminal case’” overlooks the fact that it is their stand that the identities of the contributors/donors 101 Section 182(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 requires companies to mention the total political contributions made. 102 Paragraph 4 of the Scheme. 103 In terms of paragraph 2(b) of the Scheme, only State Bank of India and its specified branches are allowed to issue Bonds. 104 Ibid. 105 Paragraph 3(4) of the Scheme. 106 See paragraph 7(4) of the Scheme. 592 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports should be concealed because of fear of retaliation, victimisation and reprisal. That fear would still exist as the identity of the purchaser of the Bond can always be revealed upon registration of a criminal case or by an /direction of the court. Thus, the fear of reprisal and vindictiveness does not evaporate. The so-called protection exists only on paper but in practical terms is not a good safeguard even if we accept that the purpose is legitimate. It fails the rational nexus prong. 42. The fear of the identities of donors being revealed exists in another manner. Under the Scheme, political parties in power may have asymmetric access to information with the authorised bank. They also retain the ability to use their power and authority of investigation to compel the revelation of Bond related information.’”’ Thus, the entire objective of the Scheme is contradictory and inconsistent. 43. Further, it is the case of the Union of India that parties in power at the Centre and State are the recipients of the highest amounts of donations through Bonas. If that is the case, the argument of retribution, victimisation and retaliation is tempered and loses much of its force.’ 44. The rational connection test fails since the purpose of curtailing black or unaccounted-for money in the electoral process has no connection or relationship with the concealment of the identity of the donor.