Be that as it may, based on the decisions referred to hereinabove, we may, as a ready reference, summarise the following few situations, wherein recoveries by the employers, would be impermissible in law: i) Recovery from the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV service (or Group C and Group D service). ii) Recovery from the retired employees, or the employees who are due to retire within one year, of the of recovery. iii) Recovery from the employees, when the excess payment has been made for a period in excess of five years, before the of recovery is issued. iv) Recovery in cases where an employee has wrongfully been required to discharge duties of a higher post, and has been paid accordingly, even though he should have rightfully been required to work against an inferior post. v) In any other case, where the court arrives at the conclusion, that recovery if made from the employee, would be iniquitous or harsh or arbitrary to such an extent, as would far outweigh the equitable balance of the employer’s right to recover.” (emphasis supplied) 3 [2014] 13 SCR 1343 : (2015) 4 SCC 334 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 389 Jagdish Prasad Singh v. State of Bihar and Others 24. Recently, this Court in Thomas Daniel v. State of Kerala and Others,4 held that the State cannot recover excess amount paid to the ex-employee after the delay of 10 years. 25. The Government Resolution dated 8th February, 1999 to be specific, the highlighted portion supra is amenable to the interpretation that it protects the status and pay of those employees who had received their time bound promotions prior to 31st December, 1995. As a consequence, the Secretary concerned, while rejecting the representation clearly misinterpreted and misapplied the said Resolution to the detriment of the appellant. 26. The learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court of Patna also seem to have fallen in the same error. In addition thereto, we are of the view that any step of reduction in the pay scale and recovery from a Government employee would tantamount to a punitive action because the same has drastic civil as well as evil consequences. Thus, no such action could have been taken against the appellant, more particularly, because he had been promoted as an ADSO, while drawing the pay scale of Rs.6500-10500 applicable to the post, way back on 10th March, 1991 and had also superannuated eight years ago before the recovery notice dated 15th April, 2009 was issued. The impugned action directing reduction of pay scale and recovery of the excess amount is grossly arbitrary and illegal and also suffers from the vice of non-adherence to the principles of natural justice and hence, the same cannot be sustained. 27. The dated 8th October, 2009 passed by the State Government directing reduction in the pay scale of the appellant from Rs.6500- 10500 to Rs.5500-9000 w.e.f. 1st January, 1996 and directing recovery of the excess amount from him is grossly illegal and arbitrary and is hereby quashed and set aside.