It may be assumed that, as stated, the market price of scrap iron for export on January 30, 1953, was the price paid by the Export Corporation for the purchase of scrap iron that day. As the parties did not know and could not have known when the contract was made in July 1952 that the scrap iron would be ultimately sold by the appellant to the Export Corporation, the parties could not have known of the likelihood of the loss actually suffered by the appellant, according to him, on account of the failure of the respondent to fulfil the contract. 50 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. Illustration (k) to S. 73 of the Contract Act is apt for the purpose of this case. According to that illustration, the person committing breach of contract has to pay to the other party the difference between the contract price of the articles agreed to be sold and the sum paid by the other party for purchasing another article on account of the default of the first party, but the first party has not to pay the compensation which the second party had to pay to third parties as he had not been told at the time of the contract that the second party was making the purchase of the article for delivery to such third parties.” 52. Damages can be awarded only for the loss directly suffered on account of the breach and not for any remote or indirect loss sustained by reason of the breach of contract. The general rule is that where two parties enter into a contract and one of them commits breach, the other party will be entitled to receive as damages in respect of such breach of contract, such sum as may fairly and reasonably be considered arising naturally, that is according to the usual course of things, from such breach of contract itself or such as may reasonably be supposed to have been in the contemplation of both parties at the time they made the contract, as the probable result of the breach of it. If any special circumstances about the dependency of the performance of other contract(s) by the party complaining of the breach, on the performance of the contract in dispute by the party in breach, had been communicated to the party in breach, and thus known to both parties at the time of entering into the contract, then the damages for the breach of the contract in dispute, may include the compensation for the loss suffered in regard to such other dependent contracts. But, on the other hand, if the special circumstances were not made known to the party breaking the contract, the party breaking the contract, at the most, could only be supposed to have had in its contemplation the amount of injury which would arise generally and directly and not any remote or unknown loss or damage. 53. What would be a ‘penalty’ under Section 74 of the 1872 Act was explained by this Court in K. P. Subbarama Sastri and others v. K. S. Raghavan & Ors.