It was observed that the domains occupied by the two provisions are entirely different as the secular provision stipulates an inability to maintain oneself for invoking the said rights while Section 3 of the 1986 Act stands independent of one’s ability or inability to maintain. Thereby, adopting a harmonious and purposive approach amidst the two alleged conflicting legislative protections. 28. In consideration of the aforesaid well-established positions of law, as well as the submissions of the learned Senior Advocate and the learned amicus curiae, it is apposite to accordingly decide the fate of the instant petition moved before us. To begin with the contention in regard to the existence of non-obstante clause in Sections 3 and 4 of the 1986 Act, it is undoubtedly clarified by the Constitution Benches of this Court that the same cannot promptly be deemed to override any other rights so provided by the enactments of the legislature. We are, accordingly, also bound by the Doctrine of stare decisis contemplated through Article 141 of the Constitution of India to accept the said observations. Furthermore, a bare perusal of Section 7 of the 1986 Act, reflects the same to be transitionary in nature and the interpretations in respect of Section 5 of the 1986 Act, as highlighted above through numerous decisions, reflect our inability to accept the passionate contentions of the learned Senior Advocate on behalf of the Appellant. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1267 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. 29. Thus, the High Court of Telangana, while modifying the (s) of the Family Court, was correct in upholding the maintainability of the petition filed under Section 125 of CrPC 1973 by Respondent No. 02 herein. Therefore, there is no infirmity in its Impugned dated 13.12.2023. 30. In addition, Mr Agrawal proceeded to put forth a question before us that whether fulfilment of a divorced Muslim woman’s rights, particularly maintenance under Section 3 of the 1986 Act, accepted by her without demur, would bar her to file an application under Section 125 of CrPC 1973 in light of statutory protection ameliorating the issue of double payment by a husband under secular, and personal laws, as provided under Section 127(3)(b) of CrPC 1973. 31. Before proceeding with this additional question of law, it is apposite to refer the bare provision of Section 127(3)(b) of CrPC 1973. The same is accordingly reproduced hereinbelow: “127. Alteration in allowance – (3) Where any has been made under section 125 in favour of a woman who has been divorced by, or has obtained a divorce from her husband, the Magistrate shall, if he is satisfied that – (a) xxx-xxx-xxx (b) the woman has been divorced by her husband and that she has received, whether before or after the date of the said , the whole of the sum which, under any customary or personal law applicable to the parties, was payable on such divorce, cancel such – (i) in the case where such sum was paid before such , from the date on which such was made; (ii) in any other case, from the date of expiry of the period, if any, for which maintenance has been actually paid by the husband to the woman;” 32.