After issuance of notice in the Bihar writ petition, the concerned High Court officials while preparing the response, noticed discrepancies during decoding, tabulation and collation of marks and arranged for re-verification of the selection data. Thereafter, the following directions were issued by the Chairperson of the Committee in consultation with the Acting Chief Justice of the Patna High Court: “In view of summer vacations, the Committee is not available. Discussed the matter with Hon’ble ACJ on phone. Being a serious lapse, the following steps need be taken immediately: 1) Under personal supervision of Registrar (App ), Sr. Programmer, Nitesh will undertake the entire exercise [2024] 6 S.C.R. 579 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. of decoding, collation, and tabulation a fresh. In case of any assistance required Registrar General will be consulted. Prepare fresh tabulation, identifying lapses, submit report. 2) Registrar General will conduct enquiry to find out where was the lapses and consequently who was responsible. On this report being submitted, to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the person responsible for these lapses. Registrar General will issue show cause and Brother Ajay Kumar Tripathi will conduct the disciplinary proceedings. Put up before Hon’ble ACJ no sooner he is available. Matters to be dealt with utmost urgency and confidentiality.” 72. After detailed verification of the record, it was found that 3 more candidates had obtained qualifying marks in the written examination for the purpose of viva voce having roll nos. 1111006603, 1111006636 and 1111006667 respectively. It was also found that 4 candidates had not obtained the qualifying marks in the written examination, though they were earlier shown to be qualified. Therefore, a corrigendum was issued on 30.6.2016 by which the High Court cancelled the candidatures of 4 unqualified candidates and also called the 3 other candidates for the viva-voce, who had obtained qualifying marks. The interview of the 3 candidates was held on 19.7.2016. However, none of them could qualify. 73. Mr. Ajit Sinha, learned Senior Counsel had argued that these irregularities are so egregious that it would vitiate the entire selection process. While conceding that moderation did benefit the writ petitioners, it is still argued that the defective procedure must persuade this Court to set aside the selection process in Bihar. Per Contra, Mr. Gautam Narayan, learned counsel for the High Court of Patna argues that the discrepancies in Roll Numbers were due to the mistake of the candidates themselves. As regards moderation, Mr. Narayan, produced a chart before us containing the marks obtained by the candidates before and after moderation to show that it enured to the benefit of the writ petitioners. 74. Whether moderation of marks was legally permissible, would require a reference to the relevant Rules and Advertisement. The relevant Clause 13 of Appendix C of Bihar Rules,1951 is extracted below: - 580 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “13. The Standing committee of the High Court, Patna may issue s/directions in case of any doubt and difficulty” The Para 10 of the 2015 Advertisement reads as under: “10.