Such does not appear to be the case herein. Thus, it does not need to be referred to a larger Bench as in our considered opinion it is squarely covered by the of this Court in Gold Coin [(2008) 9 SCC 622 : (2008) 304 ITR 308]” 117. In view of the above, the approach adopted in the reference in Anjuman [supra] was not wholly appropriate. However, considering the fact that the present reference was made by a separate three judge bench [which consisted of the then Hon’ble Chief Justice], it would be apposite to not be whittled down by the error that may have crept in Anjuman [supra] reference. As far the scope of the present proceedings is concerned, the Court must adopt a sustainable and consistent approach. In this regard, it is clear that this Court needs to provide a clear understanding of the overlapping and intersecting reference s mentioned above. 118. The expanse and the width of the proceedings before a larger cannot be whittled down by statute like reading of the reference (s). VI Rule 2 of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 reads as under: 1958 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “ VI CONSTITUTION OF DIVISION COURTS AND POWERS OF A SINGLE JUDGE 2. Where in the course of the hearing of any cause, appeal or other proceeding, the Bench considers that the matter should be dealt with by a larger Bench, it shall refer the matter to the Chief Justice, who shall thereupon constitute such a Bench for the hearing of it.” 119. The terms “any cause” and “other proceedings” are of a very wide import and the power of the Chief Justice of India, with regard to references to larger benches has also been judicially re-iterated by numerous constitution benches. A bench of nine Hon’ble Judges in Kantaru Rajeevaru (Right to Religion, In re-9 J.) (2) v. Indian Young Lawyers Association, (2020) 9 SCC 121, has held as under : “27. No matter is beyond the jurisdiction of a superior court of record unless it is expressly shown to be so, under the provisions of the Constitution. In the absence of any express provision in the Constitution, this Court being a superior court of record has jurisdiction in every matter and if there is any doubt, the Court has power to determine its jurisdiction [Delhi Judicial Service Association v. State of Gujarat, (1991) 4 SCC 406] . It is useful to reproduce from Halsbury’s Laws of England, 4th Edn., Vol. 10, Para 713, relied upon in the aforementioned s, which states as follows: “713. … Prima facie, no matter is deemed to be beyond the jurisdiction of a superior court unless it is expressly shown to be so, while nothing is within the jurisdiction of an inferior court unless it is expressly shown on the face of the proceedings that the particular matter is within the cognizance of the particular court.” Undoubtedly there is no bar on the exercise of jurisdiction for referring questions of law in a pending review petition.