(3) Prisoners shall be treated as “B” Class if —(i) They, by social status, education and habit of life have been accustomed to superior mode of living; and (ii) They have not been convicted of: (a) Offences involving elements of cruelty, moral degradation or personal greed; (b) Serious or premeditated violence; (c) Serious offence against women and children; (d) Serious offences against property; (e) Offences relating to the possession of explosives, firearms and other dangerous weapons with the object of committing an offence or of enabling an offence to be committed (f) Abetment or incitement of offences falling within these sub- rules. NOTE:— Habitual prisoners may be included under this class or grounds of character and antecedents. (4) (i) If no s about classification are passed by the sentencing court, it should be assumed that a prisoner belongs to “C” Class. A reference should be made in doubtful cases but it should not be presumed in the absence of specific s that the prisoner belongs to a class higher than “C”. Odisha Model Jail Manual Rules for the Superintendence and Management of Jails in Odisha, 2020 ● 3. Definitions - (t) “Habitual offender” means an offender who has been convicted in a particular offence for more than one occasion. ● 4. Criteria for establishment of prisons.— (1) The State Government shall as far as possible establish sufficient numbers [2024] 10 S.C.R. 595 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. of prisons and provide minimum needs essential to maintain standards of living in consonance with human dignity. (2) Prison administration shall ensure that the prisoners human rights are respected. (3) Prison administration shall ensure separation of the following categories of prisoners, namely :-- (a) Civil Prisoners; (b) Under-trials; (c) Female Prisoners; (d) Convicted Prisoners; (e) Young Offenders; (f) First Offenders; (g) Habitual Offenders; (h) High Security Prisoners; (i) Detenue; (j) Geriatric and infirmed prisoners;(k) Transgender Prisoners; (l) Psychiatric Prisoners;(m) Higher Division Prisoners; and (n) Political Prisoners (4) There shall be a separate prison for high security prisoners. (5) The prisons’ regime shall take care to prepare prisoners to lead a law-abiding, self supporting, reformed and socially rehabilitated life. ● 515. Division of Police registered prisoners into two classes.— (1)The first class consists of prisoners who are to be transferred before release to the Jails of the districts in which their homes are situated. (2) This class shall be described in the Admission Register provided in Form No.17 and Release Diaries provided in Form No 23 as P.R./T Prisoners. Explanation :— The letter P.R. standing for “Police Registered”, and the letter T, signifying ‘transfer’. (3) The prisoners stated in sub-rule (2) shall include prisoners in respect of whom the sentencing court may have recorded an under section 565 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)and any such prisoner shall be described in the Admission Register and Release Diaries as “Police Registered Transfer -565” prisoners. (4) The second class consists of prisoners who are not to be transferred, but are to be released from the jails in which they are confined at the time of the expiry of their sentences and this class shall be described in the Admission Registers and Release Diaries as Police Registered prisoners.