× × × FACTS OF THE CASE: × × × That at this juncture it would be pertinent to mention herein that one of the co-accused Ramesh Rupabhai had approached the Bombay High Court by way of Crl. W.P. 848 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports No.305/2013. In the said , the Bombay High Court clarified that the undertrials in this case were lodged in Maharashtra Jail only because of the fact that at that time the Trial was pending in the State of Maharashtra (transferred from Gujarat to Maharashtra by the Supreme Court). The High Court further clarified that once the Trial has concluded and the prisoner has been convicted, the appropriate prison would be the State of Gujarat and accordingly, the said prisoners were transferred to the State of Gujarat from the State of Maharashtra... At this juncture, the petitioner had approached the Gujarat High Court on the ground that despite he having undergone more than actual sentence of 14 years, his case was not being considered by the respondent/authorities for premature release. The Gujarat High Court vide its dated 17.7.19 with great respect took a completely a diametrically opposite view as that of Bombay High Court and erroneously held that since the petitioner’s case was tried in the State of Maharashtra, therefore, his case for premature release has to be considered by the State of Maharashtra and not by the State of Gujarat. Hence the instant Writ Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution issuing a writ of Mandamus or any other similar direction to the State of Gujarat praying inter alia that the case of the petitioner may be considered as per the policy dated 9.7.92 (i.e. policy existing at the time of conviction of the petitioner) in the light of settled decision in “State of Haryana Vs. Jagdish, (2010) 4 SC 216”. × × × PRAYER: In the light of the above-mentioned facts and circumstances, the petitioner through this instant writ petition prays before this Hon’ble Court as under: A. Issue a writ, or direction in the nature of Mandamus to the Respondent/State of Gujarat to consider the case of the petitioner for premature release under the policy dated 9.7.92 i.e. the policy which was existing at the time of conviction. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 849 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others B. Or in the alternative, issue a writ, or direction in the nature of Mandamus to the respondent/Union of India to consider the case of the petitioner in light of “UOI Vs. V. Sriharan, (2016) 7 SCC 1.” and C. Pass any such further (s)/direction(s) as this Hon’ble Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case.” 36.1. The aforesaid pleadings do not indicate that State of Gujarat had no jurisdiction to consider his application for remission. Also, there was no pleading that he had filed any application before the Government of Gujarat. Thirdly, there is no mention that the policy of 09.07.1992 had been cancelled.