(c) Slots Allotment Approval - The DGCA and MoCA shall have approved the reinstatement of all the suspended slots (including the bilateral rights and traffic rights) back to Jet Airways/ Corporate Debtor. The slots (along with related bilateral rights and [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2073 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. traffic rights) can be allotted to the Corporate Debtor gradually as per its Business Plan with immediate slots allotment approval (along with related bilateral rights and traffic rights) for sectors on which Jet 2.0 proposes to recommence operations after the Effective Date. (d) International Traffic Rights Clearance - The Corporate Debtor shall have received the International Traffic Rights Clearance in compliance with Applicable Laws. (e) Demerger - The Scheme filed as part of this Resolution Plan shall have been approved under Applicable Laws and the Demerged Employees shall have demerged from the Corporate Debtor to AGSL along with all their past dues, liabilities and outstanding’s with effect from the Approval Date, without the requirement of any further consent or approval of any other stakeholder of AGSL (since we understand that AGSL currently does not have any creditor) or any stakeholder of the Corporate Debtor (including existing or past employee or workmen or employees’ unions of the Corporate Debtor). 7.6.2. Fulfilment of Conditions Precedent - The date of fulfilment of all the Conditions Precedent as stated in Clause 7.6.1 above shall be the effective date for the purposes of this Resolution Plan (“Effective Date”). 7.6.4. Automatic Withdrawal - The Resolution Applicant is confident of completing all the Conditions Precedent (as set out in Clause 7.6.1 above) within 90 (ninety) days from the Approval Date. In the unlikely event that all the Conditions Precedent cannot be fulfilled within 90 (ninety) days, the Resolution Applicant takes the responsibility of completing the outstanding Conditions Precedent at the earliest and seeks to extend the Conditions Precedent fulfilment period by another term of maximum 180 (one hundred and eighty) days. If all the Conditions Precedent are not fulfilled within such period (i.e. 270 (two hundred and seventy) days from the Approval Date), then this Resolution Plan shall automatically stand withdrawn without 2074 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports any further acts, deeds, or things. On such withdrawal, the members of the Resolution Applicant in the Monitoring Committee shall resign, and the remaining members of the Monitoring Committee shall assume absolute control of the Corporate Debtor. 7.7. Implementation Schedule - 7.7.1. The Resolution Applicant shall take the following steps in the of sequence (except otherwise mentioned in any step for any part of the step) as an integral part of the Resolution Plan. It is provided that the procedure, timelines and the sequence of steps listed below are only indicative and that they may be re-arranged/ changed as may be required or directed based on discussions with the necessary Governmental Authorities/ stock exchange (on account of past non-compliances of the Corporate Debtor or otherwise) or for the purposes of advancing any payments to the stakeholders, and at all times in compliance with Applicable Laws: Step Activity Days 1.