While we reject the justifications given by the appellant for delaying the project, we are fully conscious of the dereliction of the statutory duty of the SRA in ensuring that the project is completed within time. We have already expressed our opinion that the CEO and the SRA are accountable for their actions. 1468 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports While we reject the justification for delay, we record our dissatisfaction about the indifference, amounting to negligence on the part of CEO and the SRA. 28. So far as the submissions relating to the financial resources are concerned, we have seen the number of agreements that the appellants have entered into. We need not examine this aspect independently as the findings are concurrent and thorough. The following findings of the High Court are sufficient for disposing of this issue: “59. The petitioner time and again having approached third parties for financial requirements in the manner as discussed above, in fact was quite fatal and counter productive to the implementation of the slum scheme, for the reason that if any of the financers were to withdraw from their financial support and the commitments as made to the petitioner, the same would leave the petitioner with no remedy but to wander further hunting for fresh finance. Such financial instability of a developer certainly would have a devastating effect on the implementation of the slum scheme which could also result in the total collapse of the slum scheme being implemented and in fact a death knell for the slum scheme. It is for such reason, the real wherewithal and financial stability of a developer plays an extremely pivotal role, as finance is the very lifeline for successful implementation and completion of the slum scheme. The present case is a classic case of how the petitioner is running helter-skelter to secure finance, that too without taking the society into confidence much less the authorities. This on the basis of a solitary clause in the Development Agreement which is being discussed hereafter.” 29. We will now deal with the submission on the maintainability of the appeal before the AGRC and that respondent no. 6 who was the collaborator of the appellant must face the same consequence as that of the appellant. This submission proceeds on the assumption that the statutory power under Section 13(2) of the Act is to be exercised only upon an application made to the authority. This is a complete misconception. We have already dealt with the scope and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1469 Yash Developers v. Harihar Krupa Co-Operative Housing Society Limited & Ors. ambit of Section 13 of the Act, and in particular the duty followed by accountability of the SRA under the said provision. Irrespective of whether anybody applied or not, the authority is bound to ensure that the project is completed within the time stipulated. In any event, as the dispute before us is confined to the legality and propriety of the termination , we are not concerned about the relationship of the appellant with respondent no.