Thus, it is clear that the decree-holders were throughout ready and willing to perform their part under the contract / decree whereas the -debtor(s) avoided execution of the sale deed. In these circumstances and having regard to the facts of the case, the Execution Court was justified in allowing the application for extension of time and rejecting the application for rescission of the contract. ISSUES 14. Having noticed the rival contentions, in our view, the following issues arise for our consideration: (i) Whether the Execution Court had jurisdiction to deal with the application(s) for (a) recission of contract and (b) extension of time to deposit the balance sale consideration? (ii) If Execution Court had the jurisdiction, whether those applications ought to have been decided as one in the suit (i.e., original side)? If yes, then, whether, in the facts of the case, on that ground alone, the impugned warrants interference in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India? ANALYSIS A. The Execution Court had jurisdiction 15. A bare reading of Section 28(1) of the 1963 Act gives an impression that the power to extend time to deposit, or to rescind the contract on failure of deposit, vests in the Court which passed the decree in as much as the words used in Section 28 (1) are: “The vendor or lessor may apply in the same suit in which the decree is made, to have the contract rescinded and on such application the court may, by , rescind the contract either so far as regards the party in default or altogether, as the justice of the case may require.” 16. In Ramankutty Guptan Vs. Avara,4 this Court answered two questions. One, whether an application under Section 28 of the 1963 Act is maintainable in the Court of first instance when the decree has 4 [1994] 1 SCR 542 : (1994) 2 SCC 642 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 9 Ishwar (Since Deceased) Thr. Lrs & Ors. v. Bhim Singh & Anr. been passed by the appellate court. Second, whether the Execution Court in which the original suit was filed can entertain an application under Section 28 of the 1963 Act. After taking note of the provisions of Section 37 5 of the CPC, this Court held: “8. …………..Therefore, it is clear that the decree of the appellate court would be construed to be the decree passed by the court of first instance. It is settled law that an appeal is a continuation of the suit. Therefore, when a decree for specific performance has been dismissed by the trial court, but decreed by the appellate court, it should be construed to be in the same suit. When the decree specifies the time for performance of the conditions of the decree, on its failure to deposit the money, Section 28(1) itself gives power to the court to extend the time on such terms as the Court may allow to pay the purchase money or other sum which the court has ed him to pay.