It further explains that the expression ‘visual depiction’ means and includes the following: - i. A photograph or video, which may be either in actual or any electronic form. ii. An image generated digitally or by a computer which is indistinguishable from an actual child i.e., any self-generated image which appears to depict a lifelike child indistinguishable from an actual child, and will not include any artistic or cartoon based depiction. iii. Any other image (including any video-based imagery) that has been created, adapted or modified. The above list of material mentioned is inclusive in nature i.e., the different types, form and manner of visual depiction that has been enumerated therein is not exhaustive in any manner. In the last, the said provision, more particularly the words “but appear to depict a child ” lays down the test or criteria for ascertaining, whether any of the above mentioned visual depiction is a ‘child pornography’ or not, by prescribing a prima facie subjective satisfaction that the material appears to depict a child. 130. The use of the comma before the words “but appear to depict a child ” is significant. The legislature has used the aforesaid comma both as a disjunctive and a conjunctive to the words preceding it. It has been used as a disjunctive to stress, that the subjective criteria that the material in question appears to depict a child is not inextricably linked or limited to just one category of visual depictions i.e., the last category being “image created, adapted, or modified ”. At the same time, it has been used as a conjunctive in relation to all types of visual depictions that have been illustrated in the said provision, to clearly indicate, that this subjective criterion applies to the entire provision i.e., to all types of visual depictions mentioned therein or in other words to ‘child pornography’. 131. Thus, any visual depiction of a sexually explicit act which any ordinary person of a prudent mind would reasonably believe to prima facie depict a child or appear to involve a child, would be deemed as ‘child pornography’ for the purposes of the POCSO. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 235 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. Therefore, for any offence under the POCSO that relates to child pornographic material, such as Section 15, the courts would only be required to form a prima facie subjective satisfaction that the material appears to depict a child from the perspective of any ordinary prudent person. Such satisfaction may be arrived at from any authoritative and definitive opinion such as through a forensic science laboratory (FSL) report of such material or from any expert opinion on the material in question, or by the assessment of such material by the courts themselves, depending on the peculiar facts and circumstances of each case. 132. This aforesaid test or criteria of ‘subjective satisfaction’ is not a superfluous or imaginary creation of the legislature, but a well-founded test, that exists in various other countries.