[2024] 12 S.C.R. 28 : 2024 INSC 847 Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 2634 of 2013) 07 November 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, Hrishikesh Roy, Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, Pankaj Mithal and Manoj Misra,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration (a) When the recruitment process commences and comes to an end; (b) Basis of the doctrine that ‘rules of the game’ must not be changed during the course of the game, or after the game is played; (c) Whether the decision in K. Manjusree is at variance with earlier precedents on the subject; (d) Whether recruiting bodies can devise an appropriate procedure for concluding recruiting process; (e) Whether the procedure prescribed in the Extant Rule can be violated; (f) Whether appointment could be denied even after placement in select list. Headnotes† Service Law – Recruitment – Commencement and end of the recruitment process: Held: The process of recruitment begins with the issuance of advertisement and ends with the filling up of notified vacancies – It consists of various steps like inviting applications, scrutiny of applications, rejection of defective applications or elimination of ineligible candidates, conducting examinations, calling for interview or viva voce and preparation of list of successful candidates for appointment. [Para 13] Service Law – Recruitment – Basis of the doctrine that ‘rules of the game’ must not be changed during the course of the game, or after the game is played: Held: The doctrine proscribing change of rules midway through the game, or after the game is played, is predicated on the rule against arbitrariness enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution – Article 16 is only an instance of the application of the concept of * Author [2024] 12 S.C.R. 29 Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. equality enshrined in Article 14 – In other words, Article 14 is the genus while Article 16 is a species – Article 16 gives effect to the concept of equality in all matters relating to public employment – These two articles strike at arbitrariness in State action and ensure fairness and equality of treatment – Eligibility criteria for being placed in the Select List, notified at the commencement of the recruitment process, cannot be changed midway through the recruitment process unless the extant Rules so permit, or the advertisement, which is not contrary to the extant Rules, so permit – Even if such change is permissible under the extant Rules or the advertisement, the change would have to meet the requirement of Article 14 of the Constitution and satisfy the test of non-arbitrariness. [Paras 14, 42(2)] Service Law – Recruitment – Whether the decision in K. Manjusree is at variance with earlier precedents on the subject: Held: K. Manjusree case is not at variance with earlier precedents – The decision in K. Manjusree does not proscribe setting of benchmarks for various stages of the recruitment process but mandates that it should not be set after the stage is over, in other words after the game has already been played – This view is in consonance with the rule against arbitrariness enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution and meets the legitimate expectation of the candidates as also the requirement of transparency in recruitment to public services and thereby obviates malpractices in preparation of select list – The decision in K. Manjusree case lays down good law and is not in conflict with the decision in Subash Chander Marwaha case – Subash Chander Marwaha deals with the right to be appointed from the Select List whereas K. Manjusree deals with the right to be placed in the Select List – The two cases therefore deal with altogether different issues.