Nature of appointment i.e. substantive/adhoc/guest lecturer etc. or the amount of salary paid having not been specified in clause 7 of the table 3A are not relevant for the purposes of award of marks in clause 7 of table 3A for short-listing of candidates. Regulation 10 would otherwise not be applicable for the reasons recorded above. This construction would obviate the need to examine the challenge laid to the regulation 10(f)(iii) and the general instructions appended to the advertisement in that regard. It would also effectuate the cause of calling best candidates for interview, inasmuch as teaching experience of a candidate would be counted towards his merit for short-listing. 37. The interpretation assigned in this to clause 7 of table 3A would subserve the object of short-listing the best candidates to be called for interview to the post of Assistant Professors. The selections already made, however, would not be reopened or challenged on the ground that short-listing of candidates was not done in the manner indicated in this . This is so as the selected candidates are not a party to this bunch of petitions nor their selections otherwise have been assailed. The respondents would, henceforth, short-list the candidates to be called for interview for the post of Assistant Professor in the manner indicated in this . On these terms the writ petition, special appeal and the review application are disposed of. No is passed as to costs.” submIssIons on behalf of The appellanTs 4. Learned senior counsel and counsel for Allahabad University and Allahabad Degree College, respectively, submitted that the High [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1807 Allahabad University Etc. v. Geetanjali Tiwari (Pandey) & Ors. Etc. Etc. Court erred in substituting its opinion to the mandatory methodology followed by them. To persuade us to reverse the impugned , they argued that: a. For award of marks under clause 7 of Tables 3A and 3B, Reg.10 would apply, even for appointment on the post of Assistant Professor, as the post ‘Assistant Professor’ is expressly mentioned therein; b. The process of shortlisting as adopted by the appellants is extremely important for them, considering that thousands of candidates apply for a few posts; c. Even if Reg.10 is assumed to be not applicable, the appellants are entitled to adopt the methodology given therein as there is no specific bar in the 2018 Regulations. Hence, it is open for them to supplement such regulations so long as they are not illegal, arbitrary, discriminatory and contrary to the 2018 Regulations; d. The Division Bench while being seized of the writ petition ought to have noticed that respondent 1 had not averred anomaly in respect of clause 7 of Tables 3A and 3B and in the absence thereof, and particularly when ‘post-doctoral experience’ had not been defined, could have sought clarification from the University Grants Commission13 or the appellants as to what is meant by such expression but instead thereof, allowed itself to be guided by a perceived anomaly which was not even the pleaded case of respondent 1; e. In practice, ‘post-doctoral experience’ refers to post-doctoral fellowship programmes awarded by various Government organizations like UGC, Indian Council of Social Science Research, Department of Science and Technology, etc., not including teaching activity, yet, it would appear from the impugned that the Division Bench has proceeded to return findings which are based on mere assumptions; f. There are decisions of this Court, viz.