This would result in a legal quagmire and uncertainty leading to confusion. Therefore, for this reason also States cannot have legislative competence to pass laws or take any action in respect of any product of a scheduled industry from the moment Section 18G has been inserted to the IDRA which has been enacted pursuant to Entry 52 – List I. As a result, time of insertion of Section 18G to the IDRA, the intention of the Union is to occupy the field insofar as an article or articles of scheduled industry is concerned which will also include a product of a scheduled industry. Consequently, the States are denuded of their powers to pass any law insofar as the said subject-matter is concerned. 24. In State of W.B. vs. Union of India, AIR 1963 SC 1241 (“State of W.B.”), this Court on a comparative analysis of List I in Seventh Schedule to the Constitution with the Seventh Schedule to the 1935 Act noted that the powers of the Union have been enlarged particularly in the field of economic unity and that this was done as it was felt that there should be centralised control and administration in certain fields of common interest if rapid economic and industrial progress had to be achieved by the nation. Reference in this regard was also made, inter alia, to the transfer of new Entry 33 – List III in the Constitution from List II of the 1935 Act. It was observed that the result of ensuring such economic unity was a departure from any traditional pattern of federation and a conscious decision for the common good. Furthermore, in identifying deviations from traditional features of federations, this Court noted a notable feature that is true of the Indian constitutional framework: 2166 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “26. … (c) Distribution of powers between the Union and the regional units each in its sphere coordinate and independent of the other. The basis of such distribution of power is that in matters of national importance in which a uniform policy is desirable in the interest of the units, authority is entrusted to the Union, and matters of local concern remain with the States. …” Importance of “Industrial Alcohol” to the Indian Economy: 25. It is necessary to note the importance of “industrial alcohol” in the Indian economy. “Industrial alcohol” is important to the Indian economy for it is used in at least two sectors: i) as a key feedstock for production of various chemicals in the chemicals industry; and ii) as liquid fuel to be blended with petrol. 25.1 As regards the chemical industry, the XIIth five-year plan (2012- 2017) of the Planning Commission (“PC Report”) notes that “alcohol-based chemical industry occupies an important place in the Indian chemical industry and is a key contributor to the growth of the sector”. It also notes that several alcohol-based chemicals are made using “industrial alcohol” and are used as building blocks for various downstream industries such as “synthetic fibres and synthetic yarn, drugs and pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals, personal care products, dyestuffs, pigments, flavours & fragrances etc.” Further, the PC Report notes that alcohol based chemical industry “contributes to green chemistry” as chemicals are manufactured using ethanol instead of being manufactured through the petro-chemical route.