(4) If any person against whom an has been made under sub-section (3) fails without sufficient cause to comply with the , the Magistrate may issue a warrant for levying the amount of maintenance or mahr or dower due in the manner provided for levying fines under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), and may sentence such person, for the whole or part of any amount remaining unpaid after the execution of the warrant, to imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or until payment if sooner made, subject to such person being heard in defence and the said sentence being imposed according to the provisions of the said Code.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1259 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. 17. After the 1986 Act came into force, a series of writ petitions were moved before this Court challenging its constitutional validity on ground of being violative of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution of India. Sections 3 and 4 of the 1986 Act were the principal sections under attack as part of the said writ petitions. Section 3, which opens up with a non-obstante clause seeking to override the application of all other existing laws, was carefully perused by this Court in the common verdict rendered on the constitutional validity in the decision in Danial Latifi (supra). Elaborating on the prevalence of Section 125 of CrPC 1973 as a secular protection available to women across communities, it was observed in paragraph number 33 as follows: “33. In Shah Bano case [(1985) 2 SCC 556: 1985 SCC (Cri) 245] this Court has clearly explained as to the rationale behind Section 125 CrPC to make provision for maintenance to be paid to a divorced Muslim wife and this is clearly to avoid vagrancy or destitution on the part of a Muslim woman. The contention put forth on behalf of the Muslim organisations who are interveners before us is that under the Act, vagrancy or destitution is sought to be avoided but not by punishing the erring husband, if at all, but by providing for maintenance through others. If for any reason the interpretation placed by us on the language of Sections 3(1)(a) and 4 of the Act is not acceptable, we will have to examine the effect of the provisions as they stand, that is, a Muslim woman will not be entitled to maintenance from her husband after the period of iddat once the talaq is pronounced and, if at all, thereafter maintenance could only be recovered from the various persons mentioned in Section 4 or from the Wakf Board. This Court in Olga Tellis v. Bombay Municipal Corpn. [(1985) 3 SCC 545] and Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India [(1978) 1 SCC 248] held that the concept of “right to life and personal liberty” guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution would include the “right to live with dignity”. Before the Act, a Muslim woman who was divorced by her husband was granted a right to maintenance from her husband under the provisions of Section 125 CrPC until she may remarry and such a right, if deprived, would not be reasonable, just and fair.