Thus, both commissioning and the PG test were dependent on both the ACC unit and the turbine being operational. (iii) Up until the claimant was ready to erect the first part of the horizontal duct there is no evidence that the claimant was delayed by any other construction activity on site. The claimant states that the vertical duct erection was completed on 15th July 2014. The vertical duct should have been completed on 7th February 2014. Thus, the tribunal finds that at 15th July 2014 the claimant was 158 days behind its program which is not attributable to non-readiness of Respondent no.1. (iv) The tribunal is satisfied that steam flowing (steam blowing) was being conducted by the turbine generator contractor in early February 2015 which would have been likely to have prevented the welding of the duct to the turbine flange. This process also indicates that the turbine was not operational. (v) On the basis of Mr. Parasuram’s evidence, the tribunal finds that the claimant had completed the connection between the horizontal duct and the turbine generator flange around February 2015 but that commissioning of the ACC unit did not start until April 2015. Mr. Parasuram attributes the delay between February and April 2015 to Respondent no.1’s other contractors having outstanding work. Thus, completion of the Hook-up as described in the L1 network Schedule which should have taken place on 14th March 2014 did not take place until mid- February 2015 by which time the ACC unit construction was about 343 days behind schedule. On the evidence presented to the tribunal it is not possible to apportion the further delay of about 158 566 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports days which occurred between 15th July 2014 and mid- February 2015 between slow progress by the claimant and hindrance to the claimant’s work by the ongoing turbine generator installation. However, the tribunal is satisfied that at least part of this delay was not attributable to the claimant. ……..(para 13.13 (c) of the award) 11). The tribunal now considers when, if at all, the ACC system was completed. There are three certificates which are referred to in the erection purchase . These are: A certificate on competition of punch points; A Take Over Certificate of Equipment; and A certificate of competition of performance test. None of these certificates have been issued. ………(para 13.13 (d) of the award) 12). The only certificate issued by the respondents was dated 2nd March 2017. In separate correspondence, Respondent no.1 stated that this certificate was issued for marketing purposes and did not absolve the claimant from its contractual obligation under the Purchase s. ……..(para 13.13 (e) of the award) 13). Notwithstanding the respondents’ caveat, the issuance by the respondents of the 2nd March 2017 certificate is considered significant by the tribunal. The respondents knew the purpose for which the certificate was required by the claimant and, if it did not believe in the veracity of what it was certifying, even for marketing purposes, then it behaved dishonestly.