38. Our Constitution is both long and also an intricate matrix of meanings, purposes and structures. It is only by locating a particular constitutional provision under consideration within that constitutional matrix could one hope to be able to discern its true meaning, purport and ambit. As Prof. Laurence Tribe points out: “To understand the Constitution as a legal text, it is essential to recognize the … sort of text it is: a constitutive text that purports, in the name of the people…, to bring into being a number of distinct but inter-related institutions and practices, at once legal and political, and to define the rules governing those institutions and practices.” (See Reflections on Free-Form Method in Constitutional Interpretation. [108 Harv L Rev 1221, 1235 (1995)])” 39. It has been repeatedly appreciated by this Court that our Constitution is one of the most carefully drafted ones, where every situation conceivable, within the vast experience, expertise and knowledge of our framers, was considered, deliberated upon, and appropriate features and text chosen to enable the organs of the State in discharging their roles. While indeed dynamic interpretation is necessary, if the meaning necessary to fit the changed circumstances could be found in the text itself, we would always be better served by treading a path as close as possible to the text, by gathering the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1605 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. plain ordinary meaning, and by sweeping our vision and comprehension across the entire document to see whether that meaning is validated by the constitutional values and scheme.” 31. Following GVK Industries Limited, another Five-Judge Bench in Dr. JaiShri LaxmanRao Patil vs. Chief Minister and Others15 observed as under: - “113. In examining provisions of the Constitution, courts should adopt the primary rule, and give effect to the plain meaning of the expressions; this rule can be departed, only when there are ambiguities. In Kuldip Nayar v. Union of India [(2006) 7 SCC 1] after quoting from G. Narayanaswami v. G. Pannerselvam [(1972) 3 SCC 717] this Court held that: (Kuldip Nayar case SCC p. 88, para 201) “201. … We endorse and reiterate the view taken in the above quoted paragraph of the . It may be desirable to give a broad and generous construction to the Constitutional provisions, but while doing so the rule of “plain meaning” or “literal” interpretation, which remains “the primary rule”, has also to be kept in mind. In fact the rule of “literal construction” is the safe rule unless the language used is contradictory, ambiguous, or leads really to absurd results.”” 32. Thus, it is quite well settled that in interpreting any law, including the Constitution, the text of the provision under consideration would be the primary source for discerning the meanings that inhere in the enactment. Sometimes as a matter of constitutional necessity, it may be prudent to widen the search for the true meaning, purport, and ambit of the provision under consideration, however, one has to bear in mind that no provision, no word or expression in the Constitution exists in isolation.