(2) The State Government may make rules consistent with this Act, to provide for the manner of submitting the report to the Committee and the manner of sending and entrusting the child to children’s home or fit facility or fit person, as the case may be, during the period of the inquiry.” (emphasis added) 604 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 30.1 Sub-section (2) of Section 31 confers power on the State Government to provide for the manner of submitting the report to the CWC and the manner of sending and entrusting a child to a children’s home or a fit facility. The West Bengal Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Rules, 2017 (for short, ‘the WB Rules’) and in particular Rule 18, deal with the production of children before the CWC. Section 32 of the JJ Act enjoins an individual or police officer to make a report regarding a child found separated from his/her guardian. Non- reporting is made an offence. 31. Then comes Section 36 of the JJ Act which provides for inquiry to be made by the CWC on production of child or on receipt of a report under Section 31. Sub-section (1) of Section 36 provides that the CWC may pass an to send the child to a children’s home or a fit facility or a fit person. Sub-section (2) of Section 36 contemplates speedy social investigation by social welfare or child welfare officers. The social investigation is required to be completed within fifteen days. This enables the CWC to pass final s. After completion of the inquiry, the final is to be passed in accordance with sub-section (3) of Section 36, which reads thus: “36. Inquiry.— .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. (3) After the completion of the inquiry, if Committee is of the opinion that the said child has no family or ostensible support or is in continued need of care and protection, it may send the child to a Specialised Adoption Agency if the child is below six years of age, children’s home or to a fit facility or person or foster family, till suitable means of rehabilitation are found for the child, as may be prescribed, or till the child attains the age of eighteen years: Provided that the situation of the child placed in a children’s home or with a fit facility or person or a foster family, shall be reviewed by the Committee, as may be prescribed.” 32. Then comes the crucial provision of Section 39 incorporated under Chapter VII. Section 39 deals with the process of rehabilitation and social re-integration, which reads thus: [2024] 8 S.C.R. 605 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents “39. Process of rehabilitation and social re-integration.— (1) The process of rehabilitation and social integration of children under this Act shall be undertaken, based on the individual care plan of the child, preferably through family based care such as by restoration to family or guardian with or without supervision or sponsorship, or adoption or foster care: Provided that all efforts shall be made to keep siblings placed in institutional or non-institutional care, together, unless it is in their best interest not to be kept together.