26. Reference to a couple of authorities on the scope and nature of section 47, CPC, at this stage, would not be inapt. 27. In Vasudev Dhanjibhai Modi v. Rajabhai Abdul Rehman12, this Court was considering the scope of objection under section 47 of the CPC in relation to the executability of a decree. Therein, it was laid down that only such a decree could be the subject-matter of objection which is a nullity and not a decree which was erroneous either in law or on facts. Law was laid down in the following terms: “6. A court executing a decree cannot go behind the decree: between the parties or their representatives it must take the decree according to its tenor and cannot entertain 12 (1970) 1 SCC 670 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 537 Asma Lateef & Anr. v. Shabbir Ahmad & Ors. any objection that the decree was incorrect in law or on facts. Until it is set aside by an appropriate proceeding in appeal or revision, a decree even if it be erroneous is still binding between the parties. 7. When a decree which is a nullity, for instance, where it is passed without bringing the legal representative on the record of a person who was dead at the date of the decree, or against a ruling prince without a certificate, is sought to be executed an objection in that behalf may be raised in a proceeding for execution. Again, when the decree is made by a court which has no inherent jurisdiction to make objection as to its validity may be raised in an execution proceeding if the objection appears on the face of the record: where the objection as to the jurisdiction of the Court to pass the decree does not appear on the face of the record and requires examination of the questions raised and decided at the trial or which could have been but have not been raised, the executing Court will have no jurisdiction to entertain an objection as to the validity of the decree even on the ground of absence of jurisdiction….” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 28. In Dhurandhar Prasad Singh v. Jai Prakash University13, this Court further expounded the powers of a court under section 47, CPC in the following words: “24. The exercise of powers under Section 47 of the Code is microscopic and lies in a very narrow inspection hole. Thus it is plain that executing court can allow objection under Section 47 of the Code to the executability of the decree if it is found that the same is void ab initio and a nullity, apart from the ground that the decree is not capable of execution under law either because the same was passed in ignorance of such a provision of law or the law was promulgated making a decree inexecutable after its passing….” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 13 (2001) 6 SCC 534 538 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 29. The legality of the of the High Court, together with the of the Executing Court that the former went on to uphold, has to be tested having regard to the settled position of law as noticed above and bearing in mind that the powers of an executing court, though narrower than an appellate or revisional court, can be exercised to dismiss an execution application if the decree put to execution is unmistakably found to suffer from an inherent lack of jurisdiction of the court that made the same rendering it a nullity in the eye of law.