When the deceased was going to his house, Ghasita (A3), his son Akhtar Hussain (A4) armed with Pharsa, Mohd. Jamil (A2) armed with Kulhari and Mohd. Yunus (A1) armed with lathi reached there to teach a lesson in connection with a fight broke between them a day before. As per the FIR, Ghasita (A3) and Akhtar Hussain (A4) gave Pharsa blows on the head of the deceased. Akhtar Hussain (A4) gave another blow whereas Jamil (A2) also inflicted injuries by Kulhari on the head of the deceased. When the deceased fell down Yunus (A1) gave lathi blows on the legs of the deceased and Ghasita (A3) gave another Pharsa blow over his head. When Ahmad (PW2) tried to rescue the deceased from the accused persons, Yunus (A1) gave lathi blows on the shoulder of Ahmad (PW2). Deenu (PW1) lodged the first information report. 7. During the investigation, Dr. M.S. Ranga (PW3) medically examined the deceased-Akbar and found the following injuries on his person: “(1) Incised wound 2.5 cm x 2 cm x bone deep placed over the scalp frontal region in the midline transversely with profuse bleeding. (2) Incised wound 4cm x 2mm x bone deep placed over the frontal region of the scalp profused bleeding placed just paralled and behind the injury no.1 (3) Incised wound 1cm x 2cm placed over the frontal region of the scalp just lateral to injury no. 1 & 2 placed vertically with profused bleeding. (4) Incised wound 2cm x 1cm bone deep placed over the frontal region of the scalp just behind the injury no.3 anteroposteriorly.” PW-3 opined that the injuries are caused within six hours by using sharp edged weapons. 408 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 8. Ahmad (PW2) received two injuries over his right shoulder and right hip joint respectively. Both having been caused by blunt weapon within six hours. The deceased-Akbar succumbed to the injuries on 11.01.1999. Dr. Chander Kant (PW7) of Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi conducted the post-mortem examination and found the following injuries: “1. One transversely placed stitched wound on right fronto temporal region. Total length 12 cm. Total number of stitches 12. on removal of the stitches the wound was partially surgical in nature. (a) One incised wound on right fronto region at the junction of frontal region with anterior aspect of right parietal region size 3 x 1.3 cm x bone deep. Margins were clean cut except at the places of stitched both angles acute. (b) One incised wound parallel to injury No. (a) size 2.1cm x 1.4 cm x bone deep, both margins clean cut except at the place of stitches. Underneath right fronto-parietal bones were in pieces in irregular shape and size, already removed in an area of 8 cms x 5 cms. 2. One incised wound vertically placed middle of fronto- parietal region 2.6 cms x 2 cm x bone deep. 3. Abrasion on back of left shoulder region size 4 cms x 3 cms. 4. Abrasions on occipital region left side size 2 cm x 1 cm .