Writ petitions were also filed for challenging the rules by which vend fees were levied in Uttar Pradesh, and provisions of various laws enacted by the then State of Bombay, and the States of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh by which exclusive privilege of dealing with any intoxicant was vested in the State. The matters were heard by a seven-Judge Bench in Synthetics (7J) (supra). 10. Justice Sabyasachi Mukharji, writing for himself and five other judges framed the following issues for consideration: “2. The main question that falls for consideration in these matters is whether the vend fee in respect of the industrial alcohol under different legislations and rules in different States is valid. […] The questions with which we are mainly concerned are the following: Whether the power to levy excise duty in case of industrial alcohol was with the State legislature or the Central legislature; What is the scope and ambit of Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution? 22 [1956] 1 SCR 393 : AIR 1956 SC 676 23 (1980) 2 SCC 441 [25-28] 24 (1980) 2 SCC 441 [28] 25 (1980) 2 SCC 441 [34] 1962 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Whether, the State Government has exclusive right or privilege of manufacturing, selling, distributing etc. of alcohols including industrial alcohol. In this connection, the extent, scope and ambit of such right or privilege has also to be examined.” 11. The decision, first, laid down the meaning of the terms, ‘rectified spirit’, ‘industrial alcohol’, and ‘ethyl alcohol’. The decision noted that the petitioners and appellants were manufacturers of ‘ethyl alcohol’ and that ‘ethyl alcohol’, which is also known as rectified spirit is an industrial alcohol. The judgement, used the three phases interchangeably: “74. It has to be borne in mind that by common standards ethyl alcohol (which has 95 per cent) is an industrial alcohol and is not fit for human consumption. The petitioners and the appellants were manufacturing ethyl alcohol(95 per cent) (also known as rectified spirit) which is an industrial alcohol. ISI specification has divided ethyl alcohol (as known in the trade) into several kinds of alcohol. Beverage and industrial alcohols are clearly and differently treated. Rectified spirit for industrial purposes is defined as “spirit purified by distillation having a strength not less than 95 per cent of volume by ethyl alcohol”. Dictionaries and technical books would show that rectified spirit (95 per cent) is an industrial alcohol and is not potable as such. It appears, therefore, that industrial alcohol which is ethyl alcohol (95 per cent) by itself is not only non-potable but is highly toxic. The range of spirits of potable alcohol is from country spirit to whisky and the ethyl alcohol content varies between 19 to about 43 per cent. These standards are according to the ISI specifications. In other words ethyl alcohol (95 per cent) is not alcoholic liquor for human consumption but can be used as a raw material input after processing and substantial dilution in the production of whisky, gin, country liquor, etc.” 12.