Digital Supreme Court Reports in the commission of offence, then this delay in lodging the FIR and letters Ex. DD. Ex. DE and Ex. DF reflecting the date prior to the FIR do not create such doubt going in favour of the accused but indicting the serious efforts of the police agency to check the crime in the society. Even the name of the accused has not been mentioned in special report Ex. PEEE sent on 20.04.2003, does not make any difference because this special report was sent when offence under section 364-A IPC was added and this was only the purpose for recording the special report. In Ravindra @ Ravi Bansi Gohan’s case (Supra), it was held by the Apex Court that FIR should not be on the basis of investigation but should be outcome of investigation. In the present case, FIR is not on the basis of investigation as it was only first information report given by PW 27 Jai Singh ASI when he was on patrolling duty and hence, this does not help the accused in any manner.” 44. We find that the aforesaid reasonings assigned by the trial Court are absolutely fanciful and unconvincing. The trial Court held that steps had been taken by the police to install Caller ID facilities on the telephone numbers installed at the house of Mahesh Garg(PW-1) on 9th April, 2003 in to check the crime. It is not in dispute that the kidnapped boy had returned home on 3rd April, 2003 itself and thus, there was no logical reason whatsoever for Mahesh Garg(PW-1) to have initiated steps for installing Caller ID facilities on the landline numbers thereafter. 45. The delay in lodging of the FIR was sought to be overlooked by both the Courts with a bald observation that the complainant party was under the fear of the threats given by the accused. Indisputably, Sachin Garg had returned home on 3rd April, 2003. Consequently, the complainant party could not be labouring under the fear of threats allegedly given by the accused after the victim had returned home. 46. The Investigating Officer(PW-37) stated that Mahesh Garg (PW-1) was not present in the house on 15th April, 2003. However, it is not the case of the prosecution that even Sachin Garg(PW-2) was not present in the house when the Investigating Officer(PW-37) visited [2024] 7 S.C.R. 359 Gaurav Maini v. The State of Haryana Kothi No. 81-A and recorded the statement of Shamlal Garg. Hence, a further doubt is created on the truthfulness of the prosecution case on account of non-examination of Sachin Garg (PW-2) by the police, on the date on which the incident of kidnapping came into the knowledge of the police officials. Thus, the very core of the prosecution case is shaken to its foundation on account of the complainant party failing to inform the police about the incident, in spite of ample opportunities. 47. Shamlal Garg, grandfather of the kidnapped boy-Sachin Garg(PW-2) was the first person who came into contact of the police officials on 15th April, 2003 and he admittedly disclosed about the incident to Investigating Officer(PW-37).