2,00,000 per annum) at the time of their marriage. 151 This aims to discourage child marriage, eradicate female infanticide, rectify the falling birth rate of girls, improve the health and educational status, curtail inequality and uphold the status of the girl child in the society. ln this scheme, there is a provision for a final payment of Rs. 1.00 lakh on completion of 21 years of age of the girl child, on appearing in class 12th examination birth and on early marriage Instructions were issued for Akshay Tritiya. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1577 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. the Jagananna Amma Vodi program aims to improve the Gross Enrollment Rate (GER) and promote higher education for girls. Rajasthan’s Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojana provides financial assistance to BPL families from SC, ST, and minority communities for the marriages of girls upon reaching 18 years. 109. These financial incentives serve as a powerful tool in reducing child marriage and enhancing girls’ education by alleviating the financial expenses of families. These States demonstrate promising results in increasing girls’ enrolment in schools through targeted financial assistance programs. However, these schemes must be supported by robust monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to ensure that the funds are used effectively and that the intended outcomes are achieved. iv. Other initiatives 110. In addition to training, awareness, and financial support, states have implemented various structural measures to reinforce the PCMA. For example, some States conduct regular meetings with school authorities to identify and reintegrate school dropouts, using education as a key tool to prevent child marriages. States like Assam collaborate with NGOs and CBOs to rehabilitate victims, provide compensation, and facilitate home visits through DCPU staff. Several states have also drafted action plans: Uttar Pradesh has District Action Plans for ending child marriage and adolescent empowerment, incorporating and adapting activities from the State Action Plan. Rajasthan introduced its State Action Plan in 2017,152 anchoring multiple interventions and activities to address the root causes of child marriage. These plans include partnerships and monitorable indicators, ensuring that progress is tracked and evaluated for effectiveness and relevance. 111. Additionally, some States like Karnataka have created online portals to monitor child marriage cases, enhancing transparency and accountability.153 These structural initiatives, supported by partnerships with community organizations and digital monitoring tools, are crucial 152 Rajasthan Government (2017), ‘State Strategy and Action Plan for Prevention of Child Marriage: Towards creating a child marriage free Rajasthan; The document articulates the principles, strategy, vision, objectives, actions, coordination mechanisms and resources that will ensure effective implementation of the actions/interventions to end child marriage in Rajasthan. 153 Karnataka’s online portal ‘Surakshini’ keeps track of the child’s status, and every department official involved has to log in regularly. 1578 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to a holistic approach that prevents child marriages and strengthens protection for vulnerable children. v. Impact analysis of State schemes 112. The data reveals that a comprehensive, multifaceted approach involving training schemes, awareness programs, and financial incentives is essential for effectively combating child marriage.