However, there are exceptions to clause (c). First is when goods or services, or both, are received by a taxable person for the construction of “plant and machinery”, as defined in the explanation to Section 17. The second exception is where the works contract service supplied for the construction of immovable property is an input service for further supply of the works contract. 830 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 32. Clause (d) of Section 17(5) is different from clause (c) in various aspects. Clause (d) seeks to exclude from the purview of sub- section (1) of Sections 16 and 18, goods or services or both received by a taxable person to construct an immovable property on his own account. There are two exceptions in clause (d) to the exclusion from ITC provided in the first part of Clause (d). The first exception is where goods or services or both are received by a taxable person to construct an immovable property consisting of a “plant or machinery”. The second exception is where goods and services or both are received by a taxable person for the construction of an immovable property made not on his own account. Construction is said to be on a taxable person’s “own account” when (i) it is made for his personal use and not for service or (ii) it is to be used by the person constructing as a setting in which business is carried out. However, construction cannot said to be on a taxable person’s “own account” if it is intended to be sold or given on lease or license. 33. Section 17(5) incorporates an explanation which provides that the word “construction” used in clauses (c) and (d) includes reconstruction, renovation, additions, alterations or repairs, to the extent of capitalisation, to the immovable property. Thus, a very wide meaning has been assigned to the expression “construction” by the said explanation. 34. There is hardly a similarity between clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5) except for the fact that both clauses apply as an exception to sub- section (1) of Section 16. Perhaps the only other similarity is that both apply to the construction of an immovable property. Clause (c) uses the expression “plant and machinery”, which is specifically defined in the explanation. Clause (d) uses an expression of “plant or machinery”, which is not specifically defined. 35. Now, what is material is the explanation to Section 17, which reads thus: “Explanation.––For the purposes of this Chapter and Chapter VI, the expression ―plant and machinery means apparatus, equipment, and machinery fixed to earth by foundation or structural support that are used for making outward supply of goods or services or both and includes such foundation and structural supports but excludes— [2024] 10 S.C.R. 831 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. (i) land, building or any other civil structures; (ii) telecommunication towers; and (iii) pipelines laid outside the factory premises.” The explanation defines the meaning of the expression “plant and machinery”.