82. Inchoate crimes are defined as criminal acts that are committed in preparation for a further offence. The term “inchoate” itself means “undeveloped” or “incomplete.” 83. The Doctrine of Inchoate Crimes is a cornerstone of criminal jurisprudence. It is aimed at addressing the legal culpability of those who engage in a conduct that is preparatory to the commission of any substantive offence. Inchoate crimes, are often referred to and described as an incomplete or preliminary offence, that capture the essence of criminal intent and the preparatory actions that precede the commission of a criminal act. It underscores the principle that the law does not merely respond to offences already committed but also intervenes when a crime is in the process of being committed, thus thereby protecting public and safety. Inchoate crimes represent a critical aspect of criminal law, embodying the legal system’s proactive and deterrent approach to crime itself. 84. The primary rationale for the existence of inchoate crimes within the legal framework is the prevention of harm by intervening at an early stage i.e before the potential damage is caused. It recognizes that though certain actions do not result in an offence, nonetheless those actions pose a sufficient threat to society to warrant legal intervention. The jurisprudence surrounding inchoate crimes has evolved as a balance struck between i) the need for early intervention on the one hand with ii) the cardinal principle of criminal law that no one should be punished merely for their thoughts or intentions on the other, by criminalizing only those actions of an individual that demonstrate a clear movement towards the commission of a criminal offense. It is deeply rooted in the preventive or deterrent nature or approach of a particular law by criminalizing those conduct, actions or intentions that pose a significant risk of harm. An inchoate offence requires towing a delicate balance between the need for prevention of potential threat to the society and the risk of undoing the sacrosanct fundamental principle of ‘actus non facit reum nisi mens sit rea’ in to ensure that the law remains a powerful tool [2024] 10 S.C.R. 219 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. in the maintenance of public . This inherent tension between respecting the autonomy of an individual’s thought and state of mind with the societal interest and safety is often balanced and resolved by carefully shaping and defining the point at which any particular action or preparatory step becomes sufficiently proximate to the commission of an offence. In other words, the law would only intervene at the point where an individual has acquired the means to commit a further offence, and will not punish the mere thought of committing an offence in the absence of any overt steps towards the same. Thus, the critical or central component of any inchoate crime is the preliminary or preparatory actus reus that sufficiently reflects the essence or existence of a criminal intent. 85. Offence pertaining to the possession of any contraband is a prime example and one of the facets of an inchoate crime, as they involve the possession of items that are prohibited by law due to their inherent dangerousness or their use in the commission of further criminal offences.