08.12.2023 and tantamounts to contempt – Respondent No. 7’s contumacious actions also contributed to the illegal detention of the petitioner for almost 48 hours after the period of police remand had come to an end – Detention of the accused till 18.12.23 was unconstitutional and contrary to the letter and spirit of Articles 20 and 21 – Respondent Nos.4 and 7 guilty of committing contempt of this Court’s dtd. 08.12.2023. [Paras 45-47, 59.3, 59.4, 60] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.438 – Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 – s.482 – Anticipatory bail – Investigating Officer (IO), if has the liberty to seek police custody remand of the accused after anticipatory bail has been granted by the competent Court – Plea of the Government of Gujarat and the High Court of Gujarat about such long-standing practice prevailing in the State of Gujarat: Held: Power to grant anticipatory bail is to be exercised with a great degree of circumspection and not in a routine manner – Once, a Court exercises such power bearing in mind the strict parameters applicable to grant of anticipatory bail, then giving a handle to the IO to seek police custody remand of the accused, would virtually negate and frustrate the very purpose behind the of anticipatory bail – Neither s.438, CrPC nor s. 482, BNSS, 2023 contemplate any such liberty to the IO – The practice prevalent in the State [2024] 8 S.C.R. 237 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. of Gujarat that the Courts while dealing with the anticipatory bail application routinely impose the restrictive condition whereby, the IOs are granted blanket permission to seek police custody remand of the accused, in whose favour the of anticipatory bail is passed, is in direct contravention to the ratio of the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi) reported as [2020] 2 SCR 1. [Paras 55, 58] Criminal jurisprudence – Power to grant police remand – Exercise of, not to be in a routine manner – FIR was filed against the accused-petitioner in a prima facie civil dispute pertaining to sale and purchase of property – He was remanded to police custody during the currency of the interim passed by Supreme Court granting anticipatory bail to him – Impermissibility: Held: Before exercising the power to grant police custody remand, the Courts must apply judicial mind to the facts of the case so as to arrive at a satisfaction as to whether the police custody remand of the accused is genuinely required – Mere assertion on the part of the State while opposing the plea for anticipatory bail that custodial investigation is required would not be sufficient – The State would have to show or indicate more than prima facie case as to why custodial investigation of the accused is required for the purpose of investigation – Courts are not messengers of the investigating agencies and the remand applications should not be allowed in a routine manner – In the present case, the FIR against the petitioner was pertaining to a dispute which prima facie appears to be of a civil nature and hence, the Magistrate ought not to have toed the line of the Investigating Officer while granting police custody remand of the petitioner – Application seeking police custody remand of the petitioner could not have been entertained without seeking permission of this Court as observed in Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi) reported as [2020] 2 SCR 1.