at Raghunathpur, District Purulia. Complaint Case No. 39 of 2006. 1958 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Bijoy Kumar Moni son of Sri Murari Mohan Moni, resident of Raghunathpur, P.O. & P.S. Raghunathpur, Dist. Purulia. …Complainant -Versus- Paresh Manna son of not known c/o. Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd., P.O. Chatal, P.S. Ghatal, District East Midnapur. …Accused Person Offence committed: U/s. 138 of Negotiable Instrument Act, 1881. Date of occurrence: Since August, 2006 onwards. Name of witnesses: 1. Sri Ashoke Mondal s/o. Naba Kumar Mondal, Manager of U.B.I Raghunathpur Branch, Dist. Purulia. 2. Sanjoy Ganguly s/o. Late Dhirendranath Ganguly. 3. Shyamapada Kumbhakar, s/o. Late Gopal Chandra Kumbhakar both of Raghunathpur, P.O. & P.S. Raghunathpur, Dist. Purulia. The humble petition on behalf of the complainant Most respectfully showeth: 1. That the complainant hails from a very respectable family of Raghunathpun, District Purulia and he has been engaged in construction enterprise and considering his credibility and goodwill the local U.B.I. Raghunathpur Branch has provided him with a trade loan account bearing A/C No. 9. 2. That the complainant in operating his trade loan account has very often visits to the U.B.I. Raghunathpur Branch and thus a close tie grew up with the Branch Manager, Sri Ashoke Mondal. 3. That sometime in the month of January, 2006 the complainant along with witness No. 2 had met the Branch Manager, U.B.I. Raghunathpur Branch and there he noticed the accused present in his chamber. Sri Ashoke Mondal introduced the accused to the complainant saying that the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1959 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. latter is an established personality in construction work at Raghunathpur and is a solvent party having trade loan A/C in his Branch. Sri Mondal also informed the complainant that he knows the accused personally and he is the owner of a renowned nursing home styled “Shilabati” Hospital Pvt. Ltd. of Ghatal, East Midnapur. Sri Mondal also apprised the complainant that the accused is contemplating to start a nursing home Project at Raghunathpur with huge investments. 4. That the complainant innocently believed all the narration of Sri Mondal. Accused also taking advantage of such introduction grew familiar with the complainant and also apprised him in details his contemplated project at Raghunathpur and sought for complainant’s co-operation in as much as he is a man of the locality. The Complainant was greatly impressed by the talking of the accused and assured to cooperate with him in all respect. 5. That the accused thereafter kept close contact with the complainant and over phone from Ghatal. On 28.02.2006 the complainant along with witnesses Nos. 2 and 3 had come to the U.B.I. Raghunathpur Branch and there the accused met him and informed that he is in dire need of Rs. 7,00,000/- (Seven Lacs) only for a couple of months for incidental expenses relating to his contemplated project. Complainant innocently believed the accused and issued a cheque No. 951764 on his trade loan A/C for Rs. 7,00,000/- in favour of the accused on 28.02.06.