This is also clear from the language and the substantive portions of the provisions included in Part II of the Constitution, which deals with Citizenship. 18. Article 5 of the Constitution deals with “Citizenship at the commencement of the Constitution”. The Article stipulates that every person who has their domicile in the territory of India will be a citizen of India at the commencement of the Constitution, if any of the following criteria is fulfilled: a. The person was born in the territory of India; or b. Either of their parents were born in the territory of India; or c. The person was ordinarily resident in the territory of India for not less than five years immediately preceding the commencement of the Constitution. 19. Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Constitution begin with a non-obstante clause, overriding the provisions of Article 5. Articles 6 and 7 recognise the largest migration in human history28 following the partition of undivided India into India and Pakistan. Article 6 deals with the citizenship of those who migrated from Pakistan to India. The provision states that notwithstanding anything in Article 5, a person who migrated to 26 BR Ambedkar, Constituent Assembly Debates (10 August 1949) 27 BR Ambedkar, Constituent Assembly Debates (10 August 1949) “Now, Sir, this article refers to, citizenship not in any general sense but to citizenship on the date of the commencement of this Constitution. It is not the object of this particular article to lay down a permanent law of citizenship for this country. The business of laying down a permanent law of citizenship has been left to Parliament, and as Members will see from the wording of article 6 as I have moved the entire matter regarding citizenship has been left to Parliament to determine by any law that it may deem fit.”[emphasis supplied] 28 UNHRC, The State of the World’s Refugees 2000L Fifty Years of Humanitarian Action (Oxford University Press) 59 1252 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the territory of India from Pakistan would deemed to be a citizen of India at the commencement of the Constitution if the following two conditions are satisfied:29 a. he or his parents or grandparents were born in India as defined in the Government of India Act 1935 (which included the present Pakistan and Bangladesh) [Article 6(a)]; and b. if (i) he migrated before 19 July 1948, he must have been an ordinary resident since then [Article 6(b)(i)]; or (ii) he migrated on or after 19 July 1948, he must register as a citizen of India on an application made by him before the commencement of the Constitution in the manner prescribed. A person can be registered under this provision only if he has resided in the territory for at least six months before the application. [Article 6(b)(ii)].30 20. A brief historical background is necessary to understand the objective of this provision and in particular, the division of the migrants into two classes: those who migrated before and after 19 July 1948.