However, cash donations are still permitted even after the introduction of the Electoral Bond Scheme; The Central Government ignored the objections which were raised by both the RBI and the ECI to the Electoral Bond Scheme; The statutory amendments and the Electoral Bond Scheme which mandates non-disclosure of information of electoral funding are unconstitutional because: i. They defeat the purpose of introducing provisions mandating disclosure of information on political funding in the RPA and the Companies Act which was to enhance transparency in electoral funding; ll. 169५ violate Article 19(1)(a) which guarantees to the voter the right to information concerning the affairs of the public [2024] 2 S.C.R. 467 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. and the government. * This includes the right to information about financial contributions to political parties because the Constitution through the Tenth Schedule recognizes that political parties have a decisive control over the formation of Government and voting by members of the Legislature in the Legislative Assembly; iil. They violate Article 21 because the non-disclosure of information of political contributions promotes corruption” and quid pro quo arrangements. The available data indicates that more than ninety four percent of the total electoral bonds are purchased in denominations of rupees one crore. This indicates that bonds are purchased by corporates and not individuals. The limited disclosure clause in the Electoral Bond Scheme prevents investigating agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate from identifying corruption; and They violate the rights of shareholders of Companies who are donating money to political parties by preventing disclosure of information to them; and The statutory amendments and the Electoral Bond Scheme subvert democracy and interfere with free and fair elections because the huge difference in the funds received by ruling parties in the States and Centre vitiates a level playing field between different parties and between parties and independent candidates. 31. MrKapil Sibal, learned senior counsel made the following submissions: a. The amendments and the Electoral Bond Scheme skew free and fair elections by permitting unlimited contributions to political parties by corporate entities and removing the requirement of disclosure of information about political funding; Freedom of a voter in the negative connotation refers to the freedom to cast their vote without interference and intimidation. Freedom in the positive connotation includes the freedom to 48 Relied on PUCL v. Union of India, [202 0SC3R ]113 6 : (2003) 4 SCC 399; ADR v. Union of India, [2002] 3 SCR 696 : (2002) 5 SCC 294; Anjali Bhardwaj v. Union of India, [2021 S9CR ]19 9 : (2019) 18 SCC 246 49 Relied on Kanwar Lal Gupta ५ Amar Nath Chawla, [1927 S5CR ]25 9 : 1975 SCC (3) 646 468 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports vote on the basis of complete and relevant information. This includes information about financial contributions to political parties; The argument of the Union of India that Courts should show judicial restraint is erroneous because the amendments in question relate to the electoral process and do not pertain to economic policy; The presumption of constitutionality should not apply to statutes which alter the ground rules of the electoral process.