In Indian law, it was not the arbitral award but only the decree of the court that could be enforced by an application for execution.39 Hence, the Court found that rather than the date of the arbitral award, the date of the and decree under Section 17 is the most appropriate one to determine the conversion rate as it was only then that the arbitral award became enforceable. 6. The above extensive discussion on Forasol (supra) is necessary to understand the principles set out by this Court to determine the relevant date for conversion. The law laid down in this case was 35 ibid, paras 61-62. 36 ibid, paras 63-65. 37 Section 17 reads: “17. in terms of award.—Where the Court sees no cause to remit the award or any of the matters referred to arbitration for reconsideration or to set aside the award, the Court shall, after the time for making an application to set aside the award has expired, or such application having been made, after refusing it, proceed to pronounce according to the award, and upon the so pronounced a decree shall follow and no appeal shall lie from such decree except on the ground that it is in excess of, or not otherwise in accordance with, the award.” 38 See Section 26(1) of the Arbitration Act, 1950, which provides: “26. Enforcement of award.—(1) An award on an arbitration agreement may, by leave of the High Court or a Judge thereof, be enforced in the same manner as a or to the same effect, and where leave is so given, may be entered in terms of the award…” 39 Forasol (supra), paras 65-66. 308 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports subsequently affirmed by a 3-judge bench of this Court in Renusagar Power Co. Ltd v. General Electric Co40 in the context of the Foreign Awards (Recognition and Enforcement) Act, 1961. A foreign arbitral award in favour of the respondent-claimant, which is an American company, was passed where the amount was expressed in US dollars. The respondent then filed for enforcement of this award before the Bombay High Court under the Foreign Awards (Recognition and Enforcement) Act, 1961 as the appellant was an Indian company. Both the single judge and division bench of the High Court allowed the enforcement of the award and dismissed Renusagar’s objections under Section 7 of this Act. The matter was then appealed to this Court, which dealt with several issues on objections to the enforceability of foreign awards, including the scope of inquiry under Section 7 and the meaning of ‘public policy’. The most relevant issues framed by the Court, for our purpose, are which law would govern the rate of exchange for conversion in proceedings for enforcement of a foreign arbitral award and whether Forasol (supra) required reconsideration. The Court held that the applicable law to determine the proper date for conversion is the lex fori,41 which would be Indian law. After extensively discussing the principles under English law as well as the reasoning in Forasol (supra), the Court rejected the contention that Forasol (supra) required reconsideration.42 7.