Recorded forest area mainly consists of Reserved Forests (RF) and Protected Forests (PF), which have been notified under the provisions [2024] 1 S.C.R. 735 T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others of Indian Forest Act, 1927 or its counterpart State Acts. Beside RFs and PFs, the recorded forest area may also include all such areas, which have been recorded as forests in the revenue records or have been constituted so under any state Act or local laws. Recorded Forest area may have blank areas with tree density less than 10 % such as degraded lands, wetlands, rivers, riverbeds, creeks in mangroves, snow covered areas, glaciers and other snow covered .areas, alpine pastures, cold deserts, grasslands etc. As per the definition of forest cover, such areas are excluded from the assessment of the forest cover. On the other hand, there are areas outside the recorded forests with tree patches of one hectare and more with canopy density above 10%. For example plantations on the private community lands, road, rail and canal sides, rubber, tea and coffee plantations etc. Such areas also constitute forest cover and are li included in the forest cover assessment.” 66. Upon examining the FSI Report, a clear distinction emerges between ‘Forest Cover’ and ‘Recorded Forest Area.’ ‘Forest Cover’ encompasses all lands exceeding 1 (one) hectare in size with a tree canopy exceeding 10%, regardless of land use, ownership, and legal status. This category may encompass various features like orchards, bamboo groves, palm plantations, etc., and is evaluated through remote sensing techniques. Conversely, the term ‘Recorded Forest Area’ or ‘Forest Area’ refers to all geographic areas officially designated as ‘Forests’ in government records. Recorded forest areas primarily include Reserved Forests (RF) and Protected Forests (PF), which are notified under the provisions of the Indian Forest Act, 1927, or equivalent State Acts. In addition to RFs and PFs, the recorded forest area may also cover regions recorded as forests in revenue records or established as such under any State Act or local laws. 67. The State of Goa is one of the smallest States in the country having geographical area of 3,702 sq. km. As per the India State of Forest Report, 2017 published by FSI, the forest cover of Goa is 2,229 sq. km. which is 60.21% of the total geographical area of the State. It is three times higher than the National Forest Cover which is 21.54%. If the tree cover of the State is included which is 323 sq. km. the total 736 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports forest and tree cover of Goa works out to be 2,552 sq. km. which is 68.94% of the geographical area of the State. As rightly pointed out by Mr. Kohli, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the State of Goa the change of existing criteria in determining the deemed forest would have a negative impact on the conservation measures being undertaken hitherto and the reasons enumerated in paragraph 15 could support the said contentions.