There is lack of space inside the jail for construction of addition male cell. As the number of prisoners increases, a situation of public unrest arise. Keeping in mind the density of prisoners, there seems to be a need for construction of a sub-jail inside the district. The Committee unanimously decided to recommend for construction of a sub-jail inside the District between Manjhaul Sub-Division and Bakhri Sub-Division. 2 Central Jail Construction of toilet cum bathroom Bhagalpur/ with 10 commodes is required in Women District Mahila Mandal Jail, Bhagalpur for the Jail Bhagalpur purpose of female prisoners. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1045 In Re-Inhuman Conditions In 1382 Prisons There is a need to construct double washing closets (toilets, urinals) inside the wards in Mahila Mandal Jail, Bhagalpur as per Model Jail Manual, 2016, which is not available in the jail. At present, the provision of flush toilet is not available in Mahila Mandal Jail, Bhagalpur. According to the Model Jail Manual, 2016, all the previously constructed toilets are required to be converted into flush toilets and the previously non-functional toilets in the jail are required to be repaired and renovated. At present, there is a provision of one washroom for every 10 prisoners in Mahila Mandal Jail, Bhagalpur, but it needs repair/ renovation. Presently, modern kitchen is not installed in Mahila Mandal Jail, Bhagalpur. As a result, as per Model Jail Manual, 2016, additional modern kitchen is expected to be installed as per the prison capacity. 3 Central Jail On the point of welfare of women Buxar prisoners and facilities for children lodged with their mother in jails, the Jail Superintendent stated that construction of canteen, crèche, toilets and bathrooms, advanced kitchen of women is required. 4 District Patna Patna has Adarsh Central Beur, District Jail Phulwarisharif and 4 sub jails. However, there is no report regarding the requirements of the said jails. 1046 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 5 District Jail One female ward is needed for the Rohtas women inmates during the meeting, (Sasaram) Jail Superintendent submitted that place is available for enhancing the [As against capacity of existing jail. capacity of 30 women prisoners, there are 82 women prisoners lodged in jail]. 6 District Jail For the treatment of women inmates Samastipur service of one Gynaecologist (sic) is required at least once in a week. Hence, Jail Superintendent is directed to communicate the matter to Civil Surgeon, Samastipur for the arrangement of one Gynaecologist (sic). It is also recommended by the Committee that any child between age 4-6 years, who is living with his/ her mother, he/she will be enrolled to the nearest school for proper education. …’ 12. From the aforesaid, it transpires that no specific report regarding requirements for the Adarsh Central Jail, Beur, Phulwarisharif and 4 Sub-jails of the said jails, has been furnished. 13. Ergo, on the recommendation of the AC, a direction is hereby issued to the State of Bihar not only to implement on priority basis, the recommendations supra but further, to ensure that the exercise contemplated is undertaken on an urgent basis for all the jails in its jurisdiction.