The 1998 Act came into force only on 27.05.2004 by way of a notification. Hence, 20 Vijay v. Union of India [2023] 15 SCR 293 2023 : SCC OnLine SC 1585, 2023 INSC 1030, para 11 21 The relevant portion of Section 3 of the 1998 Act reads: “3. Instrument chargeable with duty.— Subject to the provisions of this Act and the exemptions contained in the Schedule, the following instruments shall be chargeable with duty of the amount indicated in the Schedule as the proper duty therefor respectively, that is to say,— (a) every instrument mentioned in that Schedule, which, not having been previously executed by any person, is executed in the State on or after the date of commencement of this Act; (b) every instrument mentioned in that Schedule, which, not having been previously executed by any person, is executed out of the State on or after the said date, relates to any matter or thing done or to be done in the State and is received in the State, or relates to any property situate in the State.” [2024] 5 S.C.R. 255 Life Insurance Corporation of India v. The State of Rajasthan and Ors. at the time that the relevant instruments were executed, the 1952 Act was still in force and the stamp duty is leviable under the same. II. Legislative Competence 9. The learned ASG has forcefully contended that the state does not have the power to collect and levy stamp duty on insurance policies under the state enactment as only the Union can prescribe the rate of stamp duty for such instruments. He has taken us through the constitutional scheme on the fields of legislation under the Seventh Schedule on matters of stamp duty. The relevant entries are Entry 91 of List I, Entry 63 of List II, and Entry 44 of List III, which have been extracted here for reference: Entry 91 of List I: “91. Rates of stamp duty in respect of bills of exchange, cheques, promissory notes, bills of lading, letters of credit, policies of insurance, transfer of shares, debentures, proxies and receipts.” Entry 63 of List II: “63. Rates of stamp duty in respect of documents other than those specified in the provisions of List I with regard to rates of stamp duty.” Entry 44 of List III: “44. Stamp duties other than duties or fees collected by means of judicial stamps, but not including rates of stamp duty.” 10. Article 246 of the Constitution states that the Parliament has the exclusive power to make laws with respect to any matter in List I, the Parliament and the legislatures of any state have the power to make laws with respect to any matter in List III, and the legislature of any state has the exclusive power to make laws for such state or any part thereof with respect to any matter in List II.22 22 Article 246 reads: “246. Subject-matter of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of States.—(1) Notwithstanding anything in clauses (2) and (3), Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the “Union List”).