Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. Muslim personal law with the secular law of maintenance bearing in mind the constitutional objective of preserving and promoting the dignity of Muslim women. The expression ‘provision’ denotes a forward-looking approach. It could not be circumscribed to the period of iddat but any limit on the same had to have a nexus to the vagrancy of the wife and the sufficiency of maintenance. Therefore, Section 3(1)(a) entitles the divorced wife to an amount that would be necessary in view of her essential expenses on residence, food, clothing, medicine etc. 28. I find that the 1986 Act was upheld by this Court in Danial Latifi on the basis of a purposive interpretation that mitigated the possibility of the absurd consequence of denying access to justice to a divorced Muslim woman. The premise of such an interpretation is that the expression “divorced woman” is defined in Section 2(a) of the said Act to mean a Muslim woman who has married according to Muslim law and has been divorced by, or has obtained divorce from, her husband in accordance with Muslim Law. A plain reading of the aforesaid expression would also indicate that the right created in favour of a Muslim divorced woman is in addition to and not in derogation of any other law for the time being in force. This would mean that Section 125 of the CrPC applies to such a Muslim woman also and the definition of wife in Section 125 of the CrPC including a divorced wife (irrespective of the faith she follows) would not detract from such a divorced Muslim wife also claiming maintenance under that provision. This is despite Section 3 creating new rights insofar as such a divorced Muslim woman is concerned. The scope and ambit of the non-obstante clause must be given its full effect and force. In other words, the intent of the Parliament which can be gathered from the use of such a non-obstante clause is to enhance the right of a divorced Muslim woman in addition to what she would have been entitled to under Section 125 of the CrPC. If the intent of the Parliament was otherwise, i.e., to curtail the rights of a divorced Muslim woman then the non-obstante clause would not have found a place in sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the 1986 Act. This is evident from the fact that while enacting the 1986 Act, Parliament did not simultaneously or at anytime thereafter create any bar for a divorced Muslim woman from claiming maintenance under Section 125 of the CrPC and thereby constrain her to proceed to make a claim only under the provisions of the 1986 Act. Neither is there 1296 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports any bar, express or implied under the 1986 Act, to the effect that a divorced Muslim woman cannot unilaterally seek maintenance under Section 125 of the CrPC. One cannot read Section 3 of the 1986 Act containing the non-obstante clause so as to restrict or diminish the right to maintenance of a divorced Muslim woman under Section 125 of the CrPC and neither is it a substitute for the latter.