Digital Supreme Court Reports (o) The final decision regarding the disposal of the assets shall be at the complete discretion of the HPSC and once the sale is made the property shall vest in the buyer, free from all encumbrances. (p) The Petitioners or their nominees will be at liberty to join the auction proceedings and bring prospective buyers. They may submit their suggestions to the HPSC, if any. However, the HPSC will have full discretion to decide on those suggestions, and the Petitioners shall not be entitled to agitate on such issues before this Court or any other forum; (q) The objections, if any, submitted by the Companies against the Forensic Audit Report and which are stated to be pending before the MPID Court, Mumbai, are directed to be decided within two months. A copy of the shall be forwarded by the MPID Court to the HPSC for its information and record; and (r) SEBI is directed to provide a separate account where the sale proceeds shall be deposited. Such account shall be jointly operated by the Chairperson or his nominee Member along with the Member, nominated by SEBI. Refund Process 8. Having delineated the manner in which the HSPC will auction the assets and accommodate the sale proceeds in a dedicated account, the following process may be undertaken for the refund to investors: (i) The HPSC shall identify the number of investors and database of such investors, in consultation with all the concerned agencies / State Representatives and, if so required, the Representatives of the Companies; (ii) The HPSC shall thereafter determine the amount to be refunded to each investor; (iii) The HPSC shall determine a threshold recovery limit beyond which the refund process can be started; (iv) The HPSC shall also decide upon a category of investors based on their investment amount so that the refund can be done in a segregated and simultaneous manner; (v) As already stated, the HPSC shall open an Escrow Account with a bank designated by SEBI, transfer all amounts from the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 741 Balasaheb Keshawrao Bhapkar & Ors. v. Securities and Exchange Board of India & Ors. account monitored presently by the MPID Court, Mumbai, and deposit all sale proceeds in that interest-bearing account; (vi) The HPSC shall decide the nature of documents to be sought from the investors to determine their claims and the mode of application by the investors (online/physical) to determine their eligibility for refund, as well as the mode of refund (online/draft/ both); and (vii) Investor’s claims shall be invited through a public notice that shall be widely publicized in one English newspaper and in one vernacular newspaper, popular in the State. Obligation of the Petitioners and their Companies 9. Having regard to the duties and obligations to be carried out by the Petitioners and their companies, the following may be done: (i) The Petitioners and their Companies shall forthwith submit details of all the immovable assets/jewellery items to the HPSC and shall also handover original title deeds or other relevant documents as may be in their possession; (ii) The Petitioners and their Companies shall execute the necessary sale deeds within the time frame and as per the instructions of the HPSC after the sale is confirmed and the full consideration is received in the bank account to be operated by HPSC; and (iii) In the event of any pending title dispute, the HPSC shall determine the rights of the Sai Prasad Group of Companies in such properties for the limited purpose of auctioning them.