While no part of a statute and no word of a statute can be construed in isolation, statutes have to be construed so that every word has a place and everything is in its place. We draw inspiration for the above understanding of the manner of interpreting a statute from the decision of this Court in Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless General Finance & Investment Co. Ltd.14 26. Wearing the glasses of the statute-maker, we need to read the text as set in the context. What is most significant is that the legislature has used both the verbs ‘may’ and shall’ in sub-section (1) of Section 148, N.I. Act, but in different contexts. As we read and understand the sub-section, what we find is that the verb ‘may’, implies discretion; and, if intended to have its natural meaning, it would refer to the discretion left to the Appellate Court to determine as to whether such court should any deposit to be made by the appellant or not pending hearing of the appeal against the conviction and sentence recorded by the trial court. What Jamboo Bhandari (supra) lays down is that deposit may not be ed if the Appellate Court finds a case to be exceptional not calling for a deposit and the reasons for not ing a deposit are recorded in the . On the contrary, the verb ‘shall’ used in the same sentence and distanced from the verb ‘may’ by 8 (eight) words, typically implies an obligation or duty that is referable to the quantum of deposit, that is, the deposit, in any case, must not be less than 20% of the fine or compensation awarded by the trial court. What follows is that once the Appellate Court is satisfied that a deposit is indeed called for, in an appropriate case, such court’s power is in no way 14 [1987] 2 SCR 1 : AIR 1987 SC 1023 1284 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports fettered to call upon the appellant to deposit more than 20% of the awarded compensation, but in no case can it be less than 20%. Interestingly, while the proviso to sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of Section 148 use ‘shall’ in the relevant context, sub-section (3) again reverts to ‘may’ and its proviso to ‘shall’. User of the verbs ‘may’ and ‘shall’ in different contexts in the same section is clearly suggestive of the legislative intent to mean what it said. 27. We may take the discussion a little forward to emphasize our point of view. There could arise a case before the Appellate Court where such court is capable of forming an opinion, even in course of considering as to what would be the appropriate quantum of fine or compensation to be kept in deposit, that the impugned conviction and the consequent sentence recorded/imposed by the trial court is so wholly incorrect and erroneous that it is only a matter of time for the same to be set aside and that ing a deposit would be unnecessarily burdensome for the appellant.