The sale deed dated 04.06.1968 (Ext.P1/C) is a registered sale deed whereunder the plaintiff had purchased the suit land from late Shri Sita Ram Aggarwal. 26. It is a fact that the Trial Court held Ext.P1/C-sale deed dated 04.06.1968 as void on twin grounds. As a matter of fact, the Trial Court held that in Ext.P1/C the age of Sh. Sitaram was shown as 22 years and hence, when the suit land was purchased in the name of Sitaram on 15.03.1963, Sh. Sitaram must have been aged 17 years. Further, it was held:- [2024] 10 S.C.R. 725 Neelam Gupta & Ors. v. Rajendra Kumar Gupta & Anr. “Till otherwise is not proved this evidence of age shows the incapacity of self-earning and creates strong presumption that suit land was purchased by the income of joint family.” 27. The Trial Court further held in paragraphs 16 and 17 of its thus:- “16. Now the analysis of the point that did the Plaintiff purchases the suit land through Exhibit P-1 sale deed or whether any right on the suit land accrues to the Plaintiff on the basis of document Exhibit P-1 C. According to previous paragraph the burden to prove the illegality of Exhibit P-1C is on the Defendants and to prove Exhibit P-1 illegal Defendants have failed and in the previous concluded issue it is held that the suit land after being purchased in the name of Sitaram was the property of joint family. There is no evidence that shows that Sitaram was the head of the family therefore, it is held that Sitaram had no right to sell the suit land by the sale deed Exhibit P-1 C executed without any authority or right is void. 17. Another ground for concluding that Exhibit P-1 C is void is that when it is proved that the Plaintiff on the date of sale i.e. 04/06/1968 was one of the member of joint family and was minor at that time then what was the need for which one member of the joint family to sell the Suit land to another member of the same joint family. On the date of sale the Plaintiff being the purchaser was minor and had no capacity of earning money on his own. The business of Plaintiff’s father was joint business. It appears that the intention of the joint family behind that action was to keep the suit land and other properties of sitaram in the name of the Plaintiff. But it is pertinent to mention that even after such intention Exhibit P-1 C is not transfer on papers only and therefore Exhibit P-1 does not bear any legal weightage.” 28. It is to be noted that though the First Appellate Court reversed the finding of the Trial Court that suit land is a Joint Hindu Family property, it did not consider in detail and arrive at any positive finding as to the correctness or otherwise of the declaration of the Trial 726 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court of Ext.P1/C as void.