16. However, on facts, we may not be required to deal with the issue of whether a poly pack containing 33 plus one small package was intended for retail sale. The reason is that the specific case made out by the respondent in reply to the show cause notices was that the respondent was selling HDPE bags containing 100 poly packs containing 33 plus one smaller pack has not been rejected by the Commissioner. In fact, the Commissioner seems to have accepted the contention, as seen from Clause (d) of paragraph 16 of the - in-original. In clause (d), the Commissioner held thus: “(d) Further the intentions of the assessee that HDPE bag is a wholesale package and the larger polypack packages are group packages intended for retail sale is also expressed from the fact that there is no requirement under Rule 29 of the Standards of Weights & Measures (Packaged Commodities), Rules, 1977 of mentioning sale price or unit sale price or the MRP on a wholesale package whereas their larger polypack package contains the declaration “MAX UNIT SALE PRICE” and they are not declaring sale price on HDPE bag (it has also been admitted by them in the reply to Show Cause Notice that their HDPE bag is a wholesale package), therefore, this larger polypack package containing the declaration “MAX UNIT SALE PRICE” cannot be considered as a wholesale package but can be considered only a group package intended for retail sale. Only the HDPE bag of the assessee, which contains 100 larger polypack packages and 126 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports does not contain declaration of sale price, would be a wholesale package.” (emphasis added) 17. In so many words, the Commissioner held that an HDPE bag containing 100 poly packs does not contain a declaration of selling price and therefore, it would be a wholesale package. There is no finding recorded that what is distributed or sold by the respondent is a poly pack containing 33 plus one small pack. The respondent’s case that 100 poly pack packages are being put in one HDPE bag has been accepted by the Commissioner. Therefore, the respondent is selling HDPE bags containing 100 poly packs each to the distributors and dealers. The said Rules do not require the display of price on such HDPE bags. Even assuming that 100 poly packs were retail packages, HDPE bags would be covered by the definition of ‘wholesale package’ as defined in clause (iii) of Rule 2(x) of the said Rules. Thus, the HDPE bags are not group packages within the meaning of Rule 2(g). 18. Though the impugned is not satisfactorily worded, for the reasons which were recorded above, the ultimate conclusion recorded in the impugned that Section 4A(1) of the Excise Act was not applicable to the goods subject matter of the show cause notices, cannot be faulted with. Hence, there is no reason to interfere with the impugned . 19. Accordingly, the appeals are dismissed with no as to costs.