The provisions of one section of a statute cannot be used to defeat the other provisions unless the court, in spite of its efforts, finds it impossible to effect reconciliation between them; c. When there are two conflicting provisions in an Act, which cannot be reconciled with each other, they should be so interpreted that, if possible, effect should be given to both. This is the essence of the rule of harmonious construction; d. The courts have also to keep in mind that an interpretation which reduces one of the provisions to a “dead letter” or “useless lumber” is not harmonious construction; and e. To harmonize is not to destroy any statutory provision or to render it otiose.” [emphasis supplied] 32 [1996] Supp. 9 SCR 707 : (1997) 1 SCC 373 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 603 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. 68. Keeping the above principles in mind, let us proceed further. The relevant provisions of the MV Act and the MV Rules would show that the term ‘Transport Vehicle’ is frequently referenced in various Sections and Rules. Most of these provisions were not noticed in Mukund Dewangan (2017). It is true that the legislature has imposed additional requirements for ‘Transport Vehicles’. But should it be enough to say that a ‘Light Motor Vehicle’ license holder is legally incapable of driving a transport vehicle although its gross vehicle weight is below 7500 kg, as is suggested by the counsel for the insurance companies? In our view, such a manner of interpretation would render superfluous and otiose the precise and compact definition of LMV given in Section 2(21) which so significantly uses the expression ‘means’. When questions on the relevance of Section 2(21) was raised, the following points were made:- (a) Section 2(21) which includes Transport Vehicles is for a different regime, set under Section 113 which places limitation both on weight and usage of the vehicle. Section 115 empowers the authority to restrict the driving of any vehicle of a specified class or description. These sections are contained in Chapter VII which is titled ‘Control of Traffic’ and pertain to ‘limits of weight and limitations on use’ and ‘power to restrict the use of vehicles’. Vehicles of specific weight may be prohibited from certain roads or areas making weight a relevant factor. Under the said definition of LMV, ‘weight’ has been kept as a factor for demarcation between ‘LMV’ and ‘Transport’ vehicles primarily for the purposes of determining the ‘road tax’. (b) Section 41(4) outlines the necessity of specifying the exact type of vehicle—including its design, construction, and intended use—during the registration process. It was contended that this is where weight becomes a critical factor. (c) Weight is considered in Section 44(ae) of the Income Tax Act 1961, which concerns incomes derived from transport vehicles. 69. The above submissions which mention the weight of the vehicle are in different context and can’t be used to render section 2(21) i.e. the definition, a dead letter.