However, he has a right to claim that his case for the grant of remission ought to be considered in accordance with the law and/or applicable policy adopted by the appropriate Government; (iv) Conditions imposed while exercising the power under sub- section (1) of Section 432 or sub-section (1) of Section 473 of the BNSS must be reasonable. If the conditions imposed are arbitrary, the conditions will stand vitiated due to violation of 1460 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Article 14. Such arbitrary conditions may violate the convict’s rights under Article 21 of the Constitution; (v) The effect of remitting the sentence, in part or full, results in the restoration of liberty of a convict. If the granting remission is to be cancelled or revoked, it will naturally affect the liberty of the convict. The reason is that when action is taken under sub-section (3) of Section 432 of the CrPC or sub-section (3) of Section 473 of the BNSS, it results in the convict being taken to prison for undergoing the remaining part of the sentence. Therefore, this drastic power cannot be exercised without following the principles of natural justice. A show cause notice must be served on the convict before taking action to withdraw/cancel remission. The show cause notice must contain the grounds on which action under sub-section (3) of Section 432 of the CrPC or sub-section (3) of Section 473 of BNNS is sought to be taken. The concerned authority must give the convict an opportunity to file a reply and of being heard. After that, the authority must pass an stating the reasons in brief. The convict can always challenge the of cancellation of remission by adopting a remedy under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. ; and (vi) Registration of a cognizable offence against the convict, per se, is not a ground to cancel the remission . The allegations of breach of condition cannot be taken at their face value, and whether a case for cancellation of remission is made out will have to be decided in the facts of each case. Every case of breach cannot invite cancellation of the of remission. The appropriate Government will have to consider the nature of the breach alleged against the convict. A minor or a trifling breach cannot be a ground to cancel remission. There must be some material to substantiate the allegations of breach. Depending upon the seriousness and gravity thereof, action can be taken under sub-section (3) of Section 432 of the CrPC or sub-section (3) of Section 473 of the BNSS of cancellation of the remitting sentence. 18. Therefore, we pass the following : a. The first part of condition no.1 regarding behaving decently, being manifestly arbitrary, is struck down. Therefore, the undertaking [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1461 Mafabhai Motibhai Sagar v. State of Gujarat & Ors. given by the appellant and the surety bonds submitted by him stand cancelled only to that extent; b. Condition no.2 stands clarified in terms of this ; c. The of remission shall not be revoked on the ground of breaches of conditions without compliance with the principles of natural justice as provided in paragraph 17(v) above; and d. The Appeal is partly allowed on the above terms.