30-12-1958). (c) that the candidate and his election agent took all reasonable means for preventing the commission of corrupt practices at the election; and [2024] 4 S.C.R. 531 Karim Uddin Barbhuiya v. Aminul Haque Laskar & Ors. (d) that in all other respects the election was free from any corrupt practice on the part of the candidate or any of his agents, then the High Court may decide that the election of the returned candidate is not void.” 11. Section 123 deals with the “Corrupt Practices”, which covers the “undue influence” as the corrupt practice for the purposes of the RP Act. The relevant part of Section 123 reads as under: - “123. Corrupt practices. —The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for the purposes of this Act: — (1) …. (2) Undue influence, that is to say, any direct or indirect interference or attempt to interfere on the part of the candidate or his agent, or of any other person 7 [with the consent of the candidate or his election agent], with the free exercise of any electoral right: Provided that— (a) without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of this clause any such person as is referred to therein who— (i) threatens any candidate or any elector, or any person in whom a candidate or an elector is interested, with injury of any kind including social ostracism and ex-communication or expulsion from any caste or community; or (ii) induces or attempts to induce a candidate or an elector to believe that he, or any person in whom he is interested, will become or will be rendered an object of divine displeasure or spiritual censure, shall be deemed to interfere with the free exercise of the electoral right of such candidate or elector within the meaning of this clause; (b) a declaration of public policy, or a promise of public action, or the mere exercise of a legal 532 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports right without intent to interfere with an electoral right, shall not be deemed to be interference within the meaning of this clause. (3) to (8) ……….” 12. At the outset, it may be noted that as per the well settled legal position, right to contest election or to question the election by means of an Election Petition is neither common law nor fundamental right. It is a statutory right governed by the statutory provisions of the RP Act. Outside the statutory provisions, there is no right to dispute an election. The RP Act is a complete and self-contained code within which any rights claimed in relation to an election or an election dispute must be found. The provisions of Civil Procedure Code are applicable to the extent as permissible under Section 87 of the RP Act. 13. It hardly needs to be reiterated that in an Election Petition, pleadings have to be precise, specific and unambiguous, and if the Election Petition does not disclose a cause of action, it is liable to be dismissed in limine.