54-57 of 1981 10 2006 SCC OnLine All 2207 11 High Court, hereafter 12 Special Appeal No. 1324/2005 13 (2023) 10 SCC 817 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1861 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. has been finally sealed in proceedings relating to the same subject matter. 12. Also, the doctrine of stare decisis has to be given due credence. Hon’ble H.R. Khanna, J (as His Lordship then was) while being part of a Constitution Bench and agreeing with the majority opinion in Maganlal Chhaganlal (P) Ltd. vs. Municipal Corpn. of Greater Bombay,14 made telling observations reading as follows: “22. I must also utter a note of caution against the tendency to lightly overrule the view expressed in previous decisions of the Court. It may be that there is a feeling entertained by certain schools of thought, to quote the words of Cardozo, that ‘... the precedents have turned upon us and are engulfing and annihilating us — engulfing and annihilating the very devotees that worshipped at their shrine. So the air is full of new cults that disavow the ancient faiths. Some of them tell us that instead of seeking certainty in the word, the outward sign, we are to seek for something deeper, a certainty relative and temporary, a writing on the sands to be effaced by the advancing tides. Some of them even go so far as to adjure us to give over the vain quest, to purge ourselves of these yearnings for the unattainable ideal, and to be content with an empiricism that is untroubled by strivings for the absolute.’ (See page 9 Selected Writings of Benjamin Nathan Cardozo by Margaret E. Hall.) At the same time, it has to be borne in mind that certainty and continuity are essential ingredients of rule of law. Certainty in law would be considerably eroded and suffer a serious set back if the highest court of the land readily overrules the view expressed by it in earlier cases, even though that view has held the field for a number of years. In quite a number of cases which come up before this Court, two views are possible, and simply because the Court considers that the view not taken by the Court in 14 (1974) 2 SCC 402 1862 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports the earlier case was a better view of the matter would not justify the overruling of the view. The law laid down by this Court is binding upon all courts in the country under Article 141 of the Constitution, and numerous cases all over the country are decided in accordance with the view taken by this Court. Many people arrange their affairs and large number of transactions also take place on the faith of the correctness of the view taken by this Court. It would create uncertainty, instability and confusion if the law propounded by this Court on the basis of which numerous cases have been decided and many transactions have taken place is held to be not the correct law.