43. In view of the afore-mentioned reasoning given by the High Court it is also relevant to refer the decision of this Court in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra.16 This Court held that the prosecution must stand or fall on its own legs and it could not derive any strength from the weakness of the defence. Furthermore, it was held that the weakness of the defence could only be called as additional link to aid the prosecution and that it is not the law that where there is any infirmity or lacuna in the prosecution case, the same could be cured or supplied by a false defence or plea which is not accepted by a court. It is also worthy to refer to the decision of this Court in V. Venkata Subharao’s case (supra). The burden on accused did not have to meet the same standard of proof as is required to be made by the prosecution, it was held therein. There can be no doubt with the position that unlike the duty cast on the prosecution where proof has got to be beyond reasonable doubt, in the case of accused, he got to establish through a preponderance of probabilities that the evidence produced is acceptable to the court. I have already referred to and extracted the relevant paragraph in the of the trial Court dealing with the certified copy of the dated 07.01.1996 of the Railway Court, Raipur convicting one Shama, S/o Nanu residing at Kalamna Nagar for travelling in a train between Gondia to Raipur, ticketless. Evidently, the afore-extracted paragraph from the of the trial Court would reveal that the said piece of evidence of defence was never put to test whether it satisfies the standard of 15 [2010] 11 SCR 1064 : (2010) 10 SCC 439 16 [1985] 1 SCR 88 : [AIR 1984 SC 1622] [2024] 9 S.C.R. 751 Manik & Ors. v. The State of Maharashtra preponderance of probabilities, but was declined on consideration based on suppositions, surmises and conjectures. Evidently, being a certified copy of an passed by a Court viz., the Railway Court, Raipur the trial Court could not have declined to accept its existence in view of Section 43 of the Evidence Act. 44. In terms of the combined reading of Sections 43 and 79 of the Evidence Act, the trial Court could not have declined to accept the existence of the dated 07.01.1996 of Railway Court, Raipur. Since the existence of the said dated 07.01.1996 cannot be said to be not a relevant fact or fact in issue, in view of the circumstances obtained in the case, upon its production, its evidentiary value should have been considered by applying degree of preponderance of probability. In this context, it is only relevant to refer to following relevant extract from paragraph 24 of the decision of this Court in Dr. N.G. Dastane v. Mrs. S. Dastane17:- “24… The belief regarding the existence of a fact may thus be founded on a balance of probabilities.