This social places the dignity of every individual at the heart of its endeavours… Existing structures of social discrimination must be evaluated through the prism of constitutional morality. The effect and endeavour is to produce a society marked by compassion for every individual.” (emphasis added) 23. The Constitution thus stands as a testament to the fight against historical injustices and for the establishment of an egalitarian 522 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports social . It aims to prevent caste-based discrimination. This commitment is not limited to preventing discriminatory actions by the State alone. It extends to the actions of citizens and private entities as well. It empowers the State to enact appropriate legislation or take executive measures to tackle caste-based discrimination. At the same time, it mandates the decision-makers to take every step to end discrimination in Indian society. The pervasive influence of caste necessitates continuous efforts to ensure equality and justice for all citizens. The manifestations of caste are too numerous to exhaustively enumerate.38 They can manifest in various forms and across different sectors of society, from education and employment to social interactions and access to resources. As has been observed: “Continued to be attributed typically to the rural hinterlands and assumed to be limited only to the discussions on reservation policy and electoral politics, caste has mutated and diversified during the past three decades. Today, its presence is visible in urban housing, its markets and businesses, higher educational institutions, and public sector offices as well as the private sector working spaces, which were projected to be secular and privilege class over caste, and the various socio-economic and political institutions that interface with everyday lived experiences.”39 The fight against caste-based discrimination is not a battle that can be won overnight; it requires sustained effort, dedication, and the willingness to confront and challenge societal norms that perpetuate inequality. When faced with practices of caste-based discrimination, this Court must take an active stand. In entertaining the current petition, this Court is making its contribution to the ongoing struggle to dismantle caste-based discrimination. 24. Based on this constitutional philosophy, we shall now refer to constitutional provisions under which the impugned provisions have been challenged. 38 Isabel Wilkerson, Caste: The Origins of Our Discontents, Penguin Random House (2020), p. 167 39 Rahul Choragudi, et al, Caste Matters in Public Policy: Issues and Perspectives, Routledge (2024), Reprint, p. 2 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 523 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. V. The Contours of Article 14 25. Article 14 guarantees that the “State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.” Equality is a crucial aspect of the constitutional vision. Immediately after the adoption of the Constitution, this Court laid down the standard to test the validity of laws against Article 14. In a Constitution Bench decision in Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri v. Union of India,40 Justice B.K. Mukherjea articulated that a classification under Article 14 “should never be arbitrary”.