12. In light of the above observations, we have no qualm in holding that the present matters did not at all warrant discharge or setting aside of committal by the High Court. We, however, refrain from making any further observations on the merits of the case at this stage of the proceedings as the trial is yet to be taken to a logical end. Suffice it to say that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has committed a grave error in quashing and setting aside the criminal proceedings arising out of PRC No. 13 of 2003 on the file of Ld. I Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Vijayawada as well as S.C. No. 248 of 2008 on the file of VII Addl. District and Sessions Judge (Fast Track Court), Vijayawada. 13. Accordingly, the appeals are allowed and the impugned is set aside. The matters are remanded back to the respective Trial Courts for trial to resume from the stage where it was left at the time the impugned was passed. We also hereby direct the respective Trial Courts to conduct the trial expeditiously and conclude it within the period of one year from the date this is placed before it. It must be ensured that the said trial is not an empty formality or mere reproduction of the reports of the investigation agency. We hereby issue strict directions that the prosecuting agency is to ensure that the evidence is led properly and in time and it is crucial that the Trial Courts to make an honest endeavor to uncover the truth and effectively achieve ends of the criminal justice system. At this juncture, it would not be out of place to recall the wise words of Baron de Montesquieu who said: “There is no tyranny crueller than that which is perpetuated under the shield of law and in the name of justice.” We hope that the above directions sound a clarion call to all the stakeholders involved in the trial for demonstrating utmost diligence, sensitivity and seriousness in the pending trial and remedy any wrong that might have taken place. 1702 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. As such, the proceedings in P.R.C. No. 13 of 2003 are restored to the file of Ld. I Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Vijayawada. Similarly, the proceedings in S.C. No. 248 of 2008 are restored to the file of VII Addl. District and Sessions Judge (Fast Track Court), Vijayawada. 15. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeals allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey