Some of them have been operating since the 1970s. 7. Mr. Gaurav Kumar Bansal reiterated that various illegal constructions were made in the Corbett National Park in total violation of the statutory provisions. He further submitted that illegal felling of trees was also done to facilitate the illegal construction. 212 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports III. STATUTORY PROVISIONS 8. Before we consider the submissions of the learned counsel for the parties, it will be relevant to refer to certain provisions of the WLP Act. 9. The statement of objects and reasons for the WLP Act would reveal that the enactment of the WLP Act was necessitated since it was noticed that there was rapid decline of India’s wild animals and birds, which was one of the richest and most varied in the world. Some wild animals and birds had already become extinct in the country and others were in danger of being so. Areas that were once teeming with wildlife had become devoid of it and even in Sanctuaries and National Parks, the protection afforded to wildlife needed to be improved. It was noticed that, the Wild Birds and Animals Protection Act, 1912 (8 of 1912) had become completely outmoded. The existing State laws were not only outdated but provided punishments that were not commensurate with the offence and the financial benefits which accrue from poaching and trade in wildlife produce. It was noticed that such laws mainly related to the control of hunting and did not emphasize the other factors which were also prime reasons for the decline of India’s wildlife, namely, taxidermy and trade in wildlife and products derived therefrom. 10. However, since the subject matters were relatable to Entry 20 of the State list in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India, the Parliament had no power to make a law unless the Legislatures of two or more States passed a resolution in pursuance of Article 252 of the Constitution of India. Accordingly, 11 States had passed resolutions to that effect. In this background, the WLP Act came to be enacted. 11. The long title of the WLP Act was amended by the Wild Life (Protection) Amendment Act, 2022 (No. 18 of 2022), which reads thus : “An Act to provide for the [conservation, protection and management of wild life] and for matters connected therewith or ancillary or incidental thereto with a view to ensuring the ecological and environmental security of the country.” [emphasis supplied] 12. Prior to the aforesaid amendment, the bracketed portion read thus : “protection of wild animals, birds and plants” [2024] 3 S.C.R. 213 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal 13. Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the WLP Act defines “animal”, which reads thus : “(1) “animal” includes mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish, other chordates and invertebrates and also includes their young and eggs;” 14. Sub-section (5) of Section 2 of the WLP Act defines “captive animal”, which reads thus : “(5) “captive animal” means any animal, specified in Schedule I or Schedule II, which is captured or kept or bred in captivity;” 15.