It is furthermore admitted that a Driving License was also recovered from the said auto rickshaw. However, it has never been their case that neither the owner of the auto rickshaw was attempted to be identified nor the person whose driving license was found therein was searched for by the authorities for the purpose of the instant case. It is never explained by Mr Tomar how he was able to identify the face of the Accused No. 04 sitting on the passenger seat inside the auto rickshaw while it was being driven at high speed. It is also not their case that any previous photographic identification for the Accused No. 04 was provided as part of the said information or as to how did he know the face of the Accused No. 04. 36. Even further, it is an admitted fact by the PW-01 – the alleged independent witness of the recovery – that the panchnama was not prepared at the time of actual recovery from the auto rickshaw. Same is affirmed by the testimonies of the members of the raiding party, namely, PW-02 to PW-04. It is furthermore intriguing to note that the panchnama which is timed “0930” was prepared and the PW-01 states as part of his cross-examination that he left for his office taking an auto rickshaw after the incident. However, the testimony of Mrs Chaube reveals that the PW-01 and the other panch were present in the NCB Office after the incident and even deposes to the effect that they, being present in the said office, ended up inscribing their signatures on the statements taken by them. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 465 Smt. Najmunisha v. The State of Gujarat 37. It does not transpire from the material on record as to exactly how the Accused No. 04 came into the fiasco here except for the claim by Mr Tomar of having identified him as the auto rickshaw per the secret information fled the scene. It creates a doubt in the mind of the Court apropos the case presented by the prosecution. 38. Adopting the words of V. Ramasubramanian, J., while speaking for the Bench in Ramabora alias Ramaboraiah & Anr. v. State of Karnataka (2022) SCC OnLine SC 996 referred to the mythological Swan, Hamsa and drew an analogy with the following observations made in the decision in Arvind Kumar alias Nemichand & Ors. v. State of Rajasthan (2021) SCC OnLine SC 1099: 49. The principle that when a witness deposes falsehood, the evidence in its entirety has to be eschewed may not have strict application to the criminal jurisprudence in our country. The principle governing sifting the chaff from the grain has to be applied. However, when the evidence is inseparable and such an attempt would either be impossible or would make the evidence unacceptable, the natural consequence would be one of avoidance. The said principle has not assumed the status of law but continues only as a rule of caution. One has to see the nature of discrepancy in a given case.