That the said salt consignments are booked in wagon loads from Kuda Salt Siding Station. In para 12 it is averred that since 1-6-1961 the Western Railway Administration, in addition to charging usual freight on goods, traffic from and to Kuda Salt Siding [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1093 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. Station, wrongly, illegally, arbitrarily and unreasonably levied an additional new charge by- way of siding charges or shunting charges or placement of wagon charges or removal of wagon charges. In paras 13 to 18, reference is made regarding the increases made, in those charges from time to time and such collections made. In para 26, it is averred that the, defendant Western Railway Administration charged freight on the wagon load salt consignment of the plaintiff from Kuda Salt Siding Station to destination and the said freight includes terminal charges for shunting, placement and removal of wagons at the place where, the salt, to be loaded, is stacked and hence the defendant- Western Railway Administration, in addition to freight, is not entitled to levy new charge with effect from 1-6-61 either as siding charges or as shunting charges or as placement charges or as removal charges or under the pretext of any other charge and the levy of the said new charge from the plaintiff with effect from 1-6-61 is wrong all the arbitrary, unauthorised and unreasonable and excessive and the plaintiff is entitled to the refund of this new charge paid by him to the defendant-Western Railway Administration. This also amounts to double taxation. In para 28 of the plaint, plaintiff actually refers to the total amount recovered in that manner. In the relief clause 33 prayer made is to recover the suit amount which includes the amount it paid by way of new charges as said earlier, and the notice charges, and it is in terms stated that it is a claim for refund of new charger by way of siding charges, shunting charges, placement charges received by the defendant Western Railway Administration from the plaintiff. xxx xxx xxx 27. In the instant case, it is not the opponent’s case that charges in excess of the prescribed charges were recovered from him and he wants refund of such charges. What he claims is that the railway administration had collected such charges illegally, arbitrarily and unreasonably. These charges referred to as ‘new charges’ were levied by the railway administration from time to time and such collections made in the past are challenged on the aforesaid grounds. 1094 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports In my opinion, they cannot be termed ‘overcharges’, so as to attract the provisions of Section 78-B [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 49. In Birla Cement Works v. G.M. Westerm Railways & Anr. reported in (1995) 2 SCC 493, this Court held that the excess freight charged by mistake due to a wrong calculation of distance was an overcharge and thus, was covered by Section 78B of the 1890 Act (now Section 106 of the Act, 1989).