(4) The policy of reservations in employment, education and legislative institutions should be reviewed every five years or so. That will at once afford an opportunity (i) to the State to rectify distortions arising out of particular facets of the reservation policy and (ii) to the people, both backward and non-backward, to ventilate their views in a public debate on the practical impact of the policy of reservations.” 125. The Learned C.J. observed that for a further period of 15 years, the reservation in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes must continue. He further observed that the means test, i.e., the test of economic backwardness ought to be made applicable even to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes after the period of 15 years, as mentioned in clause (1). Insofar as the Other Backward Classes are concerned, the Learned C.J. observed that the twin tests should be applied; one, that they should be comparable to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the matter of their backwardness; and two, that they should satisfy the means test such as a State Government may lay down in the context of prevailing economic conditions. It is also observed that the policy of reservations in employment, education and legislative institutions should be reviewed every 5 years or so. 126. It will also be appropriate to refer to the observations of D.A. Desai, J. made in paragraphs 30 and 31, which read thus: “30. Let me conclude. If economic criterion for compensatory discrimination or affirmative action is accepted, it would 1520 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports strike at the root cause of social and educational backwardness, and simultaneously take a vital step in the direction of destruction of caste structure which in turn would advance the secular character of the Nation. This approach seeks to translate into reality the twin constitutional goals: one, to strike at the perpetuation of the caste stratification of the Indian Society so as to arrest regressive movement and to take a firm step towards establishing a casteless society; and two, to progressively eliminate poverty by giving an opportunity to the disadvantaged sections of the society to raise their position and be part of the mainstream of life which means eradication of poverty. 31. Let me make abundantly clear that this approach does not deal with reservation in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Thousands of years of discrimination and exploitation cannot be wiped out in one generation. But even here economic criterion is worth applying by refusing preferred treatment to those amongst them who have already benefited by it and improved their position. And finally reservation must have a time span otherwise concessions tend to become vested interests. This is not a in a lis in an adversary system. When the arguments concluded, a statement was made that the Government of State of Karnataka would appoint a Commission to determine constitutionally sound and nationally acceptable criteria for identifying socially and educationally backward classes of citizens for whose benefit the State action would be taken.