183 Rajasthan Agricultural University, Bikaner, Through Its Registrar v. Dr. Zabar Singh Solanki and Ors. was confirmed, followed by Notification dated 04/06.05.1989 to the effect that all duly selected Lecturers/Research Assistants will be designated as Assistant Professors with effect from 01.01.1973. The Board under Resolution No.245 dated 08.08.1990 approved the rules for implementing CAS for Assistant Professors and, finally, by way of the Letter dated 22.11.1990, the appellant notified the said rules. At this stage, when the appellant requested the State Government to grant approval to the Board’s Resolution dated 24.11.1988, the Vice- Chancellor was approached by the State Government to rescind the said Resolution. Meanwhile, in anticipation of approval by the State Government, the appellant had already issued the requisite s. 17. Thereafter, the Board in its Meeting dated 29.07.1991 resolved that if any Research Assistant/Lecturer had been selected as Assistant Professor by the SSC, then his/her service period shall be counted from the date when he was duly selected by the SSC as Assistant Professor. Once again, under Letter dated 27.05.1992 of the Deputy Secretary, Agricultural Department, Government of Rajasthan requested the University to amend the Board’s Resolution dated 29.07.1991, stating that the , by which the Research Assistants/ Lecturers were designated as Assistant Professors, be withdrawn and benefit of CAS be extended only to those Assistant Professors who were directly/regularly selected by the SSC and not to those who were designated as Assistant Professors. The recommendations which were made by the University as well as its Board were, thus, not accepted by the State Government. This prompted filing of various Writ Petitions in the High Court assailing such action(s). 18. It transpires that earlier also, the matter of these Research Assistants was before the High Court, where the claim was that Research Assistants were employed for the purpose of conducting and guiding research and must therefore be regarded as teachers for the purposes of Section 2(j), Udaipur University Act, 1962. The said relief was granted by the learned Single Bench of the High Court, whereupon the State of Rajasthan preferred an intra-Court appeal before the Division Bench, where it did not succeed. The learned Single Judge allowed the respondents’ writ petitions and held that the period of service rendered by the respondents as Lecturers/Assistant Professors after re-designation as such, can also be counted while counting the period of 8 years for availing the benefit of CAS. The learned Single Judge also took the view that the respondents shall 184 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports be entitled to consequential benefits with the rider that seniority shall not be given to them over the Assistant Professors appointed directly and that the respondents would rank junior to the direct appointees. The Division Bench held that as the post of Research Assistant was included in the post of Lecturer, a Research Assistant must be held to be entitled for the same revision of pay-scale which has been extended to a Lecturer of the University, which was so done. Taking exception to the Division Bench agreeing with the learned Single Judge, the State of Rajasthan petitioned this Court too, which again did not bear fruit for the State.