Their further grievance is that Rule 13(v) of the Rules insofar as it provides for age relaxation to those persons serving under educational projects is a provision which is unconstitutional and invalid. Background facts: 4. A brief narration of the background facts is essential for appreciating the issues involved in this case. The Shiksha Karmi Project was a unique initiative launched in the State of Rajasthan in 1987 with assistance from the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA). The object was to seek to reach out to children in remote rural areas where the formal primary schools are either not in existence or dysfunctional. Local youth with some basic educational qualifications were identified, trained and provided continuous educational support to teach children in Shiksha Karmi Day Schools, Prehar Pathshalas (Schools of convenient timings) and Angan Pathshalas (Courtyard Schools). [2024] 7 S.C.R. 201 Mahesh Chand Bareth & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors. 5. The concept of Shiksha Karmi Project (as is clear to us from the document containing a study, placed on record by the appellants) indicates that the Shiksha Karmi Project rested on the assumption that barefoot teachers belonging to the local community, who enjoy local community support if intensively trained, can overcome lack of formal educational qualification. 6. They were selected through an established procedure laid out in the manuals and once the Gram Sabha voted on the creation of a Shiksha Karmi School, spot tests were held to identify Shiksha Karmis. The Shiksha Karmi Project had significant overlaps with the Lok Jumbish Project and the District Primary Education Programme (DPEP). 7. The Shiksha Karmi Project was fairly successful in reaching out to children from disadvantaged communities. A person serving in various educational projects possessed rich experience of teaching and motivating people for education in rural areas. The workers were engaged in the name of Shiksha Karmis to address the problem of teacher absenteeism, poor enrolment, high dropout trends and inadequate access to education. The workers were to get only a fixed honorarium. The projects were introduced to accelerate universalization of elementary education. After the passage of the 83rd Constitutional Amendment and the setting up of an elected Panchayat structure, the project worked in tandem with the elected representative members of the Panchayat. Formulation of Rules: 8. When matters stood thus, a Cabinet note was prepared which set out that to provide access to education to children living in far-flung areas/difficult terrain/small villages (Hamlet) called Dhanis, a new regular cadre in the name of Prabodhak and Senior Prabodhak be created. As a first step, Section 89 of the Rajasthan Panchayati Raj Act, 1994 was amended and in 89(2)(v) ‘Prabodhak’ and ‘Senior Prabodhak’ were added as one of the grades. Section 89(2)(v), (5) & 6B reads as under: “89. Constitution of the Rajasthan Panchayat Samiti and Zila Parishad Service. (2) The Service may be divided into different categories, such category being divided into different grades, and shall consist of - 202 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (v) Prabodhak and Senior Prabodhak.