Digital Supreme Court Reports decades after the decree has attained finality, it is liable to be dismissed on the ground of limitation. Learned counsel for the respondents on the other hand contends that the aforesaid application is not in a nature of a second execution or in the form of a fresh suit or a plaint, rather it is only a reminder to the Court to complete the process of inquiry with regard to determination of mesne profits as has been directed by the Court of first instance vide and dated 12.07.1973. The said proceedings are actually proceedings under XX Rule 12 C.P.C. wherein the Court is obliged to hold an inquiry with regard to determination of the mesne profits from the date of institution of the suit and till the delivery of the possession. Admittedly, the said inquiry has not been conducted and completed and that the law nowhere provides for any specific time limit for initiation of such proceedings rather the Court is obliged to undertake this exercise on its own. In Kattukandi Edathil Krishnan and Anr. Vs. Kattukandi Edathil Valsan and Ors.,1 the Court while dealing with the matter regarding a preliminary decree and the final decree in connection with the decree passed in a suit for partition opined that fundamentally there is a distinction between a preliminary and a final decree and that proceedings for final decree can be initiated at any point of time as there is no limitation for initiation of such proceedings. Either of the parties to the suit can move an application for preparation of the final decree or the Court may take action in this regard suo moto. In fact, after the passing of the preliminary decree, the Trial Court is obliged to proceed for the preparation of the final decree and should not adjourn the matter sine die. There is no need to file any separate application for the preparation of the final decree. The aforesaid analogy with regard to the preparation of the final decree pursuant to the preliminary decree for partition can very well be applied to the cases where a decree is passed with a direction to hold an inquiry with regard to determination of mesne profits. This is evident from the plain reading of XX Rule 12 C.P.C. For the sake of convenience, XX Rule 12 C.P.C. is reproduced herein below:- 1 [2022] 7 SCR 1120 : 2022 (16) SCC 71 : AIR Online 2022 SC 2841 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 233 Choudappa & Anr. v. Choudappa since Deceased by Lrs. & Ors. “12. Decree for possession and mesne profits.— (1) Where a suit is for the recovery of possession of immovable property and for rent or mesne profits, the Court may pass a decree— (a) for the possession of the property; (b) for the rents which have accrued on the property during the period prior to the institution of the suit or directing an inquiry as to such rent; (ba) for the mesne profits or directing an inquiry as to such mesne profits; (c) directing an inquiry as to rent or mesne profits from the institution of the suit until— (i) the delivery of possession to the decree-holder, (ii) the relinquishment of possession by the -debtor with notice to the decree-holder through the Court, or (iii) the expiration of three years from the date of the decree, whichever, event first occurs.