335 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. organisation. Explanation.—For the purposes of this Act, it is hereby declared that the expression “proceeds of terrorism” includes any property intended to be used for terrorism;” 14.2 Section 45 of the Act is extracted below for ready reference. “45. Cognizance of offences.— [(1)] No court shall take cognizance of any offence— (i) under Chapter III without the previous sanction of the Central Government or any officer authorised by the Central Government in this behalf; (ii) under Chapter IV and VI without the previous sanction of the Central Government or, as the case may be, the State Government, and where such offence is committed against the Government of a foreign country without the previous sanction of the Central Government. (2) Sanction for prosecution under sub-section (1) shall be given within such time as may be prescribed only after considering the report of such authority appointed by the Central Government or, as the case may be, the State Government which shall make an independent review of the evidence gathered in the course of investigation and make a recommendation, within such time as may be prescribed, to the Central Government or, as the case may be, the State Government.” (Emphasis supplied) 14.3 Rules 3 & 4 of the 2008 Rules read as follows:- “3. Time limit for making a recommendation by the Authority. – The Authority shall, under sub-section (2) of Section 45 of the Act, make its report containing the recommendations to the Central Government [or, as the case may be, the State Government] within seven working days of the receipt of the evidence gathered by the investigating officer under the Code. 336 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4. Time limit for sanction of prosecution.-The Central Government [or, as the case may be, the State Government] shall, under sub-section (2) of Section 45 of the Act, take a decision regarding sanction for prosecution within seven working days after receipt of the recommendations of the Authority.” (Emphasis supplied) ISSUE No. 1- Challenge to validity of sanction – at what stage? 15. Now, we proceed to examine the first question before this Court. In to do so it is essential to extract the relevant portion of the sanction :- “5. And whereas, the Central Government in terms of the provisions of Section 45(2) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (as amended) and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) (Recommendation and Sanction of Prosecution) Rules, 2008 referred the above mentioned Investigation Report vide this Ministry’s letter of even no. dated 15th July, 2020 to the Authority comprising of two members namely Justice Dr. Satish Chandra (Retired) and Dr TK Vishwanathan, Law Secretary (Retired), constituted vide this Ministry’s No. 11034/1/2009/IS-IV dated 03.07.2015 for making an independent review of the evidence gathered in the course of investigation (term of the Authority extended till 31.07.2021 vide this Ministry’s dated 12.06.2020); 6. And whereas, the Authority vide letter dated 16th July, 2020 forwarded its report to this Ministry within the time limit as prescribed in rule Unlawful Activities (Prevention) (Recommendation and Sanction of Prosecution) Rules, 2008 and, after being satisfied with the material available on record and facts and circumstances therein, recommended for sanction for prosecution against the above mentioned accused persons/entities under the relevant sections of law including the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967; 7.