Section 3 of the Act provides for the creation of 4 groups out of the castes enumerated in the Presidential List of the State. After the regrouping it provides for the proportionate allotment of the reservation already made in favour of the Scheduled Castes amongst these 4 groups. Beyond that the Act does not provide for anything else. Since the State had already allotted 15% of the total quota of the reservation available for the backward classes to the Scheduled Castes the question of allotting any reservation under this enactment to the backward classes does not arise. Therefore, it is clear that the purpose or the true intendment of this Act is only to first divide the castes in the Presidential List of the Scheduled Castes into 4 groups and then divide 15% of reservation allotted to the Scheduled Castes as a class, amongst these 4 groups. Thus it is clear that the Act does not for the first time provide for reservation to the Scheduled Castes but only intends to redistribute the reservation already made by subclassifying the Scheduled Castes which is otherwise held to be a class by itself. It is a well-settled principle in law that reservation to a backward class is not a constitutional mandate. It is the prerogative of the State concerned if it so desires, with an object of providing opportunity of advancement in the society to certain backward classes which includes the Scheduled Castes, to reserve certain seats in educational institutions under Article 15(4) and in public services of the State under Article 16(4). That part of its constitutional obligation, as stated above, has already been fulfilled by the State. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1539 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. Having done so, it is not open to the State to subclassify a class already recognised by the Constitution and allot a portion of the already reserved quota amongst the State- created subclass within the list of Scheduled Castes. From the discussion hereinabove, it is clear that the primary object of the impugned enactment is to create groups of subcastes in the list of Scheduled Castes applicable to the State and, in our opinion, apportionment of the reservation is only secondary and consequential. Whatever may be the object of this subclassification and apportionment of the reservation, we think the State cannot claim legislative power to make a law dividing the Scheduled Castes List of the State by tracing its legislative competence to Entry 41 of List II or Entry 25 of List III. Therefore, we are of the opinion that in pith and substance the enactment is not a law governing the field of education or the field of State public services.” 154. It can thus be seen that this Court held that whatever may be the object of the sub-classification and apportionment of the reservation, the State cannot claim legislative power to make a law dividing the Scheduled Castes List of the State by tracing its legislative competence to Entry 41 of List II or Entry 25 of List III.