414 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3 are inclusive of the 7 marks that she was entitled to for holding the professional qualification of Masters in Education (M.Ed.). The appellant has no complaint against the allocation of 7 additional qualification marks to respondent no. 3. He was however surprised by the denial of 6 marks for the additional qualification of PG Degree that he held, on the ground that his PG Degree was not “in the relevant subject”. 8. The appellant’s simple case is that had he been allocated 6 marks for the PG Degree that he possessed, he would be the highest in the list by aggregating a total of 63.5 marks. Denial of 6 marks on a new ground that the PG Degree held by him is not in the relevant subject, he says, is illegal and arbitrary. He made a representation on 26.05.2017 for allocation of 6 marks. Due to inaction, he approached the Delhi High Court by way of a writ of mandamus to the Union and the Institute to remedy the injustice. 9. The learned Single Judge of the High Court refused to interfere by following the principle laid down in the of this Court in University Grants Commission v. Neha Anil Bobde (Gadekar),3 where it was held that in academic matters, the qualifying criteria must be left to the discretion of the concerned institution. The appellant then preferred a Writ Appeal, and the Division Bench also followed the principle in Neha Anil Bobde, as reiterated in other decisions,4 and held that in academic matters, the interference of the Court should be minimum. In para 13 of its , the High Court also relied on Clauses 14 and 19 of the vacancy circular to hold that the Institute in any event reserves the right to shortlist applications as it considers appropriate. Thus, the appellant approached this Court in 2019 itself. 10. At the outset, we note that the procedure for selection was provided in the vacancy circular issued in March 2016. Instead of following the said procedure, the Institute chose to adopt a new method by its notification dated 27.04.2016, wherein it dispensed with the interview and prescribed the allocation of marks for additional qualifications. We make it clear at this very stage that the appellant has not challenged the variation in the original selection process of an interview and its 3 (2013) 10 SCC 519. 4 Tamil Nadu Education Department Ministerial and General Subordinate Services Association v. State of Tamil Nadu (1980) 3 SCC 97; All India Council for Technical Education v. Surinder Kumar Dhawan (2009) 11 SCC 726. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 415 Manoj Kumar v. Union of India & Ors. replacement with allocation of marks for additional qualifications. The only challenge is that the denial of 6 marks for the additional qualification of a PG Degree that he possesses is illegal and arbitrary. On the other hand, the respondents raised the standard defence by invoking Clauses 14 and 19 to submit that they have reserved the right of shortlisting candidates as is considered appropriate.