Therefore, the appellant is before us with the present appeal. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 423 Basudev Dutta v. The State of West Bengal & Ors. 4. The learned counsel for the appellant strenuously argued that on the basis of migration certificate issued in favour of the appellant’s father, in which, the appellant’s name also finds place, the appellant is a citizen of India with effect from 19.05.1969; he was issued with ration card, Voter Identity Card and Aadhaar Card by the Government of India and he participated in all local Assembly and Parliamentary elections; and he is also an assessee under the Income Tax Act and is regularly submitting his returns. Adding further, it is contended that upon participating in the selection process, the appellant was appointed as Ophthalmic Assistant, on 21.02.1985 and he joined the service upon submission of the satisfactory report of medical examination and police verification roll. After having rendered 26 years of unblemished service, the appellant was terminated from service, based on the secret verification report of the Government. While passing such , the appellant was not given an opportunity of personal hearing and was not furnished the alleged verification report. Therefore, the of termination passed against the appellant is arbitrary, illegal and in violation of the principles of natural justice. 4.1. The learned counsel for the appellant also emphatically submitted that it is mandatory on the part of the police authority to submit the police verification report within a period of three months from the date of appointment. Whereas, in the present case, though the appellant joined the service on 06.03.1985, the verification report was communicated by the police to the department only on 07.07.2010, that too, just two months prior to the date of retirement of the appellant. Hence, there was inordinate delay on the part of the police authority for submission of verification report to the appointing authority. 4.2. Ultimately, the learned counsel for the appellant submitted that considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the Tribunal rightly set aside the of termination. However, the High Court erred in allowing the writ petition filed by the State by setting aside the of the Tribunal. Therefore, the learned counsel prayed for allowing this appeal by setting aside the of the High Court. 5. On the contrary, the learned senior counsel for the respondent(s) submitted that except the migration certificate, the appellant did not produce any document to prove that he is an Indian national. 424 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Migration certificate does not recognize him as a citizen of India and he has to register his citizenship with the authority concerned. Though the appellant stated that he applied for citizenship certificate and the Government of West Bengal issued no objection certificate to him with respect to his citizenship, no such document was placed on record. The Aadhaar Card, voter ID and Pan Card are not the conclusive proof of evidence for citizenship or nationality as held by this Court. Thus, the appellant being a non-citizen, he cannot claim employment against the post reserved for the Indian citizen.