Having considered the judicial precedents on the subject, in our view, to extend the period of limitation with the aid of Section 18, the acknowledgment must involve an admission of a subsisting jural relationship between the parties and a conscious affirmation of an intention of continuing such relationship regarding an existing liability. Such intention can be gathered from the nature of the admission. In other words, the admission in question need not be express, or regarding a precise amount, but must be made in circumstances and in words from which the court can reasonably infer that the person making the admission intended to refer to a subsisting liability as on the date of the statement. However, where an acknowledgement is in respect of a specified sum of money or a specific right only, and not in general terms, it would extend the period of limitation only in respect thereof, and not of other claims which, though may have arisen out of same jural relationship, are not specified therein. In other words, where an acknowledgement of liability is made only with reference to a portion of the claim put forward by the plaintiff/ claimant, it would extend limitation only in respect of such portion, and not of the entire claim of the plaintiff. 138. Reverting to the case in hand, the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018 made no reference to the items referable to counterclaims (d) and (e). There is also no acknowledgment in general terms in regard to liabilities subsisting under the contract. Therefore, in our view, the said minutes could not be treated as an acknowledgment for the purpose of extending limitation of counterclaims (d) and [2024] 9 S.C.R. 601 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. (e), which were not specified therein. In consequence, when counterclaims (d) and (e) were otherwise barred by limitation on the date of filing of counterclaim, the Tribunal was legally justified in rejecting them as barred by limitation. Sub-issue (c) is decided in the aforesaid terms. REJECTION OF PRAYER TO DECLARE DEBIT NOTES INVALID DID NOT AFFECT ENEXIO’S CLAIM FOR THE OUTSTANDING PRINCIPAL AMOUNT. 139. We shall now consider whether rejection of Enexio’s prayer to declare debit notes invalid, had adversely affected the claim for the outstanding principal amount in respect of the goods supplied/ work done under the contract. In this regard, at the outset, we must bear in mind that it is trite that limitation bars the remedy but does not extinguish the right, save in a case which is covered by Section 27 of the 1963 Act.125 It is equally settled that in a suit or a claim, multiple reliefs may be claimed by virtue of II Rule 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908,126 that is, the plaintiff may unite in the same suit several causes of action against the same defendant(s). The period of limitation is prescribed by the Schedule to the 1963 Act.127 The Schedule to the 1963 Act is divided into three Divisions.