14.3 It is difficult to accept this submission that Section 89, CPC will be negated if the scheme of refund as envisaged by the MCFA, 1959 is given effect. It cannot be doubted that the settlement of a dispute outside court is a cause for celebration in as much as it translates to early resolution of the dispute inter se the parties and it means also, that there is one less file to add on to already overflowing record rooms of the concerned civil courts. It also cannot be gainsaid that all efforts should be made to encourage the adoption of ADR mechanisms. 15. Let us now examine the submission regarding the reference in LSA Act, 1987 of the CFA, 1870 and its effect, if any, on MCFA, 1959. One is a Central legislation and the other is a State legislation. The LSA Act, 1987 was enacted by the legislature to give effect to Article 39A of the Constitution of India which places responsibility upon the State to secure the operation of a legal system which promotes justice and further casts a responsibility upon the State to provide free legal aid by way of suitable legislation or schemes so as to ensure that justice is not the province of only those who are unaffected by economic or other disabilities. The primary mode of dispute settlement prescribed in the Act is the ‘Lok Adalat’,the constitution and functioning of which are discussed in Chapters 6 and 6A of the Act. 16. The submission of the learned counsel for the appellant is to the effect that since a Central legislation, i.e., the LSA Act, 1987, in connection with an alternate method of dispute resolution makes [2024] 12 S.C.R. 889 Sanjeevkumar Harakchand Kankariya v. Union of India & Ors. reference to CFA, 1870, the same should be extended to other similar modes of dispute resolution as well. In a sense, an effort has been made on part of the appellant to equate the Award of Lok Adalat to the resolution of his dispute by way of reference under Section 89 CPC, i.e., mediation. This equivalence is misplaced. 17. The scope of Lok Adalat has been discussed by a Bench of three learned Judges in State of Punjab v. Jalour Singh.25 “8. It is evident from the said provisions that the Lok Adalats have no adjudicatory or judicial functions. Their functions relate purely to conciliation. A Lok Adalat determines a reference on the basis of a compromise or settlement between the parties at its instance, and puts its seal of confirmation by making an award in terms of the compromise or settlement. When the Lok Adalat is not able to arrive at a settlement or compromise, no award is made and the case record is returned to the court from which the reference was received, for disposal in accordance with law. No Lok Adalat has the power to “hear” parties to adjudicate cases as a court does. It discusses the subject-matter with the parties and persuades them to arrive at a just settlement.