The bhangis are the most oppressed.” 140. The Robert F Kennedy Centre for Justice and Human Rights in collaboration with Navsarjan (an organization that promotes the rights of Dalits) undertook an extensive study on caste discrimination in 1589 villages in Gujarat. The census conducted by them produced results of horizontal discrimination, the practice by which certain Dalit castes practiced untouchability against other Dalit castes. The study identified that the practice of food, water and religion related untouchability is emulated within the Dalits as well. For example, Dalits of the lower sub-caste were prevented from sitting with the rest of the Dalit community during meals. They were not given tea when they visited the house of a higher sub-caste. It was also found that only in twelve percent of the villages could a Dalit belonging to a lower sub-caste receive water in the house of a Dalit of a higher sub-caste. The study also found that in 92.4 percent of the villages studied, all the Dalits did not have access to all-Dalit burial grounds and that the lower sub-castes were denied entry into to Dalit Temples in 79 percent of the villages.197 141. Similarly, in Tamil Nadu, when an Arunthathiyar man and a Paraiyar woman (both the castes find a place in the Scheduled Castes list) eloped, the woman’s family allegedly raped the women of the man’s 197 Robert F Kennedy, Center for Justice and Human Rights, Understanding Untouchability: A comprehensive Study of Practices and Conditions in 1589 Villages, 22-33 1412 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports family in retaliation.198 The inequality within the Scheduled Castes in Andhra Pradesh has also been studied. Uma Ramaswamy draws on the inequality within the Scheduled Castes by comparing the social positions of members of the Mala and Madiga Castes.199 The Madigas traditionally pursue the occupation of leather work which is assigned a lower status when compared to the weaving occupation of Malas. The author states that neither do members of both the castes live in the same hamlet nor do they draw water from the same well. The study found that the hierarchy between the castes translated to their relative progress in education, employment and political activity. In 1961, 10 percent of Malas were literate as against 5.1 percent of Madigas. In 1971, the proportion of literates among Malas had gone up to 12.9 per cent in comparison to 6.2 percent among the Madigas. The author stated that hierarchy exists even within the Mala caste. Mala Jangam and Mala Desari are priestly castes and are spiritual advisors to Mala satellite castes. Within the Mala satellite castes, Mala Jangam is at the top, followed by Mala Pambala, Masti and Gurra Malas. The sub-castes also follow rules of untouchability amongst themselves:200 “There are certain rules that restrict the taking of food, water and access to the temples among the Dalits. The Malas, higher caste Dalit do not take food or water from the Madigas, the lower caste Dalit in village India. Mala Jangam, Mala Dasari and Mithal Ayyalwar do not eat or drink from Malas, Madigas and Dakkal.