They must have formed a well defined religious or linguistic minority. It does not envisage the rights of the foreign missionary or institution, however, laudable their objects might be. After the Constitution, the minority under Article 30 must necessarily mean those who form a distinct and identifiable group of citizens of India. Whether it is “old stuff” or “new product”, the object of the institute should be genuine, and not devious or dubious. There should be nexus between the means employed and the ends desired. As pointed out in A.P. Christians Educational Society case [(1986) 2 SCC 667 : (1986) 2 SCR 749] there must exist some positive index to enable the educational institution to be identified with religious or linguistic minorities. Article 30(1) is a protective measure only for the benefit of religious and linguistic minorities and it is essential, to make it absolutely clear that no ill-fit or camouflaged institution should get away with the constitutional protection. xxx 1972 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Origin and Purpose of St. Stephen’s College 30. Surprisingly, the Delhi University in the pleading, has neither denied nor admitted the minority character of the College. But the counsel for the University have many things to contend which will be presently considered. Mr Gupta, counsel for the petitioner in T.C. No. 3 of 1980 has specifically urged that the College was established not by Indian residents, but by foreign Mission from Cambridge and therefore, it is not entitled to claim the benefit of Article 30(1). From the counter-affidavit filed by Dr J.H. Hala — the Principal of the College in W.P. Nos. 13213-14 of 1984 and from the publication of “The History of the College” the following facts and circumstances could be noted: The College was founded in 1881 as a Christian Missionary College by the Cambridge Mission in Delhi in collaboration with the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel [SPG] whose members were residents in India. The College was founded in to impart Christian religious instruction and education based on Christian values to Christian students as well as others who may opt for the said education. The Cambridge Brotherhood with plans of establishing the Christian College in Delhi sent the Cambridge Mission whose members were: Rev. J.D. Murray, Rev. E. Bickarsteth, Rev. G.A. Lefroy, Rev. H.T. Blackett, Rev. H.C. Carlyon and Rev. S.S. Allnutt. Of the said members of the Cambridge Mission, Rev. Allnutt, Rev. Blackett and Rev. Lefroy teamed up with Rev. R.R. Winter of the SPG to establish the College. It will be seen that Cambridge Mission alone did not establish the College. The Cambridge Mission with the assistance of the members of the SPG who were residents in India established the College. The contention to the contrary urged by Mr Gupta, counsel for the petitioner in T.C. No. 3 of 1980 is, therefore, incorrect. The purpose of starting the College could be seen from the Report of 1878 to the Cambridge Brotherhood and it states “the students after leaving St. Stephen’s Mission School joined non-Christian Colleges and lost touch with Christian teachings … the case would be otherwise if we were [2024] 11 S.C.R.