Sub clause (a) of the aforesaid provision of the 1973 Code, so far as charging and trying of an accused is concerned, could apply in the present case, as the non-obstante clause with which Section 4 of the 1988 Act is couched, would not oust the principles contained in Section 223 of the 1973 Code. There is no incompatibility in applying the aforesaid principle considering the content of sub-section 3 of Section 4 of 1988 Act. In the case of Vivek Gupta -vs- Central Bureau Investigation and Another [(2003) 8 SCC 628] decided by a Coordinate Bench of this Court, it has been held:- “14. The only narrow question which remains to be answered is whether any other person who is also charged of the same offence with which the co-accused is charged, but which is not an offence specified in Section 3 of the Act, can be tried with the co-accused at the same trial by the Special Judge. We are of the view that since sub-section [2024] 1 S.C.R. 581 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. (3) of Section 4 of the Act authorizes a Special Judge to try any offence other than an offence specified in Section 3 of the Act to which the provisions of Section 220 apply, there is no reason why the provisions of Section 223 of the Code should not apply to such a case. Section 223 in clear terms provides that persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction, or persons accused of different offences committed in the course of the same transaction may be charged and tried together. Applying the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 of the Act and Sections 220 and 223 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it must be held that the appellant and his co-accused may be tried by the Special Judge in the same trial. 15. This is because the co-accused of the appellant who have been also charged of offences specified in Section 3 of the Act must be tried by the Special Judge, who in view of the provisions of sub-section (3) of Section 4 and Section 220 of the Code may also try them of the charge under Section 120-B read with Section 420 IPC. All the three accused, including the appellant, have been charged of the offence under Section 120-B read with Section 420 IPC. If the Special Judge has jurisdiction to try the co-accused for the offence under Section 120-B read with Section 420 IPC, the provisions of Section 223 are attracted. Therefore, it follows that the appellant who is also charged of having committed the same offence in the course of the same transaction may also be tried with them. Otherwise it appears rather incongruous that some of the conspirators charged of having committed the same offence may be tried by the Special Judge while the remaining conspirators who are also charged of the same offence will be tried by another court, because they are not charged of any offence specified in Section 3 of the Act.” 34.