Parliament to regulate the right of citizenship by law.- Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this Part shall derogate from the power of Parliament to make any provision with respect to the acquisition and termination of citizenship and all other matters relating to citizenship.” (emphasis supplied) 33. Article 10 is also related to Parliament’s law making power on citizenship. The provision provides that every person who is or is deemed to be a citizen under the provisions of Part II of the Constitution shall continue to be so, subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament: "10. Continuance of the rights of citizenship.- Every person who is or is deemed to be a citizen of India under any of the foregoing provisions of this Part shall, subject to the provisions of any law that may be made by Parliament, continue to be such citizen.” (emphasis supplied) 1260 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 34. Article 24643 read with Entry 17 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution confers Parliament the power to make laws with respect to ‘citizenship, naturalisation and aliens’. What then is the purpose and scope of Article 11? The earlier draft of Article 11 read as follows: “Further provisions governing the acquisition and termination of Union citizenship, and avoidance of double citizenship may be made by Union law.” (emphasis supplied) When the draft of Article 11 read as above, there was also a provision on who would hold citizenship ‘after’ the commencement of the Constitution.44 Thus, in the earlier scheme, the Constitution was to stipulate the conditions for securing citizenship and Parliament was conferred with the power to make ‘further’ provisions. However, the Draft Constitution of India 1948 did not consist of a provision on acquisition of citizenship after the commencement of the Constitution. Part II of the Draft Constitution only consisted of provisions on citizenship at the commencement of the Constitution and Parliament’s power to make “further” provisions.45 Dr BR Ambedkar introduced an amendment to draft Article 6 (as Article 11 exists in the current form) when it was taken up for discussion. The phrase “further provision” was used when the Draft dealt with the acquisition of citizenship after the commencement of the Constitution. However, once that was deleted, the language of Article 11 was amended. 35. Article 246 read with the Seventh Schedule delimits the legislative competence of Parliament and the legislature of the States. The inference that can be drawn from the inclusion of Entry 17 in List I of the Seventh Schedule is that Parliament (and not the state legislatures) has the legislative competence to enact laws with respect to citizenship. The legislative subject to enact laws on citizenship 43 “Subject matter of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of States: (1) Parliament has the exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule. […]” 44 B Shiva Rao, The framing of India’s Constitution: Select Documents (Part II) 683; See BN Rao, Memorandum on the Union Constitution and Draft Clauses (May 30 1947); Ad-hoc Committee on Citizenship (12 July 1947) 45 Draft Constitution of India, 1948; Article 6 “Parliament may, by law, make further provision regarding acquisition and termination of citizenship and all other matters relating thereto”.