It is to ensure that there was no such conflict of interest that an Independent Authority was sought to be established. 56. On 22 December 2009, AERA issued a White Paper to ensure transparency in the process leading up to the framing of appropriate procedures/systems for economic regulation. The White Paper dealt with various issues relating to economic regulation of airports and air navigation services. On 16 February 2010, AERA issued a consultation paper after considering the responses received on the White Paper. On 2 August 2010,91 AERA laid down “its philosophy and approach for economic regulation of services” at major airports. In exercise of its powers under Section 15 of the AERA Act, AERA issued the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Terms and Conditions for Determination of Tariff for Services Provided for Cargo Facility, Ground Handling and Supply of Fuel to the Aircraft) Guidelines 2011.92 Clause 3 of the 2011 Guidelines lays down a three- stage procedure to regulate services by assessing (a) materiality; 91 No.05/2010-11 dated 1 August 2010 92 “2011 Guidelines” 1442 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (b) competition; and (c) the reasonableness of the existing user agreement.93 57. It may be argued by relying on the in PTC (supra) that the 2011 Guidelines issued in exercise of the power under Section 15 is a regulatory function while the determination of tariff under Section 13(1)(a) is adjudicatory by relying on the distinction between ‘general’ and ‘specific’ as highlighted above. In PTC (supra), this Court drew a distinction between Section 61 of the Electricity Act which grants the Appropriate Commission the power to issue specific terms and conditions for determination of tariff and Section 62 which grants the power to determine tariff. The crucial test that has been consistently applied by this Court in drawing the distinction is to determine if the function is discharged in the capacity of a regulator or an adjudicator. Now, it may be possible that certain statutes create a clear distinction between the regulatory and adjudicatory roles with respect to the same function. When such a distinction is created, the Authority does not put on the hat of a regulator while undertaking the adjudicatory function. On the other hand, certain other statutes may require the Authority to ‘determine’ something in its capacity as a regulator. In such cases, a clear distinction between the adjudication and regulatory functions cannot be drawn. 58. On an analysis of the statutory provisions, it can be reasonably concluded that AERA is performing a regulatory function while determining tariff under Section 13(1)(a) of the AERA Act. The reasons for this conclusion are summarised below: a. It cannot be concluded that AERA is performing an adjudicatory function merely because Section 13(1)(a) uses the phrase “determine” with respect to tariff. This would amount to a formalistic interpretation. The Court ought to make an assessment by undertaking a holistic analysis; b. Section 13(1)(a) lays down seven factors which must be considered by AERA for determining the tariff of aeronautical services.