Fundamental rights should thus be interpreted in the light of the directive principles and the latter should, whenever and wherever possible, be read into the former. Every law attacked on the ground of infringement of a Fundamental Right should, among other considerations, be examined to find out if the law does not advance one or other of the directive principles or if it is not in discharge of some of the undoubted obligations of the State, constitutional or otherwise, towards its citizens or sections of its citizens, flowing out of the preamble, the directive principles and other provisions of the Constitution. 124. So, we have it that the constitutional goal is the establishment of a socialist democracy in which Justice, economic, social and political is secure and all men are equal and have equal opportunity. Inequality, whether of status, facility or opportunity, is to end, privilege is to cease and exploitation is to go. The underprivileged, the deprived and the exploited are to be protected and nourished so as to take their place in an egalitarian society. State action is to be towards those ends. It is in this context that Article 16 has to be interpreted when State action is questioned as contravening Article 16.” 118. The Learned Judge discussed the interplay between the Fundamental Rights and the Directive Principles. He observed that the Fundamental Rights are primarily aimed at assuring political freedom to the citizens by protecting them against excessive State action while the Directive Principles are aimed at securing social and economic freedoms by appropriate State action. The Learned Judge observed that merely because the Directive Principles are not enforceable by Courts, it does not mean that Directive Principles are less important than Fundamental rights or that they are not binding on the various organs of the State. Referring to Article 37 of the Constitution, the Learned Judge states that the Directive Principles are nevertheless fundamental in the governance of the country, and it shall be the duty of the State to apply these principles in making laws. He held that it becomes the duty of the court to apply the directive principles in interpreting the Constitution and the laws; that the directive principles should serve the courts as a code of interpretation. He held that 1516 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Fundamental rights should thus be interpreted in the light of the directive principles and the latter should, whenever and wherever possible, be read into the former. 119. He observed that the constitutional goal is the establishment of a socialist democracy in which Justice, economic, social and political is to secure and all men are equal and have equal opportunity. He further observed that the inequality, whether of status, facility or opportunity, is to end, privilege is to cease, and exploitation is to go. He further observed that the underprivileged, the deprived and the exploited are to be protected and nourished to take their place in an egalitarian society. 120. Thereafter, the Learned Judge then while referring to interplay between Article 16(1) and Article 16(4) observed thus: “125.