250 of 1983 Appearances for Parties P.S. Patwalia, Sr. Adv., Ms. Diya Kapur, Mrs. Pragya Baghel, Raghav Kumar, Aditya Ladha, Ms. Gahena Gambani, Vishal Banshal, Advs. for the Appellants. Ms. Bhakti Pasrija, D.A.G., Karan Sharma, Moksh Pasrija, Ms. Princy Sharma, Rishabh Sharma, Ms. Urvi Kashiwal, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Vikram Nath, J. 1. The present appeal assails the correctness of the and dated 09.03.2010 passed by the High Court of Punjab & Haryana at Chandigarh in R.S.A No. 250 of 1983, whereby the High [2024] 7 S.C.R. 613 Ujagar Singh (Dead) Thr. Lrs. & Anr. v. Punjab State & Ors. Court set aside the and decree dated 25.9.1982 of the Additional District Judge, Hoshiarpur. The High Court held that the Civil Court’s jurisdiction was barred under Section 21 of the Punjab Land Reforms Act, 19721. 2. The background of this case is as follows: 2.1 The appellants, followers of the religious shrine of Dam Dama Baba Sahib Singh of Una, filed a suit for declaration and perpetual injunction against the respondents and one Smt. Sangeet Kaur, daughter of Baba Madhusudan Singh Sahib Una. The appellants contended that the land detailed in the headnote of the plaint was dedicated to the religious and charitable institution Dam Dama Sahib of Una, under the management and supervision of Baba Madhusudan Singh. 2.2 The appellants pleaded that the shrine was worshipped by them and countless Sikhs. They asserted that Shri Kala Dhari, the founder of Una and a descendant of Baba Nanak, established the shrine, which was later managed by his successors. Shri Sahib Singh, the successor of Shri Kala Dhari, established another shrine at Quilla Jawahar Singh in Gujranwala (now in Pakistan), where followers gifted land for religious and charitable purposes. The income from these lands was used for maintaining the shrine and other charitable activities. 2.3 Upon the partition of India, 1440 kanals and 8 marlas of land were allotted to the Bedi families of Una in lieu of their land in Pakistan, including 735 kanals and 7 marlas allotted to Tikka Devinder Singh, a descendant of Baba Sahib Singh. The appellants argued that this land, though recorded in the name of Tikka Devinder Singh, was actually meant for the shrine and managed by Baba Madhusudan Singh. 2.4 The appellants claimed that despite not having the right to transfer the land, Baba Madhusudan Singh transferred 156 kanals and 8 marlas to the Agriculture Department of Punjab and 330 kanals and 14 marlas to his daughter, Sangeet Kaur. These transfers, the appellants contended, were illegal and not binding on the worshippers of the shrine. 1 In short, the “Land Reforms Act” 614 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2.5 The Government of Punjab initiated proceedings to declare part of this land as surplus. The Collector, Agrarian, Hoshiarpur, declared 20.0943 standard acres of the land as surplus on 28.06.1976. The appellants filed a suit for declaration and perpetual injunction, asserting that the land was of religious and charitable nature, and thus exempt under the Land Reforms Act.