It is more or less an admitted fact that a plea of acquisition was taken for the first time before the Division Bench, and this seems to be the reason for the Division Bench to remand the matter back to the single Judge after imposing a cost of Rs. 50,000/- on the appellant-Corporation. After remand, the appellant-Corporation filed an affidavit-in-opposition [2024] 5 S.C.R. 841 Kolkata Municipal Corporation & Anr. v. Bimal Kumar Shah & Ors. before the single Judge claiming that the land was acquired. In view of new developments, Birinchi Shah sought permission to withdraw the pending writ petition with the liberty to file a fresh writ petition. The High Court permitted this by an dated 11.08.2016. 7. Accordingly, Writ Petition No. 930 of 2016 was filed by the respondent no. 1, the executor to the estate of Birinchi Shah, inter alia, seeking an quashing the alleged acquisition as illegal and to restore their name as owners in the official records. 8. The learned single Judge of the High Court, allowing the writ petition by dated 14.09.2017, formulated two questions. The first question relates to the maintainability of the writ petition, which was answered in the affirmative. As there is no contest to this issue, we will not deal with it. The second issue relates to the legality and validity of acquisition of the Property in exercise of power under Section 352 of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation Act, 19803. Answering the second question, the learned single Judge held that the appellant- Corporation purported to acquire the Property under Section 352(a) of the Act when there is no power of compulsory acquisition therein. The learned single Judge therefore quashed and set-aside the alleged action of acquisition. 9. The appellant-Corporation as well as the respondent no. 1 assailed the of learned single Judge in writ appeals bearing APO No. 523 of 2017 and APO No. 210 of 2018, respectively. 10. The Division Bench of the High Court, by the impugned herein, affirmed the of the Single Judge and accordingly, disposed of the appeals with a direction that the appellant-Corporation may initiate acquisition proceedings for the Property under Section 536 or 537 of the Act, within five months, or in the alternative, restore the name of the last recorded owner as the owner of the Property. 11. It is against this and of the Division Bench of the High Court, that the appellant-Corporation is in appeal before us. 12. Submission of Counsels: Mr. Jaideep Gupta, learned senior counsel, representing the appellant-Corporation, has submitted that the appellant-Corporation has the requisite statutory power to 3 Hereinafter, referred to as the “Act”. 842 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports acquire a property under Section 352 of the Act for the purposes of constructing a park, as is the case here. He has referred to Section 363 of the Act provisioning compensation for acquisitions made under Section 352 of the Act and submitted that acquisition under this chapter is therefore complete and stands on its own footing.