For this reason, he would submit that the findings of AGRC and the High Court must apply to respondent no. 6 as well. 22.1. Mr. Dhruv Mehta, learned senior counsel, appearing for the administrator of respondent no.1 has argued that Section 13(2) of the Act empowers and places an obligation upon the SRA to take action against the developer when the project is not being implemented. Therefore, he submits that even if some of the complaints have been withdrawn, the termination of the development agreement is valid. V. Findings: 23. Having considered the findings of the AGRC and the High Court in detail, we have found them to be correct on law and fact. Further, having independently considered the detailed submissions of the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1467 Yash Developers v. Harihar Krupa Co-Operative Housing Society Limited & Ors. appellant and the respondents, on delay as well as on lack of financial and technical capabilities and maintainability of the appeal, we proceed to analyse and discuss them as follows. 24. Admittedly, the delay in executing the project, by the time of the termination is more than 16 years. This period is sought to be explained by fragmenting it into bits and pieces falling between 2003 to 2011, 2011 to 2014 and 2014 to 2019. 25. What amuses us is that we are called upon to hold that the of termination for delaying the project for 16 years must be held to be bad by examining each episode of delay as independent and stand alone. Judicial Review Courts enquiring into these allegations would only examine whether it would be arbitrary and/or unreasonable to exclude the delay caused because of the incidents that occurred from 2003 to 2019. In other words, the inquiry must be to see whether it would be unjust if we do not account for the long-drawn litigation with a competing builder between 2003 to 2011, the delay in obtaining the environmental clearances from 2011 to 2014, or the delay caused due to non-cooperation of certain slum dwellers. 26. Having examined the matter, we are of the opinion that the delay of 8 years in resolving disputes with a competing builder cannot be a justification under any circumstance. The appellant is a developer and fully understands the process of obtaining environmental clearances while other sanctions and permissions are pending, and it is for him to make all the necessary arrangements. To say the least, the non- cooperation of some of the members cannot be a ground for delaying the project from 2014 to 2019. The findings of the AGRC and the High Court are very clear, they have correctly held that the delay caused due to the sanction of the draft DP for the construction of the road cannot be a justification for delaying the project from 2015 to 2019. 27. In any event, execution of the project under the Slum Rehabilitation Scheme cannot be viewed as a real estate development project. There is a public purpose involved, and that is inextricably connected to the right to life of some of our brother and sister citizens who are living in pathetic conditions.