of India; (n) preparation of Mining Plan and its approval from Ministry of Coal, Govt. of India; xxxxx (r) arrangement of approval for coal linkage from KPCL Coal Mines to the power stations of KPCL; (s) arrangement of railway siding nearest to the KPCL Coal Mines, and xxxxx (u) undertake all other allied jobs for coal mining & washery operations. 1164 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ARTICLE 5 BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY To achieve the main objects of the Company as mentioned in clause 3 of Article 2, EMTA shall be responsible for development, operation of KPCL coal mines and delivery of coal to BTPS or any other thermal power station under KPCL, the terms and conditions of which shall be governed by an agreement to be executed by and between Company and EMTA. EMTA’s Scope of work shall comprise as follows: 1. Development and Operation of KPCL coal mines 2. Establishing coal washery at Pit head a) EMTA shall ensure establishment of coal washery at the pit head so that the coal to be supplied by the company should meet the required specification of KPCL and KPCL is not liable to pay any additional charges towards washing of coal. b) EMTA shall take all the clearances required for the setting up the coal washery from the concerned authorities and to properly dispose off the coal rejects to the satisfaction of environmental regulation. c) EMTA shall keep liaison with the concerned railway authorities and organise railway siding at nearest distance from mines/ washery area for movement of coal to BTPS by rail. 3. Arranging transportation of coal to BTPS xxxxx [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1165 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation 6. Quantity a. The total quantity of coal required to be supplied to BTPS is approximately 2 Million Tonnes (+)/(-) 10% per annum. 7. Quality a) The quality of coal shall be determined by drawing coal samples from railway wagons on receipt at KPCL power plants before unloading. b) A third party agency shall be appointed jointly by the parties of the agreement for sampling and analysis of coal received at BTPS end. The third party agency shall carry out the sampling and analysis of coal in the presence of the representative of the parties.……. xxxxx d) An independent inspection agency shall supervise and certify the quality of coal received at BTPS and the result of analysis certified by the independent inspection agency as per the procedure stated above shall be binding to all concerned for all commercial purposes. xxxxx 9. Delivery Period a. The delivery of coal to BTPS shall commence one month prior to the scheduled date of synchronisation of first unit with coal at BTPS. The tentative date of commissioning maybe taken as Dec. 2005. xxxxx 1166 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. The company shall provide an undertaking to the Ministry of Coal, Government of India that the coal produced from the KPCL Coal Mines shall be wholly and exclusively supplied, transported and delivered to KPCL.