It is also pertinent to mention at this juncture that the Respondent Nos.5 and 6 before the High Court categorically admitted that the construction of the commercial shops was made without there being any sanctioned plan from the competent authority. The survey report produced by the Respondent No.1 relating to Scheme No.7, Shastri Nagar, Meerut, would further disclose that there are 6379 sanctioned residential properties, in which 860 plots have been used for commercial purpose. Therefore, it is crystal clear that the Respondent Nos.5 and 6 without obtaining sanctioned plan/approval from the competent authority, illegally/unauthorizedly constructed the shops on the subject property, for commercial purposes and sold to the appellants and others for valuable consideration. 15. Undoubtedly, the competent authority under section 83 of the Act, is empowered to remove the unauthorized construction. As stated earlier, in this case, the plot allotted to the Respondent No.5 was residential in nature and the same was illegally used for commercial purpose and therefore, the construction raised on the subject property was liable to be removed by the competent authority. However it is the specific case of the appellants that the Respondent No.5 started to construct the commercial shops in the year 1990 itself, i.e., immediately after taking possession of the subject property and the Respondent No.1 was fully aware of such construction made by the Respondent No.5, from its inception, but they did not take immediate steps against the same. It can be reasonably inferred that the Respondent No.1 was aware of the construction made on the subject property at the beginning itself, which prompted them to issue show cause notice dated 19.09.1990 to the Respondent No.5 to stop the illegal construction and take appropriate steps. Without 1334 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports giving reply to the same, the Respondent No.5 continued to raise illegal commercial construction on the plot allotted to him. Thereafter, vide letter dated 27.09.2002, the Respondent No.1 instructed the Respondent No.5 to get the illegal construction regularized. But the Respondent No.5 did not respond to the same and he continued the illegal construction of some more shops on the subject property. Therefore, the Respondent No.1 sent a notice dated 09.02.2004 to the Respondent No.5 stating that the plot allotted to him was being illegally used for commercial purpose and hence, the construction raised on the subject property was liable to be removed under section 83 of the Act. Even thereafter, the Respondent No.5 failed to reply to the said notice, which compelled the competent authority to pass an of demolition dated 23.03.2005 for removal of unauthorized construction. However, the said could not be executed by the Respondent No.1. In the meanwhile, the shops constructed on the subject property were purchased by the appellants herein and others, which was not intimated to the Respondent No.1 by the Respondent No.5. It is also evident from the records that in the year 2011, the Respondent No.5 again started to raise the illegal construction on the subject property, which was objected to by the Respondent No.1 by issuing notice dated 20.04.2011 and directing him to immediately stop the unauthorized construction and show cause as to why the same should not be demolished.