The appellant therein moved the High Court under Section 482 of the CrPC praying, inter alia, that no cognizance could be taken without a sanction of the appropriate Government, as required under Section 197 of the CrPC as the appellant was discharging his official duty pursuant to an of the competent authority. The High Court opined that all the questions could be raised at the time of framing of charge and disposed the application filed by the appellant therein. Before this Court, two questions were raised and it was observed that previous sanction of the competent authority being a precondition for the Court taking cognizance of the offences if the offences alleged had been committed by the accused was in discharge of his official duty, the question touched upon the jurisdiction of the Magistrate in the matter of taking cognizance and therefore, there was no requirement that an accused should wait for taking such plea till the charges were framed. Placing reliance on certain decisions of this Court, it was observed in this case that the appellant therein had been directed by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate to be present with police force and remove the encroachment in question and in the course of discharge of his duty to control the mob, he had directed for opening of fire, which was in exercise of the power conferred upon him and the duty imposed upon [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1615 Gurmeet Kaur v. Devender Gupta & Another him under the s of the Magistrate. Hence, Section 197(1) of the CrPC applied to the facts of the case. Since no sanction had been taken, the cognizance by the Magistrate was bad in law and therefore, the same was quashed qua the appellant therein and the appeal was allowed. c) In D. Devaraja vs. Owais Sabeer Hussain (2020) 7 SCC 695 (“D. Devaraja”), the facts were that the High Court had disposed of the application under Section 482 of the CrPC which was filed for quashing the passed by the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate III, Bengaluru City in taking cognizance of a private complaint, inter alia, against the appellant-accused therein, for offences punishable under Sections 120-B, 220, 323, 330, 348 and 506-B read with Section 34 of the IPC. The High Court did not quash the impugned of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate dated 27.12.2006, but remitted the complaint back to the learned Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate instead, with, inter alia, liberty to the appellant- accused therein to apply for discharge. The question considered by this Court was whether the learned Magistrate could, at all, have taken cognizance against the appellant therein, in the private complaint, in the absence of a sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC read with Section 170 of the Karnataka Police Act, 1963, as amended by the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Act, 2013, and if not, whether the High Court should have quashed the impugned of the Magistrate concerned, instead of remitting the complaint to the Magistrate concerned and requiring the appellant-accused therein to appear before him and file an application for discharge.