List of Keywords Chargesheets; Police report; Chargesheets bereft of details/ particulars; Cognizance; Summoning of the accused; Complete chargesheet; Further evidence; Supplementary chargesheet; Framing of charge; Issue of Process/Notice; Opinion of investigating officer; Non-bailable warrants; Bailable warrants; Exemption from personal appearance; Heinous crime, Evading process of law; Tamper/destroy evidence; Civil disputes not involving criminal offence; Civil wrong/criminal wrong. Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No.2357 of 2024 From the and dated 12.01.2017 of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad in CRLMA No. 960 of 2017 With Criminal Appeal Nos. 2359 and 2358 of 2024 92 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Appearances for Parties Syed Mehdi Imam, Mohd Parvez Dabas, Uzmi Jamil Husain, Mushtaque Ahmad Khan, Tabrez Ahmad, Aamir Dabas, Rauf Rahim, Ali Asghar Rahim, Ms. Meenakshi Kalra, Saad Sharif, Pravir Singh, Anurag Malik, S.N. Kalra, Advs. for the Appellants. Ardhendumauli Kumar Prasad, A.A.G., Sarvesh Singh Baghel, Arun Pratap Singh Rajawat, Ashish Madaan, Ms. Ananya Sahu, Ms. Saumya Sharma, Adarsh Upadhyay, Ms. Shubhali Pathak, Ms. Pallavi Kumari, Aman Pathak, Dushyant Parashar, Dinesh Pandey, Manu Parashar, Rajesh Srivastava, Gaurav Verma, Neeraj Dutt Gaur, Sanjay Singh, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Sanjiv Khanna, J. Leave granted in the above matters. 2. The concerns which have arisen during the course of hearing the present appeals are of particular significance for meeting the ends of criminal justice, and relate to the nature of chargesheets filed in some jurisdictions by the state/police. For the sake of convenience, we would divide the into two parts. The first part relates to the legal issue, that is, the contents of the chargesheet in terms of Section 173(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 19731. The second part deals with the factual aspects of each of the cases, and our decision. PART I 3. The issue in the first part relates to chargesheets being filed without stating sufficient details of the facts constituting the offense or putting the relevant evidence on record. In some states, the chargesheets merely carry a reproduction of the details mentioned by the complainant in the First Information Report2, and then proceed to state whether an offence is made out, or not made out, without any elucidation on the evidence and material relied upon. On this issue, the recent of this Court in Dablu Kujur 1 “Code”, for short. 2 “FIR”, for short. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 93 Sharif Ahmed and Another v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another v. State of Jharkhand3 aptly crystallises the legal position in the following words: “17. Ergo, having regard to the provisions contained in Section 173 it is hereby directed that the Report of police officer on the completion of investigation shall contain the following:— (i) A report in the form prescribed by the State Government stating- (a) the names of the parties; (b) the nature of the information; (c) the names of the persons who appear to be acquainted with the circumstances of the case; (d) whether any offence appears to have been committed and, if so, by whom; (e) whether the accused has been arrested; (f) whether he has been released on his bond and, if so, whether with or without sureties; (g) whether he has been forwarded in custody under section 170.