Article 16(2) further provides that no citizen shall be discriminated against in respect of any employment or office under the State on the grounds of religion, race, caste, sex, descent, place of birth, residence, or any of them. 39. Secularism is one of the facets of the right to equality.30 The equality code outlined in Articles 14, 15, and 16 is based on the principle that all persons, irrespective of their religion, should have equal access to participate in society. The State cannot give preference to persons belonging to a particular religion in matters of public employment. As a corollary, the equality code prohibits the State from mixing religion with any secular activity of the State.31 However, the Constitution recognizes that equal treatment of persons is illusionary unless the State takes active steps in that regard. Therefore, the equality code imposes certain positive obligations on the State to provide equal treatment to all persons irrespective of their religion, faith, or beliefs.32 40. Articles 25 to 30 contain the other facet of secularism, that is, the practice of religious tolerance by the State.33 Article 25 provides 30 Dr M Ismail Faruqui v. Union of India (1994) 6 SCC 360 [37] 31 S R Bommai (supra) [148] Justice Sawant [“148. One thing which prominently emerges from the above discussion on secularism under our Constitution is that whatever the attitude of the State towards the religions, religious sects and denominations, religion cannot be mixed with any secular activity of the State. In fact, the encroachment of religion into secular activities is strictly prohibited.”] 32 S R Bommai (supra) [304] (Justice B P Jeevan Reddy) [“148. […] Articles 14, 15 and 16 enjoin upon the State to treat all its people equally irrespective of their religion, caste, faith or belief. While the citizens of this country are free to profess, practice and propagate such religion, faith or belief as they choose, so far as the State is concerned, i.e., from the point of view of the State, the religion, faith or belief of a person is immaterial. To it, all are equal and all are entitled to be treated equally. How is this equal treatment possible, if the State were to prefer or promote a particular religion, race or caste, which necessarily means a less favourable treatment of all other religions, races and castes. How are the constitutional promises of social justice, liberty of belief, faith or worship and equality of status and of opportunity to be attained unless the State eschews the religion, faith or belief of a person from its consideration altogether while dealing with him, his rights, his duties and his entitlements? Secularism is thus more than a passive attitude of religious tolerance. It is a positive concept of equal treatment of all religions. This attitude is described by some as one of neutrality towards religion or as one of benevolent neutrality. This may be a concept evolved by western liberal thought or it may be, as some say, an abiding faith with the Indian people at all points of time.”] 33 S R Bommai (supra) [183] Justice K Ramaswamy [“183.