2. Whether, in the present facts, Parvathy Amma had the legal right to transfer the entire property of her son to her daughter- 6 1967 SCC OnLine Ker 68 1028 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in-law and grandchildren by way of a mortgage deed or was her right only limited to one-sixth of the property as contended by the original defendants? APPRECIATION OF LAW 23. The case of plaintiffs is that scheduled properties being tharwad properties and they being members of the same are entitled to seek partition whereas defendants deny this claim. Issue 1 24. This issue deals with the right of marumakkathayee female on partition. Partition is a process by which joint ownership is reduced to individual ownership. It puts an end to the joint status, separating members who hold their respective shares, which, on their death, will devolve upon their heirs. Under mitakshara law, if a member continues to be joint with his own male issue then the share allotted to him retains the characteristic of coparcenary property. 25. However, in Marumakkathayam law, as per the original defendants the position of law has been incorrectly settled. 26. The answer to the first question (supra), was answered, favouring the latter by the majority of the Full Bench of Kerala High Court in Mary Cheriyan (supra) but since the original-defendants are placing their reliance on minority opinion, we deem it necessary and appropriate to discuss all opinions expressed therein. 27. P.T. Raman Nayar, J., who penned the majority opinion, held that property obtained by a Nair female towards her share under an outright partition in her tharwad continues to retain its character as tharwad property. He propounded that on partition, a tharwad breaks up into separate units with each unit a tharwad by itself, called a thavazhi. Indubitably, the members added to a multi-member unit are entitled to the property obtained by tharwad partition the moment they become members thereof. While placing the multi-member unit at par with a single-member unit, he observed that a single-member unit formed in a tharwad partition could add to its members by birth or adoption and thus become a joint family. Following this line of thought, he further opined that when a tharwad breaks up into units, the property allotted to a multi-member unit undisputedly shares the same character, so that members born into it thereafter get a right by [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1029 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. birth. And as such, a similar right must be given to a single sharer (female) in the partition. The nature of tharwad property retains its character in the hands of the divided units after partition, thereby securing rights in the said property for persons yet to be born. 28. He further emphasized that, unlike Mitakshara law, which has a religious flair, Marumakkathayam law is read with a secular tone and thereby every member of a tharwad how low-so-ever in degree gets a right by birth, which extends even to the right by birth in property taken on partition.