36.1 The Cambridge dictionary defines the word review as: “to think or talk about something again, in to make changes to it or to make a decision about it” 36.2 The Merriam Webster dictionary defines the word review to mean as: “ …2: to examine or study again especially : to reexamine judicially … 4 a: to go over or examine critically or deliberately; b: to give a critical evaluation of” 36.3 The Burton’s Legal Thesaurus52 lists the following words as being similar to ‘review’ – analyse; comment upon; contemplari; criticize; critique; investigate; mull over; notice; critically; reconsider; reexamine; scrutinize; study and weigh. 37. The import of the term independent review as can be understood from the above is a re-examination, scrutiny or critique of something which is not dependent or subject to control by any other factor or authority. In the present facts, independent review would mean a contemplation or study of the material gathered by the investigating officer to conclude as to whether or not a sanction to proceed under the provisions of the UAPA ought to be granted. Similarly, at the next 52 Third Edition; Page 473 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 365 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. stage, the sanctioning authority is to mull over and critically notice both the materials gathered as also the conclusion drawn by the recommending authority, in its act of granting sanction. 38. The legislative intent in bringing about the aspect of independent review, by way of an amendment brought into effect from 31st December 2008, within Section 45 of the UAPA is required to be noticed. 39. The Minister for Home Affairs in moving the draft Bills before the Council of States, highlighted the intent behind such introduction as herein below reproduced: “Finally, Sir, we have incorporated a very salutary provision. To the best of our knowledge-I don’t know, I may be corrected by the Law Minister or the Law Secretary later - it is the first time we are introducing this. In a prosecution under the UAPA, now, it is the executive Government which registers the case through a police officer. It is the executive Government which investigates the case through an investigating agency, namely, the police department. It is the executive Govt. which sanctions u/s. 45. Therefore, there is a fear that a vindictive or a wrong executive Govt. could register a case, investigate and sanction prosecution. There is a fear. May be, it is not a fear that is entirely justified but you cannot say that it is entirely unjustified. So what are we doing? The executive Govt. can register the case because no one else can register a case. The executive Govt., through its agency, can investigate the case. But, before sanction is granted under 45(1) we are interposing an independent authority which will review the entire evidence, gathered in the investigation, and then make a recommendation whether this is a fit case of prosecution. So, here, we are bringing a filter, a buffer, an independent authority who has to review the entire evidence that is gathered and, then, make a recommendation to the State Govt.