In support, reliance was placed upon Tejaswani Gaud v. Shekhar Jagdish Prasad Tewari10 and Rohith Thammana Gowda v. State of Karnataka and others11. The Prayer is for dismissal of the appeal. 8. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant referred record. 9. The undisputed facts on record are that twins were born to respondent No. 2 and his wife on 20.03.2010. One of them, the custody of whom is in question, has undisputedly been living with appellant No. 2 ever since she was 3-4 month old and thereafter with the family. Presently, she is about 14 years of age. It is not a case in which any of the parties is claiming adoption which otherwise is not permissible under 10 [2019] 7 SCR 335 : AIR 2019 SC 2318 11 [2022] 4 SCR 784 : AIR 2022 SC 3511 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 17 Shazia Aman Khan and Another v. The State of Orissa and Others Mohammedan law. Guardianship is also not being claimed. It is only the dispute regarding custody of the child. 10. Before we deal with the issue on merits, we deem it appropriate to refer to the legal position on the issues. 11. This Court in Athar Hussain v. Syed Siraj Ahmed and others’case (supra) had elaborated the concept of custody, guardianship and stability of child, while holding as under: “31. We are mindful of the fact that, as far as the matter of guardianship is concerned, the prima facie case lies in favour of the father as under Section 19 of the GWC Act, unless the father is not fit to be a guardian, the Court has no jurisdiction to appoint another guardian. It is also true that the respondents, despite the voluminous allegations leveled against the appellant have not been able to prove that he is not fit to take care of the minor children, nor has the Family Court or the High Court found him so. However, the question of custody is different from the question of guardianship. Father can continue to be the natural guardian of the children; however, the considerations pertaining to the welfare of the child may indicate lawful custody with another friend or relative as serving his/her interest better. xx xx xx 37. Stability and consistency in the affairs and routines of children is also an important consideration as was held by this Court in another decision cited by the learned counsel for the appellant in Mausami Moitra Ganguli v. Jayant Ganguli, (2008)7 SCC 673. This Court held: “24.....We are convinced that the dislocation of Satyajeet, at this stage, from Allahabad, where he has grown up in sufficiently good surroundings, would not only impede his schooling, it may also cause emotional strain and depression to him.” 18 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports After taking note of the marked reluctance on the part of the boy to live with his mother, the Court further observed: “26. Under these circumstances and bearing in mind the paramount consideration of the welfare of the child, we are convinced that child’s interest and welfare will be best served if he continues to be in the custody of the father.