20. Article 338-B of the Constitution provides that the State Government may establish Commission for Backward Classes. 21. The legislature of the State of Bihar enacted the Bihar State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 1993 (State Act No.12 of 1993) for establishing a State Commission for Backward Classes and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Section 9 of the said Act defines the functions of the Commission; Section 10 defines the powers of the Commission and Section 11 provides that the State Government shall do a periodic revision of lists of Backward Classes every ten years and in doing so would consult the Commission. 22. Further, the legislature of the State of Bihar enacted the Bihar Reservation of Vacancies in Posts and Services (for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other Backward Classes) Act, 1991 (Act No.3 of 1992) and under the said Act it declared the lists of Extremely Backward Classes wherein at Serial No.33, “Tanti-Tantwa” was shown as one of the castes falling in the Extremely Backward Classes. 23. The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Union of India has filed an application for impleadment and has made its stand clear in the said application, which is supported by an affidavit and is registered as IA No.100468 of 2024. In paragraph 8 of the said application, it is stated that the Government of Bihar vide letter dated 05.08.2011 had recommended inclusion of “Tanti-Tantwa” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 805 Dr. Bhim Rao Ambedkar Vichar Manch Bihar, Patna v. The State of Bihar & Ors. in the list of Scheduled Castes as a synonym of ‘Pan, Sawasi, Panr’. The said proposal of the State was examined as per settled modalities in consultation with the Registrar General of India (in short ‘RGI’), who did not support the said proposal vide its comments dated 24.01.2013. The observations of the RGI were conveyed to the State Government on 31.01.2013 to review/further justify the recommendations in the light of the comments made by the RGI. It further mentions that the response of the State Government in the matter was awaited. Thus, till date “Tanti-Tantwa” caste has not been included in the list of Schedule Castes of the State of Bihar and, as such, its members are not entitled to Scheduled Castes’ status. Paragraph-9 further mentions that the Department had received references from the Union Public Service Commission as also the Department of Personnel and Training, Government of India to show that Members of “Tanti-Tantwa” community, who were otherwise appearing at Serial No.48 of the Central List of Other Backward Classes were being issued Scheduled Castes Certificates in the name of ‘Pan, Sawasi, Panr’ in view of the State Government’s Resolution dated 01.07.2015. 24. Paragraph 10 clearly states that under Article 341 of the Constitution and the Constitution (Schedule Castes) , 1950 and its Amendments, “Tanti-Tantwa” Caste, which does not appear in the list of Scheduled Castes of Bihar cannot be issued Scheduled Castes Certificates treating them to be ‘Pan, Sawasi, Panr’ at Serial No.20 of the list of Scheduled Castes of Bihar.