[2024] 6 S.C.R. 801 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others Mr. N.K. Poddar, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant stated that both these notifications do not survive. They have been withdrawn and subsequently two guidelines have been issued by the appellant on 8th August, 2008 for regulating the business of its members. However, subsequently one of them had also been withdrawn in 2011 and today only one guidelines is issued for which the appellant has not received any representation, ventilation or any grievance from any member of the appellant association in respect of the existing guidelines which deals with Section 44 A(b) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. Mr. Poddar further submitted that in case, the appellant receives any representation against such existing guidelines, the highest body of the appellant will consider it and will take a decision as to whether such guidelines would continue or require any kind of modification. In view of the above, we do not propose to hear the appeals on merit and the same are dismissed as having become infructuous. However, in case any member is aggrieved of the existing guidelines and files a representation before the appellant, the appellant shall consider it and pass appropriate , and if any member is aggrieved thereof whether he has made representation or not, would have right to challenge it before the appropriate forum. With the aforesaid observations, the appeals stand dismissed. Before parting with the case, we express our thanks to Shri K.V. Vishwanathan, learned senior counsel, Amicus Curiae, for rendering assistance in the instant case.” 3.22 In a further exercise of review of the limit, at the 331st Meeting of the Council held in February 2014, it was again decided to increase the limit on accepting tax audits from forty-five to sixty w.e.f. from the financial year 2014-15. 3.23 In to establish that the restriction has been incisively deliberated upon and the need of the restriction has been 802 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports supported by expert practitioners over an extended period of time, the respondent-Institute has placed heavy reliance on the above-discussed CBDT letter dated 19.01.1988 and the Report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (for short, “CAG”), being No. 32 of 2014, tiled “Performance Audit on Appreciation of Third Party (Chartered Accountant) Reporting in Assessment Proceedings”, presented to the Parliament on 19.12.2014. 3.24 Our attention was drawn to ‘Section 3.6 Control on number of tax audit assignment’ of the CAG’s Report wherein pertinent observations were made on effectuating control on Chartered Accountants undertaking tax audit assignments under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961. Highlighting the relationship between the number of tax audits undertaken and the quality of tax audits, the CAG reported that there was no system in field offices of Income-Tax Department (for short, “ITD”) to monitor compliance by Chartered Accountants of ceiling limit set by respondent- Institute. The CAG was informed by the respondent-Institute, in September 2014, that even though Chartered Accountants have been provided with Form of Tax Audit particulars to be maintained by members/Firm, maintenance of such records is a self-regulatory mechanism and can be called upon by respondent- Institute for checking adherence to the Guidelines.