This was a case where the respondent-accused was implicated in offences of sexual assault and kidnapping of a minor girl along with other related offences and the accused was convicted by the Trial Court. Conviction of the respondent along with the co-accused was set aside by a Single Judge of the High Court. It was contended by the State before this Court that the of acquittal was passed by the High Court ignoring the statement of prosecutrix, made under Section 164 of the 1973 Code, as also her testimony before the trial court. It was in the context of this argument that the aforesaid was delivered and observations were made in the passage quoted above. The same course, in our opinion, would not be mandatory on the question of considering pre-trial bail plea. 12. So far as the initial and the first supplementary chargesheets filed by the State Police are concerned, the Court of first instance had the occasion to go through the same. But the High Court opined that after transfer of investigation to NIA and filing of the second supplementary chargesheet, which was also placed before the High Court, it should be the Special Court itself which should examine, at the first instance, the content of all the chargesheets, before considering the prayer of an accused for bail. In the present case, when the bail application was filed before the Single Judge of the High Court under Section 439 of the 1973 Code, the second supplementary chargesheet had not been submitted. Under the provisions of the 1973 Code, [2024] 4 S.C.R. 279 Shoma Kanti Sen v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. the jurisdiction of the High Court to consider the question of bail is coordinate with that of the Sessions Court and it has evolved as a matter of practice that an accused seeking bail ought to approach the Sessions Court before approaching the High Court. Thus, at the point of time when the bail petition was filed by the appellant before the High Court, there was no apparent jurisdictional shortcoming in the High Court examining the appellant’s plea for bail. It was also, in our opinion, the proper course which was adopted by the High Court exercising jurisdiction under Section 439 of the 1973 Code to refer the matter to a Division Bench to decide the bail plea in accordance with Section 21(2) of the 2008 Act. This course has been prescribed in the judgement of this court in the case of State of Andhra Pradesh, through Inspector General, National Investigation Agency -vs- Mohd. Hussain alias Salim [(2014) 1 SCC 258], which was relied upon by the learned Single Judge while placing the bail application before a Division Bench. The relevant portion of this judgement passed by a Coordinate Bench of this Court stipulates: - “27. The passed by this Court on 2-8-2013 in State of A.P. v. Mohd. Hussain [State of A.P. v. Mohd. Hussain, (2014) 1 SCC 706] is therefore clarified as follows: 27.1.