However, a medical practitioner will be held liable for negligence only in circumstances when their conduct falls below the standards of a reasonably competent practitioner.” 12.2.2 To hold a doctor liable, this Court in Dr. Mrs. Chanda Rani Akhouri v. Dr. M.A. Methusethupati10 observed: - “…. a medical practitioner is not to be held liable simply because things went wrong from mischance or misadventure or through an error of in choosing one reasonable course of treatment in preference to another. 8 [2023] 15 SCR 113 : (2024) 2 SCC 242 9 [2005] Supp. 2 SCR 307 : (2005) 6 SCC 1 10 [2022] 5 SCR 812 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 481 [2024] 4 S.C.R. 765 Jyoti Devi v. Suket Hospital & Ors. In the practice of medicine, there could be varying approaches of treatment. There could be a genuine difference of opinion. However, while adopting a course of treatment, the duty cast upon the medical practitioner is that he must ensure that the medical protocol being followed by him is to the best of his skill and with competence at his command. At the given time, medical practitioner would be liable only where his conduct fell below that of the standards of a reasonably competent practitioner in his field.” (Emphasis supplied) 12.2.3 Observations in Harish Kumar Khurana v. Joginder Singh11 are also instructive. Bopanna J., writing for the Court held: “…It is necessary that the hospital and the doctors are required to exercise sufficient care in treating the patient in all circumstances. However, in unfortunate cases, though death may occur and if it is alleged to be due to medical negligence and a claim in that regard is made, it is necessary that sufficient material or medical evidence should be available before the adjudicating authority to arrive at a conclusion.” (emphasis supplied) These observations, although made in the context of a patient having passed away in the course of, or as a result of treatment, nonetheless are essential even in cases where the claimant has suffered an injury. 12.3 Determination of the Quantum of Compensation 12.3.1 This Court has held that in determining compensation in cases of medical negligence, a balance has to be struck between the demands of the person claiming 11 (2021) 10 SCC 291 766 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports compensation, as also the interests of those being made liable to pay. It was observed in Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences v. Prasanth S. Dhananka12 - “88. We must emphasise that the court has to strike a balance between the inflated and unreasonable demands of a victim and the equally untenable claim of the opposite party saying that nothing is payable. Sympathy for the victim does not, and should not, come in the way of making a correct assessment, but if a case is made out, the court must not be chary of awarding adequate compensation. The “adequate compensation” that we speak of, must to some extent, be a rule of thumb measure, and as a balance has to be struck, it would be difficult to satisfy all the parties concerned.