Supreme Court Reports or conveyances, which shall, as soon as may be after their seizure, be disposed of by such officer and in such manner as that Government may, from time to time, determine after following the procedure hereinafter specified. (2) Where any narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, controlled substances or conveyances has been seized and forwarded to the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station or to the officer empowered under section 53, the officer referred to in sub-section (1) shall prepare an inventory of such narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, controlled substances or conveyances containing such details relating to their description, quality, quantity, mode of packing, marks, numbers or such other identifying particulars of the [narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, controlled substances or conveyances] or the packing in which they are packed, country of origin and other particulars as the officer referred to in sub-section (1) may consider relevant to the identity of the narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, controlled substances or conveyances in any proceedings under this Act and make an application, to any Magistrate for the purpose of— (a) certifying the correctness of the inventory so prepared; or (b) taking, in the presence of such magistrate, photographs of such drugs, substances or conveyances and certifying such photographs as true; or (c) allowing to draw representative samples of such drugs or substances, in the presence of such magistrate and certifying the correctness of any list of samples so drawn. (3) Where an application is made under sub-section (2), the Magistrate shall, as soon as may be, allow the application. (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1972) or the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), every court trying an offence under this Act, shall treat the inventory, the photographs of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, controlled [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1417 Narcotics Control Bureau v. Kashif substances or conveyances] and any list of samples drawn under sub-section (2) and certified by the Magistrate, as primary evidence in respect of such offence.” POSITION PRIOR TO INSERTION OF SECTION 52A: - 13. It may be noted that though the NDPS Act came into force on 14.11.1985, Section 52A was inserted by the Act 2 of 1989, which came into force with effect from 29.05.1989. For the purpose of proper interpretation of Section 52A, it would be beneficial to peep into its historical background, and the position with regard to the search, seizure, drawing of sample, etc. prevailing prior to the insertion of Section 52A. Prior to insertion of Section 52A in the Act, the Central Government in exercise of the powers under Section 4(3) of the NDPS Act vide notification dated 17.03.1986, had constituted the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) conferring upon it the powers and functions of Central Government for taking measures in respect of matters contained in Section 4(2) of the Act. It was noticed by the NCB that different Investigating Officers of various enforcement agencies were adopting different procedures in drawing samples from seized narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, etc.