Ashish Kumar Upadhyay, Ms. Chavi Kalla, Ms. Maitri Goal, V. Sibi Kargil, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court 1. Application seeking permission to file the Special Leave Petition is granted. 2. Delay condoned. 486 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3. This petition arises from the passed by the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan, Bench at Jaipur in SB Civil Writ Petition No.4982/2020, by which the High Court allowed the petition filed by the respondents – herein (original plaintiffs and decree holders) and set aside the passed by the Additional District Judge, Bansur, District Alwar (Rajasthan) in Execution No.06/2018. 4. The facts of this case in brief are that the petitioners– herein claim to be the subsequent purchasers of the suit property. The plaintiffs instituted a suit for specific performance of contract based on an agreement of sale with the original defendants. The plaintiffs have succeeded in the suit. The Trial Court passed a decree for specific performance in favour of the plaintiffs. 5. It appears that since the original defendant who had executed the agreement of sale is no longer interested in the matter as he seems to have sold the suit property to the petitioners – herein, there has been no further challenge to the and decree passed by the Trial Court. 6. However, in the execution proceedings, the executing court took the view that although there is a decree for specific performance yet the decree does not say anything as regards putting the plaintiffs in possession of the suit property. 7. In such circumstances, the executing court declined to handover the possession of the suit property to the respondents – herein. 8. The passed by the executing court came to be challenged by the respondents – herein - decree holder. 9. The High Court vide dated 11-7-2023 allowed the petition in the following terms:- “14. Considering the view of the Hon'ble Courts in the cases referred to above, it is very safe to say that in the case of suit for specific performance even no decree for possession has been sought and the suit for specific performance is decreed, the Executing Court is under an obligation to see that the possession of the suit property as decreed is handed over to the decree-holder. 15. Taking into consideration the facts and the circumstances of the case and the view of the Hon'ble Courts in the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 487 Birma Devi & Ors. v. Subhash & Anr. cases referred to above, this Court is of the view that the decree of specific performance and the resultant execution and registration of the sale deed at the instance of the Executing court in favour of the plaintiff-decree holder entailed an implied right of the plaintiff-decree holder to be in possession of the property so conveyed. Since such a right has been denied by the impugned by the Executing Court failing to exercise its jurisdiction, this Court set asides the impugned dated 12.03.2019 passed by the Executing court.