1215 Balveer Batra v. The New India Assurance Company & Anr. Datta4, wherein it was held that an award by Tribunal could not be seen as adversarial adjudication between litigating parties to a dispute and in troth, it is a statutory determination of compensation on the occurrence of an accident, after due enquiry. 19. In the decision in Mantoo Sarkar’s case (supra) after extracting sub-section (2) of Section 166, M.V. Act, in paragraph 11 thereof, this Court held that M.V. Act is a special statute and the jurisdiction of the Claims Tribunal having regard to the terminologies used therein must be held to be wider than the civil Court. 20. In the contextual situation it is relevant to note that in Mantoo Sarkar’s case (supra) while considering predominantly the scope of appellate interference in view of Section 21, CPC, even after referring to Section 166 (2) of the M.V. Act, this Court made certain observations which could be, rather, should be attuned to the situation obtained in the case on hand. This Court held that a distinction must be made between the jurisdiction with regard to the subject matter of the suit and that of territorial and pecuniary jurisdiction and further that in the case falling within the former category the judgement would be in nullity and in the latter category it would not be. In paragraph 18 thereof, this Court held thus:- “18. The Tribunal is a court subordinate to the High Court. An appeal against the Tribunal lies before the High Court. The High Court, while exercising its appellate power, would follow the provisions contained in the Code of Civil Procedure or akin thereto. In view of sub-section (1) of Section 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure, it was, therefore, obligatory on the part of the appellate court to pose unto itself the right question viz. whether the first respondent has been able to show sufferance of any prejudice. If it has not suffered any prejudice or otherwise no failure of justice had occurred, the High Court should not have entertained the appeal on that ground alone.” 21. Section 173 of the M.V. Act provides for filing appeal by any person aggrieved by an award by a Claims Tribunal. In the decision in Sharanamma and Others v. M.D., Divisional Contr. Nekrtc5, this 4 [2011] 14 SCR 763 : (2011) 10 SCC 509 5 (2013) 11 SCC 517 1216 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court held that a bare reading of Section 173 shows that there is no curtailment or limitations on the powers of the appellate court to consider the entire case on facts and law. When that be the position, indubitably, it could be said that consideration of the question of sufferance or prejudice in regard to a finding on territorial jurisdiction besides its correctness is required in appeals against awards declining compensation upholding the objection on territorial jurisdiction of the opposite parties. Since the provisions for grant of compensation under Section 166 is one of benevolence if an illegality resulting in failure of justice is discernable from the materials on record, even if in respect of which no specific pleading is taken, the Court is bound to take it into consideration.