It is clear, therefore, that what the State seeks to levy excise duty upon is not alcoholic liquor for human consumption but the raw material or input still in process of being rendered fit for consumption by human beings. The State is not empowered to levy excise duty on the raw material or input that is in the process of being made into alcoholic liquor for human consumption. 11. That the measure of excise duty upon alcoholic liquor for human consumption is the alcoholic strength thereof does not make any difference in this behalf. It is only the alcoholic strength of the final product which is relevant.” In paragraph 14, it was further observed as under: 14. … The demand for excise duty is not a regulatory measure. The power of the State to levy excise duty cannot be expanded with reference to its power to regulate manufacture. We are not required to and do not express any opinion in regard to the power of the State to regulate the manufacture of alcoholic liquors for human consumption. 9.6.1 Consequently, the appeals were allowed with regard to levy of excise duty upon wastage of Indian-made foreign liquor exported outside the State of Uttar Pradesh. Rest of the appeals were dismissed. Shree Krishna Gyanoday Sugar Ltd.: 9.7 In Shree Krishna Gyanoday Sugar Ltd. vs. State of Bihar (1996) 10 SCC 11, (“Shree Krishna Gyanoday Sugar Ltd.”), the question was whether Rule 9 of the Bihar & Orissa Excise Rules, 1990, framed under the Bihar and Orissa Excise Act, 1915, was ultra vires the said Act. In the alternative, the question was whether the said Rule covered the appellants’ distilleries which were manufacturing not only denatured spirit but also potable liquor. 2090 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9.7.1 It was contended that the distilleries of the appellants therein were having composite licences to manufacture not only denatured spirit and other spirits for industrial use but were also manufacturing potable spirit or country liquor and that for these distilleries the State had no power or jurisdiction to invoke Rule 9 of the Rules. The High Court repelled the contention of the appellants therein. It was held that Rule 9 was not ultra vires the provisions of the aforesaid Act. It was cautioned that if a distillery which manufactures denatured spirit attempts to alter any denatured spirit with the intention that such spirit may be used for human consumption, whether as a beverage or internally as a medicine, it would be committing an offence which is punishable under Section 49 of the aforesaid Act. Therefore, it was permissible for the Excise Authorities under the Act to supervise the working of such distilleries so that they may not commit such offences and to oversee their manufacturing activities. This was because the denatured spirit, if illegally altered and made fit for human consumption, would have a devastating effect on the health of consumers and may even result in fatal consequences or loss of vision and other pernicious physical handicaps.