However, in what cases the examination of a ballistic expert is essential for the proof of the prosecution case must naturally depend upon the circumstances of each case. This Court held as under: 41.... These observations do not purport to lay down an inflexible Rule that in every case where an accused person is charged with murder caused by a lethal weapon, the prosecution case can succeed in proving the charge only if an expert is examined. It is possible to imagine cases where the direct evidence is of such an unimpeachable [2024] 2 S.C.R. 681 Ram Singh v. The State of U.P. character and the nature of the injuries disclosed by post-mortem notes is so clearly consistent with the direct evidence that the examination of a ballistic expert may not be regarded as essential. Where the direct evidence is not satisfactory or disinterested or where the injuries are alleged to have been caused with a gun and they prima facie appear to have been inflicted by a rifle, undoubtedly the apparent inconsistency can be cured or the oral evidence can be corroborated by leading the evidence of a ballistic expert. In what cases the examination of a ballistic expert is essential for the proof of the prosecution case, must naturally depend upon the circumstances of each case…. 25. This issue was again examined by this Court in Sukhwant Singh Vs. State of Punjab, (1995) 3 SCC 367. In that case, this Court observed that though the police had recovered an empty cartridge from the spot and a pistol along with some cartridges were seized from the possession of the appellant at the time of his arrest, yet the prosecution did not send the recovered empty cartridges and the seized pistol to the ballistic expert for examination and expert opinion. This Court was of the view that if such opinion would have been called for, comparison could have been made which in turn could have provided link evidence between the crime and the accused. It was noted that this again was an omission on the part of the prosecution for which no explanation was furnished. It was thereafter that this Court declared as follows: 21.... It hardly needs to be emphasised that in cases where injuries are caused by firearms, the opinion of the ballistic expert is of a considerable importance where both the firearm and the crime cartridge are recovered during the investigation to connect an accused with the crime. Failure to produce the expert opinion before the trial court in such cases affects the creditworthiness of the prosecution case to a great extent. 25.1. Thus, in the aforesaid case, this Court emphasized that in cases where injuries are caused by firearms, the opinion of the ballistic expert becomes very important to connect the crime cartridge recovered during the investigation to the firearm used by the accused with the crime. Failure to produce expert opinion 682 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in such cases affects the creditworthiness of the prosecution case to a great extent.