Therefore, it would be open to the accused to place the necessary materials on record during the trial to indicate the nature of his duty and to show that the acts complained of were so interrelated to his duty in to obtain protection under Section 197 CrPC. (iii) While deciding the issue of sanction, it is not necessary for the Court to confine itself to the allegations made in the complaint. It can take into account all the material on record available at the time when such a question is raised and falls for the consideration of the Court. (iv) Courts must avoid the premature staying or quashing of criminal trials at the preliminary stage since such a measure may cause great damage to the evidence that may have to be adduced before the appropriate trial court. 75. In the present case, we are concerned with the allegation of registering an FIR i.e., Case Crime No. 967 of 2007 for the offence under Section 34 of the Excise Act at the Murar Police Station, Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh at the instance of the accused respondents so as to facilitate one Ashok Dixit in raising the plea of alibi in Case Crime No. 617 of 2007 filed at the Dakshin Police Station, Firozabad, Uttar Pradesh for the murder of the appellant’s brother. The appellant’s brother was shot dead at 08:30 am on 12.10.2007 in Firozabad, Uttar Pradesh and the arrest of the accused Ashok Dixit for the offence under the Excise Act is said to have been made at 09:30 am on the 832 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports very same day in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh. Evidently the accused in both the cases i.e., Ashok Dixit could not have been simultaneously present at both the places on the same day, especially when the distance between the two locations is 160 Kms and such a distance cannot be covered by road in one hour. This is precisely the reason why the appellant asserts that the case registered at Gwalior is false or in other words concocted. 76. It is relevant to note that the Trial Court vide its dated 10.07.2015 held the accused, Ashok Dixit along with 11 others guilty of murder of the appellant’s brother. In doing so, the Trial Court had made some pertinent observations regarding the registration of the case under the Excise Act by the accused respondents. The Trial Court had arrived at a categorical finding that the second FIR was registered as a result of collusion by the present accused respondents with Ashok Dixit. It has been observed that the IO at Dakshin, Firozabad after thorough investigation had found out that the entire case was concocted and hence, the Charge Sheets giving rise to Case Nos. 67 of 2008 and 67A of 2009 had been filed against the accused respondents for being involved in the conspiracy of murder. The Trial Court also observed that the accused respondents had been suspended by the SSP, Gwalior and a departmental inquiry had been initiated against them.