Unfortunately, the attention of the Bench was not invited to binding precedent in the form of a decision of a larger bench in the case of Lala Durga Prasad & Ors.4. Hence, the decision in the case of B. Vijaya Bharathi3 is not a binding precedent. Therefore, there was no requirement to make a prayer in the plaint for cancellation or setting aside the subsequent sale deeds. 16. Clause (a) to (c) of Section 19 of the Specific Relief Act read thus: “19. Relief against parties and persons claiming under them by subsequent title.— Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter, specific performance of a contract may be enforced against— (a) either party thereto; (b) any other person claiming under him by a title arising subsequently to the contract, except a transferee for value who has paid his money in good faith and without notice of the original contract; (c) any person claiming under a title which, though prior to the contract and known to the plaintiff, might have been displaced by the defendant; 410 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (d)………………………………………………… (e)…………………………………………………” (emphasis added) In view of clause (b) of Section 19, the defendants who are claiming under the sale deeds executed after the execution of the suit agreement can be subjected to a decree of specific performance as the suit agreement can be enforced specifically against such defendants unless they are bona-fide purchasers without the notice of the original contract. When, in a given case, the defendants, who are subsequent purchasers, fail to prove that they entered into the sale deed in good faith and without notice of the suit agreement, in view of Section 19(b), a decree for specific performance can be passed against such defendants. Therefore, in such a case where Section 19(b) is applicable, under the decree of specific performance, the subsequent purchasers can be directed to execute the sale deed along with the original vendor. There is no necessity to pray for the cancellation of the subsequent sale deeds. ON QUESTION – (e) 17. We have perused Section 154-B of the Zamindari Abolition Act. Sub-section (1) prohibits the sale or transfer of agricultural lands to a person who is not an agriculturalist. Clause (h) of sub-section (2) of Section 154-B permits the sale of agricultural land to a non- agriculturalist with the permission of the State Government for the purposes specified in clause (i) to (v) of clause (h). What is prohibited is the sale of agricultural land to a non-agriculturalist. In view of Section 54 of the TP Act, an agreement for sale does not transfer the property subject matter of the agreement to the purchaser. It does not create any interest in the property subject matter of the agreement. Therefore, the embargo created by sub-section (1) of Section 154-B will apply only to the execution of the sale deed and not to the execution of the agreement for sale. 18. Now the question is whether the vendor and the persons claiming through him can be directed to apply for permission in accordance with clause (h) of sub-section (2) of Section 154-B to sell and whether a decree for execution of the sale deed can be made contingent upon the grant of permission to sell.