[Para 84(i)] 3. Sub-classification of Scheduled Castes is permissible in law for the purposes of reservation. [Para 85] Held (per Satish Chandra Sharma, J.) (Concurring): I have had the privilege of reading the lucid and detailed opinion(s) authored by Hon’ble Dr. Justice D.Y.Chandrachud, Chief Justice of India and Hon’ble Mr. Justice B.R. Gavai, respectively – I am fully in agreement with both opinions to the extent that the validity of sub-classification within Scheduled Castes has been held to be constitutionally permissible. [Para 1] Held (per Bela M. Trivedi, J.) (Dissenting): 1. When the law was settled by the Constitution Bench in E.V. Chinnaiah after considering all the previous s including Indra Sawhney and after investing substantial judicial time and resources, the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1323 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. same should not have been doubted and referred to the larger bench by the Three-Judge Bench in Davinder Singh, and that too without assigning any reason much less cogent reason for their disagreement disregarding the well settled doctrines of Precedents and Stare decisis. [Para 79(i)] 2. The Nine-Judge Bench in Indra Sawhney and the Five-Judge Bench in Jarnail Singh had not dealt with the issue of sub- classification of the “Scheduled Castes” in the context of Article 341, much less had dealt with the State’s powers to sub-classify or sub-divide or regroup the castes specified as “Scheduled Castes” under Article 341 of the Constitution, and therefore, it could not be held that the law laid down in E.V. Chinnaiah was not in consonance with Indra Sawhney or Jarnail Singh. [Para 79(viii)] 3. The power conferred upon the Supreme Court under Article 142 cannot be used to supplant the substantive law applicable to the case under consideration – Even with the width of its amplitude, Article 142 cannot be used to build a new edifice where none existed earlier, by ignoring express statutory provisions dealing with the subject, and thereby to achieve something indirectly which cannot be achieved directly – The action of the State, though well intentioned and affirmative in nature, if violates the specific provision of the Constitution, cannot be validated by the Supreme Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 142. [Para 79(ix)] 4. The affirmative action and legal frameworks, though both do aim at more equitable society, they must navigate complex legal principles to ensure fairness and constitutionality. [Para 79(x)] 5. The law laid down by the Five-Judge Bench in E.V. Chinnaiah is the correct law and deserves to be confirmed. [Para 80] Reservation – Whether sub-classification of Scheduled Castes for reservation was excluded or barred by the Nine Judge Bench decision in Indra Sawhney case – Held, No. Held (per Dr D Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and Manoj Misra, J. ): In Indra Sawhney, this Court did not limit the application of sub-classification only to the Other Backward Class – This Court upheld the application of the principle to beneficiary classes under Articles 15(4) and 16(4). [Para 205(b)] Held (per B.R.