[2024] 12 S.C.R. 2025 Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. v. Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association and Others 35. The golden principle thus is that Government procedures or policies pioneered in public interest must genuinely serve the public and not merely enrich private entities. When public interest is overshadowed, it does raise concerns as to whether the Government has acted in a manner that appears capricious or arbitrary. It then becomes imperative for the Court to scrutinise whether such actions vitiate the Constitutional mandate of equality. Such procedures, must therefore satisfy the litmus test of due application of mind, fairness, transparency and most pertinently, being bona fide. 36. Turning to the events of the case in hand, it is a matter of record that the Government made no efforts to issue tenders, invitations, or seek competitive bids from other interested entrepreneurs. There is no basis at all to claim that following such a procedure would have been detrimental to the proposed Project. Contrarily, NOIDA, in collaboration with IL&FS, assigned the mammoth responsibility of constructing this novel infrastructure upon NTBCL. Interestingly, NTBCL was a non-existent entity, as it came to be incorporated only on 08.04.1996, i.e. four years after the MoU was executed between the Delhi Administration, NOIDA, and IL&FS, to establish a bridge between Delhi and NOIDA. 37. The justification rendered by NTBCL and NOIDA that there was no other infrastructure development company at the time, who could undertake the construction of the DND Flyway, is nothing but a self- serving claim by an entity who is the sole beneficiary of the State largesse. The assertion that IL&FS, being the only institution or agency controlled by the public sector, was uniquely positioned to offer expertise in specialised infrastructure development and generate the necessary financing, is also hardly a justification for the undue favour extended to NTBCL. 38. As the High Court rightly observed, the selection of NTBCL appears to have been strategically aligned, given that the Concession Agreement entrusted the Steering Committee with selecting a private company promoted by IL&FS to implement the DND Flyway project. As already noticed, this private company—NTBCL—was incorporated only after the MoU had been executed and thus could not be considered as having extensive experience in developing such large-scale infrastructural projects. 39. The contention that there were no suitable companies capable of undertaking such infrastructural development during that period lacks 2026 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports any substantiation or material on record to support such sweeping claims. In our considered view, the aforesaid plea could carry some weightage had there been even a single attempt to invite bids. It is difficult to accept that there was such a dearth of experienced companies offering better financial terms and solutions for developing the DND Flyway alongside IL&FS. 40. The selection of NTBCL without following proper procedure and without giving any opportunity to bid, to other competitors, was nothing but an opaque device resorted to, in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. G.3 Delegation of power to levy fees and its validity 41.