The occupier or any person including research institutions handling microorganism/genetically engineered 2062 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports organisms shall prepare, with the assistance of the Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBSC) an uptodate on-site emergency plan according to the manuals/ guidelines of the RCGM and make available copies to the District Level Committee/State Biotechnology Co-ordination Committee and the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee (4) Genetic Engineering Approval Committee (GEAC). This committee shall function as a body under the Department of Environment, Forest and Wildlife for approval of activities involving large scale use of hazardous microorganisms and recombinants in research and industrial production from the environmental angle. The committee shall also be responsible for approval of proposals relating to release of genetically engineered organisms and products into the environment including experimental field trials. The composition of the Committee shall be - (i) Chairman – Additional Secretary, Department of Environment, Forests and Wildlife. Co-Chairman – Representative of Department of Biotechnology. (ii) Members : Representatives of concerned Agencies and Departments, namely, Ministry of Industrial Development, Department of Biotechnology and the Department of Atomic Energy. (iii) Expert members : Director General – Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Director General – Indian Council of Medical Research, Director General – Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Director General – Health Servies, Plant Protection Adviser, Directorate [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2063 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. of Plant Protection, Quarantine and storage, Chairman, Central Pollution Control Board and three outside experts in individual capacity. (iv) Member Secretary : An official of the Department or Environment, Forest and Wildlife. The committee may co-opt other members/experts as necessary. The committee or any person/s authorised by it shall have powers to take punitive action under the Environment (Protection) Act. (5) State Biotechnology Co-ordination Committee (SBCC). There shall be a State Biotechnology Coordination Committee in the States wherever necessary. It shall have powers to inspect, investigate and take punitive action in case of violations of statutory provisions through the Nodal Department and the State Pollution Control Board/Directorate of Health/Medical Services. The Committee shall review periodically the safety and control measures in the various industries/institutions handling genetically engineered organisms/hazardous microorganisms. The composition of the Coordination Committee shall be: (i) Chief Secretary – Chairman (ii) Secretary, Department of – Member Environment Secretary (iii) Secretary, Department of – Member Health (iv) Secretary, Department of – Member Agriculture (v) Secretary, Department of – Member Industries and Commerce (vi) Secretary, Department of – Member Forests 2064 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (vii) Secretary, Department – Member of Public Works/Chief Engineer, Department of Public Health Engineering (viii) State Microbiologists and – Member Pathologists (ix) Chairman of State Pollution Control Board The Committee may co-opt other members/experts as necessary. (6) District Level Committee (DLC). There shall be a District Level Biotechnology Committee (DLC) in the districts wherever necessary under the District Collectors to monitor the safety regulations in installations engaged in the use of genetically modified organisms/hazardous microorganisms and its applications in the environment.