Vijayvargiya (P.W.4), who confirmed the presence of a stab wound on the abdomen with profuse bleeding. c) After he was apprehended, the Appellant voluntarily disclosed the location of the concealed knife to the Investigating Officer in the presence of witnesses. Such a recovery is admissible in evidence as an incriminating material against the Appellant. d) Finally, Ms. Elker highlighted that the courts below have rightly considered the statement of deceased Tularam recorded under Section 161 of CrPC as a ‘dying declaration’, corroborating the prosecution’s case against the Appellant beyond any doubt. ANALYSIS : 19. Having heard learned Senior Counsel/Counsel for the parties at a considerable length and on perusal of the statements of eyewitnesses along with other relevant material on record, we find that the following three questions fall for our consideration in the present appeal: A. Have the Courts below erred in not appreciating the contradictions or discrepancies which would dislodge the prosecution’s case? B. Is the absence of blood group classification or inconclusive FSL results on the recovered weapon detrimental to the prosecution’s case? C. Does the Investigating Officer’s failure to obtain a fitness certificate from the medical officer invalidate the consideration of the statement of Tularam recorded under Section 161 CrPC before his death, as a ‘dying declaration’? A. CONTRADICTIONS IN THE PROSECUCTION’S CASE: 20. Since the prosecution case against the Appellant predominantly hinges upon the testimonies of Usha Bai (P.W.10), Lallu Vishwakarma 230 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (P.W.11), Dr. C.S. Jain (P.W.13), Dr. Neelam Shrivastava (P.W.15) and Girish Bohre (P.W.14), we deem it appropriate to briefly summarise their testimonies hereunder: 21. Usha Bai (P.W.10) swore that on 20.06.2004, around 9.00 p.m., she was overseeing the construction of wall of her Jhuggi by Devi Singh alias Tillu and Tularam. Ahmad and Kanija Bi, two of the accused, arrived and ed them to halt construction. Following this, Ahmad struck Tularam on the head with a lathi. Subsequently, Asgar, Ahmad’s son, incited the other accused to attack, prompting all the accused to rush in and assault Tillu, Tularam, and Lalaram with various weapons like sticks, rods, and pipes. When P.W.10 attempted to intervene by grabbing Ahmad’s lathi, she was verbally abused and told to step aside. Consequently, she retreated to the sidelines. The accused continued to beat Tillu and Tularam until they were incapacitated. Tillu succumbed to his injuries at the scene, while Tularam was barely breathing. Immediately after the incident, Tillu, Tularam, and Lalaram were rushed to Hamidia Hospital for treatment by the Kamla Nagar Police Station. Tillu passed away en route to the hospital. P.W.10 lodged a First Information Report (FIR) (Ex.P.7) detailing the incident. 22. Lallu Vishwakarma (P.W.11) recounted that the incident occurred near a wall owned by Usha Bai (P.W.10). Around 8-9:30 pm, Ahmad arrived wielding a lathi at the place of construction of Usha Bai’s wall, where P.W.11 and Tillu were sharing a meal. Ahmad confronted them, objecting to the wall’s construction. In response, Tillu urged them to allow the construction to proceed.