The tenability of the submission needs to be analyzed. a. Chinnaiah on the deeming fiction in Article 341 104. In his opinion in Chinnaiah (supra), Justice Santosh Hegde relied on NM Thomas (supra) to hold that the Scheduled Castes, though drawn from various castes, races and tribes, attain a new status by the Presidential notification. Justice Sema noted that once notified through a Presidential Notification under Article 341 (1), Scheduled [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1393 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. Castes attain a homogenous status. The learned Judge then held that the objective of the notification was to afford special protection to the Scheduled Castes as a homogenous group, which cannot be regrouped in the manner in which it was done by the Andhra Pradesh Act. Justice Sinha noted that Scheduled Castes constitute a class of persons entitled to special protection and could not be discriminated inter se, as all of them satisfied the test of abysmal backwardness and inadequate representation. He specifically observed that the Scheduled Castes are a “single integrated class of most backward citizens”. 105. One of the issues in Jarnail Singh (supra) was whether the in Nagaraj (supra) was correct to apply the principle of the exclusion of the creamy layer to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. It was argued before the Court in Jarnail Singh (supra) that the application of the creamy layer principle to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes would have the effect of amending the List, which is not permissible under Articles 341(2) and 342(2). The Constitution Bench held that the exclusion of the creamy layer from the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes is justified under the equality code because the members of the creamy layer no longer require reservation since they have moved “forward so that they may march hand in hand with other citizens of India on an equal basis.”152 Writing for the Bench, Justice Nariman observed that the application of the principle of creamy layer to reservations for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes per se will not have the effect of tinkering with the Lists notified under Articles 341 and 342 because a caste as a whole is not excluded from the List but only persons who have overcome backwardness are excluded.153 106. Thus, it needs to be determined if the interpretation of the scope of Article 341 in Chinnaiah (supra) is correct. We must decide, first, whether Article 341 creates a deeming fiction. Second, if it does, the purpose and effect of the legal fiction created under Article 341 must be analyzed. That is, we must decide whether the legal fiction creates a homogenous class which cannot be further classified. 152 (2018) 10 SCC 396 [26, 34] 153 ibid [26] 1394 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Third, the scope of the prohibition under Article 341 (2) must be determined in relation to the effect of the legal fiction created by Article 341(1). b. Scope of deeming fiction 107.