The interest deposited by the appellant was, therefore, directed to be refunded. 2.2. The writ petitions filed by the Customs Department were allowed by the impugned before us. The High Court held that i) interest can be levied only when there is a substantive provision enabling it, ii) Section 125 has no such enabling provision, not even the procedure to assess duty, therefore, iii) assessment of duty must necessarily be done under Section 28 and iv) once Section 28 procedure is adopted, application of Section 5 The show cause notice is purportedly issued under Section 124 read with Section 28 of the Act. 1188 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 28AB is inevitable. The High Court, therefore, distinguished Jagdish Cancer case and held that interest under Section 28AB is payable even for proceedings under Section 125 and remanded the matter to the Settlement Commission to calculate and recover interest under Section 28AB. 2.3. Ms. Charanya Lakshmikumaran and Mr. V C Bharathi appeared for the Appellant and the Custom Department respectively. They have not only enhanced our understanding of the subject and the issue, but have elevated the debate. 3. Sections 11 and 12 of the Act: Section 11 of the Customs Act6 vests the power in the Central Government to prohibit absolutely or subject to such conditions, as may be specified in the notification, the import or export of goods into or out of India. Under Section 45 of the Act, all imported goods unloaded in a customs area shall remain in the custody of the customs authorities. The importer shall present a bill of entry under Section 46 and self-assess the duty under Section 17. Alternatively, under Section 47 the goods are provisionally assessed by the authority under Section 18 and cleared for home consumption. Goods are cleared for home consumption only after the customs officer is satisfied that the goods are not prohibited for home consumption and the import duty is paid. Duties of customs shall be levied under Section 127 on goods that are imported into or exported from India at such rates as are specified under the Customs Tariffs Act, 1975. 4. Section 28 of the Act: If duties are, i) not levied, ii) not paid, iii) short levied, iv) short paid, v) erroneously refunded, vi) interest not paid, vii) interest, part paid or viii) interest erroneously refunded, a distinct procedure is provided in Section 28 of the Act. This 6 Section 11: Power to prohibit importation or exportation of goods.—(1) If the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary so to do for any of the purposes specified in sub-section (2), it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, prohibit either absolutely or subject to such conditions (to be fulfilled before or after clearance) as may be specified in the notification, the import or export of goods of any specified description. (2) … (3) … 7 Section 12: Dutiable goods.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, or any other law for the time being in force, duties of customs shall be levied at such rates as may be specified under [the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975)], or any other law for the time being in force, on goods imported into, or exported from, India.