If necessary, Credit letter shall be issued for this purpose. 5. On submission of the estimate given by the recognized/ empanelled hospital, 80% shall be sanctioned as advance, subject to preliminary scrutiny by the Principal District Judge or a District Judge of equivalent rank authorized by the Registry of the High Court. The balance shall be 360 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports reimbursed on certification by the designated Civil Surgeon or Official of the Directorate of Medical & Health Services as the case may be. If the Government approved rates are not available for any particular item, the certifying officer shall have due regard to the rates generally charged in the hospitals concerned. Though there needs to be scrutiny before sanctioning the payment in view of the tendency to exaggerate the estimates, the extent of disallowance shall be minimal and the reasons for disallowance shall be disclosed by the certifying authority. The bills sent by the District Judge for scrutiny of the designated Civil Surgeon/ Officer of Directorate shall be cleared within a maximum period of one month from the date of receipt. 6(a) The retired Judicial Officers and the family pensioners who have settled down in another State shall have the facility to claim medical reimbursement/advance from the State from which s(he) is drawing pension/family pension. 6(b) The cost of treatment including room charges/tests undergone in any Government/Government notified/ recognized hospitals/pathological labs in an emergency or otherwise shall be reimbursed to the serving officers on tour (official or private purpose) to another State or settled in another State after retirement even though it is not recognized hospital/lab in the State in which the officer is serving or had served. 7. The Registry of the High Court shall examine whether the notified/empanelled hospitals sufficiently cater to the needs of the Judicial Officers including the pensioners/ family pensioners and send proposals to the Government for notifying additional hospitals/pathological Labs to the extent it is considered necessary. 8. To avoid delays in processing and sanctioning the bills for want of funds, the Registry of High court shall take prompt action in addressing the Government for releasing additional funds and the Finance Department of the State shall take immediate action by way of making available the additional funds to the High Court on this account.” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 361 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors We analyze the recommendations of the SNJPC below. Fixed Allowance 57. The SNJPC has justifiably increased the fixed medical allowance to Rs 3,000 per month for serving judicial officers and to Rs 4,000 per month to pensioners and family pensioners with effect from 01.01.2016. This recommendation was made in view of the fact that the FNJPC had recommended a fixed medical allowance of Rs 300 per month, which was increased by the JPC to Rs 1,000 per month for serving judicial officers. The JPC enhanced the medical allowance to Rs 1,500 per month for retired judicial officers and Rs 750 per month for family pensioners.