Thereafter two police persons had put my brother in the lock up. When this happened at that time I and my sister Dhanlaxmi both were present at the Amraivadi Police Station. We were present in front of the lock up…. 3……At quarter to six hours in the evening police persons brought down stairs my brother and Anna. Thereafter, policemen took both these persons at Court No. 7 and I and my sister Dhanlaxmi had gone to the Court No.7. In Court No. 7 these policemen were waiting for Shri Vyas Sir with my brother and Anna as they were not having sufficient papers. At that time my brother talked with me in Madrasi means in Tamil language. At that time my brother was weeping. When I asked him the reason for weeping he told to me that- he is having severe pain in the chest 380 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and stomach and therefore he is unable to stand up. When asked why, then he told to me that- both those persons had beaten me up and therefore I am feeling the pain. I asked my brother that as he has been beaten up, do you want to file complaint before the Magistrate sir. Then refused for the same. When I asked why, then he told to me that- PI Shri Vyas and C.G. Patel have given me the threat that if you will file complaint against us then, after getting released from the jail, by planning police encounter, and making you to run, bullet will be fired at you. Again he stated to say that still he feels fearful…. 4. On 12/6/92, at half past eleven hour in the morning two police persons from jail had come there in civil dress and told to us that-my brother Jeeva has died and his dead body is kept in the PM Room of Civil Hospital and saying this they had gone away…… ….Thereafter at seven hours in the evening after conducting the post mortem, we were handed over the dead body. We had brought the dead body to our home. During the night the dead body was kept at the home and on the next day morning means on 13/6/92 the last ritual rites were performed. During this night I had sent a telegram from Lal Darwaja telegram office to Meghaninagar DGP Office. The telegram stating about death of my brother in this manner was sent….. Thereafter, regarding this incident I had filed complaint in the Metropolitan Court. 5…..In the year 1990, my brother Jeeva was arrested and was sent up outside Ahmedabad in the jail. Jeeva was kept in this manner for four months and after around four months he was released….. 6.….During last year two cases of prohibition were filed against me. The cases that were filed against me were pertaining to Amraivadi Police Station. When Vyas Sir was in charge of the Amraivadi Police Station, at that time prohibition case was filed against me….. [2024] 7 S.C.R.