397 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 43. Article 28 prohibits the imparting of “religious instruction” in any educational institutions wholly maintained out of State funds. The provision further provides that no person attending any educational institution recognised by the State or receiving aid from the State funds should be compelled to take part in any religious instruction without their consent. Religious instruction is the inculcation of tenets, rituals, observances, ceremonies, and modes of worship of a particular sect or denomination.37 Article 28 does not prohibit educational institutions maintained out of State funds from imparting religious education. Religious education is imparted to children “to make them aware of thoughts and philosophies in religions without indoctrinating them and without curbing their free-thinking, right to make choices for conducting their own life and deciding upon their course of action according to their individual inclinations.”38 Article 28 does not prohibit educational institutions from teaching about the philosophy and culture of a particular religion or a saint associated with that religion.39 Article 28 does not prohibit the State from granting recognition to educational institutions imparting religious instruction in addition to secular education.40 44. Articles 29 and 30 deal with the cultural and educational rights of minorities. Article 29(1) provides that Indian citizens have a right to conserve their distinct language, script, or culture. Article 29(2) guarantees that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the State or receiving aid out of State funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them. A citizen who has requisite academic qualifications cannot be denied admission into any educational institution funded by the State on grounds of religion.41 37 D A V College v. State of Punjab (1971) 2 SCC 269 [26] 38 Aruna Roy v. Union of India (2002) 7 SCC 368 [78] (Justice D M Dharmadhikari) 39 D A V College (supra) [26] [26. […] To provide for academic study of life and teaching or the philosophy and culture of any great saint of India in relation to or the impact on the Indian and world civilizations cannot be considered as making provision for religious instructions.”] 40 Ahmedabad St Xavier’s College Society v. State of Gujarat (1974) 1 SCC 717 [139] (Justice K K Mathew and Justice Y V Chandrachud) [“139. We fail to see how affiliation of an educational institution imparting religious instruction in addition to secular education to pupils as visualized in Article 28(3) would derogate from the secular character of the state. Our Constitution has not erected a rigid wall of separation between church and state. We have grave doubts whether the expression “secular state” as it denotes a definite pattern of church and state relationship can with propriety be applied to India. It is only in a qualified sense that India can be said to be a secular state. There are provisions in the Constitution which make one hesitate to characterize our state as secular.”] 41 See In re Kerala Education Bill 1957, 1958 SCC OnLine SC 8 [22] 398 [2024] 11 S.C.R.