[2024] 8 S.C.R. 1551 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 173. These people were also denied water from the common places. In the villages where the water was drawn from the rivers, they were required to draw water from the downstream so that the water taken by the people from higher classes is not polluted. They were also denied the right to education. In schools, either they were required to sit separately or take their lessons standing outside their classroom. 174. While India was struggling to gain freedom from the colonial rulers, the country also witnessed a parallel movement for eradication of these inequalities and upliftment of the classes which were being treated inhumanly. 175. It would be apposite to refer to the statement by Dr. B.R. Ambedkar in ‘Evidence before the Southborough Committee’ (1919), where he gave several examples of the unjust treatment meted out to the untouchables by the oppressor castes as thus19: “From an untouchable trader no Hindu will buy. An untouchable cannot be engaged in lucrative service. Military service had been the monopoly of the untouchables since the days of the East India Company. They had joined the Army in such large numbers … But after the mutiny when the British were able to secure soldiers from the ranks of the Marathas, the position of the low-caste men who had been the prop of the Bombay Army became precarious, not because the Marathas were better soldiers but because their theological bias prevented them from serving under low-caste officers. The prejudice was so strong that even the non-caste British had to stop recruitment from the untouchable classes. In like manner, the untouchables are refused service in the Police Force. In a great many of the Government offices it is impossible for an untouchable to get a place. Even in the mills a distinction is observed. The untouchables are not admitted in Weaving Departments of the Cotton Mills though many of them are professional weavers. An instance at hand may be cited from the school system of 19 B.R. Ambedkar, ‘Evidence before the Southborough Committee on Franchise’ in Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar: Writings and Speeches, ed. Vasant Moon, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment 2019, Vol.I, p. 255. 1552 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Bombay Municipality. This most cosmopolitan city ruled by a Corporation with a greater freedom than any other Corporation in India has two different sets of schools … one for the children of touchables and the other for those of the untouchables. This in itself is a point worthy of note. But there is something yet more noteworthy. Following the division of schools it has divided its teaching staff into untouchables and touchables. As the untouchable teachers are short of the demand, some of the untouchable schools are manned by teachers from the touchable class. The heart-killing fun of it is that if there is a higher grade open in untouchable school service, as there is bound to be because of a few untouchable trained teachers, a touchable teacher can be thrust into the grade.