Given the technical complexity of the issues involved, the High Court ought to have referred the parties to arbitration. 12. He submitted that the finding of the High Court as regards the alleged dishonesty of the appellant rests on the erroneous assumption that the appellant had not raised any dispute prior to issuing the demand notice dated 22.02.2023. It was contended that this finding overlooks the sequence of events and also the undisputed fact that the Audit Report was provided to the appellant only in February 2023, i.e., the same month in which the Demand Notice was issued. Consequently, the appellant had no prior opportunity to raise the disputes, as they only came to light upon receiving the Audit Report in February 2023. The appellant argued that even otherwise, it had sent multiple emails to the respondent raising various objections regarding the invoices issued to the appellant prior to the issuance of the Audit Report. C. SUBMISSION ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT 13. Ms. Shweta Bharti, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent, on the other hand, submitted that it is settled law that before referring the parties to arbitration, the High Court must reach to a prima facie satisfaction that a genuine dispute exists between the parties. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 537 Goqii Technologies Private Limited v. Sokrati Technologies Private Limited Furthermore, the mere inclusion of an arbitration clause in a contract or agreement does not render a matter automatically arbitrable and a prima facie case establishing the existence of a dispute must first be made. The Court must apply a prima facie test to weed out and dismiss claims that are ex facie meritless, frivolous, or dishonest. She submitted that seen thus the dispute raised in the present petition is nothing more than an afterthought.The counsel placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Indian Oil Corporation vs. NCC Ltd.,1 B&T AG v. Ministry of Defence,2 and Sushma Shiv Kumar Daga & Anr. vs. Madhur Kumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj & Ors3 to fortify her submission. 14. She further submitted that the appellant is not entitled to any damages or refund for the alleged overcharges on the services rendered by the respondent as the appellant had previously not raised any concerns or identified deficiencies while utilizing these services. Furthermore, the claim now raised by the appellant is unfounded, vague, and lacks supporting documentation. 15. She submitted that the appellant has filed the present petition with a mala fide intent and has approached this Court with unclean hands, being fully aware of the ongoing legal proceedings before the NCLT, Mumbai. The petition of the appellant is an attempt to create duplicative legal proceedings aimed at evading liability for admitted dues and disrupting the CIRP process. D. ANALYSIS 16. Having heard the learned counsels appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the short question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in dismissing the appellant’s application under Section 11 of the Act, 1996.