On a minute perusal of the suicide note, we do not find that the contents thereof indicate any act or omission on the part of the accused appellant which could make him responsible for abetment as defined under Section 107 IPC. 23. We have minutely perused the suicide note (reproduced supra) which clearly shows that the deceased was frustrated on account of work pressure and was apprehensive of various random factors unconnected to his official duties. He was also feeling the pressure of working in two different districts. However, such apprehensions expressed in the suicide note, by no stretch of imagination, can be considered sufficient to attribute to the appellant, an act or omission constituting the elements of abetment to commit suicide. The facts of the case at hand are almost identical to the case of Netai Dutta (supra). Thus, we have no hesitation in holding that the necessary ingredients of the offence of abetment to commit suicide are not made out from the chargesheet and hence allowing prosecution of the appellant is grossly illegal for the offences punishable under Section 306 IPC and Section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act tantamounts to gross abuse of process to law. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 173 Prabhat Kumar Mishra @ Prabhat Mishra v. The State of U.P. & Anr. 24. It may be noted that in the first instance, the investigating agency itself proposed a closure report in the matter after conducting thorough investigation. In this background, we are of the opinion that there do not exist any justifiable ground so as to permit the prosecution of the appellant for the offences under Section 306 IPC and Section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act. 25. Thus, the impugned passed by the High Court and all proceedings sought to be taken against the appellant in the criminal case pending for the offences punishable under Section 306 IPC and Section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act are hereby quashed and set aside. 26. The appeal is allowed accordingly. 27. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeal allowed.