(Dissenting) Royalty determined u/s.9 r/w s.15(1) is in the nature of a tax or an exaction coming within the scope and ambit of Art.366(28) which defines taxation to include the imposition of any tax or impost, whether general or local or special and the word “tax” is to be construed accordingly – It is not merely a contractual payment but a statutory levy u/s.9 – Liability to pay royalty does not arise purely out of the contractual conditions of a binding lease – Payment of royalty to the Government is a tax in view of Entry 50 List II being subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law in the context of Entry 54 List I read with s.2 of the MMDR Act – Constitution of India – Art.366(28), Entry 54 List I, Entry 50 List II. [Paras 40a, 41a] Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 – s.9 – Royalties in respect of mining leases – Constitution of India – Entry 50 List II Seventh Schedule – Taxes on mineral rights subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development – Scope of Entry 50 List II – Ambit of the limitations imposable by Parliament in exercise of its legislative powers under Entry 54 List I – s.9, or any other provision of the MMDR Act, if contains any limitation with respect to the field in Entry 50 List II: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) Legislative power to tax mineral rights vests with the State legislatures – Parliament does not have legislative competence to tax mineral rights under Entry 54 List I, it being a general entry – Since the power to tax mineral rights is enumerated in Entry 50 List II, Parliament cannot use its residuary powers with respect to that subject-matter – Entry 50 List II envisages that Parliament can impose “any limitations” on [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1551 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. the legislative field created by that entry under a law relating to mineral development – MMDR Act as it stands has not imposed any limitations as envisaged in Entry 50 List II – Entry 54 List I, Entry 50 List II Seventh Schedule. [Para 342b, c] – Held: (per B.V. Nagarathna, J.) (Dissenting) – Entry 50 List II dealing with taxes on mineral rights, is subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development – Use of the word “any” means the limitation could be in any form which can be imposed only by the Parliament by law relating to mineral development – Use of the expression ‘any limitations’ must be given the widest possible meaning to include a limitation in the form of ss.9 and 9A, 25 or any other provision of the MMDR Act and Rules made thereunder which act as a limitation to Entry 50 List II – Scope of the expression “any limitations” under Entry 50 List II is wide enough to include the imposition of restriction, conditions, principles as well as a prohibition by Parliament by law relating to mineral development – Thus, in view of the declaration u/s.2 of the MMDR Act made in terms of Entry 54 List I and to the extent of the provisions of the said Act, the State legislature is denuded of its powers under Enry 50 List.