Therefore, the protection of forests is in the interest of mankind, even assuming that the other factors can be ignored. Municipal Corpn. of Greater Mumbai v. Ankita Sinha, (2022) 13 SCC 401 “XI. Environmental Justice and Environmental Equity 75. The conceptual frameworks of environmental justice and equity should merit consideration vis-à-vis NGT’s domain and how its functioning and decisions can have wide implications in socio-economic dimensions of people at large. The concept of environmental justice is a trifecta of distributive justice, procedural justice and justice as recognition. [ Schlosberg D., Defining Environmental Justice : Theories, Movements, and Nature (Oxford University Press 2009).] Environmental equity as a developing concept has focused on the disproportionate implications of environmental harms on the economically or socially marginalised groups. The concerns of human rights and environmental degradation overlap under this umbrella term, to highlight the human element, apart from economic 116 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and environmental ramifications. Environmental equity thus stands to ensure a balanced distribution of environmental risks as well as protections, including application of sustainable development principles. 76. Voicing concerns about the disproportionate harm for the poor segments, Lois J. Schiffer [then Assistant Attorney General, Environment and Natural Resources Division (“ENRD”), US Department of Justice] and Timothy J. Dowling (then Attorney at ENRD) in their Reflections on the Role of the Courts in Environmental Law, wrote the following evocative passage on the concept of environmental justice: “Environmental justice, which focuses on whether minorities and low-income people bear a disproportionate burden of exposure to environmental harms and any resulting health effects. In the past ten to fifteen years, this issue has crystallized a grass- roots movement that combines civil rights issues with environmental issues, with a goal of achieving “environmental justice” or “environmental equity”, which is understood to mean the fair distribution of environmental risks and protection from environmental harms.” [Schiffer, L.J. & Dowling, T.J. (1997), “Reflections on the Role of the Courts in Environmental Law”, 27(2) Environmental Law 327-342.] 77. There is also a need to focus on the interconnection between principles of procedural justice and distributive justice. The concern is to create a system which is affirmative enough to balance the disproportionate wielding of power between polluters and affected people: “Environmental justice starts with distributive justice, or more accurately, distributive injustice. The rich and powerful derive the most benefit while suffering the least harm from environmentally harmful activities; conversely, the poor and minorities derive the least benefit but suffer the most harm. Further, those who benefit cause harm to the places where people “live, work, play, and go to school”, whereas the people who reside there do little or nothing to harm their community.” [ Jeff Todd, “A ‘Sense of Equity’ [2024] 5 S.C.R. 117 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. in Environmental Justice Litigation”, 44 Harv Envtl L Rev 169, 193 (2020).] 78. When substantive justice is elusive for a large segment, disengaging with substantive rights at the very altar, for a perceived procedural lacuna, would surely bring in a process, which furthers inequality, both economic and social.