It provides that the BCI may make rules for discharging its functions under the Advocates Act. The BCI may prescribe rules providing for the conditions subject to which an advocate may be entitled to vote at Bar Council elections, qualifications for membership of Bar Councils and disqualification for such membership, minimum qualifications required for admission to a course for a degree in law in any recognised university, etc. Importantly, Section 49(1)(h) empowers the BCI to make rules prescribing the fees which may be levied in respect of any matter under the Advocates Act. Pursuant to this, the BCI has prescribed fees under Part VIII of the BCI Rules. It mandates the SBCs to levy fees not exceeding the limits prescribed under Part VIII. The BCI has prescribed fees for varied purposes including petitions challenging the election of one or more members of the SBCs, complaints of professional misconduct under Section 35, certificates as to the date of enrolment and the continuance of the name of the advocate on the roll. The above legislative scheme suggests that the SBCs and the BCI act as the delegates of Parliament under the Advocates Act. ii. Bar Councils cannot levy fees beyond the express stipulation of law 58. While acting as a delegate of Parliament, the SBCs and the BCI can frame rules under the Advocates Act. However, any rule enacted by the SBCs is only ancillary and cannot be so exercised to bring into existence substantive rights, obligations or disabilities not [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1527 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. contemplated by the provisions of the parent enactment.67 Further, the rules must align with the object and purpose of the Advocates Act, namely, the creation of a common bar and regulation of legal practitioners and their qualifications, enrolment, right to practice, and discipline. 59. A legislation can confer the power to make subordinate legislation upon a delegate. In conferring such powers, the legislation has to specifically law down the policy, principles, and standards that will guide the subordinate authority.68 The legislative policy can be determined from the preamble and the provisions of an enactment.69 The delegate derives its legislative powers from the parent statute. Unlike the legislature, which has sovereign legislative powers derived from the Constitution, the delegated authority is conferred powers by the parent enactment. Therefore, delegated authority must strictly conform to the provisions of the statute under which it is framed.70 A delegate cannot alter or change the legislative policy.71 A delegate cannot override the provisions of the parent enactment either by exceeding the legislative policy or making provisions inconsistent with the enactment.72 60. In Agricultural Market Committee v. Shalimar Chemical Works Ltd.,73 the Andhra Pradesh (Agricultural Produce and Livestock) Markets Act 1966 allowed the market committee to levy market fees on all transactions of purchase and sale provided the transactions took place within the notified market area. Section 12 created a legal fiction by providing that if any notified agricultural produce, livestock, or products of livestock is taken out of a notified market area, it shall be presumed to have been purchased or sold within such area.