22.1. The issues (first category) which the Chief Justice/ his designate will have to decide are: (a) Whether the party making the application has approached the appropriate High Court. (b) Whether there is an arbitration agreement and whether the party who has applied under Section 11 of the Act, is a party to such an agreement. 22.2. The issues (second category) which the Chief Justice/ his designate may choose to decide (or leave them to the decision of the Arbitral Tribunal) are: (a) Whether the claim is a dead (long-barred) claim or a live claim. (b) Whether the parties have concluded the contract/ transaction by recording satisfaction of their mutual rights and obligation or by receiving the final payment without objection. 22.3. The issues (third category) which the Chief Justice/ his designate should leave exclusively to the Arbitral Tribunal are: (i) Whether a claim made falls within the arbitration clause (as for example, a matter which is reserved for final decision [2024] 9 S.C.R. 927 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. of a departmental authority and excepted or excluded from arbitration). (ii) Merits or any claim involved in the arbitration. (Emphasis supplied) 55. On a closer look at the categories delineated in the aforesaid decision, it can be seen that the issues in the first category have to be mandatorily decided by the Chief Justice or his designate under Section 11 of the Act, 1996. This included the question whether there is an arbitration agreement and whether the party that has applied under Section 11 is also a party to such an agreement. 56. Later, on the suggestion of the 246th Report of the Law Commission of India, Section 11(6A) was inserted through the 2015 Amendment to the Act, 1996. The wide jurisdiction afforded to the referral courts by the decisions in SBP & Co (supra) and Boghara Polyfab (supra) was legislatively overruled by virtue of the non-obstante clause incorporated in Section 11(6A). Although the 2019 Amendment to the Act, 1996 omitted Section 11(6A), such an omission was not notified and therefore Section 11(6A) still remains in force and reads thus: “(6A) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while considering any application Under Sub- section (4) or Sub-section (5) or Sub-section (6), shall, notwithstanding any , decree or of any Court, confine to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement.” (Emphasis supplied) 57. The crucial question that arose for consideration by this Court in Duro Felguera S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Limited reported in (2017) 9 SCC 729 was the effect of the change introduced by the 2015 Amendment to the Act, 1996 which inserted Section 11(6A). The Court held that all that needs to be looked into is whether the agreement contained a Clause which provides for arbitration pertaining to the disputes which have arisen between the parties to the agreement i.e., the existence of the arbitration agreement, nothing more, nothing less. The relevant observations are extracted hereinbelow: “48[…] From a reading of Section 11(6-A), the intention of the legislature is crystal clear i.e.