7.9 Further, the penal provisions contained in the said Rules do not sufficiently deter prospective offenders as these provisions just mention “measures” that may be taken by the concerned agency, which do not include the description of a penalty of any kind. The actions that can be taken by the concerned agencies are only in a corrective capacity to ensure damage is minimized. 7.10 That neither SBCC nor DLC had been made functional at the time of filing of this Petition despite the commercial cultivation of the Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) cotton crop which is a GMO. 7.11 That GM technology is an emerging technology that enables outcomes that were hitherto unimagined such as the transposition of the genes of fish into those of tomatoes, genes of bacteria into those of plants etc. There is an inherent uncertainty to this technology and its effect on the environment and on human life. This necessitates the re-examination of extant regulations and regulatory regimes so as to mould them in light of newer developments. 7.12 That till these uncertainties have been clarified through the process of scientific research thereby enabling a thorough consideration of the risks and benefits, there must be a moratorium on the commercial release of GMOs. 7.13 That the impact of GM technology would vary based on the socio-economic, cultural, and ecological context of each country and any research conducted must evaluate the specific impact of such technology in the Indian context. On the other hand, GM technology have evolved in industrialized and developed [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1967 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. economies with highly mechanized agricultural processes and vast monocultural tracts that are generally isolated from natural ecosystems. Unlike India, these countries do not possess similarly rich biodiversity. 7.14 That India, being the centre of origin for many food crops, has to be more vigilant and cautious in adopting this new technology which is still in the process of evolution. In particular, transgenic varieties of crops for which India is the centre of origin should not be released for commercial cultivation until its impact is adequately assessed. That there are serious concerns about contamination of the natural gene pool of crops originating in India. These are some of the potential consequences: i. Contamination of non-GM crops and their wild relatives; ii. Proliferation of weeds and creation of new weeds due to flow of foreign genes from GM crops to non-GM crops and their wild relatives; iii. The likely formation of difficult-to control novel weed types due to transfer of foreign genes that confer hardiness; iv. Destruction of soil micro-organisms due to release of toxins from genes, like Bt gene, leading to adverse impact on crop productivity. 7.15 That farm lands in India are small and closely packed together as agriculture is practiced in close proximity to natural biodiversity, often bing forest areas or even within forest areas, where natural gene pools are found. A GM crop cultivated in one field is likely to impact other fields as well as the natural ecosystems.