1939 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons the State Legislature is only denuded to the extent of the ‘control’ by the Union declared by the law of Parliament to be expedient in the public interest. [Para 65] Constitution of India – Whether Parliament under Entry 52 of List I takes over the industry of intoxicating liquor covered by Entry 8 of List II: Held: [Per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma, Augustine George Masih, JJ.] No – Entry 52 of List I is a general entry dealing with industry – Entry 8 of List II is a special entry dealing with one particular industry – The consequence of interpreting Entry 52 to cover the industry of ‘intoxicating liquor’ is two-fold: first, it would amount to deleting the words ‘production, manufacture’ in Entry 8; and second, the State Legislature also loses its exclusive competence to legislate upon the product of the industry, rendering Entry 8 fully redundant – This is because the legislative competence on products of industries covered by Entry 52 of List I is placed in Entry 33 of List III – As a consequence, Parliament does not have the legislative competence to enact a law taking control of the industry of intoxicating liquor under Entry 52 of List I. [Paras 71(e), 72] Constitution of India – Entry 8 of List II – Intoxicating Liquor: Held: [Per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma, Augustine George Masih, JJ.] It is clear from the analysis of various s that the meaning of the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ in Entry 8 of List II has been expanded beyond the narrow definition of alcoholic beverages that produce an ‘intoxicating effect’ upon consumption – Liquids which contain alcohol and which can possibly be used (or misused) as intoxicating liquor have been included within the meaning of the phrase. [Para 82] Words and Phrases – Intoxicating Liquor – Interpretation: Held: [Per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma, Augustine 1940 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports George Masih, JJ.] The expression ‘intoxicating liquor’ can possibly be interpreted to mean the following: (a) Alcohol which is used as a beverage for human consumption such as beer or gin, that is, potable liquor; (b) If liquor means liquid, then Entry 8 of List II includes all liquids which contain alcohol; and (c) Alcohol which is used as a raw material to prepare other products such as pharmaceutical products and cosmetic drugs – This could include denatured alcohol but also other types of alcohol that are used in the production of products without denaturing it. [Para 107] Words and Phrases – Alcoholic Liquor – Meaning: Held: [Per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma, Augustine George Masih, JJ.]