In Tej Kiran Jain (supra) the followers of a religious head who had made a speech on untouchability filed a suit in the High Court seeking damages for defamation alleged to have been committed in the Lok Sabha during a calling attention motion on the speech. This Court held that the Court cannot dissect a speech made in Parliament and adjudicate if the speech has a direct relation to the subject matter before it. Parliament has absolute control over which matters it directs its attention towards and thereafter the members or persons at liberty to speak may not be subjected to the fear of prosecution against anything that they may say in the House. 95. That context evidently changes in Clause (2) of Article 105 which gives immunity to members of the House and the committees thereof in any proceeding in any court in respect of “anything” said or any vote given in the House. MH Beg, CJ in State of Karnataka (supra) had foreseen a situation where a criminal act may be committed in the House and had observed that it could not be protected under the Constitution. The Chief Justice opined that : “63. […] A House of Parliament or State Legislature cannot try anyone or any case directly, as a Court of Justice can, 56 [2018] 7 SCR 1 : (2018) 8 SCC 501 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 527 Sita Soren v. Union of India but it can proceed quasi-judicially in cases of contempts of its authority and take up motions concerning its “privileges” and “immunities” because, in doing so, it only seeks removal of obstructions to the due performance of its legislative functions. But, if any question of jurisdiction arises as to whether a matter falls here or not, it has to be decided by the ordinary courts in appropriate proceedings. For example, the jurisdiction to try a criminal offence, such as murder, committed even within a House vests in ordinary criminal courts and not in a House of Parliament or in a State Legislature. […]” (emphasis supplied) 96. In K Ajith (supra) a member of the Kerala Legislative Assembly was accused of climbing over the Speaker’s dais and causing damage to property during the presentation of the budget by the Finance Minister of the State. The question which arose before this Court was whether the member could be prosecuted before a court of law for his conduct inside the House of the Legislature. This Court speaking through one of us (DY Chandrachud, J) after exploring the evolution of law in this regard in the UK observed that: “36. […] it is evident that a person committing a criminal offence within the precincts of the House does not hold an absolute privilege. Instead, he would possess a qualified privilege, and would receive the immunity only if the action bears nexus to the effective participation of the member in the House.” 97. This Court further held that privileges accruing inside the legislature are not a gateway to claim exemption from the general application of the law: “65.