Which is why the legislature in addition to explaining the contour of visual depiction in Section 2(1) (da) of the POCSO, also specifically added the words “but appear to depict a child ” in the end. 238 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 142. If the courts while dealing with any matter involving child pornography, continue to refer and rely on Section 2(1)(d) of the POCSO, then the same will frustrate the intention behind Section 2(1)(da) more particularly the words “but appear to depict a child ” in the statute book, thereby render that portion of the aforesaid provision otiose and nugatory. 143. The true purport of Section 2(1)(da) of the POCSO, is to ensure that for offences pertaining to child pornography, it is Section 2(1) (da) that is given due regard and not Section 2(1)(d). Thus, in any offence pertaining to child pornography the definition of ‘child’ in Section 2(1)(d) would pale in comparison to the definition of ‘child pornography’ under Section 2(1)(da) of the POCSO. As such, the court while dealing with an offence under Section 15 of the POCSO, must be mindful of the fact, that it is Section 2(1)(da) of the POCSO, which has to be referred to and relied upon and not Section 2(1)(d). In other words, it is the definition of ‘child pornography’ which is of relevance while considering whether Section 15 of the POCSO can be invoked or not. d. Scope of Section 67B of the IT Act. 144. The IT Act was originally enacted with the object of providing a legal framework for inter-alia recognizing electronic records & digital signatures, facilitating electronic commerce, and providing a legal sanctity to e-contracts. While the IT Act did include certain provisions to penalize cybercrimes, they were rudimentary and did not comprehensively address issues like creation and facilitation of sexual abuse of children, the online publication, transmission and distribution of child pornography or the sexual inducement, enticement and exploitation of children over the internet. 145. The aforesaid was due to the fact that, the IT Act prior to the Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2008 (for short, the ‘2008 Amendment Act’), criminalized only one act being the publication or transmission of obscene material, under Section 67. The IT Act made no distinction between the publication or transmission of an ‘obscene material’ from the publication or transmission of an obscene material involving any sexually explicit act or conduct i.e., pornographic material or for that matter child pornographic material. More glaringly, there was no difference in either publication or transmission of such material from the distribution, facilitation and consumption of such [2024] 10 S.C.R. 239 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. material over the internet. The IT Act also did not recognize other forms of sexual abuse and exploitation of children over the internet as a punishable offence such as enticement of children into any sexual act. 146. Over a period of time, as the age of internet evolved, the inadequacies of the IT Act became apparent, primarily due to more and more children using the internet and a corresponding increase in number of cyber-crimes being committed against them.