[2024] 2 S.C.R. 946 : 2024 INSC 150 High Court Bar Association, Allahabad v. State of U.P. & Ors. Criminal Appeal No. 3589 of 2023 29 February 2024 [Dr Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI, Abhay S. Oka,* J. B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra and Pankaj Mithal,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration What is the object behind passing interim s; Whether the High Courts are empowered to vacate or modify interim relief; Whether an interim can come to an end automatically only due to the lapse of time; What is the scope of exercise of powers u/Art. 142 of the Constitution; Position of the High Courts and its power of superintendence; Whether the Court should deal with an issue not arising for consideration; Effect of directions issued by the Constitutional Courts to decide pending cases in a time- bound manner; Whether the Supreme Court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction u/Art. 142 of the Constitution of India, can automatic vacation of all interim s of the High Courts of staying proceedings of Civil and Criminal cases on the expiry of a certain period; Whether the Supreme Court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction u/Art. 142 of the Constitution of India, can direct the High Courts to decide pending cases in which interim s of stay of proceedings has been granted on a day-to-day basis and within a fixed period; Procedure to be adopted by High Courts while passing interim of stay of proceedings and for dealing with the applications for vacating interim stay. Headnotes Interim s – Object of: Held: (Per Abhay S. Oka, J. for himself and Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI., J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, JJ.) An of interim relief is usually granted in the aid of the final relief sought in the case – An occasion for passing an of stay of the proceedings normally arises when the High Court is dealing with a challenge to an interim or interlocutory passed during the pendency of the main case before a trial or appellate Court – The High Court can grant relief of the stay of hearing of the main * Author [2024] 2 S.C.R. 947 High Court Bar Association, Allahabad v. State of U.P. & Ors. proceedings on being satisfied that a prima facie case is made out and that the failure to stay the proceedings before the concerned Court in all probability may render the remedy adopted infructuous – When the High Court passes an interim of stay, though the interim may not expressly say so, the three factors, viz; prima facie case, irreparable loss, and balance of convenience, are always in the back of the judges’ minds – Though interim s of stay of proceedings cannot be routinely passed as a matter of course, it cannot be said that such s can be passed only in exceptional cases – Nevertheless, the High Courts, while passing s of stay in serious cases like the offences under the PC Act or serious offences against women and children, must be more cautious and circumspect.