588 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. Relying on this line of authorities, and also a of this Court in the case of Gujarat Steel Tubes Ltd. and Others -vs- Gujarat Steel Tubes Mazdoor Sabha and Others [(1980) 2 SCC 593], he has argued that the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is wide enough and can decide factual issues instead of remanding a matter. In the latter authority, it was held, inter-alia, that in appropriate cases, the High Court’s jurisdiction could be coordinate to that of the Tribunal. 10. On behalf of both the parties, a large body of authorities has been relied upon but in this , we shall deal with those decisions only which we find relevant for effective adjudication of the present appeal. 11. As we have already indicated, the main question which has been argued by the learned counsel appearing for the employer is on the issue as to whether the High Court had travelled beyond its jurisdiction in appreciating facts and in that process substituted the finding of the Tribunal with its own finding on facts. To substantiate the point, as we have already discussed, the cases of Giridhari (supra) and Surya Dev Rai (supra) have been relied on by Mr. Cama. 12. There are authorities, to which we have referred to earlier in this that lay down the scope of jurisdiction of the High Court. In the cases of Unichem Laboratories Ltd. (supra), Shail (SMT) (supra), IEL Supervisors’ Assn. (supra) as also the case of Gujarat Steel Tubes Ltd. (supra), it has been held that the High Court in appropriate cases can go into facts while examining an award of a Tribunal. 13. For revision of wages and other facilities, the standard criteria which is followed by the industrial adjudicator is to apply industry-cum- region test, which in substance implies that the prevailing pay and other allowances should be compared with equally placed or similarly situated industrial units in the same region. To determine comparability of units applying the industry-cum-region test, inter alia, the financial capacity of the employer would be a strong factor. Reliance on this point has been placed on the cases of French Motor Car Co. Ltd. -vs- Workmen [(1962) 2 LLJ 744], The Silk and Art Silk Mills Association Ltd. -vs- Mill Mazdoor Sabha [(1972) 2 SCC 253] and Shivraj Fine Arts Litho Works -vs- State Industrial Court, Nagpur & Ors. [(1978) 2 SCC 601]. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 589 The VVF Ltd. Employees Union v. M/S. VVF India Limited & Anr. 14. Substantial argument of Mr. Cama was on selection of comparable units. His submission is that the High erred in identifying the matching units and also calling for fresh charts in course of hearing of the writ petition with respect to Taloja unit of the original employer. It is the stand of the employer that such evidence gathering exercise ought not to have been undertaken by the High Court.