iii. Expert members: Director General Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Director General-Indian Council of Medical Research, Director General-Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Director General-Health 1904 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Services, Plant Protection Adviser, Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and storage, Chairman, Central Pollution Control Board and three outside experts in individual capacity. iv. Member Secretary: An official of the Department or Environment, Forest and Wild life. The committee may co-opt other members/ experts as necessary.” (Emphasis supplied) 27.12. It is evident that the top position in the GEAC is occupied by a person of the rank of Additional Secretary to the Government of India and the Vice Chairman is the member of the Department of Biotechnology, however, other members such as in Clause (iii) while being Government employees, possibly are still members working in specialized departments whose knowledge and expertise would be relevant to the functioning of GEAC. Expert members are those who are directors/heads of eminent institutions as also others in individual capacity. The GEAC is also given the freedom to co-opt other members as and when may be required. The constitution of this Committee itself ensures that bureaucrats, in stricto senso, do not outweigh the presence of experts therein. 27.13. The Petitioner(s) contend that since the experts made part of the process, are members of Government bodies, therefore, they arguably would be unfit to be appointed. Conversely, it is averred by the Union of India that there exists a three- tier safety assessment process which involves around 60 experts most of whom are external experts from public sector institutions and universities. The effect of accepting the submission of the Petitioner(s) would mean that a person of science, by being a member simpliciter of the Government body, would be discounted as an ‘expert’. In other words, the effect would be that working for the Government is made equal to a curse, for experts who otherwise would have been inducted to the GEAC without batting so much as an eyelid. 27.14. Additionally, nowhere in the Rules can it be seen that the Chairman of the GEAC or any other ‘bureaucratic member’ [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1905 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. possesses any additional power in the functioning of the body, nor has it come on record that without the Chairman or any other Government member, the quorum with which a decision is to be reached, is incomplete. 27.15. As such, challenge to the 1989 Rules, as a consequence of the above discussion fails. Precautionary Principle 28. I now proceed to examine, the second principle issue, which is as to whether in view of the precautionary principle, a complete ban on Ht crops is warranted or if not, what are the suitable directions that are required to be given by this Court? TEC 28.1. Before discussing the precautionary principle, the view of the TEC appointed by this Court must be brought on record when probing the issue at hand. As discussed above, vide dated 10.05.2012, this Court appointed a TEC with 6 members.