Through such materials, he is expected to form a reason to believe that a person has been guilty of an offence punishable under the PMLA, 2002. Thereafter, he is at liberty to arrest, while performing his mandatory duty of recording the reasons. The said exercise has to be followed by way of an information being served on the arrestee of the grounds of arrest. Any non-compliance of the mandate of Section 19(1) of the PMLA, 2002 would vitiate the very arrest itself. Under sub-section (2), the authorised officer shall immediately, after the arrest, forward a copy of the as mandated under sub-section (1) together with the materials in his custody, forming the basis of his belief, to the adjudicating authority, in a sealed envelope. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2421 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement Needless to state, compliance of sub-section (2) is also a solemn function of the arresting authority which brooks no exception.” 73. In Prabir Purkayastha (supra), this Court went beyond the rigours of the PML Act/UAPA. Drawing a distinction between “reasons to arrest” and “grounds for arrest”, it held that while the former refers to the formal parameters, the latter would require all such details in the hands of the investigating officer necessitating the arrest. Thus, the grounds of arrest would be personal to the accused. 74. Therefore, the issue which arises for consideration is whether the court while examining the validity of arrest in terms of Section 19(1) of the PML Act will also go into and examine the necessity and need to arrest. In other words, is the mere satisfaction of the formal parameters to arrest sufficient? Or is the satisfaction of necessity and need to arrest, beyond mere formal parameters, required? We would concede that such review might be conflated with stipulations in Section 41 of the Code which lays down certain conditions for the police to arrest without warrant: ᴑ Section 41(1)(ii)(a) – preventing a person from committing further offence. ᴑ Section 41(1)(ii)(b) – proper investigation of the offence. ᴑ Section 41(1)(ii)(c) – preventing a person from disappearing or tampering with evidence in any manner. ᴑ Section 41(1)(ii)(d) – preventing the person from making any inducement or threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the court or police. ᴑ Section 41(1)(ii)(e) – to ensure presence of the person in the Court, whenever required, which without arresting cannot be ensured. However, Section 19(1) of the PML Act does not permit arrest only to conduct investigation. Conditions of Section 19(1) have to be satisfied. Clauses (a), (c), (d) and (e) to Section 41(1)(ii) of the Code, apart from other considerations, may be relevant. 75. In Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), this Court has held that when a person applies for bail or anticipatory bail under the PML 2422 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Act, the conditions stipulated in Section 437/438/439 of the Code would equally apply, in addition to Section 45 of the PML Act.