1419 Narcotics Control Bureau v. Kashif clause 3.2 thereof stated that “the procedures set out in Standing No.1 of 88 should be scrupulously followed”. The clause 5.2 directed the respective enforcement agencies to constitute a three- member Committee, making it responsible to advise the respective investigating officers on the steps to be initiated for expeditious disposal of the seized drugs. NECESSITY FOR INSERTION OF SECTION 52A AND THE POSITION THEREAFTER: 15. The necessity to insert Section 52A arose in view of the International Convention of 1988 held by the United Nations, which adopted “United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, 1988”. Another convention under the aegis of South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) also came to be held in December, 1988, in which it was resolved that Member-States will take measures for early destruction or lawful disposal of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. India being Member-State, was a signatory to the said conventions. The Central Government therefore introduced a Bill in Parliament, i.e., the Narcotic Drugs or Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 1988, specifically mentioning that it was for giving effect to the International Conventions. Resultantly, the statutory provision as contained in Section 52A for disposal of seized narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances came to be inserted in the Act with effect from 29.05.1989. 16. The insertion of Section 52A was followed by the Standing No. 1 of 89 dated 13.06.1989. The said Standing No. 1 of 1989 came to be issued by the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 52A of the said Act as it was considered necessary and expedient to determine the manner in which the narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances should be disposed of after their seizure, having regard to their hazardous nature, vulnerability to theft, substitution and constraints of proper storage space. Clause 2.1 of the said Standing No.1 of 1989 stated that all drugs shall be properly classified, carefully weighed and sampled on the spot of seizure. The said standing also provided about the drawal of samples on the spot of recovery, quantity to be drawn for sampling, etc. It also provided a detailed procedure with regard to the method of drawal of representative samples, storage of samples, dispatch of samples, preparation of 1420 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports inventory, etc., and also provided for an early disposal of drugs and other articles by having recourse to the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 52A of the Act. The relevant part of the Standing No. 1/89 reads as under: - “SECTION II – GENERAL PROCEDURE FOR SAMPLING, STORAGE, ETC. 3.1. Preparation of inventory After sampling, a detailed inventory of such packages/ containers shall be prepared for enclosure with the panchnama. Original wrappers shall also be preserved for evidentiary purposes. SECTION III – RECEIPT OF DRUGS IN GODOWNS AND PROCEDURE 3.2. Custody of drugs in godowns – storage procedure All drugs shall invariably be stored in safes and vaults provided with a double-locking system.