In the above backdrop, the question was crystallised to whether the expression “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8 - List II is confined to potable liquor or includes all liquors. It was observed that the expression “alcoholic liquors for human consumption” used by the framers of the Constitution in Entry 51 – List II and Entry 84 – List I meant that liquor which is consumed by human beings directly as a beverage or as a drink. It was observed that alcoholic liquor or “intoxicating liquors” must be understood as common people would understand it and not what certain alcoholic products are capable of being transformed or converted into. That when excise duty was being levied under Entry 84 - List I, it did not include alcoholic liquors for human consumption but included denatured spirit which is “industrial alcohol”. It was observed that merely because the denatured spirit could be treated with water and transformed into alcoholic liquors into human consumption which did not involve a process of manufacture, the States would not have the legislative competence to levy excise duty under Entry 51 - List II. 10.4 Subsequently, in Synthetics and Chemicals (2J), it was clarified that the question which arose for consideration before the seven-Judge Bench was with regard to the validity of “vend fee and other fees” charged by the States. The two-Judge Bench clarified that the seven-Judge Bench had answered the question whether, “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8 - List II was confined to only potable liquor or other liquors also and it was held that it included only potable liquor and not “industrial alcohol”. However, it was clarified that the State has the power to levy taxes on sale or purchase of goods under Entry 54 - List II and therefore paragraph 86 of the seven-Judge Bench in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) was clarified in those terms. It was observed that in paragraph 86 by an accident (due to an inadvertence) the prohibition of sales tax being levied by the States on the “industrial alcohol” was adverted to without there being a discussion on that aspect of the matter and, therefore, to that extent the dictum of the seven-Judge Bench in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) was per incuriam. 2110 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports It was further clarified that the seven-Judge Bench was only concerned with the question whether the State Legislature could levy vend fee or excise duty on “industrial alcohol” and that the said question was answered in the negative by holding that “industrial alcohol” being unfit for human consumption, the State Legislature was incompetent to levy any duty of excise under Entry 51 - List II. 10.5 In the above context, it was also observed that alcohol can be divided into two categories, namely, potable and non- potable alcohol. That alcohol which is potable is “intoxicating liquors” for human consumption directly as a beverage and comes within the scope and ambit of Entry 8 - List II and the State Legislature has the power to regulate such “intoxicating liquors” by making relevant laws.