As per Section 2(c), “property” means property of any kind, whether movable or immovable, tangible or intangible, and includes any right or interest in such property. 34. Sections 3 of the Benami Act have been declared unconstitutional by this Court in the case of Union of India v. Ganpati Dealcom (P) Ltd4. A review petition is, however, pending against the said . 35. Section 4(1) of the Benami Act makes it clear that no suit, claim or action to enforce any right in respect of any property held benami against the person in whose name the property is held or against any other person, shall lie or on behalf of a person claiming to be real owner of such property. Such person cannot raise a defence 4 [2022] 12 SCR 320 : (2023) 3 SCC 315 826 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports based on any right in respect of any property held benami either against the person in whose name the property is held or against any other person. Section 4(2) prohibits the institution of any suit, claim or any other action by and on behalf of a person claiming to be the real owner of such property. (emphasis supplied) 36. It is, thus, clear that the complainant in spite of having made investments in the land deals which were evidently benami transactions, could not have instituted any civil proceedings for recovery against the person(s) in whose name, the properties were held which would be the accused appellants herein. Since by virtue of the provisions contained in Sections 4(1) and 4(2) of the Benami Act, the complainant is prohibited from suing the accused for a civil wrong, in relation to these benami transactions, as a corollary, allowing criminal prosecution of the accused in relation to the self- same cause of action would be impermissible in law. 37. Going by the allegations as set out in the FIR and the charge sheet, it is apparent that it is the admitted case of the complainant that the accused appellants made over a part of the purchased lands/plots to the complainant and also paid a part of the profits to him. However, when the exact share of the investment on pro-rata basis was not being given to the complainant, he was compelled to convene a Panchayat meeting wherein a Memorandum of Settlement was arrived at. Even despite the settlement, the actual share of the lands and profits enuring to the complainant was not paid to him. The relevant extract from the complaint is reproduced hereinbelow: - “10. As a per the Memorandum of Settlement it has been ensured that a Plot measuring 169 cents in the Property Item No.5 should be given to the complainant for his investment. It is also been assured that 32 cents to the 3rd accused Kannabiran and 55.50 cents to the 1st accused Subbiah @ Kadambur Jeyaraj. Upon the continuous insistence of the complainant to register the sale on 169 cents in his favour, the 1st and 3rd accused and all other accused informed the complainant that they will come on 9.9.2010 to register the complainant’s share.