We must leave it to the committee of experts to decide how it will do the exercise. The place, the time and the methods must be left to the Committee. The committee will have to perform its duties cautiously and sensitively. The committee must ensure that this exercise does not make the victim more insecure. CONCLUSIONS 42. Thus, to conclude, we hold that the accused is guilty of the offences punishable under sub-sections (2)(n) and (3) of Section 376 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act. The issue regarding sentencing will be considered after the committee’s report is received. 43. This extraordinary situation was created because the State machinery did not follow the provisions of law starting from sub-section (6) of Section 19 of the POCSO Act. The importance of rehabilitation of the victims of offences under the POCSO Act, which is a mandatory requirement of law, is being overlooked by all stakeholders. Perhaps, at levels, there is a need for introspection and course correction. We include even the Judiciary in that. 44. Hence, we pass the following : (a) The impugned of the High Court is set aside and the of the Special Court is restored to the extent of the conviction of the accused for the offences punishable under sub-sections (2)(n) and (3) of Section 376 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act. Accordingly, the accused stands convicted. The acquittal of the accused for the offences punishable under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC is confirmed. The appeal is partly allowed. The issue regarding sentencing will be considered after receiving the report of the committee in terms of clause (h) below. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 613 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents (b) We direct the Government of West Bengal to constitute a committee of three experts, including a clinical psychologist and a social scientist. The State Government may take the assistance of NIMHANS or TISS for constituting the committee. A child welfare officer shall be appointed to assist the committee as its coordinator and secretary; (c) The committee shall be formed within three weeks from today; (d) Within one week from the date of formation of the committee, the State Government shall provide all the material particulars/ details of the benefits which it is willing to extend to the victim as stated in paragraph 5 of the note submitted on 9th May 2024 by the learned senior counsel appearing for the State; (e) Thereafter, the committee shall meet the victim of the offences at such a place as it desires to communicate what the State Government is offering to her. The Committee must also inform the victim about the availability of the benefits of the scheme of the Government of India. The duty of the committee shall be to help the victim to make an informed choice whether she wants to continue to remain in the company of the accused and his family or wants to avail of the benefits offered by the State Government.