On account of such failure, the JRS Group was unable to fulfil its corresponding obligations and hence, disputes had arisen between the parties. They nominated Justice Kalpesh S. Jhaveri (Former Chief Justice, High Court of Orissa) to act as the sole arbitrator to resolve and adjudicate the disputes only between the AMP Group and JRS Group, in accordance with the FAA. The arbitration clause contained in the FAA is reproduced hereinbelow: “7.2 Any Dispute, if not resolved in accordance with Clause 7.1, shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration in accordance with the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 read with the rules framed thereunder (“Arbitration Act”). Subject to any interim reliefs/s granted, this Agreement and the rights and obligations of the Parties contained in this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect pending issuance of the award in such arbitration proceedings, which award, if appropriate, shall determine whether and when any termination shall become effective. 7.3 The arbitral tribunal shall consist of a sole arbitrator mutually agreed upon and appointed by the Parties. Failing such agreement, either Party shall be at liberty to seek appointment of a sole arbitrator by preferring an appropriate application in accordance with the Arbitration Act before 916 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the jurisdictional Court or arbitral institution, as the case may be, at Ahmedabad.” 23. On 12.01.2024, the AMP Group gave its reply to the aforesaid notice and sent it to both the JRS and SRG Groups. The AMP Group, while denying the contents of the Arbitration Notice, alleged, inter alia, that, it is the JRS Group that had failed to perform their part of the obligations under various pretext despite the AMP Group pursuing the same. It stated that the assertion on the part of the JRS Group that SRG Group was not bound by the terms of the FAA since it is not a signatory to the said document was completely contrary to what had been represented to AMP during the negotiations and at the time of execution of the FAA and further the same was made only for the purpose of raising an extra monetary demand of Rs. 25 crore which was never contemplated under the FAA. It was further stated that Mr. Kalpesh Parmar and the JRS Group had represented the SRG Group at all stages including the mediation process. The appointment of Justice Akil Kureshi (Former Chief Justice, High Court of Rajasthan) was suggested as an arbitrator for adjudication of all disputes arising under the FAA between the AMP, JRS and SRG Groups. 24. On 09.02.2024 and 10.02.2024 respectively, the JRS Group and SRG Group responded to the reply to the Arbitration Notice sent by the AMP Group. 25. Upon failure to reach an agreement on the appointment of the Sole Arbitrator within 30 days, the Petitioner AMP Group has filed the present Arbitration Petition No. 19 of 2024 before this Court. B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER (AMP GROUP) 26. Mr. Darius Khambata, the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners submitted that although the SRG Group is not a signatory to the FAA dated 28.02.2020 which contains the arbitration clause, yet it is a veritable party to the arbitration agreement since they participated in the negotiations leading up to the FAA and continued to talk with the parties on the issues pertaining to the implementation of the FAA.