[Paras 8, 10, 27, 28, 32, 33] Injunctions – Mandatory injunctions vis-à-vis prohibitory injunctions – Triple-Test – Prima facie case; Balance of convenience; Irreparable injury – Standard of scrutiny in applying these parameters for ‘prohibitory’ and ‘mandatory’ injunctions: [2024] 4 S.C.R. 15 State of Kerala v. Union of India Held: Prohibitory injunctions vary from mandatory injunctions in terms of the nature of relief sought – While the former seeks to restrain the defendant from doing something, the latter compels the defendant to take a positive step – Prohibitory injunctions are forward-looking as they seek to restrict a future course of action – Conversely, mandatory injunctions are backward-looking because they require the defendant to take an active step and undo the past action– Courts are, therefore, relatively more cautious in granting mandatory injunction as compared to prohibitory injunction and thus, require the plaintiff to establish a stronger case – In the present case, the Plaintiff sought mandatory injunction and not a prohibitory one – Instead of arguing that the Defendant-Union of India should refrain from imposing a Net Borrowing Ceiling during the next F.Y., the Plaintiff applied for a backward-looking injunction, i.e., for an injunction to undo the imposition of the Net Borrowing Ceiling that covered various liabilities and to restore the position that existed before such ceiling – Hence, was required to meet a higher standard for the triple-test of interim relief. [Paras 13-15] Words and Phrases – “if and in so far as the dispute involves any question (whether of law or fact) on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends” in Article 131 of the Constitution of India. List of Acts Constitution of India; Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2003; Kerala Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003. List of Keywords Borrowing by States; Ceiling on borrowings; Mandatory injunctions; Prohibitory injunctions; Triple-test of interim relief; Prima facie case; Balance of convenience; Irreparable injury; Fiscal policy; Federalism; Finance Commission. Case Arising From ORIGINAL JURISDICTION : Original Suit No. 1 of 2024 Original Suit has been instituted under Article 131 of the Constitution of India With I.A. No. 6149 of 2024 16 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Appearances for Parties K. Gopalakrishna Kurup, A.G., Kapil Sibal, Sr. Adv., C. K. Sasi, V. Manu, Ms. Meena K Poulose, Ms. Anusha Nagarajan, Ms. Aparajita Jamwal, Ms. Manisha Singh, Rishabh Parikh, Ms. Sumedha Sarkar, Ms. Rupali Samuel, Advs. for the Plaintiff. R Venkatramani, Attorney General for India, N Venkatraman, A.S.G., Raj Bahadur Yadav, Sonali Jain, Chitvan Singhal, Raman Yadav, Kartikay Aggarwal, Abhishek Kumar Pandey, Ms. Ameyvikrama Thanvi, Mukesh Kumar Singh, Advs. for the Defendant. / of the Supreme Court Surya Kant, J. 1. State of Kerala has instituted this Original Suit under Article 131 of the Constitution of India against the Union of India, challenging, inter alia, the following (collectively, the “Impugned Actions”): (a) Amendment Act No. 13 of 2018 (dated 28.03.2018): By this Amendment Act, the Parliament has amended Section 4 of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2003, whereby the Central Government is obligated to ensure that the aggregate debt of the Central Government and the State Governments does not exceed sixty percent of the gross domestic product by the end of Financial Year (F.Y.)