From a perusal of the provisions, it is clear that the ingredients necessary for the offence under Section 312 of the IPC is that the miscarriage must be voluntarily caused and must not be caused in good faith for the purpose of saving the life of the woman. Section 313 of the IPC states that the offence is attracted if the offence under Section 312 of the IPC is done without the consent of the woman. 26. The presence of the ingredients of the offences under Sections 312 and 313 of the IPC may be further examined through the perusal of the chargesheet dated 8th February 2021. The statement given by the Doctor who treated the complainant after the alleged incident on 28th November 2016 is found in the chargesheet. Same is reproduced hereinbelow: “The complainant in this case, Pushpa Madhav Suryavanshi, was came to our hospital on 05-12-2016 at 02.30 pm in the OPD for treatment of a complaint of abdominal pain and bleeding. I would have questioned the woman after enrolling in the OPD; she told me that, she was diagnosed with pregnancy when her urine was tested 7 days before coming to the hospital. But she told me that the next day after I was examined by kit, she told me that the abortion pills must have been in my stomach. Having told me that, I examined her and did sonography. While doing this sonography, I noticed that she had a seven-week- old lifeless fetus in her womb and was bleeding. Also, the blood in her body was very low. There was a great deal of abdominal pain as the lifeless fetus in the womb. So I admitted her for further treatment at five o’clock that 1546 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports evening. I then injected her with sleep and surgically removed the lifeless fetus by suction and evacuation. And then I discharged her after further treatment and the next day with a sonography to make sure the fetus was completely gone and sent her home. Due to the abortion pill was given to the woman and her fetus became lifeless and because of the previous two cesareans, the abortion was not completed at home. Her excessive bleeding had reduced the amount of blood in her body. Later she came to my hospital for treatment as she was suffering from severe abdominal pain and bleeding. While she was admitted in our hospital, she was accompanied by Sandhya Rathod. She was signed our documents. However, Pushpa Madhav Suryavanshi was in my hospital 05-12-2016 when she was seven weeks pregnant and she was bleeding and having abdominal pain. Her sonography showed that her fetus become lifeless as abortion pill had ben inserted into her abdomen. I have treated her with suction and evacuation.” 27. Through the perusal of the statement of the doctor, it is revealed that the complainant herself stated that the pregnancy was revealed to her when she tested it herself using a pregnancy testing kit and this was stated to be seven days before her visit to the hospital, i.e.