6 towards full and final settlement of all liabilities – In case of the failure to deposit the amount, the competent authorities to take over the possession of the entire unit with the land and put the same once again for sale by way of fresh auction process. [Paras 56-64, 66-67, 75-78] Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Ord. XXI r. 90, ss. 141 and 9 – Constitution of India – Art. 226 – Ordinary civil jurisdiction and extraordinary original jurisdiction – Applicability of the provisions of Ord. XXI r. 90 to writ proceedings u/Art. 226: Held: Provisions of the CPC do not apply to writ petitions u/Art. 226 except some of the principles enshrined therein like res judicata, delay and laches, addition of parties, matters which have not been specifically dealt with by the writ rules framed by the respective High Court – As a court of plenary jurisdiction, the writ court while exercising powers u/Art. 226 is free to adopt its own procedures and follow them – It cannot be compelled to follow the procedures 476 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports prescribed in the CPC – This is so for the specific provision made in its s. 141 explanation – High Court while exercising jurisdiction u/Art. 226 has jurisdiction to pass appropriate s – Such power can neither be controlled nor affected by the provisions of Ord. XXI r. 90 – It would not be correct to say that the terms of Ord. XXI r. 90 should be mandatorily complied with while exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 – Proceedings u/Art. 226 stand on a different footing when compared to the proceedings in suits or appeals arising therefrom – High Court exercises its writ jurisdiction u/Art. 226, whereas the Civil Courts exercise their jurisdiction in terms of the provisions of the respective State Civil Courts Acts read with s. 9 CPC – High Court exercises constitutional function, the Civil Court exercises a statutory function – High Court exercises a wide power u/Art. 226 and in a given situation, it can even mould the reliefs in to do substantial justice between the parties. [Paras 39, 48-50] Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Ord. XXI r. 90 – Auction sale conducted by the State through its authorities – Legality, validity and propriety of – Auction sale challenged on the ground of mala fides, undue favour for extraneous considerations and gross violation of the mandatory provisions of law – Principles enshrined in Ord. XXI r. 90 CPC, if applicable: Held: It would be hazardous to apply the principles enshrined in Ord. XXI r. 90 CPC – Human values and ethics in public functionaries have degraded to a considerable extent – Corruption is on a rampage – Having regard to the same and in to protect and uphold the rule of law, the courts have a duty to ensure that the State authorities have conducted public auctions in a fair and transparent manner and have not done anything by which public exchequer has suffered – It would be too much to say that although the writ court may find auction sale conducted by a public functionary to be in gross violation of the mandatory provisions of law and the action of such public functionary to be arbitrary, yet the aggrieved party complaining about the same should be told to establish the dual conditions stipulated in Ord.XXI r.90 CPC – First and the foremost aspect that the writ court should look into is fairness and transparency on the part of the State in conducting the auction sale so as to be in conformity with Art.14 – Once the action of the State is found to be unfair and arbitrary, then that is end of the matter for the writ court.