15.3. In case, the defendant/respondent wishes to take any preliminary objections, the same can be taken in a separate set of paragraphs specifically so as to enable the plaintiff/ petitioner to respond to the same in the replication/rejoinder, if need be. The additional pleadings can also be raised in the written statement, if required. These facts specifically stated in a set of paragraphs will always give an opportunity to the plaintiff/petitioner to respond to the same. This in turn will enable the Court to properly comprehend the pleadings of the parties instead of digging the facts from the various paragraphs of the plaint and the written statement. 15.4. The issue regarding specific admission and denial of the pleadings was considered by this Court in Badat and Co. Bombay Vs. East India Trading Co7. While referring to VIII Rules 3 to 5 of the CPC it was opined that the aforesaid Rules formed an integrated Code dealing with the manner in 7 [1964] 4 SCR 19 : AIR 1964 SC 538. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 155 Thangam and Another v. Navamani Ammal which the pleadings are to be dealt with. Relevant parts of para ‘11’ thereof are extracted below: "11. 7 of the Code of Civil Procedure prescribes, among others, that the plaintiff shall give in the plaint the facts constituting the cause of action and when it arose, and the facts showing the court has jurisdiction. The object is to enable the defendant to ascertain from the plaint the necessary facts so that he may admit or deny them. VIII provides for the filing of a written-statement, the particulars to be contained therein and the manner of doing so; XXX XXX XXX These three rules form an integrated code dealing with the manner in which allegations of fact in the plaint should be traversed and the legal consequences flowing from its non- compliance. The written statement must deal specifically with each allegation of fact in the plaint and when a defendant denies any such fact, he must not do so evasively, but answer the point of substance. If his denial of a fact is not specific but evasive, the said fact shall be taken to be admitted. In such an event, the admission itself being proof, no other proof is necessary.” 15.5. The matter was further considered by this Court in Lohia Properties (P) Ltd., Tinsukia, Dibrugarh, Assam Vs. Atmaram Kumar8 after the 1976 Amendment Act in CPC whereby the existing Rule 5 of VIII of the CPC was numbered as sub-rule (1) and three more sub-rules were added dealing with different situations where no written statement is filed. In paras 14 and 15 of the aforesaid , the position of law as stated earlier was reiterated. The same are extracted below: "14. What is stated in the above is, what amount to admit a fact on pleading while Rule 3 of 8 requires 8 (1993) 4 SCC 6. 156 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that the defendant must deal specifically with each allegation of fact of which he does not admit the truth.