The RP on commencement of CIRP is required to issue a publication inviting claims from all the stakeholders; thereafter, on basis of claims received, the RP is required to collate the information and submit necessary details in the information memorandum; the resolution applicant(s) submit their plan(s) on the basis of the details provided in the information memorandum; the resolution plan(s) undergo deep scrutiny by RP 29 “Section 31. Approval of resolution plan.- (1) If the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that the resolution plan as approved by the committee of creditors under sub-section (4) of section 30 meets the requirements as referred to in sub-section (2) of section 30, it shall by approve the resolution plan which shall be binding on the corporate debtor and its employees, members, creditors, including the Central Government, any State Government or any local authority to whom a debt in respect of the payment of dues under any law for the time being in force, such as authorities to whom statutory dues are owed, guarantors and other stakeholders involved in the resolution plan: ………….”. 30 [2021] 13 SCR 737 : (2021) 9 SCC 657 (paragraph 93) 276 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports as well as COC; in the negotiations that may be held between COC and the resolution applicant, various modifications may be made so as to ensure that while paying part of the dues of financial creditors as well as operational creditors and other stakeholders, the CD is revived and is made an on-going concern; after COC approves the plan, the adjudicating authority is required to arrive at a subjective satisfaction that the plan conforms to the requirements as are provided in sub-section (2) of Section 30 of IBC; and only thereafter, the adjudicating authority can grant its approval to the plan. 30. What is clear from the provisions of the IBC and the Regulations noticed above is, that the RP is under a statutory obligation to collate the data obtained from (a) the claim(s) made before it and (b) information gathered from the records including those maintained by the CD. The data so collated forms part of the information memorandum. Based on that information, the resolution applicant(s) submit(s) plan. In consequence, even if a claim submitted by a creditor against the CD is in a Form not as specified in the CIRP Regulations, 2016, the same has to be given due consideration by the IRP or the RP, as the case may be, if it is otherwise verifiable, either from the proof submitted by the creditor or from the records maintained by the CD. A fortiori, if a claim is submitted by an operational creditor claiming itself as a financial creditor, the claim would have to be accorded due consideration in the category to which it belongs provided it is verifiable. 31. On submission of the plan by a resolution applicant, the RP examines it to confirm whether it meets the requirements of sub-section (2) of Section 30 and, if it conforms to the conditions referred to therein, present the plan to the COC for its approval.