They had not come to the court with clean hands and they had also abused the process of law, therefore, they were not entitled to the extraordinary, equitable and discretionary relief. 43.4. A Division Bench of this Court comprising Justice B. R. Gavai and Justice C.T. Ravikumar placing reliance on the dictum in S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu, held in Ram Kumar vs. State of 864 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Uttar Pradesh, AIR 2022 SC 4705, that a or decree obtained by fraud is to be treated as a nullity. 44. We wish to consider the case from another angle. The of this Court dated 13.05.2022 is also per incuriam for the reason that it fails to follow the earlier binding s of this Court including that of the Constitution Bench in V. Sriharan vis-à-vis the appropriate Government which is vested with the power to consider an application for remission as per sub-section (7) of Section 432 of the CrPC and that of the nine Judge Bench decision in Naresh Shridhar Mirajkar that an of a High Court cannot be set aside in a proceeding under Article 32 of the Constitution. 44.1. In State of U.P. vs. Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd., (1991) 4 SCC 139 (“Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd.”), a two Judge Bench of this Court (speaking through Sahai J. who also wrote the concurring along with Thommen, J.) observed that the expression per incuriam means per ignoratium. This principle is an exception to the rule of stare decisis. The ‘quotable in law’ is avoided and ignored if it is rendered, ‘in ignoratium of a statute or other binding authority’. It would result in a or which is per incuriam. In the case of Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd., the High Court relied upon the observations in paragraph 86 of the of the Constitution Bench in Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd., namely, “sales tax cannot be charged on industrial alcohol in the present case, because under the Ethyl Alcohol (Price Control) s, sales tax cannot be charged by the State on industrial alcohol” and struck down the levy. In Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd., before the two-judge bench, it was categorically argued by the learned Advocate General appearing for the appellant State of Uttar Pradesh that the reference to “sales tax” in the of this Court in the earlier round of the litigation was accidental and did not arise from the . This was because the levy of sales tax was not in question at any stage of the arguments nor was the question considered as it was not in issue. The Court gave no reason whatever for abruptly stating that “sales tax was not leviable by the State by reason of the Ethyl Alcohol (Price Control) s.” In fact, the question which arose for consideration in the earlier litigation was in regard to the validity of “vend fee and other [2024] 1 S.C.R. 865 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others fees” charged by the States. The argument was that such impost, to the extent that it fell on industrial alcohol, encroached upon the legislative field reserved for Parliament in respect of a controlled industry coming under Entry 52 of List I (read with Entry 33 of List III).