In the present case, there is also no explanation, as to why, an excess amount of Rs.425/-, as claimed, was paid by respondent no.1 to the appellant no.1, when the respondents’ specific stand is that due to the appellants not being in possession of the property so as to hand over possession to the respondents, delay was occasioned. The submission that no adverse effect could be saddled on the respondents as decree for declaration and recovery of possession was obtained by appellant no.1 in her favour only on 27.04.1996 is not acceptable for the reason that there is no averment that pursuant to such decree, she had also obtained possession through execution. Thus, the decree dated 27.04.1996 also remained only a decree on paper without actual possession to appellant no.1. The contention of the respondents becomes 384 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports self-contradictory especially with regard to cause of action having arisen after such decree in favour of the appellant no.1 since even at the time of filing the underlying suit, actual possession not being with appellant no.1, the Sale Deed could not have been executed. 27. Another important aspect that the Court is expected to consider is the fact that the appellant no.7 in whose favour there was a Sale Deed with regard to the suit premises, much prior to issuance of any Legal Notice and the institution of the suit in question and that no relief had been sought for cancellation of such Sale Deed, a suit for specific performance for execution of sale deed qua the very same property could not be maintained. The matter becomes worse for the respondents since such relief was also not sought even at the First Appeal stage nor at the Second Appeal stage, despite the law permitting and providing for such course of action. Even the Legal Notice dated 18.11.1997 has been issued after almost seven months from the alleged last payment of Rs.1.000/-, as claimed by the respondents to have been made on 21.04.1997. 28. Pertinently, though appellant no.7 was arrayed as a defendant in the suit, yet no relief seeking cancellation of his Sale Deed was sought for. 29. The ratio laid down in K.S. Vidyanadam (supra) which had a similar factual matrix squarely applies in the facts and circumstances of the present case, on the issue that time was the essence of contract and even if time is not the essence of the agreement, in the event that there is no reference of any existence of any tenant in the building and it is mentioned that within a period of six months, the plaintiffs should purchase the stamp paper and pay the balance consideration whereupon the defendants will execute the Sale Deed, there is not a single letter or notice from the plaintiffs to the defendants calling upon them to the tenant to vacate and get the Sale Deed executed within time. Further, the Legal Notice was issued after two and a half years from expiry of the time period in K.S.