11. From the above admitted facts, prima facie it appears that the appellant herein was pursuing her remedies in law and she was not lax in her approach towards seeking refund of the said stamp duty paid by her and she has been denied the same only on the ground of limitation. 12. The finding returned by the High Court in the impugned that the appellant’s application for refund dated 22.10.2014 is not maintainable in law as it has been filed before the cancellation of the conveyance deed dated 13.11.2014 is misplaced in so far as while submitting the online application there was no caution to the appellant that all of the documents and materials for the satisfaction of the Collector should be filed with the application- either online or hard copy- itself and the finding of the learned single judge is contrary to the requirements stipulated by Sections 47 & 48 which envisages only the application for relief under Section 47 of the Act to be made within six months of the date of the instrument which prima facie is appeared to have been done by the appellant in the present case. 13. The evidence required and enquiry to be made in terms of Section 47 of the Act is a separate process altogether and apropos circumstances for refund under Section 47 (c) [1] & [5] of the Act, evidence is not required to be filed along with the application- either the online application or separately on the same day by way of hard copy. 14. In Committee-GFIL v. Libra Buildtech Private Limited & Ors.3, wherein the issue of refund of stamp duty under the same Act was in question, this Court has observed and held inter alia as under: “29. This case reminds us of the observations made by M.C. Chagla, C.J. in Firm Kaluram Sitaram v. Dominion 3 [2015] 11 SCR 420 : (2015) 16 SCC 31 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 737 Bano Saiyed Parwaz v. Chief Controlling Revenue Authority and Inspector General of Registration and Controller of Stamps & Ors. of India [1953 SCC OnLine Bom 39 : AIR 1954 Bom 50] . The learned Chief Justice in his distinctive style of writing observed as under in para 19: (Firm Kaluram case, SCC OnLine Bom) “19. … we have often had occasion to say that when the State deals with a citizen it should not ordinarily rely on technicalities, and if the State is satisfied that the case of the citizen is a just one, even though legal defences may be open to it, it must act, as has been said by eminent Judges, as an honest person.” We are in respectful agreement with the aforementioned observations, as in our considered opinion these observations apply fully to the case in hand against the State because except the plea of limitation, the State has no case to defend their action. xxx xxx xxx 32. In our considered opinion, even if we find that applications for claiming refund of stamp duty amount were rightly dismissed by the SDM on the ground of limitation prescribed under Section 50 of the Act yet keeping in view the settled principle of law that the expiry of period of limitation prescribed under any law may bar the remedy but not the right, the applicants are still held entitled to claim the refund of stamp duty amount on the basis of the grounds mentioned above.