The States/UT must also take disciplinary action against the erring officials once it is brought to their knowledge. (ix) In the event of any application/appeal/revision being filed by the owner or builder against the non-issuance of completion certificate or for regularisation of unauthorised construction or rectification of deviation etc., the same shall be disposed of by the authority concerned, including the pending appeals/ [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1353 Rajendra Kumar Barjatya and Another v. U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad & Ors. revisions, as expeditiously as possible, in any event not later than 90 days as statutorily provided. (x) If the authorities strictly adhere to the earlier directions issued by this court and those being passed today, they would have deterrent effect and the quantum of litigation before the Tribunal/Courts relating to house/building constructions would come down drastically. Hence, necessary instructions should be issued by all the State/UT Governments in the form of Circular to all concerned with a warning that all directions must be scrupulously followed and failure to do so will be viewed seriously, with departmental action being initiated against the erring officials as per law. (xi) Banks/financial institutions shall sanction loan against any building as a security only after verifying the completion/ occupation certificate issued to a building on production of the same by the parties concerned. (xii) The violation of any of the directions would lead to initiation of contempt proceedings in addition to the prosecution under the respective laws. 22. As far as the present case is concerned, we pass the following s: (i) The of the High Court shall stand confirmed. (ii) The appellants are directed to vacate and handover the vacant premises to the respondent authorities within a period of three months from the date of receipt of a copy of this . (iii) On such surrender, the respondent authorities shall take steps to demolish the unauthorised construction made on the subject property, within a period of two weeks therefrom. (iv) All the authorities shall provide necessary assistance to the Respondent No.1 to execute the of the High Court in its letter and spirit. (v) Appropriate criminal as well as departmental action shall be taken against the erring officials/persons concerned in line with the of the High Court and a report shall be filed before this Court. (vi) The amount deposited by the appellants in SLP (C)No. 36440 of 2014 be refunded to them, along with accrued interest. 1354 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 23. With the aforesaid observations and directions, these appeals stand dismissed. There is no as to costs. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. NOTE: 1) The Registrar (Judicial) is directed to circulate a copy of this to the Registrar General of all the High Courts, so as to enable the High Courts to refer it, while considering the disputes relating to unauthorised construction, deviation/violation of building permission, plan, etc. 2) The Registrar (Judicial) is also directed to circulate a copy of this to the Chief Secretaries of all the States/Union Territories.