Digital Supreme Court Reports presentation or certification of financial facts or data: or (iv) renders such other services as, in the opinion of the Council are or may be rendered by a chartered accountant in practice; and the words “to be in practice” with their grammatical variations and cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly. Explanation.− An associate or a fellow of the Institute who is a salaried employee of a chartered accountant in practice or a firm of such chartered accountants or firm consisting of one or more chartered accountants and members of any other professional body having prescribed qualifications shall, notwithstanding such employment, be deemed to be in practice for the limited purpose of the training of articled assistants.” 7.4 Section 3 deals with incorporation of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India while Section 7 states that every member of the Institute is to be known as Chartered Accountant. Vide Section 9, the Council of the Institute is constituted for the management of the affairs of the Institute and for discharging the functions assigned to it under the Act and its functions are delineated in Section 15. The above-mentioned Sections are extracted as under: “3. Incorporation of the Institute.- (1) All persons whose names are entered in the Register at the commencement of this Act and all persons who may hereafter have their names entered in the Register under the provisions of this Act, so long as they continue to have their names borne on the said Register, are hereby constituted a body corporate by the name of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, and all such persons shall be known as members of the Institute. (2) The Institute shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and shall have power to acquire, [2024] 6 S.C.R. 823 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others hold and dispose of property, both movable and immovable, and shall by its name sue or be sued. x x x 7. Members to be known as Chartered Accountants. - Every member of the Institute in practice shall, and any other member may, use the designation of a chartered accountant and no member using such designation shall use any other description, whether in addition thereto or in substitution therefor: Provided that nothing contained in this Section shall be deemed to prohibit any such person from adding any other description or letters to his name, if entitled thereto, to indicate membership of such other Institute of accountancy, whether in India or elsewhere, as may be recognised in this behalf by the Council, or any other qualification that he may possess, or to prohibit a firm, all the partners of which are members of the Institute and in practice, from being known by its firm name as Chartered Accountants. x x x 9. Constitution of the Council of the Institute.- (1) There shall be a Council of the Institute for the management of the affairs of the Institute and for discharging the functions assigned to it under this Act.