The 6th Respondent preferred an appeal before the NCLAT to challenge the approval of the Resolution Plan. By the dated 19th January 2021, the NCLAT directed the NCLT to decide the application of the 1st Respondent-Doha Bank. The NCLAT disposed of the appeal by observing that depending on the outcome of the application of the 1st Respondent, the approving the Resolution Plan could be reconsidered. 6. The appellants have relied upon the Deeds of Hypothecation dated 4th March 2011, 9th March 2011, 12th February 2012 and 15th September 2018 (collectively referred to as “the DoH”). The DoH were executed jointly by each of the Rcom entities (described therein as Chargors), including the Corporate Debtor (RCIL), to create a charge over their 2048 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports property for securing the repayment of the facilities advanced by the appellants. The RCom entities agreed to provide their assets as security and further undertook to pay any shortfall of debts owed by each of the RCom entities. All the RCom entities pooled their resources to provide security for the facilities availed by any of the entities, ensuring that each entity was individually liable to pay the debt of all the entities. According to the case of the appellants, in terms of the DoH, if there is any default by any entity, all the RCom entities were liable to make good the shortfall in recovery of the amounts after realisation of hypothecated assets. 7. Thereafter, the NCLT heard the application of the 1st respondent and dismissed it, upholding the status of the appellants (except the appellant in Civil Appeal No.7434 of 2023) as the Financial Creditors. An appeal was preferred by 1st to 4th respondents against the said . By the impugned and , the NCLAT held that the DoH is not a deed of guarantee. It was held that the only parties to the DoH were the Chargors and the Security Trustee. The only object of the DoH was to create a charge on the property of the Chargors. Therefore, the Chargors cannot be treated as guarantors. Hence, the NCLAT set aside the passed by the NCLT and remanded the case to the NCLT for taking consequential actions resulting from de-recognising the first four appellants herein as Financial Creditors. 8. At this stage, we may note that as far as Civil Appeal No.7434 of 2023 is concerned, the appeal is preferred by a Bank that was not a party to the appeal before the NCLAT. However, the NCLT dealt with the issue of the appellant’s qualification as a Financial Creditor. SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANTS Submissions in Civil Appeal No.7298 of 2022, Civil Appeal No.7615 of 2022 and Civil Appeal No.7434 of 2023 9. Very detailed submissions have been made by the learned counsel appearing for the parties. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants in some of the appeals firstly referred to the factual aspects of the case. He pointed out that the RCom entities entered into the Master Security Trustee Agreement (MSTA) with Axis Trustees Services Limited (security trustee).