Therefore, it is held that the accused who may have committed a non-scheduled offence having a connection with a Scheduled Offence can be investigated by the NIA in respect of a non-scheduled offence. 7.10 It is reiterated that, while investigating the accused regarding Scheduled Offences, if the NIA submits a report about some other accused who may have also committed certain offences connected with the Scheduled Offences under investigation then, the Central Government on a consideration of such a report may exercise suo motu powers and direct the NIA to also investigate the other accused also provided the offences alleged against the other accused are offences, having a connection with the Scheduled Offence already under investigation. Thus, on the aforesaid basis NIA would be enabled to also carry out an investigation of any other accused who has committed an offence connected with the Scheduled Offence already being investigated. This would be in the realm of a joint investigation into Scheduled Offences which may have occurred in different parts of the country but having a connection with other offences also. Thus, the expression “the accused” would have to be given an expansive and enlarged meaning in the above context having regard to the object and purpose of Section 8 of the NIA Act and the context in which provision has to be interpreted. 7.11 The word “the” used before a noun “accused” in Section 8 of the NIA Act has a particularizing effect, as opposed to “a” or “an”. However, “a” and “the” sometimes have to be interchangeably interpreted having regard to the context in which it is found and in to give it a contextual connotation so as to advance the object and purpose of the provision. Section 8 of the NIA Act has to be given a purposive and meaningful interpretation 1776 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports and one which would advance the object of Section 6 and other provisions of the Act and cannot be read in a curtailed and narrow fashion as submitted by learned senior counsel for the petitioner. 7.12 We have interpreted Section 8 of the NIA Act in such a way that while investigating the accused of a Scheduled Offence, any other accused could also be investigated on the strength of Section 8 provided the following condition precedents are applicable: (i) the NIA is of the opinion that during an investigation, any other accused who is alleged to have committed an offence having a connection with the Scheduled Offence has also to be investigated. In other words, there is a connection between the Scheduled Offence under investigation and any other offence committed by any other accused; (ii) a report by the NIA is submitted incorporating the aforesaid opinion to the Central Government; (iii) the Central Government on consideration of such a report, in exercise of its suo motu powers under sub-section (5) of Section 6 read with Section 8 of the NIA Act directs the investigation to be carried out in respect of any other accused also; and (iv) the said investigation of any other accused must be carried out jointly as far as practicable with the investigation of the accused already under progress owing to the connection between the Scheduled Offence and any other offence.