But the concerned Judicial Officer has to certify the actual rent being paid. b. If the rent of the private accommodation is more than permissible house rent allowance, the rent shall be assessed by Principal District Judge with the assistance of PWD/R&B officials. c. If the difference between the permissible house rent allowance and the rent assessed is more than 15% and Principal District Judge may seek approval of High Court for payment of the said amount unless the officer is ready to pay the differential cost. 4. The minimum plinth area for the residential accommodation shall be 2500 sq. ft. for District Judge and 2000 sq. ft. for Civil Judge. However, The High Court administration have the discretion to sanction the design with higher plinth area. (b) House Rent Allowance The SNJPC noticed that different rates of HRA are prevalent in different cities. Taking all aspects into account, the SNJPC was of the view that the Central Government notified rates may be adopted by the States and made the following recommendations: (i) Judicial officers who are allotted official quarters for residence shall not be entitled to HRA; (ii) Judicial officers residing in their own houses, including the house of a parent or spouse, shall also be entitled for the recommended HRA with effect from 01.01.2016 after obtaining permission from the High Court to reside in their own house and judicial officers already residing in hired accommodation will be entitled to the recommended HRA with effect from 01.01.2020, subject to the actual rent paid within the said ceiling; 354 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iii) The Office of the Principal District Judge or equivalent shall pay rent directly to the landlord, in which case, the officer is not eligible to draw HRA; and (iv) The SNJPC rates of HRA should be applicable to all Judicial Officers as per the notification dated 07.07.2017 which was issued after the VIIth Central Pay Commission (CPC) by the Central Government: “ Rates of HRA/pm as % of basic pay X 24% Y 16% Z 8% However, the minimum rates prescribed are 5400/-, 3600/- and 1800/- respectively. And the rate will be changed in accordance with the change in Dearness Allowance in the following terms: Classification of Rates of HRA/pm as % of When DA Cities basic pay crosses X 27% 25% 30% 50% Y 18% 25% 20% 50% Z 9% 25% 10% 50% ‘Z’ Category is unclassified at present and the High Court is at liberty to upgrade and add the cities in different classes.” (c) Furniture and Air Conditioner Allowance The SNJPC was apprised of the fact that some furniture is provided to the judicial officers in certain places, but there is a lack of uniformity. The SNJPC made the following recommendations: “4. Furniture grant of Rs.1.25 lakhs every five years shall be provided to the Judicial Officer subject to production of proof of purchase by the Judicial Officer. Household electrical appliances can also be purchased by availing of the said grant.