The deceased was further advised by Appellant No.1 to re-marry as he would not accept her or her children at the matrimonial house. Subsequent to this incident, the deceased would frequently say that she would commit suicide as her life no longer held any meaning. Thereafter, on 20th March 2015, the deceased committed suicide by hanging herself from an iron pipe with the aid of a saree. 3.3. On the basis of the complaint, a First Information Report4 being Crime No.12 of 2015 was lodged under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC against Prakash Pandurang Nagare (Appellant No.1), 4 For short, ‘FIR’ [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1165 Prakash and Others v. The State of Maharashtra and Another Pandurang Kundlik Nagare (Appellant No.2), the father-in-law of the deceased, and Pradip Pandurang Nagare (Appellant No.3), the brother-in-law of the deceased at the aforementioned police station. 3.4. Upon completion of the investigation, the chargesheet came to be filed on 28th September 2015. 3.5. Being aggrieved thereby, the appellants filed an application under Section 227 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 19735 before the trial court, praying to be discharged from the said case. The trial court, by its dated 24th December 2020, rejected the aforesaid application on the ground that there was sufficient ground to proceed against the appellants. 3.6. Being aggrieved further, the appellants preferred a Criminal Writ Petition before the High Court for setting aside of the aforesaid of the trial court. The High Court, vide the impugned and , dismissed the writ petition finding it to be devoid of merit. 3.7. Being aggrieved thereby, this present appeal. 4. This Court while issuing notice on 30th January 2023 had stayed the criminal proceedings bearing Sessions Case No. 75 of 2015 pending before the trial court, until further s. 5. We have heard Mr. Niteen V. Gaware, learned counsel appearing for the appellants and Mr. Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, learned counsel and Mr. Siddharth Dharmadhikari, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-State of Maharashtra. 6. Mr. Gaware, learned counsel, submitted that there was a delay of five days in lodging the FIR. He submitted that although an Accidental Death Report (Khabar) had been filed on the day of the incident by the brother of the deceased, there is not a whisper about any harassment caused by the appellants to the deceased. It also did not disclose any involvement of or instigation by the appellants which might have led the deceased to commit suicide. He further submitted that the FIR was an afterthought and no satisfactory explanation has been offered to justify the inordinate delay. 5 For short, ‘Cr.P.C.’ 1166 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 7. Mr. Gaware further submitted that it is not a case of prosecution that the appellants spoke in such a manner which would amount to abetment of suicide. He further submitted that the appellants met the deceased only on the day of the Mahalokadalat which was held on 17th February 2014 where Appellant No. 1 is alleged to have told her that he did not wish to cohabitate with the deceased any longer and he did not wish to settle the proceedings initiated by her.