The reasoning for such a course being directed by the Division Bench would appear from the following passage of the impugned : - "2. As noted in dated 2nd December, 2022, the investigation of present Crime was subsequently transferred to the National Investigation Agency (for short “the NIA”) in the month of January, 2020 i.e. after passing of the impugned . After completion of further investigation, the NIA has filed supplementary charge-sheet in the Special Court (under NIA Act) at Mumbai. The said case arising out of present crime is now pending for final adjudication in the Special Court (under NIA Act) at Mumbai. 3. It is to be noted here that, after the NIA filed supplementary charge-sheet, in view of the substantive change in circumstance, the Applicant did not approach the trial Court, at the first instance for appreciation of evidence by it. This Court therefore does not have the benefit of assessment of entire evidence on record by the trial Court. It is therefore necessary for the Petitioner to approach the trial Court afresh for seeking bail under Section 439 of Criminal Procedure Code, so that the trial Court will get an opportunity to assess entire material available on record against the Applicant. Even otherwise, in view of substantive change in circumstance it is necessary for the Applicant to approach the trial Court by filing a fresh Application for bail.” 9. Appearing on behalf of NIA, learned Additional Solicitor General, Mr. Nataraj, took preliminary objection on maintainability of the present appeal. His counter-affidavit is also founded on that factor. He stressed on the fact that since the first Court of bail had no opportunity to examine the fresh set of accusations emanating from the second supplementary chargesheet, no error was committed by the Division Bench in remanding the matter to the Court of first instance. 10. His argument is that the High Court is an appellate forum on the question of bail, where the 2008 Act is applicable and thus ought not to examine, for the first time, a fresh set of accusations made 278 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports by the investigating agency. He relied on a of this Court in the case of State of Haryana -vs- Basti Ram [(2013) 4 SCC 200]. A Coordinate Bench of this Court observed in this case:- “27. Normally, we would have gone through the entire evidence on record and decided whether the acquittal of Basti Ram should be sustained or not. However, in the absence of any discussion or analysis of the evidence by the High Court in the first appeal, we are of the opinion that a right of appeal available to Basti Ram would be taken away if we were to consider the case on its merits without the opinion of the High Court. Additionally, for a proper appreciation of the case, it is necessary for us to have the views of the High Court on record. This is important since the High Court has reversed a finding of conviction given by the trial Judge.” 11.