Act 9 of 1908 i.e. the old Limitation Act) would apply to an application for special leave to appeal from an of acquittal under sub-section 3 of Section 417 of the old CrPC. 6. This Court on its interpretation of sub-section 4 of Section 4171 of old CrPC and Section 29(2) of the old Limitation Act i.e. Indian Limitation Act, 1908 held that Section 5 of the Limitation Act would not apply in an application for leave to appeal under sub-section 3 of Section 417 of the old CrPC before High Court, in as much as Section 417 is a special code in itself and the limitation prescribed therein is 60 days and the court has no power to relax such a limitation to condone the delay. Relying upon a full Bench of the Bombay High Court [Anjanabai v. Yeshwantrao Daulatrao Dudhe ILR (1961) Bom 135] which held that Section 417(4) was special law within the meaning of Section 29(2) of the Limitation Act. Thus, the appeal was dismissed while relying on Section 29(2) of the old Limitation Act. For ready convenience of this Court, Section 29(2) of the old Limitation Act is reproduced below: “(2) Where any special or local law prescribes for any suit, appeal or application a period of limitation different from the period prescribed therefore by the first schedule, the provisions of Section 3 shall apply, as if such period were prescribed therefor in that schedule, and for the purpose of determining any period of limitation prescribed for any 1 Section 417 of the old CrPC is as follows: 417 (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (5), the State Government may, in any case, direct the Public Prosecutor to present an appeal to the High Court from an original or appellate of a acquittal passed by any Court other than a High Court. (2) If such an of acquittal is passed in any case in which the offence has been investigated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment constituted under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (XXXV of 1946), the Central Government may also direct the Public Prosecutor to present an appeal to the High Court from the of acquittal. (3) If such an of acquittal is passed in any case instituted upon the complaint and the High Court, on an application made to it by the complainant in this behalf, grants special leave to appeal from the of acquittal, the complainant may present such an appeal to the High Court. (4) No application under sub-section (3) for the grant of special leave to appeal from the of acquittal shall be entertained by the High Court after the expiry of sixty days from the date of that of acquittal. (5) If, in any case, the application under sub-section (3) for the grant of special leave to appeal from an of acquittal is refused, no appeal from that of acquittal shall lie under sub-section (1). 642 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports suit, appeal or application by any special or local law— (a) the provisions contained in Section 4, Sections 9 to 18, and Section 22 shall apply only in so far as, and to the extent to which, they are not expressly excluded by such special or local law; and (b) the remaining provisions of this Act shall not apply.” A perusal of the aforesaid provision clearly shows that where there is a special or local law prescribing the period of limitation in any suit, appeal or application which is different from the period of limitation prescribed in the first schedule of the Limitation Act, the applicability of the Limitation Act will be only as regarding Section 4 and Sections 9 to 18 & 22 of the Limitation Act.