Without properly appreciating all these aspects, the trial Court erred in rejecting the application filed by the appellants under VII Rule 11(d) of CPC and the same was also affirmed by the High Court, by the impugned herein, which will have to be set aside, according to the learned counsel for the appellants. 8. Per contra, the learned counsel for the Respondent No.1 submitted that in the year 1710, Raja Shahu Chhatrapati, the ancestor of the Respondent No.1/Plaintiff gave a sanad to Guru Shree Jadhavgir Gosavi of all the lands mentioned in the Sanad. The said Sanad gave rights of revenue grant which was hereditary. The said grant did not confer any titular rights over the land to the Gosavi family. The descendants of the Gosavi family though not empowered to create third party rights and interests, created third party rights. Thus, the said Gosavis who only had Inam grant in their favour entitling them only to the revenue from the land, had overstepped their authority and had parted the suit properties to the Defendant No.1 Trust, when they absolutely had no right to sell the suit properties. It is further submitted that the Defendant No.1 filed Special Civil Suit No.152/1951 against the State of Bombay and one Sukramgir Chimangir Gosavi in relation to the lands in village Yerawada, Taluka Haveli. The Defendant Nos.1 and 2 entered into compromise and it was agreed between them that the Yerawada Inam Village was a grant of soil and the Defendant No. 1 was Nivval Dhumaldars of the village to the extent of 12 anna share. The Respondent No.1 / Plaintiff was not a party to the said suit and without his knowledge, the consent decree was obtained clandestinely. Therefore, the said sale deeds and compromise are not binding on the Respondent No.1. It is also contended that the parties cannot be permitted to construct and improve the terms of sanad of the year 1710 in 1950s to their whims and fancies. In any event, the Court had not given a determinative finding after adjudication, and hence, the compromise decree of the Court cannot be put against it. 8.1. Continuing further, the learned counsel for the Respondent No.1 submitted that the Respondent No.1 specifically stated in paragraph 39 of the Plaint that the defendants have played systematic fraud on various courts and without any judicial pronouncements have usurped the lands under suspicious [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1453 Shri Mukund Bhavan Trust and Ors. v. Shrimant Chhatrapati Udayan Raje Pratapsinh Maharaj Bhonsle and Another compromises arrived at before the Court. Moreover, in paragraph 44 of the Plaint, the Respondent No.1 stated that the compromise arrived at in the suits filed in District Court, Pune, appears to be clearly an attempt to deprive the legal rights of the Plaintiff in respect of the said suit lands. 8.2. It is also submitted that whether the Respondent No.1 is entitled to declaration as sought for in the Plaint is a matter of trial and that cannot be gone into at the stage of deciding the application under VII Rule 11(d) of CPC.