146. Having understood the meaning of ‘bringing into existence’, we shall now revisit the Respondent’s argument that if an institution is being created by Statute, then it cannot be said to have been brought into existence by the minority community since in that, case it is the Legislature which establishes the university. This particular element requires some detailed analysis, not only because it was vehemently argued by both sides but also because,as confirmed by this Court in Prof Yashpal (supra), a University can only be created by or under a Statute. 147. Having said that, if we were to hold that statutory intervention means that the Parliament ‘establishes’ the university and not the minority community (as was held in Azeez Basha (supra)), it would mean that the minority community would never be able to qualify the ‘establishment’ prong under Article 30. This would concomitantly lead to the conclusion that minorities can never establish a university under this provision. Such a conclusion would run contrary to the amendment to the NCMEI Act, which includes universities also under the ambit of minority educational institutions. Therefore, to render quietus to this issue, we shall discuss whether the Statute does, in fact, bring an institution into existence. 1828 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports I.1.2. Statutory intervention and establishment of an institution 148. In this regard, it is important to note that statutory intervention exists as a sliding scale, which can differ based on the kind of institution. Broadly, there are three such categories of institutions: first, those which are ‘registered in accordance’ with the statute; second, which are ‘recognized’ by the statute; and third, which are ‘created by’ the statute. Each of these are analysed separately below. I.1.2.1. Registered in accordance with the statute 149. To establish an institution as a juristic entity, it is possible that the minority community uses a form of organization provided under a statutory framework. For instance, to establish an institution as a company, the community might utilize the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013; for a society,it would perhaps be the Cooperative Societies Act, 1912, and so on. In case such a statutory framework is used by the community, the question arises who truly brings the institution into existence—the community or the statute that is used to create the institution? 150. This question is no longer res integra and has been effectively answered in Dalco Engg. (P) Ltd. v. Satish Prabhakar Padhye,83 wherein this Court held: “20. A “company” is not “established” under the Companies Act. An incorporated company does not “owe” its existence to the Companies Act. An incorporated company is formed by the act of any seven or more persons (or two or more persons for a private company) associated for any lawful purpose subscribing their names to a memorandum of association and by complying with the requirements of the Companies Act in respect of registration. Therefore, a “company” is incorporated and registered under the Companies Act and not established under the Companies Act. Per contra, the Companies Act itself establishes the National Company Law Tribunal and the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, and these two statutory authorities owe their existence to the Companies Act.” [Emphasis supplied] 83 Dalco Engg.