The preamble of the FSSA records that it was an enactment to consolidate the laws relating to food. It is a very comprehensive legislation on all the aspects of food. 9. Clause (zz) of Section 3 of the FSSA defines unsafe food, which reads thus: “(zz) “unsafe food” means an article of food whose nature, substance or quality is so affected as to render it injurious to health:— (i) by the article itself, or its package thereof, which is composed, whether wholly or in part, of poisonous or deleterious substances; or (ii) by the article consisting, wholly or in part, of any filthy, putrid, rotten, decomposed or diseased animal substance or vegetable substance; or (iii) by virtue of its unhygienic processing or the presence in that article of any harmful substance; or (iv) by the substitution of any inferior or cheaper substance whether wholly or in part; or (v) by addition of a substance directly or as an ingredient which is not permitted; or (vi) by the abstraction, wholly or in part, of any of its constituents; or [2024] 2 S.C.R. 751 Ram Nath v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. (vii) by the article being so coloured, flavoured or coated, powdered or polished, as to damage or conceal the article or to make it appear better or of greater value than it really is; or (viii) by the presence of any colouring matter or preservatives other than that specified in respect thereof; or (ix) by the article having been infected or infested with worms, weevils, or insects; or (x) by virtue of its being prepared, packed or kept under insanitary conditions; or (xi) by virtue of its being mis-branded or sub-standard or food containing extraneous matter; or (xii) by virtue of containing pesticides and other contaminants in excess of quantities specified by regulations.” (Emphasis added) Thus, the concept of unsafe food is more comprehensive than the concept of adulterated food. Unsafe food means an article of food whose nature, substance or quality is so affected as to render it injurious to health. 10. The word sub-standard has been defined under clause (zx) of Section 3, which reads thus: “(zx) “sub-standard”, an article of food shall be deemed to be sub-standard if it does not meet the specified standards but not so as to render the article of food unsafe;” Therefore, sub-standard food cannot be unsafe food. 11. Another important definition is of adulterant under clause (a) of Section 3, which reads thus: “(a) “adulterant” means any material which is or could be employed for making the food unsafe or sub-standard or mis-branded or containing extraneous matter;” Coming back to the definition of unsafe food, sub-clause (v) of Clause (zz) of Section 3 provides that by adding a substance directly or as 752 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports an ingredient which is not permitted makes an article of food unsafe food. The presence of any harmful substance in the article of food makes it unsafe food. Therefore, if any adulterant is added to an article of food, which renders the article of food injurious to health, the food article becomes unsafe food.