Thereafter, the voter presses the desired button on the ballot unit to cast his/her vote, sees a visual confirmation of the same on the transparent VVPAT screen and hears a loud beep. At the end of the voting process, the Presiding Officer is required to record in Form 17C, not just the total number of voters as per the Register of Voters, but also the total number of votes recorded per voting machine as well as those staying away from the voting process despite affixing signature on the register. The total votes polled as per Form 17C is then again tallied with the total votes recorded by the control unit. Rule 56D(4) also provides that if there is any mismatch between these two totals, the printed VVPAT slips of the polling station would be counted. Furthermore, if a voter is aggrieved by a mismatch in the candidate voted for in the ballot unit vis-a-vis that recorded in the VVAPT, Rule 49M allows the voter to approach the Presiding Officer. Upon the conclusion of polling, there exists yet [2024] 5 S.C.R. 457 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another another remedy under Rule 56-D, for a candidate to apply for a count of the VVPAT slips, should any discrepancy be suspected. Thus, it is manifest that there is in place a stringent system of checks and balances, to prevent any possibility of a miscount of votes, and for the voter to know that his/her vote has been counted. There can be no doubt that such a system, which is distinctly more satisfactory compared to the system of the yester-years, suitably satisfies the voter’s right under Article 19(1)(a) to know that his/her vote has been counted as recorded. 18. The Republic has prided itself in conducting free and fair elections for the past 70 years, the credit wherefor can largely be attributed to the ECI and the trust reposed in it by the public. While rational scepticism of the status quo is desirable in a healthy democracy, this Court cannot allow the entire process of the underway General Elections to be called into question and upended on mere apprehension and speculation of the petitioners. The petitioners have neither been able to demonstrate how the use of EVMs in elections violates the principle of free and fair elections; nor have they been able to establish a fundamental right to 100% VVPAT slips tallying with the votes cast. 19. In view of the foregoing discussion, the petitioners’ apprehensions are misplaced. Reverting to the paper ballot system, rejecting inevitable march of technological advancement, and burdening the ECI with the onerous task of 100% VVPAT slips tallying would be a folly when the challenges faced in conducting the elections are of such gargantuan scale. 20. There are two other ancillary issues, to add to the issues already covered in detail by Hon’ble Khanna, J. 21. The first is the very issue of maintainability of writ petitions of the nature presented before us.