A clear misrepresentation was made in the remand application wherein, the Investigating Officer projected that the cheques issued by the accused-petitioner had to be recovered. It is an admitted position as per the FIR, that the cheques had been issued by the complainant to the accused-petitioner and not vice versa. By failing to test the truth of the complainant’s allegations regarding transmission of huge cash amount to the tune of Rs. 1.65 crores to the accused, the Investigating Officer acted in sheer ignorance to the mandate of the Income Tax Act, 1961 as well as the provisions of PMLA. Admittedly, the Investigating Officer (contemnor-respondent No. 4) had only made investigation from the accused for a few hours on 12th December, 2023 and immediately thereafter, the police custody remand application came to be submitted. The notice for remand to the accused on 12th December 2023 does not indicate that he had not cooperated in the investigation. We are, therefore, inclined to hold that there was not even a shred of bona fide in the actions of the Investigating Officer (contemnor- respondent No.4) while seeking police custody remand of the accused on the purported ground of non-cooperation in investigation. The exercise of seeking police custody remand during currency of the interim protection granted to the petitioner was in sheer defiance of this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023 and tantamounts to contempt on the face of the record. Hence, we have no hesitation in holding that while seeking for and procuring the police custody remand of the accused in the teeth of the dated 8th December, 2023, the Investigating Officer, R.Y. Raval, Police Inspector, Vesu Police Station, Surat (contemnor-respondent No. 4) is guilty of gross contempt. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 285 Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani & Ors. 59.4 That the explanation offered by 6th ACJM (contemnor- respondent No.7), that the dated 13th December, 2023 granting police custody remand of the petitioner was passed in the bona fide exercise of jurisdiction, based on a genuine misunderstanding of the legal position does not appeal to us. In view of the findings recorded in preceding paras, it is clear that contemnor-respondent No. 7 acted with bias and in a high- handed manner while granting police custody remand of the accused. The reason offered by her that she was acting under a misconception owing to settled and prevailing practice in the State of Gujarat, is clearly in disregard to the passed by this Court. The said plea does not hold water since the under contempt dated 8th December, 2023 allowed only one interpretation i.e. the accused-petitioner had to be released on bail in the event of arrest. The action of the contemnor- respondent No.7 in granting police custody remand of the petitioner and in failing to release him upon completion of the aforesaid period is clearly in teeth of this Court’s dated 8th December, 2023 and tantamounts to contempt. The contemnor- respondent No. 7’s contumacious actions also contributed to the illegal detention of the petitioner for almost 48 hours after the period of police remand had come to an end.