Construing Entry 42 in the light of the above scheme, it is difficult to resist the conclusion that the power of Parliament to legislate on inter-State trade and commerce under Entry 42 does not include a power to impose a tax on sales in the course of such trade and commerce.” 6.8 What falls for interpretation in these cases is the content, interplay and meaning of Entries 52 and 84 – List I, Entries 8, 24, 26, 27, 51 – List II and Entry 33 – List III. The aforesaid Entries read as under: 2060 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “List – I 52. Industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest. xxx 84. Duties of excise on tobacco and other goods manufactured or produced in India except:— (a) alcoholic liquors for human consumption; (b) opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics, but including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub- paragraph (b) of this entry. List – II 8. Intoxicating liquors, that is to say, the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors. xxx 24. Industries subject to the provisions of Entries 7 and 52 of List I. xxx 26. Trade and commerce within the State subject to the provisions of entry 33 of List III. 27. Production, supply and distribution of goods subject to the provisions of entry 33 of List III. xxx 51. Duties of excise on the following goods manufactured or produced in the State and countervailing duties at the same or lower rates on similar goods manufactured or produced elsewhere in India:— (a) alcoholic liquors for human consumption; [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2061 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons (b) opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics, but not including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub- paragraph (b) of this entry. List – III 33. Trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of,— (a) the products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest, and imported goods of the same kind as such products; (b) foodstuffs, including edible oilseeds and oils; (c) cattle fodder, including oilcakes and other concentrates; (d) raw cotton, whether ginned or unginned, and cotton seed; and (e) raw jute.” For a better understanding of the discussion to follow, it would be relevant to refer to the scheme of the IDRA. Scheme of IDRA: 7. The Preamble of the IDRA states that it is an Act to provide for the development and regulation of certain industries. Section 2 declares that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the industries specified in the First Schedule to the said Act. Hence, the question would be, whether, the Parliament by law has declared it expedient in public interest that the Union should take control of certain industries.