So also a corporation incorporated under law is managed by a board of Directors or committees of management in accordance with the provisions of the statute under which it is incorporated. When does such a corporation become an instrumentality or agency of Government? Is the holding of the entire share capital of the Corporation by Government enough or is it necessary that in addition there should be a certain amount of direct control exercised by Government and, if so, what should be the nature of such control? Should the functions which the corporation is charged to carry out possess any particular characteristic or feature, or is the nature of the functions immaterial? Now, one thing is clear that if the entire share capital of the corporation is held by Government, it would go a long way towards indicating that the corporation is an instrumentality or agency of Government. But, as is quite often the case, a corporation established by statute may have no shares or shareholders, in which case it would be a relevant factor to consider whether the administration is in the hands of a board of Directors appointed by Government though this [2024] 8 S.C.R. 529 Rajkaran Singh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. consideration also may not be determinative, because even where the Directors are appointed by Government, they may be completely free from Governmental control in the discharge of their functions. What then are the tests to determine whether a corporation established by statute or incorporated under law is an instrumentality or agency of Government? It is not possible to formulate an all-inclusive or exhaustive test which would adequately answer this question. There is no cut and dried formula, which would provide the correct division of corporations into those which are instrumentalities or agencies of Government and those which are not.” The court then proceeded to indicate the different tests, apart from ownership of the entire share capital: (SCC pp. 508 & 509, paras 15 & 16) “….. ……There is also another factor which may be regarded as having a bearing on this issue and it is whether the operation of the corporation is an important public function. It has been held in the United States in a number of cases that the concept of private action must yield to a conception of State action where public functions are being performed. Vide Arthur S. Miller: The Constitutional Law of the ‘Security State’ [5 10 Stanford Law Review 620, 644] …. It may be noted that besides the so-called traditional functions, the modern State operates a multitude of public enterprises and discharges a host of other public functions. If the functions of the corporation are of public importance and closely related to Governmental functions, it would be a relevant factor in classifying the corporation as an instrumentality or agency of Government. This is precisely what was pointed 530 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports out by Mathew, J., in Sukhdev v. Bhagatram [(1975) 1 SCC 421] where the learned Judge said that ‘institutions engaged in matters of high public interest of performing public functions are by virtue of the nature of the functions performed Government agencies.