[2024] 7 S.C.R. 2434 : 2024 INSC 518 The State of Punjab and Ors. v. Bhagwantpal Singh Alias Bhagwant Singh (Deceased) Through Lrs. (Civil Appeal No. 7379 of 2024) 10 July 2024 [Vikram Nath* and K.V. Viswanathan, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the suit for possession filed by the respondents was barred by limitation; whether the burden of proof of ownership would lie on the person challenging the ownership of the person in possession; whether the continued name of the Plaintiff/Respondent in the revenue records would confer title upon him; whether the plaint lacked/deliberately omitted necessary and material particulars to surpass the bar of limitation. Headnotes† Limitation Act, 1963 – Article 65 – Suit for possession barred by limitation – Civil Suit filed by deceased Respondent for possession of the land in suit in 2001 as they alleged to have come to know about construction of the hospital only in 2000 – Appellant/State claiming that the land in suit had been donated by original owner i.e., father of the Plaintiff, in 1958 for establishing a Veterinary Hospital and possession was delivered – Appellant/State constructed the hospital from the funds of the State Government in 1958-1959 and since then, the same has been functional: Held: Article 65 of the Limitation Act clearly stipulates that in a suit for possession of immovable property, the period of limitation will be twelve years from when the possession of the defendant becomes averse to the plaintiff – Fact remains and has been duly established from the record that the hospital had been constructed on the land belonging to the original owner i.e., father of the plaintiff sometime in the year 1958-59 – At that time, the owner of the said land was alive, and he did not object to it, which clearly indicates that he had donated the land in suit for construction * Author [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2435 The State of Punjab and Ors. v. Bhagwantpal Singh Alias Bhagwant Singh (Deceased) Through Lrs. of Veterinary Hospital – Further, it is evidenced by the letter dt 24.04.1981 wherein the Plaintiff had made an enquiry from the concerned Tehsildar regarding the exact location of the Veterinary Hospital that the Plaintiff was aware of its existence in 1981, if not before – If the plaintiff’s case was that it was never donated but still the hospital had been constructed, then the plaintiff should have instituted a suit for possession within 12 years – Having not done so, the suit was clearly barred by time for the relief of possession. [Paras 21, 22, 23] Adverse Possession – Claim of – State could not claim adverse possession, not applicable in present case: Held: The argument of Plaintiff that the State could not claim adverse possession is not germane to the present case – It is unfortunate that after 43 years, his son filed the suit for possession without seeking declaration, as in case, he would have sought relief of declaration, the suit would have been further barred by time for the said relief also by virtue of Article 58 of Limitation Act – Period of limitation being three years.