Right of adverse party as to writing used to refresh memory.—Any writing referred to under the provisions of the two last preceding sections must be produced and shown to the adverse party if he requires it; such party may, if he pleases, cross-examine the witness thereupon.” 20. A case diary is maintained by an Investigating Officer during his investigation for the purpose of entering the day-to-day proceedings of the investigation. While doing so, the Investigating Officer should 790 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports mandatorily record the necessary particulars gathered in the course of investigation with the relevant date, time and place. Under sub- section (1-A) and (1-B) of Section 172 of CrPC, the Investigating Officer has to mention, in his case diary, the statement of witnesses recorded during investigation with due pagination. Sub-section (1-A) and (1-B) were inserted by Act 5 of 2009 with effect from 31/12/2009. The object of these sub-sections is to facilitate a fair investigation since a statement made under Section 161 of CrPC is not expected to be signed as mandated by Section 162 of CrPC. To highlight the importance of adhering to the requirements of these sub-sections, we rely upon the Law Commission of India’s One Hundred and Fifty Fourth Report (154th) on Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, Chapter IX, “7. After giving our earnest consideration and in view of the fact that there is unanimity in respect of the need for making substantial changes in the law, we propose that there should be changes on the following lines : …The signature of the witness on the statement thus recorded need not be obtained. But, if the witness so examined desires a copy of such statement so recorded shall be handed over to him under acknowledgement. To reflect the shift in emphasis, a corresponding amendment to Section 172 should also be made to the effect that the Investigating Officer maintaining the case diary should mention about the statement of the circumstances thus ascertained, and also attach to the diary for each day, copies of the statement of facts thus recorded under Section 161 CrPC. Neither the accused nor his agent shall be entitled to call for such diaries which can be put to a limited use as provided under Section 172 CrPC. Under the existing provisions of the Code, the preparation of the earliest record of the statement of witness is left in the hands of Investigating Officer and as the mode of recording as provided in section 162 does not ensure the accuracy of the record (It is well known that many good cases are spoiled by insidious incorrect entries at the instance of the accused and it is also well known that many innocent persons [2024] 2 S.C.R. 791 Shailesh Kumar v. State of U.P. (Now State of Uttarakhand) are sent up along with the guilty at the instance of informant’s party),…” (emphasis supplied) 21. In furtherance of the above suggestion, the Law Commission of India accordingly provided a draft amendment to Section 172 of CrPC for the consideration of the Parliament, “… On the above mentioned lines, the relevant Sections can be amended as follows: xxxx 172(1) Every police officer making an investigation under this chapter shall day by day enter his proceedings in the investigation in a diary, setting forth the time at which the information reached him, the time at which he began and closed his investigation, the place or places visited by him and a statement if the circumstances ascertained through his investigation; and also attach to the diary for each day copies of statement of facts, if any, recorded under Section 161 in respect of the person or persons whose examination was completed that day.