The para teachers, as they were called, worked under difficult circumstances. They had the advantage of interacting personally with the children of the far-flung areas. They only received an honorarium. The projects themselves played a large part in uplifting the elementary education programme in the State. The para teachers motivated the children to come to school. It was in this background that the grade of ‘Prabodhak’ and Senior ‘Prabodhak’ were encadred and separate rules enacted. 24. No doubt, under the Rules, opportunity to apply was also given to all those who possess the essential qualifications and who had teaching experience in any recognized educational institutions apart from the educational projects. This, however, does not mean that those who served in projects did not form a separate class. There was a valid classification based on intelligible differentia which distinguished applicants with project experience and those who lacked project experience. Further the differentia had a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Rules. In fact, the job of a Prabodhak was exactly the job that the para teachers carried out in the projects and if the Government felt that the experience gained [2024] 7 S.C.R. 211 Mahesh Chand Bareth & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors. by them should not be lost and in that regard granted them age relaxation, provided they fulfil the condition of being within the age limit at the time of their initial appointment in the project, no fault can be found with the same. 25. Dealing with the similar challenge in Union of India & Ors v. Shivbachan Rai, (2001) 9 SCC 356, this Court held that the prescribing of any age limit for a given post, as also deciding the extent to which any relaxation can be given to the said age limit are essentially matters of policy. It was further held that it was open for the Government while framing the rules to prescribe such age limits or to prescribe the extent to which any relaxation can be given. Applying the said principle to this case, we find that the relaxation provided for in Rule 13(v) is not arbitrary or unreasonable. Question No.2: 26. Insofar as the award of bonus marks is concerned, a careful perusal of the guidelines indicates that it was issued before the advertisement and all that it provided was out of the allotted maximum marks of 25 for the experience, ordinarily 2 marks were to be given for every year with a cap of 10 marks. However, if the experience is for the employee receiving honorarium under the projects run by the State Government, then he was to be given 5 marks for each academic session with the maximum of 25 marks. Even if part of the experience was in a project to that extent extra marks were provided to all the applicants. 27. In the application form, there was a specific column, namely, column fourteen which asked about details of the experience. The form also asked for the name of the employer and the address of the institution employed.