However, it is also necessary depending upon the mechanism that is chosen for voting on the plan and whether the creditors vote in class, to consider whether the plan can be made binding upon dissenting classes of creditors and other affected parties. To the extent that the plan can be approved and enforced upon the dissenting parties, there is a need to ensure that the plan provides appropriate protection for the dissenting parties and, in particular, the rights may not be unfairly affected. Thereupon, the UNCITRAL Legislative Guide states: “…The law might provide, for example, that dissenting creditors cannot be bound unless assured of certain treatment. As a general principle, that treatment might be that the creditors will receive at least as much under the plan as they would have received in liquidation proceedings. If the creditors are secured, the treatment required may be that the creditor receives payment of the value of its security interest, while in the case of unsecured creditors it may be that any junior interests, including equity holders, receive nothing…” 33. In our opinion, the provisions of Section 30(2)(b)(ii) by law provides assurance to the dissenting creditors that they will receive as money the amount they would have received in the liquidation proceedings. 130 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS This rule also applies to the operational creditors. This ensures that dissenting creditors receive the payment of the value of their security interest. 34. In paragraph 128 in the case of Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Limited (supra), it has been clearly held: “128. When it comes to the validity of the substitution of Section 30(2)(b) by Section 6 of the Amending Act of 2019, it is clear that the substituted Section 30(2)(b) gives operational creditors something more than was given earlier as it is the higher of the figures mentioned in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of sub-clause (b) that is now to be paid as a minimum amount to operational creditors. The same goes for the latter part of sub-clause (b) which refers to dissentient financial creditors. Ms Madhavi Divan is correct in her argument that Section 30(2)(b) is in fact a beneficial provision in favour of operational creditors and dissentient financial creditors as they are now to be paid a certain minimum amount, the minimum in the case of operational creditors being the higher of the two figures calculated under sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (b), and the minimum in the case of dissentient financial creditor being a minimum amount that was not earlier payable. As a matter of fact, pre-amendment, secured financial creditors may cram down unsecured financial creditors who are dissentient, the majority vote of 66% voting to give them nothing or next to nothing for their dues. In the earlier regime it may have been possible to have done this but after the amendment such financial creditors are now to be paid the minimum amount mentioned in sub-section (2). Ms Madhavi Divan is also correct in stating that the of priority of payment of creditors mentioned in Section 53 is not engrafted in sub-section (2)(b) as amended.