In addition to the above, a further requirement of minimum 12 marks in one of the components i.e., the interview had also been prescribed. 93.1 This Court held that the principle of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ postulates only one requirement i.e., once the minimum required merit is assessed, thereafter the promotion must be strictly in accordance with the seniority of the candidates having the requisite merit. How the minimum merit ought to be assessed is immaterial. 93.2 As such, prescribing of an additional requirement of minimum marks in any one component of assessment such as interview in addition to the requirement of aggregate minimum marks in the overall assessment process was permissible under the principle of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ provided that the ultimate promotion is taking place as per seniority. The relevant observations read as under: - “13. [...] As the promotion to the post of Junior Management Scale II shall be made on the basis of seniority-cum-merit, the only requirement would be that after it is found that the candidates have possessed the minimum necessary merit, namely, minimum 40% qualifying marks in the written test 1126 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and minimum 12 marks each out of 20 marks each in interview and the performance appraisal reports respectively, thereafter the candidates are required to be promoted in the of seniority, irrespective of anyone among them having obtained more marks.” (Emphasis supplied) 93. In Sujata Kohli v. Registrar General, High Court of Delhi and Ors. reported in (2020) 14 SCC 58, this Court observed that since both the channels of promotion to the cadre of District & Sessions Judge being (i) 65% promotion on basis of principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and (ii) 10% promotion strictly on merit through competitive examination postulate the criterion of merit, it necessarily meant that: - (i) First, for the purposes of any promotion through the above two channels, merit would have to play a major role in promotion through these channels and will acquire primacy and that seniority alone cannot be given primacy. (ii) Secondly, the requirement of merit in such promotions cannot be less than the merit which is required at the entry level i.e., in the lower cadres. (iii) Thirdly, that comparative assessment of merit is crucial, such as through the evaluation of the respective ACRs of the candidates. Thus, this Court was of the view that the minimum requirement of grade ‘A’ in ACRs was in consonance with the policy envisaged by the abovementioned two channels of promotion and the relevant observations read as under: - “14.3 [...] As noticed, two channels of recruitment to the posts in the cadre of District Judge have been provided: one by promotion from amongst the Civil Judges (Senior Division) and another by direct recruitment from the eligible persons. As regards promotion, the bifurcation is provided in the manner that 65% are to be recruited by way of promotion on the basis of merit-cum-seniority and 10% by promotion strictly on the basis of merit through limited competitive examination (vide Rule 7 and 7A).