In N. Chandrababu Naidu (supra), the direction for counting the VVPAT paper trail in 5 EVMs per assembly constituency or assembly segment in a parliamentary constituency was issued, primarily as a precautionary measure rather than a justification or necessity. This decision was aimed at ensuring the highest level of confidence in the accuracy of election results. Giving physical access to VVPAT slips to voters is problematic and impractical. It will lead to misuse, malpractices and disputes. This is not a case where fundamental right to franchise exists only as a parchment, rather, the entire electoral process protocol, and the checks as well as empirical data, ensure its meaningful exercise. 70. VVPAT slip is made of a 9.9 cm x 5.6 cm thermal paper coated with chemical to ensure print retention for about 5 years. It is very soft and sticky, which makes the counting process tedious and slow. The counting process is undertaken through the following steps: the verification of unique ID of the VVPAT, opening of the VVPAT drop box, taking out the paper slips, counting the total number of slips, matching the number of slips with the total votes polled as per Form 17C, segregation of candidate-wise VVPAT slips, making candidate-wise bundles of 25 slips and counting of bundles and leftover slips. There are instances of recounting and reverification of the slips till the candidate-wise tallying is done. Thus, the counting process, it is stated, takes about five hours. The counting is done [2024] 5 S.C.R. 447 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another by a team of three officers under CCTV coverage and under direct supervision of the supervising officer and the ECI observer of the constituency. Candidates/agents can remain present. We are not inclined to modify the aforesaid directions to increase the number of VVPAT undergoing slip count for several reasons. First, it will increase the time for counting and delay declaration of results. The manpower required would have to be doubled. Manual counting is prone to human errors and may lead to deliberate mischief. Manual intervention in counting can also create multiple charges of manipulation of results. Further, the data and the results do not indicate any need to increase the number of VVPAT units subjected to manual counting. 71. During the course of hearing, it was suggested that instead of physically counting the VVPAT slips, they can be counted by a counting machine. This suggestion, including the suggestion that barcoding of the symbols loaded in the VVPATs may be helpful in machine counting, may be examined by the ECI. These are technical aspects, which will require evaluation and study, and hence we would refrain from making any comment either way. 72. We must reject as foible and unsound the submission to return to the ballot paper system. The weakness of the ballot paper system is well known and documented. In the Indian context, keeping in view the vast size of the Indian electorate of nearly 97 crore, the number of candidates who contest the elections, the number of polling booths where voting is held, and the problems faced with ballot papers, we would be undoing the electoral reforms by directing reintroduction of the ballot papers.