(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section— (a) “company” means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals; and (b) “director”, in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.” (emphasis added) There is no dispute that sub-Section (1) of Section 50 is pari materia with Section 141 of the NI Act. 5. Paragraph 9 of the complaint contains relevant averments on which reliance was placed by the learned counsel for the complainant. Paragraph 9 reads thus: “The complainant submits that the Accused No. 1 herein is a Limited Company, having its registered Office at Nos. 73/1A, Jermiah Road, Vepery, Chennai-600007. It was incorporated on 17-12-1996 as a Limited Company under the Companies Act, 1956 and obtained Certificate for commencement of Business on 22.01.1997 from the Additional registrar of Companies, Tamilnadu. The Xerox [2024] 8 S.C.R. 5 National Housing Bank v. Bherudan Dugar Housing Finance Ltd. & Ors. Etc. Copy of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Accused Company is filed herewith. Accused No. 2 is the Managing Director and the Accused 3 to 7 are the Directors of the First Accused Company and they are conducting the business of the company and are associated with the common aspect of their said business and are also responsible for the Management of the First Accused Company. They are also looking after the day today affairs of the First Accused Company and they are jointly and severally responsible for the conduct or for omission regarding the conduct of the business of the First Accused Company.” 6. Hence, there were no assertions made that the second to seventh accused, at the time of the commission of the offence, were in charge of, and responsible to the first accused company for the conduct of its business. Unless assertions, as required by sub-Section (1) of Section 50, are made, vicarious liability of the Directors of the first accused company is not attracted. 7. A Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court had an occasion to interpret Section 141 of NI Act in the case of S.M.S. Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Neeta Bhalla and Anr.1 In Paragraph 1, the points for determination were framed which read thus: “This matter arises from a reference made by a two-Judge Bench of this Court for determination of the following questions by a larger Bench: “(a) Whether for purposes of Section 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, it is sufficient if the substance of the allegation read as a whole fulfil the requirements of the said section and it is not necessary to specifically state in the complaint that the person accused was in charge of, or responsible for, the conduct of the business of the company.