Such discrimination can overlook significant harms, including marginalization, oppression, and the deprivation of essential benefits. The focus should be on 60 [2011] 1 SCR 396 61 [2012] 1 SCR 61 1414 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the execution and impact of the law, rather than the government’s intent, when applying this test. 65. Section 15 is violated when distinctions lead to the perpetuation of arbitrary disadvantages based on an individual’s membership in an enumerated or analogous group. Importantly, the test requires a flexible and contextual inquiry. Lastly, we will refer to the decision of Fraser v. Canada (Attorney General),62 where the court summarized the law on the adverse effects of discrimination, noting that this occurs when a seemingly neutral law disproportionately impacts members of groups protected on the basis of enumerated or analogous grounds. 66. In this manner, the development of equality jurisprudence in Canada bears resemblances with the progressive development of constitutional jurisprudence in India. In the Indian context, the mere fact that a policy caters to a distinct, intelligible class, does not automatically imply that the rigours of Article 14 are satisfied. The second prong of the reasonable classification test mandates that the distinction created by the policy between the two classes must have a rational nexus with the object that policy seeks to achieve. Furthermore, the objective of the classification should not itself be illogical, unfair and unjust. 67. The substantive equality test, as enunciated in our recent pronouncements, is broader and is not confined to a single principle. No doubt, it accommodates the legislature and the executive’s right to achieve structural change, but this right should be exercised to benefit those who are disadvantaged, marginalized, or those in need or grouped, while excluding others from the benefit or for imposition of the burden or obligation. It is crucial for the Court to consider both the intent behind legislation or policy and its practical impact, especially when it reflects discrimination based on proscribed grounds.63 68. Substantive equality is satisfied when the law or policy genuinely intends to and provides, an equal chance of satisfying the criteria for access to a particular social or economic good. It respects individual dignity, which encompasses three characteristics: (i) a sense of self-worth, (ii) protection of basic choices an individual makes, and 62 [2020] 3 SCR 113 63 The expression “proscribed grounds” has reference to Articles 15 to 18 of the Constitution of India. These Articles and their impact on Article 14, have been examined later. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1415 State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Dr. Rao, V.B.J. Chelikani and Others (iii) protection of individuals against harmful stereotypes. Lastly, substantive equality is achieved when legislation or policies enhance participation and representation, countering both political and socio- economic exclusion. The last aspect permits anti-subordination, as it focuses on the group which has suffered the disadvantage and examines whether the legislation or policy aims at neutrality or incorporates affirmative action to rectify the disadvantage or discrimination. Anti-subordination promotes structural change and aims to rectify disadvantages.