For any establishment to be commercial, it has to be established that the activities undertaken by it are for making some monetary 608 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports gain. Commercial in the most rudimentary sense means buying or selling of goods in exchange of money. As the above reproduced, uncontroverted paragraph (also recorded by the High Court) establishes, the commercial element was not absent. 22. Further, it was submitted that the activities conducted by the Corporation did not fall under those mentioned under Section 2(3) of the 1947 Act. This submission too, is difficult to accept. The construction work, which the Corporation, by its own admission, carries out, is also for non-governmental bodies such as firms, companies, and individuals. It would be apposite to refer to the observations of the High Court in this regard, in particular, paragraphs 37 and 38 of the impugned decision, which, for ease of reference are reproduced below : “37. TNMSC Management is a company registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1956 which is wholly owned by the Government of Tamil Nadu. The objects of the company as seen from the memorandum of articles of association are as follows : “(1) To buy or otherwise acquire all kinds and varieties of generic and patent medicines, drugs, mixtures, formulations, tablets, pills, powders, pharmaceutical and medical products, needles, syringes, injectables, vaccinesr sera, immunogens, phylacogens, chemicals and surgical dressings, kits and instruments and to sell or supply to various hospitals and other health centres. (ii) To purchase, distribute, assemble, install, maintain or otherwise deal in all types of capital equipments and instruments required in hospitals. (iii)To undertake designing and construction of Hospitals and or other buildings for Government, or for any other person including local authorities, corporations, societies, trusts, companies, firms and individuals. (iv)To establish modern warehouses and Engineering workshops to manufacture, assemble, repair or otherwise maintain various medical equipments, [2024] 5 S.C.R. 609 Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Limited v. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Employees Welfare Union & Anr. surgical instruments, diagnostic equipments, fire- fighting equipments, furniture and – fittings including, hospital furniture and also to undertake civil and other general maintenance of hospitals. (v)To establish research and development centres and institutes for medical and para-medical personnel for imparting training in various Techno-Managerial fields.” (Emphasis supplied) 38. It is also seen that TNMSC Management has warehouses in channel and in all the District Headquarters. These warehouses are used for storing of medicines and drugs. It has been specifically held as a fact by the Inspector of Labour in the dated 31.03.2001, that TNMSC Management had earned profit of Rs.6.95 lakhs in the year 1994-95, Rs.8.44 lakhs in the year 1995-96 and Rs.1.84 lakhs in the year 1996-97. Consequently, any contention raised that it is run on a “no profit basis” has to be rejected.” 23. It was argued that the Corporation’s activities included construction and therefore it would be exempt from the application of the Act. Section 7 reads thus- “7. Act not to apply to workmen employed in certain industrial establishment.