Such deprivation of the divorced Muslim women of their right to maintenance from their former husbands under the beneficial provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure which are otherwise available to all other women in India cannot be stated to have been effected by a reasonable, right, just and fair law and, if these provisions are less beneficial than the provisions of Chapter IX of the Code of Criminal Procedure, a divorced Muslim 1300 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports woman has obviously been unreasonably discriminated and got out of the protection of the provisions of the general law as indicated under the Code which are available to Hindu, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi or Christian women or women belonging to any other community. The provisions prima facie, therefore, appear to be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution mandating equality and equal protection of law to all persons otherwise similarly circumstanced and also violative of Article 15 of the Constitution which prohibits any discrimination on the ground of religion as the Act would obviously apply to Muslim divorced women only and solely on the ground of their belonging to the Muslim religion. It is well settled that on a rule of construction, a given statute will become “ultra vires” or “unconstitutional” and, therefore, void, whereas on another construction which is permissible, the statute remains effective and operative the court will prefer the latter on the ground that the legislature does not intend to enact unconstitutional laws. We think, the latter interpretation should be accepted and, therefore, the interpretation placed by us results in upholding the validity of the Act. It is well settled that when by appropriate reading of an enactment the validity of the Act can be upheld, such interpretation is accepted by courts and not the other way round.” 34. Therefore, it was held that the Muslim husband has two separate and distinct obligations, viz., (i) to make a “reasonable and fair provision” for his divorced wife and (ii) to provide “maintenance” for her. Contrary to limiting the duration of any such “provision” and “maintenance” to only the iddat period, the emphasis of Section 3(1)(a) specifically and the 1986 Act generally is to mandate the time for concluding the payment of provision and maintenance within the iddat period but not only restricted for the said period. This Court applied its in Danial Latifi in Sabra Shamim vs. Maqsood Ansari (2004) 9 SCC 616 wherein the High Court’s limiting the entitlement of the divorced wife to iddat period only was set aside on the ground that the liability “to pay maintenance is not confined to iddat period”. 35. In other words, the constitutionality of the 1986 Act was upheld only on the basis of the expansive, purposive and progressive interpretation that harmonised the rights under secular and personal law. This [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1301 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. is consistent with the settled norms of judicial review of legislative enactments whereby this Court reads a provision that is found to offend a constitutional guarantee to save its constitutionality, vide Binoy Viswam vs. Union of India (2017) 7 SCC 59, Pr.