62. The said SOP provides that, rearing of the tiger cubs should be in the in situ enclosure for wilding/re-wilding towards subsequent release in the wild. It provides a detailed procedure as to how the in situ enclosure should be constructed in to avoid the ‘Pavlovian’ conditioning of tiger cubs in the in situ enclosure and the release of natural prey animals within the tiger enclosure with minimum sound. It also provides for maintaining of a record of the kills made by the tiger cubs. It provides that the tiger cubs should be reared in the in situ enclosure for a minimum of two years, and each cub should have a successful kill record of at least 50 prey animals. It provides that the tiger cubs which have a successful kill record may be released in the wild in consultation with the NTCA after radio collaring, to a suitable, productive habitat within the same landscape, while keeping in mind the land tenure dynamics of tigers or the presence of human settlements in the new area. The SOP also deals with ‘Hard’ release of tiger cubs in the wild. 63. The SOP also provides for the rehabilitation of the sick/injured/ old tigers in zoos. A perusal of the SOP would reveal that only in [2024] 3 S.C.R. 239 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal extreme situations, where an old/injured tiger may create a human- tiger interface problem leading to livestock/human depredation; such tigers should be rehabilitated in a recognized zoo. 64. The SOP also, in detail, has provisions with regard to the design of cages/transportation protocol; design and related details of the in situ enclosure; housekeeping details for the rearing of abandoned/ orphaned newborn tiger cubs; and safeguards for the field staff. 65. It is further relevant to note that, the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Department of Environment, Forests & Wildlife, Union of India has issued a Resolution dated 7th December 1988, thereby providing for the National Forest Policy, 1988. Para 4.5 of the said Policy deals with ‘Wildlife Conservation’, which reads thus : “4.5 Wildlife Conservation Forest Management should take special care of the needs of wildlife conservation, and forest management plans should include prescriptions for this purpose. It is specially essential to provide for “corridors” linking the protected area in to maintain genetic continuity between artificially separated sub-sections of migrant wildlife.” 66. It is further relevant to note that the National Wildlife Action Plan, 2017-2031 also emphasizes on the concept of protection of the wildlife as a whole, beyond protected areas to protect the integrity of the Tiger Reserve. The relevant portion of the Plan is reproduced herein below : “Landscape Level Approach for Wildlife Conservation Overview and Objectives- 1. It is increasingly recognized that wildlife conservation has to go beyond Protected Areas (PAs) to the larger landscapes in which these are embedded. A landscape is defined as ‘a large tract of land constituted by a mosaic of interacting land uses with people and the impacts of their activities as the cornerstone of its management.’ Landscape allows ecosystem level conservation actions at the existing internal smaller nested spatial scales of management/ administration such as PAs and 240 [2024] 3 S.C.R.