Provided that where the proceedings are deemed to be concluded under the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 28 or under clause (i) of sub-section (6) of that section in 9 Article 300A. Persons not to be deprived of property save by authority of law.— No person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law. 1192 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports respect of the goods which are not prohibited or restricted, the provisions of this section shall not apply: [Provided further that], without prejudice to the provisions of the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 115, such fine shall not exceed the market price of the goods confiscated, less in the case of imported goods the duty chargeable thereon. [(2) Where any fine in lieu of confiscation of goods is imposed under sub-section (1), the owner of such goods or the person referred to in sub-section (1), shall, in addition, be liable to any duty and charges payable in respect of such goods.] [(3) Where the fine imposed under sub-section (1) is not paid within a period of one hundred and twenty days from the date of option given thereunder, such option shall become void, unless an appeal against such is pending. Explanation.—……”] 7. Issues: It is in the above referred ‘context’ that we will now interpret the ‘text’ of Section 125 to examine the following issues: i) Whether there is a liability to pay customs duty when confiscated goods are redeemed after payment of fine under Section 125 of the Act? ii) Whether, the liability to pay such duty will include the liability to pay interest on delayed payment under Section 28AB of the Act? 7.1. While answering these questions, we will have to explain the decision of this court in Jagdish Cancer case as it is argued to have ruled that duty in confiscation proceedings is payable only under Section 125 and not under Section 28, and if Section 28 does not apply, Section 28AB also will not apply. Therefore, the third question is: iii) What is the true and correct ratio of the decision in Jagdish Cancer case? 8. Re: Whether there is a liability to pay customs duty, when the confiscated goods are redeemed after payment of fine under section 125 of the Act? [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1193 M/s Navayuga Engineering Co. Ltd. v. Union of India & Anr. 8.1. This issue is no more res integra. The uncertainty about the liability to impose and collect duties in confiscation proceedings was resolved in 1976 by a decision of this court in Union of India v. M/s Security and Finance (P) Ltd.10 while interpreting identical provisions, as they stood under the Sea Customs Act, 1878. In this case, the court was dealing with confiscation of goods that were imported without a proper license which was and is prohibited by law. Though the goods were confiscated, they were released to the importer, who exercised the option to redeem them under Section 183 of the repealed Act.