55 small pellets were taken out of the body of the deceased during post-mortem. 15. During his examination under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr.P.C. ), accused Ram Singh denied the accusation that he had killed the deceased by shooting her from a country made pistol. He stated that there was indeed a scuffle between the son of PW-1 and himself relating to the Pradhan election for which criminal cases were pending. The witnesses were testifying against him due to enmity. 16. Before we proceed further, we may mention that in the seizure memo dated 20.08.1982, which has been placed on record, it was stated that during preparation of inquest report of the deceased, the police had seized the tikli of the cartridge stuck on the wound of the deceased and 12 bore cartridge lying on the cot of strips. 17. From a careful scrutiny of the prosecution evidence, what is seen is that PW-1 alongwith his brother Desh Raj were chatting with PW-2 and PW-3 in the courtyard in front of the house of PW-1. PW-2 and PW-3 were sitting on one cot. The deceased was sitting on another cot. Thereafter the discrepancies in the version of the witnesses arise. At one point of time, PW-1 said that he was at his door; at another point he stated that he and his brother Desh Raj were sitting on the same cot in which his mother was sitting but on the other end of the cot. Then again he said that the two brothers were sitting on the floor. It has also come on record that according to the version of some of the prosecution witnesses, PW-1 and his brother Desh 678 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Raj were sitting on the floor. Pausing here for a moment, we can visually analyse that the mother was sitting on the cot at a distance from her two sons. She was sitting laterally and not behind her two sons. According to the witnesses, the two accused came from the northern side and when they reached the pile of bricks, accused Lala Ram instigated accused Ram Singh that PW-1 was creating lot of mischief and, therefore, he should be killed. Ram Singh then moved 2-3 steps ahead and fired at PW-1. Now PW-1 says that he had hid himself below the cot; while the other version is that he had simply bent as he was sitting on the floor. On the other hand, PW-2 had stated in his cross-examination that when the shot was fired, PW-1 and his brother Desh Raj stood up. It is the prosecution case that Ram Singh had shot PW-1 but because of the evasive reaction of PW-1, the bullet fired by Ram Singh from his country made pistol hit the left breast of the deceased who thereafter died. 18. If this version is to be believed, then Ram Singh had fired at PW-1 from a close range and from a standing position.