Had the intent of the legislature been otherwise, it would have clearly used the words “transmits” or “shares” instead. 88. Similarly, Section 15 sub-section (2) penalizes the storage or possession of any child pornographic material when done for the purpose of either transmitting, propagating, displaying or distributing the same in any manner. The use of the words “for transmitting or propagating or displaying or distributing in any manner at any time” clearly suggests that again no actual act of transmission, propagation, display or distribution is required to take place. Had the intent of the legislature been otherwise, it would have explicitly stated “any person, who stores or possesses pornographic material in any form involving a child and transmits or propagates or displays or distributes in any manner at any time”. The use of the words “for transmitting or propagating or displaying or distributing in any manner” in Section 15 sub-section (2) makes it crystal clear that the said provision [2024] 10 S.C.R. 221 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. deals with two kinds of actus reus being (I) first, the storage or possession of a pornographic material involving a child when done with an intention to either transmit it or to propagate it or to display or distribute it though no actual transmission, propagation, display or distribution might have occurred OR (II) secondly, the storage or possession of a pornographic material involving a child which was actually transmitted, propagated, displayed or distributed in any form or manner. In other words, the actus reus that is required under Section 15 sub-section (2) is that a pornographic material involving a child must be found to have been stored or in possession with an intention to either transmit it or to propagate it or to display or distribute it or the same must have been transmitted, propagated, displayed or distributed in any form or manner. 89. The underlying difference in the actus reus under Section 15 sub- section(s) (1) and (2) is that in the former the storage or possession of any such material is due to the omission to delete, destroy or report the same whereas in the latter, the storage or possession of any such material is in to facilitate the transmission, propagation, display or distribution of the same. To further put the distinction into perspective, the actus reus under sub-section (1) must be such that indicates that the child pornographic material found in storage or possession was only due to an omission to delete or destroy. Whereas under sub-section (2) it must be shown that such material had been stored or in possession for a reason more than just mere omission i.e., for the reason of transmitting, propagating, displaying or distributing the same. The use of the words “any manner ” in sub- section (2) makes it clear that apart from the storage or possession of such pornographic material, there must be something more to show either (I) the actual transmission, propagation, display or distribution of such material OR (II) the facilitation of any transmission, propagation, display or distribution of such material, such as any form of preparation or setup done that would enable that person to transmit it or to display it.