(d) The Central Government shall within a period of one hundred and twenty days from the date of publication of the notification in the Official Gazette consider all the objections received against such notification and may within 1 [three hundred and sixty-five days] from such day of publication] impose prohibition or restrictions on location of such industries and the carrying on of any process or operation in an area. (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- rule (3), whenever it appears to the Central Government that it is in public interest to do so, it may dispense with the requirement of notice under clause (a) of sub-rule (3).” (emphasis added) 1264 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports SCOPE OF ADJUDICATION 16. As far as the scope of adjudication in these appeals is concerned, it is necessary to refer to the Original Application no.190 of 2020 filed by the appellant. There were three prayers made in the said Original Application, which read thus: "(a) Pass an quashing newly inserted Clause 6 of the Impugned Notification dated 28.03.2020 as being violative of Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India, ultra vires the provisions of the EPA Act, 1986, the EIA Notification dated 14.09.2006, and in further violation of the passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the Deepak Kumar case (supra); (b) Pass an appropriate quashing the Impugned Notification dated 28.03.2020 as being violative of the principles of Polluter Pay, Non-regression, sustainable development and Precautionary Principle; (c) Pass an appropriate directing the Respondent not to allow any mining of ordinary earth without a prior environmental clearance.” From the prayers mentioned above in clauses (a) to (c), it is apparent that the specific challenge was to item 6. Regarding clause (b), perhaps the only ground of challenge taken in the application was that no public interest was involved in exercising the power under sub-rule (4) of Rule 5 of the EP Rules for dispensing with public notice. 17. After perusal of the impugned , we find that the submissions made by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant before the NGT were not recorded therein. The dated 29th June 2021 passed by this Court in the present appeals is relevant, which reads thus: “X(name masked), learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant, submits that the learned counsel appearing for the appellant before the National Green Tribunal argued that exemption could not have been granted by the Notification of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change which has not been considered by the Tribunal. Y(name masked), learned counsel who appeared [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1265 Noble M. Paikada v. Union of India before the Tribunal, is directed to file an affidavit that he, in fact, raised this point before the Tribunal during the course of hearing. List the matter after two weeks.” The advocate filed an affidavit dated 11th December 2021. In paragraph 5(a) of the affidavit, he stated thus: “5. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (a) That the OA No.