The term ‘Temporal Reasonableness’, thus, describes what in our jurisprudence we say as something which was earlier reasonable is no longer so or ceases to be so with the passage of time. 130. The doctrine of temporal reasonableness is encapsulated in the Latin maxim “Cessante ratione legis cessat ipsa lex” which means that reason is the soul of the law and when the reason of any particular law ceases, so does the law itself. Thus, when the reason for which a particular law was enacted ceases to exist due to efflux of time, then the law too must cease to exist. 131. For better analysis, it is also necessary to understand the concept of temporal triggers. A time trigger may be defined as “a point in time that initiates or terminates a legal event. A time trigger activates or terminates laws, powers, rights, and obligations.”83 Allocative time triggers are points in time that mark the beginning or coming into force of treaties, constitutions, statutes, obligations, rights, etc. Terminative time triggers on the other hand end powers, rights, obligations and claims. 132. In the aforesaid context, it would be apposite to refer to a few decisions of this Court wherein the dynamic nature of law vis-à-vis the passage of time has been discussed. In Independent Thought v. Union of India reported in (2017) 10 SCC 800, it was observed thus by a two-Judge Bench of this Court: - "88. … Traditions that might have been acceptable at some historical point of time are not cast in stone. If times and situations change, so must views, traditions and conventions.” (Emphasis supplied) 83 Liaqat A. Khan, Temporality of Law, 40 mCGeorGe l. rev. (2016). [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1197 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 133. In Modern Dental College and Research Centre and Ors. v. State of Madhya Pradesh and Ors. reported in (2016) 7 SCC 353, a five-Judge Bench of this Court observed as follows: - “69. … law is not an Eden of concepts but rather an everyday life of needs, interests and the values that a given society seeks to realise in a given time. The law is a tool which is intended to provide solutions for the problems of human being in a society. xxx xxx xxx 92. … law is not static, it has to change with changing times and changing social/societal conditions.” (Emphasis supplied) 134. In Satyawati Sharma v. Union of India, reported in (2008) 5 SCC 287, a two-Judge Bench of this Court observed as under: - "32. It is trite to say that legislation which may be quite reasonable and rational at the time of its enactment may with the lapse of time and/or due to change of circumstances become arbitrary, unreasonable and violative of the doctrine of equality and even if the validity of such legislation may have been upheld at a given point of time, the Court may, in subsequent litigation, strike down the same if it is found that the rationale of classification has become non-existent [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 135.