In Thomas Mathew v. KLDC Ltd.117 this Court, in the context of a claim referable to Article 55 of the Schedule to the 1963 Act, by relying on Section 3 (2)(b) of the 1963 Act, held that a 113 Section 23. Statement of claim and defence.— (1) ….. (2) ….. (2-A) The respondent, in support of his case, may also submit a counter-claim or plead set-off, which shall be adjudicated by the arbitral tribunal, if such counter-claim or set-off falls within the scope of the arbitration agreement. 114 See Footnote 64 115 See Footnote 66 116 See State of Goa v. Praveen Enterprises, (2012) 12 SCC 581, paragraph 20; and Voltas Ltd. v. Rolta India Ltd., (2014) 4 SCC 516. 117 (2018) 12 SCC 560, paragraph 9 594 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports counterclaim is required to be treated as a separate suit and the period of limitation would be three years from the date of accrual of the cause of action. 124. It is therefore well settled that a counterclaim is like a cross suit, or a separate suit, and the limitation of a counterclaim is to be counted from the date of accrual of the cause of action which it seeks to espouse. As a logical corollary thereof, it is quite possible that even though a suit or a claim is within the period of limitation, the counterclaim may well be barred by limitation, if the cause of action espoused therein accrued beyond the prescribed period of limitation. 125. In the instant case, the counterclaims were for: (a) liquidated damages for the delay in supply and erection; (b) reimbursement of customs duties; (c) cost of erection of horizontal and vertical exhaust duct through an external agency; (d) cost of repair/ replacement of Gear Box, due to alleged defective supply; and (e) cost of repair/ replacement of Fan Modules, due to alleged defective supply. Out of the above five counterclaims, three counterclaims, namely, (a), (b) and (c), were dealt by the Arbitral Tribunal on merits, as they stood recited in the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018. Whereas the remaining two, namely, (d) and (e), were treated as barred by limitation because in respect thereof there was no recital / material to show that they were subject matter of negotiation between the parties. The counterclaim (a) (i.e., relating to liquidated damages for the delay) was rejected because the Tribunal found the claimant entitled to extension of time as the ACC Unit project envisaged Hook-up / connection to the turbine generator flange which could took place only in February 2015 as turbine generator installation, which was being done by another contractor employed by OPG, got delayed.118 The counterclaim (b) (i.e., reimbursement of customs duties) was rejected because, according to the Tribunal, as per the Supply Purchase , all Taxes, duties and levies were to be borne by the purchaser (appellant(s) herein).119 Insofar as counterclaim (c) was concerned, it was allowed and the counterclaimant was allowed set off in respect thereof.