We may clarify that this will not prevent cases within this Group, if any, from being remanded to the High Court for the specific purpose of conducting a factual inquiry regarding fraud, as we intend to do in the subsequent sub-paragraph. e) For the reasons given in Section F.4 (Allegations of fraud committed by landowners), the cases listed in GROUP E are hereby remitted to the High Court for adjudication of the facts as well as the law as a fact-finding inquiry is necessary to ascertain the rightful claimant for receiving the compensation. We hereby set aside the s of the High Court that were under challenge in the Civil Appeals/M.A.s and revive the relevant writ petitions which shall stand restored on the file of the High Court for this limited purpose on remand being ed. We issue the following directions: i. The Chief Justice of the High Court is requested to constitute a dedicated bench to decide these writ petitions in the manner indicated hereafter. The nominated bench will accord an opportunity to the landowners/subsequent purchasers, the GNCTD, and the DDA to submit additional documents on affidavits whereupon such bench shall embark on an exercise to decide who between the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1201 Government of NCT of Delhi & Anr. v. M/s BSK Realtors LLP & Anr. landowner(s) and the subsequent purchaser(s) is the rightful claimant to receive compensation. The nominated bench will have the authority to obtain independent fact-finding enquiry reports, if deemed necessary. The inquiry could include determination as to whether after the Notification under section 4(1) of the 1894 Act, any transfer could have been effected and even if effected, whether such transfer is permitted by any law. Once compensation is determined, the relevant authority in the land acquisition department shall deposit the same with the reference court. The reference court shall then invest the deposited amount in a short-term interest- bearing fixed deposit account with a nationalized bank, ensuring its periodical renewal until the relevant writ petition is disposed of by the nominated bench. Release of the invested amount together with accrued interest to the rightful claimant will be contingent upon the decision of the High Court. ii. The question as to whether the cases in that group will be eventually covered by the directions issued by us in exercise of power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India or whether such case will be covered in terms of the direction contained in sub-paras above, will depend upon and will be decided by the High Court in accordance with law based upon facts and circumstances of each case. 50. The above directions however shall not apply to the following miscellaneous matters (GROUP D) which have been incorrectly tagged in the present batch. While four of the cases in Group D.1 have been filed by the landowners seeking relief different from the relief claimed in the appeals filed by the appellants, in one case the DDA is before us by way of an M.A.