It appears from the material on record that both the parties are well educated, gainfully employed, have high standards of living, and also have dependants to be taken care of. The respondent-husband is working as the Vice President of Deutsche Bank and has stated in the affidavit to be earning a gross monthly salary of around over Rs. 8 Lakhs and more than Rs. 5 Lakhs per month as net salary after deductions. Respondent 11 [2017] 3 SCR 702 : (2017) 15 SCC 801 12 (2018) 12 SCC 199 13 (2014) 16 SCC 715 954 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports states to have dependant parents who reside in the United States of America, but they also have a cumulative annual income of over Rs. 28 Lakhs. Respondent is responsible for their medical expenses and stay when they are visiting India. Respondent has also stated that he has a dependant aunt with around Rs.55,000/- medical expenses monthly being borne by him for her. Apart from this, the respondent has estimated his personal monthly expenses to be around Rs. 4 Lakhs. The respondent has submitted that, apart from certain stock investments and fixed deposits, he has no other properties in the form of assets. This submission is challenged by the appellant-wife by stating that respondent-husband allegedly owns a property in Pune which was their matrimonial home and he also owns another immovable property in New Jersey, USA. 29. The appellant-wife in her affidavit of assets has stated that she is currently working as Head of Human Resources with Sarla Holdings (P) Ltd. with a salary of Rs.1,39,000/- per month. She states that she is currently staying in her parental home for which she pays rent to her parents, and her dependants include her parents and her minor daughter. She has estimated that her monthly necessary expenses amount to over Rs. 4 Lakhs. Apart from this, she has also stated that she has to spend around Rs. 75,000/- per month towards the living and education expenses of her minor daughter. Respondent has vehemently contested this and has impressed upon his submission that the daughter is appellant’s child from her previous marriage and she had received Rs.40 Lakhs as permanent alimony in that case towards the maintenance of the appellant and her daughter. She has submitted that her assets include certain immovable properties which she bought in the last few years. 30. Both the parties appear to have similar standards of living, which the appellant-wife has continued to enjoy after their separation as well. It is evident from their submissions that though both of them are well qualified and gainfully employed, the respondent-husband earns approximately five times the monthly income of the appellant- wife. Respondent-husband has certain obligations towards three dependants, his own expenses, and certain bank loans, but he also evidently has the financial capacity to maintain his former wife. 31. This Court explored the possibility of one-time settlement between the parties and in the course of the proceedings, the appellant-wife [2024] 7 S.C.R.