83. In Kamal Singh (supra), a two-judge bench of this Court passed a brief setting aside an of the NCLT, which dismissed an application filed under Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules 2016 for withdrawal of CIRP based on a settlement arrived at before the constitution of the CoC. This Court relied on the observations in para 82 of Swiss Ribbons (supra) referred to above, wherein this Court stated that at the stage when the CoC has not been constituted, the NCLT may exercise its inherent powers under Rule 11 to allow or disallow an application for withdrawal or settlement. It may be noted that there is no reference in this to the prescribed procedure under Section 12A read with Regulation 30A, although the proceedings took place well after their insertion. As noted above, in response to the decision of this Court in Swiss Ribbons (supra), there was a change in the legal framework and Regulation 30A was amended to specifically provide for a procedure for withdrawal before the CoC is constituted. The intention was to account for the lacuna identified in Swiss Ribbons (supra) and at the same time, reduce the reliance on ‘inherent powers’ by prescribing a procedure for withdrawal at this stage. In our view, as the overlooks the relevant legal provisions and fails to even refer to the existing legal framework under Regulation 30A, it would be per incuriam and is not binding on this Court. 84. The same infirmity is found in Ashok G. Rajani (supra), a judgement rendered by a two-judge bench of this Court. In this case, too, the petition filed by a creditor against a corporate debtor had been admitted, but the CoC had not been constituted. The decision refers to Section 12A of the IBC but fails to even acknowledge the amendment to Regulation 30A, which specifically provided for such an eventuality. Instead, this Court proceeded to hold while Section 12A of the IBC permits withdrawal after admission of the application by the creditor, it only provides for the procedure for withdrawal after the CoC has been constituted, without laying down a bar on withdrawal [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1853 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. before the constitution of the CoC. According to the two-judge bench, the question of approval of the CoC by the requisite percentage of votes can only arise after the CoC is constituted and thus, Rule 11 must be invoked to allow withdrawal. This observation was made without as much as a passing reference to Regulation 30A, which specifically governs such a situation. 85. The decision of this Court in Abhishek Kumar (supra) rendered by a two-judge bench of this Court speaking through Justice Vikram Nath, correctly identifies the legal framework. However, it is distinguishable from the present factual situation and the findings of this Court do not support the case of the respondents. The facts are comparable vis-à-vis the stage of the proceedings – the petition had been admitted, but the CoC had not been constituted.