Digital Supreme Court Reports environment and to safeguard the forests and wild life of the country. x x x 51A. Fundamental duties.—It shall be the duty of every citizen of India— x x x (g) to protect and improve the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers and wild life, and to have compassion for living creatures;” 23. At this point, it is also observed that Article 21 also encompasses the right to food safety. It is in this context that the FSSA, 2006 has been enacted and I would now advert to the provisions contained therein as well. 23.1 FSSA, 2006 has been enacted pursuant to Entry 52, List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. Section 2 of the said Act has declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the food industry. 23.2 The Preamble of the FSSA, 2006, inter alia, states that it is an Act to consolidate the laws relating to food and to establish the FSSAI for laying down science-based standards for articles of food and to regulate their manufacture, storage, distribution, sale and import, to ensure availability of safe and wholesome food for human consumption. The following provisions under the FSSA, 2006 could be adverted to: “2. Declaration as to expediency of control by the Union.- It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the food industry. 3. Definitions. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, – (a) “adulterant” means any material which is or could be employed for making the food unsafe or sub- standard or mis-branded or containing extraneous matter; x x x [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2053 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (j) “Food” means any substance, whether processed, partially processed or unprocessed, which is intended for human consumption and includes primary food, to the extent defined in clause (ZK) genetically modified or engineered food or food containing such ingredients, infant food, packaged drinking water, alcoholic drink, chewing gum, and any substance, including water used into the food during its manufacture, preparation or treatment but does not include any animal feed, live animals unless they are prepared or processed for placing on the market for human consumption, plants, prior to harvesting, drugs and medicinal products, cosmetics, narcotic or psychotropic substances : Provided that the Central Government may declare, by notification in the Official Gazette, any other article as food for the purposes of this Act having regards to its use, nature, substance or quality; x x x (q) “food safety” means assurance that food is acceptable for human consumption according to its intended use; x x x (u) “hazard” means a biological, chemical or physical agent in, or condition of, food with the potential to cause an adverse health effect; x x x (v) “import” means bringing into India any article of food by land, sea or air; x x x (zk) “primary food” means an article of food, being a produce of agriculture or horticulture or animal husbandry and dairying or aquaculture in its natural form, resulting from the growing, raising, cultivation, 2054 [2024] 7 S.C.R.