12. A-3 and A-4 have preferred Criminal Appeal No. 1610 of 2023 and A-2 has preferred Criminal appeal No. 1611 of 2023 for assailing the impugned dated 10th November, 2022 of High Court whereby the conviction recorded and sentences awarded to the accused by the trial Court have been affirmed. 28 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Submissions on behalf of the accused appellants : 13. Learned counsel representing A-2(S.A. Shafiullah) advanced the following submissions to assail the impugned and seeking acquittal for the accused:- (i) That the independent panch witnesses associated with the search and seizure were not examined in evidence and hence the entire search and seizure proceedings become doubtful and are vitiated; (ii) That it is admitted that the contraband ganja was seized from three bags which were also having green chillies therein. However, the Seizure Officer made no effort whatsoever to segregate the chillies and the alleged contraband and hence it cannot be held with any degree of certainty that the recovered contraband ganja fell within the category of commercial quantity; (iii) That the prosecution failed to ensure compliance of the requirements of Section 52A of the NDPS Act inasmuch as, no sampling procedure was undertaken before the Magistrate; (iv) That the Seizure Officer (Inspector PW-1) claims to have collected a total of three samples (one from each bundle of ganja) and handed over one part of the sample to the accused. However, when the articles were received at the FSL, three distinct sample packages were found which upon testing gave the presence of ‘cannabis sativa’. It was thus submitted that only two samples remained with the Investigation Officer and hence there is a grave contradiction and doubt regarding the sanctity of the samples collected by the Seizure Officer (Inspector PW-1) at the time of seizure. (v) Attention of the Court was also drawn to the evidence of PW-5 who stated that three samples of ganja were taken by Sub- Inspector LW-10, who handed over these sample packets to witness. However, this fact is contradicted by the evidence of the Seizure Officer(Inspector PW-1)), who stated that it was he who collected three samples from the contraband(three bundles of ganja) and handed one over to the accused under proper acknowledgment. Thus, as per the learned counsel, the FSL report is honest in the eyes of law as the sampling procedure is totally flawed; [2024] 3 S.C.R. 29 Mohammed Khalid and Another v. The State of Telangana (vi) That three bundles/packets of ganja were allegedly seized from the vehicle ‘Toyota Qualis’ in possession of A-1(Mohd. Ishaq Ansari) and A-2(S.A. Shafiullah) but when Investigating Officer PW-5 appeared in the witness box, he produced seven packets wherein the contraband was packed. These packets were not having any seals or identifying marks, i.e., signature of the accused and the panchas. Thus, it is apparent that the original muddamal seized at the spot was never produced and exhibited in the Court; (vii) That Sub-Inspector LW-10 who allegedly handed over the sample packets to Investigating Officer PW-5 was not examined in evidence.