Explanation thereto provides that the ‘tiger reserve’ shall consist of two areas. The first area shall be core or critical tiger habitat areas of National Parks and sanctuaries; which, on the basis of scientific and objective criteria, are required to be kept as inviolate for the purposes of tiger conservation, without affecting the rights of the Scheduled Tribes or such other forest dwellers, and notified as such by the State Government in consultation with an Expert Committee constituted for the said purpose. The second area, i.e., the buffer or peripheral area, shall consist of the area peripheral 228 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to critical tiger habitat or core area, identified and established in accordance with the provisions contained in Explanation (i). In such area, a lesser degree of habitat protection is required to ensure the integrity of the critical tiger habitat with adequate dispersal for tiger species. The creation of the buffer zone is aimed at promoting co- existence between wildlife and human activity with due recognition of the livelihood, developmental, social and cultural rights of the local people, wherein the limits of such areas are determined on the basis of scientific and objective criteria in consultation with the concerned Gram Sabha and an Expert Committee constituted for the said purpose. 43. Sub-section (5) of Section 38V deals with resettlement etc. of the Scheduled Tribes and, therefore, it may not be necessary for us to go into the provisions of sub-section (5). 44. Section 38W of the WLP Act deals with alteration and de-notification of tiger reserves. It provides that no alteration in the boundaries of a tiger reserve shall be made except on a recommendation of the Tiger Conservation Authority and the approval of the National Board for Wild Life. Sub-Section (2) thereof prohibits the State Government from de-notifying a tiger reserve, except in public interest with the approval of the Tiger Conservation Authority and the National Board for Wild Life. 45. Section 38XA of the WLP Act which was inserted by the Wild Life (Protection) Amendment Act, 2022 (No. 18 of 2022) makes the legislative intent amply clear. It provides that, the provisions contained in the said Chapter shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of the provisions relating to sanctuaries and National Parks (whether included and declared, or are in the process of being so declared) included in a tiger reserve under this Act. 46. It could thus be seen that, the entire emphasis of the WLP Act is on the conservation, protection, and management of wildlife. Various provisions contained in the WLP Act, discussed hereinabove, emphasize on providing measures for the conservation, protection and management of wildlife. The provisions contained in Chapter IVA lay a specific emphasis on the protection of tigers and other habitats in the tiger reserve. The provisions contained therein are in addition to the provisions contained for sanctuaries and National Parks. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 229 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal IV.