There also, the Rules were subsequently amended in 2017 to prescribe minimum cut-off of 35% in the viva voce. It is essential to note that while the intention for introducing a minimum cut-off through the High Court Resolution may be bona fide, in the present case, it is not grounded in legality as it cannot override the statutory rules. The minimum marks for interview was prescribed through a High Court Resolution without amending the rules. 26. In view of the above discussion, we hold that the executive instructions cannot override statutory Rules where the method of final selection by combining the cumulative grade value obtained in the written and the viva voce examinations is specified categorically. Issue A is answered accordingly. Issue B 27. The second issue that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court’s decision frustrates the substantive legitimate expectation of the petitioner. In Sivanandan CT (supra), a constitution bench of five judges of this Court speaking through Chandrachud DYC J. succinctly explained the principle as under: “40. The principle of fairness in action requires that public authorities be held accountable for their representations, since the State has a profound impact on the lives of citizens. Good administration requires public authorities to act in a predicable manner and honour the promises made or practices established unless there is a good reason not to do so. In Nadarajah [R. (Nadarajah) v. Secy. of State for the Home Deptt., 2005 EWCA Civ 1363] , Laws, L.J. held that the public authority should objectively justify that there is an overriding public interest in denying a legitimate expectation. We are of the opinion that for a public authority to frustrate a claim of legitimate expectation, it must objectively demonstrate by placing relevant material before the court that its decision was in the public interest. This standard is consistent with the principles of good administration which require that State 898 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports actions must be held to scrupulous standards to prevent misuse of public power and ensure fairness to citizens. “45. The underlying basis for the application of the doctrine of legitimate expectation has expanded and evolved to include the principles of good administration. Since citizens repose their trust in the State, the actions and policies of the State give rise to legitimate expectations that the State will adhere to its assurance or past practice by acting in a consistent, transparent, and predictable manner. The principles of good administration require that the decisions of public authorities must withstand the test of consistency, transparency, and predictability to avoid being regarded as arbitrary and therefore violative of Article 14.” 28. The Court therein observed that an individual who claims a benefit or entitlement based on the doctrine of legitimate expectation has to establish : (i) the legitimacy of the expectation; and (ii) that the denial of the legitimate expectation led to a violation of Article 14. 29. Let us now apply the above principle to the present case. The unamended MJS Rules, 2005 generated a legitimate expectation in the candidate that the merit list would be drawn based on the aggregate of the total marks secured both in the written examination and the viva voce examination.