Even otherwise, there is convincing evidence against the appellants. He, therefore, submitted that no fault can be found with the view taken by the High Court. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 4. There is one aspect that was not brought to the notice of this Court, which goes to the root of the matter. As can be seen from paragraph 108 of the of the Trial Court, the appellants have been convicted for the offence punishable under Section 302 with the aid of Section 149 of IPC. We may note here that ultimately, the High Court held that only four accused were guilty. Under Section 149 of IPC, every member of an unlawful assembly is guilty of the offences committed in the prosecution of the common object of the unlawful assembly. Therefore, to apply Section 149 of IPC, there has to be an unlawful assembly. Section 141 of IPC defines unlawful assembly as an assembly of five or more persons. The High Court has not held that apart from the present appellants whose conviction was confirmed, others formed part of the unlawful assembly. Hence, there was no unlawful assembly within the meaning of Section 141 of IPC. Therefore, the appellants could not have been convicted for the offence punishable under Section 302 of IPC with the aid of Section 149. The High Court has not modified the charge from Section 302, read with Section 149 of IPC, to Section 302, read with Section 34 of IPC. CONTRADICTIONS AND OMMISSIONS 5. Before we deal with the merits, something must be stated about how the trial court recorded the prosecution witnesses’ cross-examination [2024] 6 S.C.R. 25 Alauddin & Ors. v. The State of Assam & Anr. in this case, especially when they were confronted with their prior statements. The Trial Court did not follow the correct procedure while recording the contradictions. 6. Under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, ‘CrPC’), the police have the power to record statements of the witnesses during the investigation. Section 162 of CrPC deals with the use of such statements in evidence. Section 162 reads thus: “162. Statements to police not to be signed: Use of statements in evidence.—(1) No statement made by any person to a police officer in the course of an investigation under this Chapter, shall, if reduced to writing, be signed by the person making it; nor shall any such statement or any record thereof, whether in a police diary or otherwise, or any part of such statement or record, be used for any purpose, save as hereinafter provided, at any inquiry or trial in respect of any offence under investigation at the time when such statement was made: Provided that when any witness is called for the prosecution in such inquiry or trial whose statement has been reduced into writing as aforesaid, any part of his statement, if duly proved, may be used by the accused, and with the permission of the Court, by the prosecution, to contradict such witness in the manner provided by Section 145 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872); and when any part of such statement is so used, any part thereof may also be used in the re-examination of such witness, but for the purpose only of explaining any matter referred to in his cross-examination.