All the same, an Appeal was filed by respondents 1 and 2 before the Additional District Judge, Jind which was dismissed on 06.03.2012. While reiterating the findings of the Trial Court, the First Appellant Court had observed that since PW-7 was the attesting witness of the sale deed in favour of respondent 1-2 and also the advocate of the appellant in the injunction suit, therefore, it can be safely presumed that respondents 1-2 would have been aware of the injunction, and consequently their defence of bonafide purchaser can never be accepted. While dismissing the appeal, the Appellate Court observed that the respondents had colluded together to defeat the just claim of the plaintiff, i.e., the appellant before this Court. 9. Respondents 1-2 then filed their Second Appeal before the Punjab and Haryana High Court at Chandigarh, which was allowed vide dated 03.10.2019, which is presently under challenge before us. The High Court in the impugned has reversed the judgements of the trial court and the First Appellate Court, though it held that the plaintiff, i.e., the present appellant was entitled to the relief of refund of earnest money along with 8% interest per annum from date of agreement till date of judgement and 6% interest per annum from date of the date of judgement till realization of the amount. 10. Primarily three factors weighed with the High Court. Firstly, the Release Deed and of temporary injunction were executed [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1153 Chander Bhan (D) Through LR Sher Singh v. Mukhtiar Singh & Ors. and passed on the same day i.e. 28.07.2003 and it was, therefore, not possible to determine that the Release Deed was in violation of the injunction . Secondly, the suit for permanent injunction was ultimately dismissed as withdrawn so the protection afforded by the of temporary injunction would subsume with the dismissal of the main suit. Thirdly, in the deposition and cross-examination of PW-7, there was no admission that he had informed respondents 1-2 about the of temporary injunction in favour of the appellant. Although respondents 3 and 4 refused to depose in the witness box, yet respondents 1-2 had both appeared as a witness and from their deposition, it cannot be inferred that they were aware of the injunction . Thus, the High Court concluded that respondents 1-2 were bonafide purchasers for valuable consideration and deserved protection under Section 41 of the Act of 1882. The relevant observations of the High Court are reproduced below: “In the suit for permanent injunction, land measuring 16 kanals out of khewat No. 322 khata No. 435 total measuring 86 kanal 14 marlas was the subject matter. Neither Harvinder Singh nor the present appellants were party to the said litigation. The interim injunction against alienation was allowed vide dated 28.7.2003, the date a lawyer appeared on behalf of Iqbal Singh @ Pala Singh and filed memo of appearance. The release deed in favour of defendant No. 2 Harvinder Singh was executed by Iqbal Singh @ Pala Singh defendant No.