Digital Supreme Court Reports 17. It could thus be seen that the only allegation against the present appellant is that accused No. 1 executed the GPA in favour of the complainant in respect of the land which is purchased from the present appellant-accused No.3. The other allegation is that upon instructions of accused No. 1 to transfer Rs. 20,00,000/- to accused No. 3’s Tamil Nadu Mercantile Bank Account towards sale of the land made by the appellant-accused No.3 to accused No.1, the complainant had transferred online a sum of Rs.20,00,000/-. 18. It is an undisputed position that upon receipt of the said amount of Rs.20,00,000/-, the present appellant had transferred the land in question by sale deed in favour of accused No.1. It is also undisputed that thereafter accused No. 1 executed the GPA in favour of the complainant on the same day. After the sale deed was executed in favour of accused No.1 by the appellant-accused No.3, though the complaint narrates various instances thereafter, no role is attributed to the present appellant. 19. At the cost of repetition, it has to be noted that no role of inducement at all has been attributed to the present appellant. Rather, from the perusal of the FIR and the charge-sheet, it would reveal that there was no transaction of any nature directly between the appellant and the complainant. The version, if accepted at its face value, would reveal that, at the instance of accused No. 1, the complainant transferred the amount of Rs.20,00,000/- in the account of the appellant. On receipt of the said amount, the appellant immediately executed the sale deed in favour of accused No.1, who thereafter executed the GPA in favour of the complainant. After that, no role is attributed to the present appellant and whatever happened thereafter, has happened between accused No. 1, the complainant and the other accused persons. In that view of the matter, we find that the FIR or the charge-sheet, even if taken at its face value, does not disclose the ingredients to attract the provision of Section 420 of IPC qua the appellant. 20. The dishonest inducement is the sine qua non to attract the provisions of Sections 415 and 420 of IPC. In our considered view, the same is totally lacking qua the present appellant. In that view of the matter, we find that continuation of the criminal proceedings against the present appellant would be nothing else but amount to abuse of process of law resulting in miscarriage of justice. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 737 A.M. Mohan v. The State Represented by SHO and Another 21. Insofar as the contention of the respondents that since the charge- sheet has been filed, the present appeal is liable to be dismissed, is concerned, it will be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court, in the case of Anand Kumar Mohatta and Another v. State (NCT of Delhi), Department of Home and Another7: “14. First, we would like to deal with the submission of the learned Senior Counsel for Respondent 2 that once the charge-sheet is filed, petition for quashing of FIR is untenable.