6. Mr. Khandeparkar, on taking instructions, has fairly stated that in the event the entire amount of Rs. 129 crores is not paid by the Petitioners on or before 31st August 2023, then the Petitioners shall voluntarily hand over vacant, peaceful, and quiet possession of the secured asset to the Auction Purchaser on or before 5th September 2023.” (Emphasis supplied) (ii) Secondly, the High Court in view of the aforesaid categorically held that on passing of the impugned the entire challenge laid to the actions of the Bank under the SARFAESI Act would come to an end. It further held that even if the Borrower failed to redeem the mortgage even then no challenge could be laid to the sale of the secured asset and that the physical, vacant and quiet possession would be handed over to the auction purchaser. The relevant observations are reproduced hereunder: - “11. We have heard the learned Counsel for the parties at some length. We have also perused the papers and proceedings in the above Writ Petition. It is not in dispute that the Petitioners have approached the DRT by filing an application for redemption of the mortgage. As mentioned earlier, this application is an Interim 1672 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Application filed in Securitization Application No. 46 of 2022 and which is also pending. Considering these facts, under normal circumstances, we would not have entertained the above Writ Petition. However, in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case, we are of the opinion that considering stand taken by the Respondent Bank [and which is accepted by the Petitioners without any conditions or reservations], it would be in the interest of all concerned if the consensus reached between the Respondent Bank and the Petitioners is taken cognizance of by us. We say this because in the present scenario, by 31st August 2023, the Respondent Bank will receive its entire dues one way or the other. In the event the Petitioners adhere to its promise to pay the entire dues [of 129 crores] by 31st August 2023, then naturally, the Bank will receive its entire money. In contrast, if the Petitioners default in making payment of the entire sum of Rs.129 crores, the sum of Rs. 25 crores to be paid over to the Respondent Bank today, would be appropriated by the Bank towards the outstanding dues of the Petitioners, and the balance Rs.105.05 crores would be received from the Auction Purchaser who has already deposited the entire sale consideration with the Respondent Bank. It is taking these circumstances into consideration that the Respondent Bank has changed its stand from the stand it took before the DRT when it opposed the Petitioners’ application for redemption. Another reason why the Respondent Bank has changed its stand is because the entire litigation will come to an end on the passing of this . In other words, on the passing of this itself, the entire challenge laid by the Petitioners to the actions of the Bank [under the provisions of the SARFAESI Act, 2002] comes to an end.