But, importantly, the term ‘legal justice’ is not used in Explanation 1, therefore simple conformity or non-conformity with the law is not the test to determine whether an award is in conflict with the public policy of India in terms of Explanation 1. The test is that it must conflict with the most basic notions of justice. For lack of any objective criteria, it is difficult to enumerate the ‘most basic notions 42 Union of India v. Ajeet Singh, (2013) 4 SCC 186, paragraph 26. 43 P. Ramanatha Aiyar’s Advanced Law Lexicon, 6th Edition, Volume III, page 2621. 540 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of justice’. More so, justice to one may be injustice to another. This difficulty has been acknowledged by many renowned jurists, as is reflected in the observations of this Court in Delhi Administration v. Gurdip Singh Uban,44 extracted below: “23. The words ‘justice’ and ‘injustice’, in our view, are sometimes loosely used and have different meanings to different persons particularly to those arrayed on opposite sides. One man’s justice is another’s injustice [Raplph Waldo Emerson: Essays (1803-82), First Series, 1841, “Circles]. Justice Cardozo said: “The web is entangled and obscure, shot through with a multitude of shades and colors, the skeins irregular and broken. Many hues that seem to be simple, are found, when analyzed, to be a complex and uncertain blend. Justice itself, which we are wont to appeal to what as a test as well as an ideal, may mean different things to different minds and at different times. Attempts to objectify its standards or even to describe them have never wholly succeeded (Selected Writings of Cardozo, pp 223-224, Falcon Publications, 1947).” 56. In Associate Builders (supra), while this Court was dealing with the concept “public policy of India”, in the context of a Section 34 challenge prior to 2015 amendment, it was held that an award can be said to be against justice only when it shocks the conscience of the court.45 The Court illustrated by stating that where an arbitral award, without recording reasons, awards an amount much more than what the claim is restricted to, it would certainly shock the conscience of the court and render the award vulnerable and liable to be set aside on the ground that it is contrary to justice. 57. In Ssyangyong (supra), which dealt with post 2015 amendment scenario, it was observed that an argument to set aside an award on the ground of being in conflict with ‘most basic notions of justice’, can be raised only in very exceptional circumstances, that is, when the conscience of the court is shocked by infraction of some fundamental principle of justice. Notably, in that case the majority award created a new contract for the parties by applying a unilateral circular, and 44 [1999] Supp. 1 SCR 650 : (2000) 7 SCC 296 45 See paragraph 36 of the in Associate Builders (supra) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 541 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr.