It was held that the wife had caused mental cruelty to the husband and the marriage had irretrievably broken down. In light of the fact that the husband was not willing to reside with the wife, even if the court refuses a decree of divorce to the husband, there are hardly any chances of the wife leading a happy life with the husband because a lot of bitterness had been created by the conduct of the wife. Thus, this Court accordingly granted a decree of divorce. 8.10 In the case of Anil Kumar Jain vs. Maya Jain, (2009) 14 SCR 90, this court held that the stand of the wife that she wants to live separately from her husband but is not agreeable to a mutual divorce was not acceptable and found it a fit case for exercise of the powers vested in the court under Article 142(1) [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1379 Rinku Baheti v. Sandesh Sharda of the Constitution. Thus, the court accepted the petition for grant of mutual divorce under Section 13B of the HMA. 8.11 Therefore, there now remains no doubt that this Court has the power to grant a decree of divorce on the grounds of irretrievable breakdown of marriage by invoking its powers under Article 142(1) of the Constitution. But what constitutes an irretrievable breakdown has to be determined in each case by undertaking a factual analysis of the case and using judicial discretion in light of several non-exhaustive factors laid down by this Court in the of Shilpa Sailesh. This Court has to reach the conclusion that the marriage has “completely failed” and there is no possibility of the parties cohabiting together as husband and wife, and that the continuation of the formal legal relationship of marriage is unjustified lacking in substance and content. 8.12 Unlike a divorce proceeding before the Family Court, where the Court is bound by the fault-divorce provisions contained in the HMA and other allied legislations and thus has to necessarily appreciate the evidence to give a finding about whether a party had indeed committed the alleged matrimonial offence or not, this Court while dealing with an application seeking divorce under Article 142(1) of the Constitution can depart from the said procedure as well as the substantive laws by acting as a problem solver and balancing out the equities between the conflicting claims. This Court is therefore not required to look deep into the veracity of the detailed allegations made by the parties against each other to find as to who is at fault, but is required to take a holistic view on the relationship between the parties and conclude if there is an irretrievable breakdown of the marriage and the parties have no scope of reconciliation. Thus, the thrust of considering an application under Article 142(1) of the Constitution is in to ascertain whether there is an irretrievable breakdown of marriage between the parties and as a result, it is in their interest that they should part ways by passing a decree of divorce by exercising jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution and thereby doing complete justice between the parties.