The relevant observations read as under: - "14. At first blush the arguments of Mr Sen appear very attractive. Undoubtedly sub-section (2) of Section 2 states that Part I is to apply where the place of arbitration is in India. [...] xxx 16. A reading of the provisions shows that the said Act applies to arbitrations which are held in India between Indian nationals and to international commercial arbitrations whether held in India or out of India. Section 2(1)(f) defines an international commercial arbitration. The definition makes no distinction between international commercial arbitrations held in India or outside India. An international commercial arbitration may be held in a country which is a signatory to either the New York Convention or the Geneva Convention (hereinafter called “the convention country”). An international commercial arbitration may be held in a non-convention country. The said Act nowhere provides that its provisions are not to apply 1178 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to international commercial arbitrations which take place in a non-convention country. Admittedly, Part II only applies to arbitrations which take place in a convention country. Mr Sen fairly admitted that Part II would not apply to an international commercial arbitration which takes place in a non-convention country. He also fairly admitted that there would be countries which are not signatories either to the New York Convention or to the Geneva Convention. It is not possible to accept the submission that the said Act makes no provision for international commercial arbitrations which take place in a non-convention country. xxx 20. Section 2(1)(e) defines “court” [...] A court is one which would otherwise have jurisdiction in respect of the subject-matter. The definition does not provide that the courts in India will not have jurisdiction if an international commercial arbitration takes place outside India. Courts in India would have jurisdiction even in respect of an international commercial arbitration. As stated above, an ouster of jurisdiction cannot be implied. An ouster of jurisdiction has to be express.” (Emphasis supplied) (ii) Secondly, this Court observed that Section 2 sub-section (2) of the Act, 1996 nowhere specifies that Part I will “only” apply where the place of arbitration is in India, nor does it provide that Part I shall not apply where the place of arbitration is not in India. Thus, by not specifically providing in black and white, whether Part I of the Act, 1996 would apply to international commercial arbitrations held outside India, the legislature’s intention appears to be to allow the parties the freedom to choose whether Part I or any of its provisions therein would apply or not by an express or implied agreement. The relevant observations read as under: - [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1179 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze "21. Now let us look at sub-sections (2), (3), (4) and (5) of Section 2. Sub-section (2) of Section 2 provides that Part I would apply where the place of arbitration is in India. To be immediately noted, that it is not providing that Part I shall not apply where the place of arbitration is not in India.