The definition is inclusive in character and its scope is wide as it is not confined to legal heirs only, instead, it stipulates a person who may or may not be a heir, competent to inherit the property of the 142 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports deceased or he should represent the estate of the deceased person. It includes heirs as well as persons who represent the estate even without title, either as executors or administrators in possession of the estate of the deceased. All such persons would be covered by the expression “legal representative”. If there are many heirs, those in possession bona fide, without there being any fraud or collusion, are also entitled to represent the estate of the deceased. 24. The aforesaid refers to representation of an estate of a deceased person which would devolve on his legal representatives and where the decree has to be executed vis-à-vis such an estate. In such a case, the heirs of the deceased debtor would be under a legal obligation to discharge their duties to satisfy the decree or an from the estate of a deceased. But in the case of sole proprietorship, which is a common form of business in India, when a legal obligation arises under a contract which has to be discharged personally by the sole proprietor, who is since deceased, had entered into the agreement, such as, in the case of a Development Agreement in the instant case, can such obligations be imposed on his legal representatives or heirs who are not parties to the Development Agreement and where the obligations under such an agreement per se cannot be fulfilled inasmuch as they neither have the skills nor the expertise to do so and those obligations depend purely on the skills and expertise of the deceased sole proprietor? In other words, where the decree or is not against the estate of a deceased sole proprietor but based on the skills and expertise of the sole proprietor, we are of the view that in the latter case, the obligations which had to be performed by the sole proprietor would come to an end on his demise and the same cannot be imposed on his legal heirs or representatives. We reiterate that such a position is distinguished from a position where the estate of the deceased sole proprietor would become liable to satisfy the decree in monetary terms. This is because a proprietorship firm is not a separate legal entity as compared to the proprietor and his estate would become liable only to satisfy a decree or an in monetary terms on his demise. In this context, the following terms of the Development Agreement dated 30.07.1996 would clearly indicate that the obligations on the opposite party were to be carried out personally by him: [2024] 3 S.C.R. 143 Vinayak Purshottam Dube (Deceased), Through Lrs v. Jayashree Padamkar Bhat & Others “NOW THIS AGREEMENT WINESSETH AND IS AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES HERETO AS FOLLOWS: 1.1 The owners hereby grant to the developer sole and exclusive development rights in respect of the property bearing C.S.