He observed that in such cases, perhaps an upper income ceiling would secure the benefit of reservation to such of those members of the class who really deserve it. 281. In M. Nagaraj, the Court also applied the principle of quantifiable data and creamy layer even in the case of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The correctness of the same was considered in Jarnail Singh. 282. Though Jarnail Singh held that insofar as applicability of quantifiable data on backwardness insofar as Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes is concerned, M. Nagaraj was not correct, however, insofar as the applicability of creamy layer principle even to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes is concerned, it upheld the view taken in M. Nagaraj. In doing so, Jarnail Singh is basically relying on the of 7-Judge Bench of this Court in N.M. Thomas. The view taken in Jarnail Singh has also been approved in Davinder Singh. 283. The correctness of the view taken in Jarnail Singh and Davinder Singh is not questioned. However, since in the present reference we are dealing with the question about equality among the group of unequals, I find it appropriate to consider the said issue also. 284. I have already referred hereinabove to the observations made by Krishna Iyer, J. in N.M. Thomas and the observations made by [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1579 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. Chinnappa Reddy, J. in K.C. Vasanth Kumar regarding applicability of creamy layer principle. It is worthwhile to note that the 7-Judge Bench in N.M. Thomas was considering the question about affirmative action in case of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 285. In N.M. Thomas, Krishna Iyer, J., in more than one place, had observed that the State is entitled to take steps for weeding out the socially, economically and educationally advanced sections of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes from the applicability of reservation. 286. Krishna Iyer, J. has again reiterated this position in paragraphs 94 and 98 in Akhil Bharatiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh. 287. When the 9-Judge Bench in Indra Sawhney held that applicability of such a test insofar as Other Backward Classes are concerned would advance equality as enshrined in the Constitution, then why such a test should not also be made applicable to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 288. As observed hereinabove, there are stark ground realities, and we cannot be ignorant of them. Nearly 75 years have elapsed from the day on which the Constitution was brought into effect. Special provisions have been made for the advancement of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and backward class of citizens. By judicial interpretation, the equality enshrined in the trinity of Articles 14 to 16 of the Constitution has been considered to be equal treatment among equals and unequal treatment among unequals. The question that will have to be posed is, whether equal treatment to unequals in the category of Scheduled Castes would advance the constitutional objective of equality or would thwart it? Can a child of IAS/IPS or Civil Service Officers be equated with a child of a disadvantaged member belonging to Scheduled Castes, studying in a Gram Panchayat/Zilla Parishad school in a village?