Evidence 13. Let us first deal with the evidence on record. 14. PW-1 Raju is first informant and father of the deceased. In his evidence he stated that his deceased daughter X was a final year B.Com student of Maharai College, Mysore. The accused (appellant) used to reside in the ground floor of his house at Vinayakanagar, Mysore. He had stayed there for five years as a tenant and had vacated the house after the tenancy period was over. 14.1 The deceased used to regularly take the two children of his another daughter Meena to Chinamaya School at Jayalakshmipuram around 9:00 AM. During that time, the accused used to meet her and often used to ask her to marry him. In fact, he had threatened his deceased daughter that if she refused to marry him, he would murder her and her sisters. The deceased had told him about these facts. On 06.07.2000 (corrected to 05.07.2000 during further examination of PW-1), the accused had threatened the deceased at about 09.30 AM near Canara Bank, Jayalakshmipuram that if she refused to marry him, he would pour acid on her and her sisters and murder them. According to him, on that day when he came to the house at 10:00 AM his daughter X was admitted to Kiran Hospital for consuming poison. He stated that the deceased was shifted to Mission Hospital, Mysore for further treatment. At about 7:00 PM on 06.07.2000 his daughter X died. The deceased had consumed poison due to the unbearable harassment and cruelty of the accused. The deceased had told him about the cruel treatment and harassment meted out [2024] 3 S.C.R. 337 Kumar @ Shiva Kumar v. State of Karnataka by the accused to her one week earlier to her death. She had consumed poison when she was in the house. The deceased had no other disappointment in her life except the harassment and cruelty of the accused. 14.2 In his cross-examination PW-1 stated that at the time of death of his daughter X, he was living in the house at Vinayakanagar, Mysore. His deceased daughter had informed him about the harassment of the accused one week prior to her death. However, he did not confront the accused in this regard; neither did he tell any other person nor lodged any complaint before the police. On the day of the incident he had left the house at 7:00 AM. When he came back home at 10:00 AM his daughter X was taken to the Kiran Hospital. When she was in the Mission Hospital, he visited the said hospital. His daughter X was being treated in the said hospital and she was not in a condition to walk. He went to the Mission Hospital at about 1:00 PM and was in the hospital till the death of his daughter. Police had come to the hospital at around 3:00 to 4:00 PM on the day of her death when PW-1 and his other daughters were present. Police tried to question and talk with his daughter X but she was not in a position to talk.