(2) If any additional land, which will be included in the premises of any person permitted or required by an under sub-section (2) of section 360 to set forward a building to the regular line of a public street, belongs to the Corporation, such shall be a sufficient conveyance to the owner of such land; and the price to be paid to the Corporation by the owner for such additional land and the other terms and conditions of the conveyance shall be set forth in such . (3) The Corporation shall pay compensation in respect of land or building acquired under this Chapter at the following scale: (i)…. (ii)….” 844 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. A close examination of the text of Section 352 of the Act coupled with the context with respect to the placement of the section in the Act, clarifies the purpose and object of the provision. The text of Section 352 of the Act provides that the Municipal Commissioner may acquire any land required for the purpose of opening, widening, extending, etc. of a street, square, park, etc. The purpose of this provision is to declare that if the Municipal Commissioner is of the view that any land is required for the purpose of opening a street, park, etc., such a land may be acquired. Once the Municipal Commissioner takes the decision to acquire a piece of land, what would then be the process of acquisition is not provided in Section 352. It is provided in Section 535 occurring in Chapter XXXIII of Part VIII of the Act which relates to ‘Acquisition of Property’. 17. Before we deal with the Section 535, it is sufficient to conclude that Section 352 merely contemplates the power and duty of the Municipal Commissioner to identify the land intended for opening of a street, park etc., and once that decision is taken, the Municipal Commissioner would take steps to acquire such a property, for a public purpose. 18. The context in which Section 352 is located in Chapter XXI of Part VI of the Act relating to ‘streets for public place’, also makes the position clear that this provision relates to vesting of public street, squares, parks and gardens in the appellant-Corporation but does not provide for the power of acquisition. In the following paragraph, we have explained how the text and the context of the expression, ‘The Municipal Commissioner may acquire’ in Section 352 is not at all the power of acquisition. 19. Upon arriving at a decision to acquire any land for the purpose of opening a street, square, park, etc., under Section 352, the Municipal Commissioner will then apply to the Government under Section 537 of the Act to initiate the process of acquisition. Section 537 is located in Chapter XXXIII Part VIII of the Act relating to ‘Acquisition of Property’. This Chapter commences with Section 535 which specifically provides that the appellant-Corporation shall have the power to acquire and hold immovable property. It is followed by the power to acquire properties through an agreement under Section 536 of the Act or in the alternative, through compulsory acquisition of immovable property as provided in Section 537 of the Act.