The appellant Company has not brought on record any iota of evidence to show that the abovenamed newspapers are not widely circulated in the locality where the land, in question, was situated. The High Court has rightly come to the conclusion that the provisions of Section 45 of the Act will not be attracted in cases where there is no obligation cast upon the authorities to issue notice to the persons interested once it is clear that neither Section 4 nor Section 5-A of the Act contemplates any personal notice to the person interested other than the objectors for the purpose of conducting inquiry under Section 5-A of the Act. Therefore, the question of applicability of Section 45 in the case of the appellant Company would not arise at all as the appellant Company had not filed any objection under Section 5-A to the acquisition proceedings consequent to the issuance of notification under Section 4 of the Act.” [emphasis supplied] 22. There is no gainsaying that a “person interested” under Section 5A(1), can seek annulment of the acquisition process if no opportunity to file objections, is accorded. However, such person cannot seek hearing as a statutory right unless has lodged the objections. Notably, the respondents’ case is not that the objections were improperly invited. Rather, their grievance is that the notices of hearing were clumsily issued and the objections were mechanically rejected. It seems to us that even if their contention is factually correct, such a plea can be availed by those landowners only who had filed objections under Section 5A. An interested person who fails to file objections, is deemed to have acquiesced to the acquisition. The maxim ‘Omnia Consensus Tollit Errorem’, i.e., every assent removes error, will thus be squarely attracted for such owners. Similarly, it is also not permissible for a landowner to contend that the Collector failed to apply his mind to objections, which were never filed before him in the first place.14 14 Delhi Admn. v. Gurdip Singh Uban (2000) 7 SCC 296, para 30 1018 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 23. In our considered opinion, the High Court fell in error while allowing the claim of even those landowners who did not invoke their remedy under Section 5A(1) of the 1894 Act. We may, however, hasten to add that the High Court could still have invalidated the acquisition qua these landowners also had it found a reason going to the very root of the entire acquisition. For instance, where the ‘public purpose’ of acquisition is conspicuously absent, or the acquisition process is an outcome of colorable exercise of power of eminent domain, all the landowners, even if they had not filed objections, can seek annulment of the declaration issued under Section 6 of the 1894 Act. However, no such plea was taken in the instant batch of cases except that the procedure contemplated under Section 5A was deflated. Such objections were surely personal to the landowners, as they sought individual exemption on the plea that they have raised residential constructions on their land under acquisition.