218. The “habitual offender” legislations were enacted to replace the Criminal Tribes Act. However, in States such as Rajasthan, they were used to refer to members belonging to criminal tribes/denotified tribes. Applying that logic, several Prison Manuals/Rules have also referred to “habitual offender” to mean members of Denotified Tribes or wandering tribes. This cannot be accepted. A whole community ought not to have either been declared a criminal tribe in the past or a habitual offender in the present. It would not be wrong to say that the classification of “habitual offender” has been used to target members of Denotified Tribes. 219. Various habitual offender laws enacted by States are not under challenge before us in the present. Hence, we shall not deal with their validity. However, the classification is constitutionally suspect, given the vague and broad language various laws and rules have employed, which is used to target the members of Denotified Tribes. The Criminal Tribes Enquiry Committee had noted that no person can be declared as a habitual offender merely on ground of suspicion. But the same has happened, as the vague language employed leaves the discretion for the authorities to declare persons as habitual offenders merely on the ground of suspicion. We urge the State governments to reconsider the usage of various habitual offender laws, i.e. whether such laws are needed in a constitutional system. In the meantime, the definition of “habitual offender” in the prison manuals/rules shall be in accordance with the definition provided in the habitual offender legislation enacted by the respective State legislature, subject to any constitutional challenge against such legislation in the future. In case, there is no habitual offender legislation in the State, the references to habitual offenders directly or indirectly, as discussed in this , are struck down as unconstitutional. The Union and the State governments are directed to make necessary changes in the prison manuals/rules in line with this . XVIII. The Role of Legal Service Authorities in Prisons 220. In to ensure that the fundamental rights of prisoners are not violated, the role of legal services authorities is crucial. The [2024] 10 S.C.R. 629 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. importance of free legal aid has been emphasized by this Court in several s. (i) Right to Free Legal Aid 221. The Court, in Hussainara Khatoon v. Home Secretary, State of Bihar, recognized the “right to free legal services” as “an essential ingredient” of “reasonable, fair and just” procedure under Article 21 for a person accused of an offence.303 It is “a constitutional right of every accused person who is unable to engage a lawyer and secure legal services on account of reasons such as poverty, indigence or incommunicado situation”.304 Later, in Sheela Barse v. State of Maharashtra,305 regarding the plight of women prisoners in the jails of Maharashtra, the Court, while emphasizing free legal assistance, expressed its concern on “the helpless condition of a prisoner who is lodged in a jail who does not know to whom he can turn for help in to vindicate his innocence or defend, his constitutional or legal rights or to protect himself against torture and ill-treatment or oppression and harassment at the hands of his custodians”.