He accepted that certain regulations can be imposed by the State on such institution to maintain the stands of excellence, however, those regulations would not affect the minority status of the institution. In contrast, the right of a linguistic or a religious minority under Article 30 to establish and administer an institution “of their choice”, which cannot be subject to any regulation, is absolute. 1934 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 46. Additionally, it is submitted that the only benefit to a particular institute of having a minority character is that the institute has the right to reserve a certain number of seats for students of the said minority community. The said right should not be taken away in the case of Aligarh Muslim University, where de facto, majority of students are already of Muslim community. 47. Apart from adopting submission of Dr. Dhawan and Mr. Sibal, Mr. Salman Khurshid, learned senior counsel, appearing for applicants in I.A Nos. 5 & 6 of 2016 in Civil Appeal No. 2286 of 2006 i.e., AMU Lawyers Forum and AMU Old Boys’ Association, Delhi Unit, submitted that a moral reading of the Constitution needs to be adopted in the present case. If that is so done, it will follow that the rights under Part III of the Constitution of India are natural to or inherent in a human being. Mr. Khurshid argued that the natural rights are inalienable because they are inseparable from the human personality and have been just preserved by the Constitution. In this context, the rights under Article 30 that the minorities have, as individuals, existed even prior to 1950. As such, these rights cannot be taken away by way of an artificially restricted interpretation of a word like ‘establish’. 48. Mr. Shadan Farasat, learned counsel, appearing for the appellant in CA 2316 of 2006 - Haji Muqeet Ali Qureshi vs Malay Shukla, submitted that there is a difference between establishment of an educational institution and the device to bring it into legal existence, which the in Azeez Basha [supra] fails to take note of. The 1920 Act is a device to bring into legal existence the Aligarh Muslim University, which was established by the Muslim Community. Furthermore, the interpretation of Article 30 cannot depend on the existence of a particular legal regime at any given point, which is the UGC Act in the present case. Mr. Farasat relied upon the data to show that de facto, the administration of the AMU has been with persons, majority of whom belong to Muslim community and further that, whether there is reservation of 50% for Muslim Community or not will not make any real difference since the majority of students also has been of Muslim Community. 49. Mr. M R Shamshad, learned counsel appearing for the applicants in I.A. No. 563 of 2024 in Civil Appeal No. 2316 of 2006 i.e., Anjuman-e- Rahmania, submitted that the applicant was the petitioner in WP Nos. 54-57 of 1981 titled as Anjuman-e-Rahmania v. Distt. Inspector of [2024] 11 S.C.R.