It is generally assumed that in English law the making of a subordinate legislative instrument need not be preceded by notice or hearing unless the parent Act so provides.” ……… 9. We are, therefore, of the view that the maxim “audi alteram partem” does not become applicable to the case by necessary implication.” 53. It is thus clear that this Court held that a declaration under Section 3 of the U.P. Town Areas Act, 1914 provided for enabling the application of the rest of the provisions of the Act to the geographical area which is declared as a town area. It was thus held that the declaration made under Section 3 was legislative in character. 21 [1980] 2 SCR 1111 : (1980) 2 SCC 295 : 1980 INSC 38 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1005 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another 54. In the case of Sundarjas Kanyalal Bhatija and Others v. Collector, Thane, Maharashtra and Others22, the Government of Maharashtra had issued a draft notification under Section 3(3) of the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation Act, 1949 (for short, “BPMC Act”). The draft notification proposed for formation of “Kalyan Corporation”. Against the said proposal, there were many objections and representations received from different sections. In the earlier draft notification, the area of Ulhasnagar Municipal Council was proposed to be merged in the proposed area of Kalyan Corporation. However, taking into consideration the objections, the area of Ulhasnagar Municipal Council was excluded from the area of Kalyan Corporation while issuing the final notification. The same was challenged before the High Court by filing a writ petition. One of the reasons which weighed with the High Court while allowing the petition was that the opportunity of hearing was not given to one of the parties while issuing the final notification under Section 3(2) of the BPMC Act. It will be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court while reversing the of the High Court in the said case: “28. Equally, the rule issued by the High Court to hear the parties is untenable. The Government in the exercise of its powers under Section 3 is not subject to the rules of natural justice any more than is legislature itself. The rules of natural justice are not applicable to legislative action plenary or subordinate. The procedural requirement of hearing is not implied in the exercise of legislative powers unless hearing was expressly prescribed. The High Court, therefore, was in error in directing the Government to hear the parties who are not entitled to be heard under law.” 55. It could thus be seen that this Court clearly held that the issuance of draft notification, consideration of objections and publication of final notification are done in exercise of legislative powers. The procedural requirement of hearing would not be implied unless the statute so provides for. 56. This Court, in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation and Another v. Promoters and Builders Association and Another23, had an occasion to consider somewhat similar provisions under 22 [1989] 3 SCR 405 : (1989) 3 SCC 396 : 1989 INSC 202 23 [2004] 2 Suppl.