[2024] 11 S.C.R. 1257 : 2024 INSC 875 The State of Haryana & Anr. v. Amin Lal (Since Deceased) Through His Lrs & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 12551 of 2024 ) 19 November 2024 [Vikram Nath* and Prasanna B. Varale, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Respondents/Plaintiffs had filed a suit for possession of the suit property against the Appellants/Defendants, i.e. State of Haryana and Public Works Department. The Trial Court decreed the suit in favour of the Respondents and held that defendants had failed to prove that they had become owners by adverse possession. Aggrieved by the Trial Court's decision, the defendants filed an appeal before the District Judge, which allowed the appeal and dismissed the suit, inter alia, on the ground that the plaintiff failed to prove their ownership to the land. In second appeal, the Hon’ble High Court set aside the of the First Appellate Court and restored the decree passed by the Trial Court. Whether the High Court was correct in setting aside the of the First Appellate Court and restoring the decree passed by the Trial Court in favour of the respondents/plaintiffs in the suit for possession of land against the appellants/defendants. Headnotes† Ownership of Plaintiffs over the Suit Property – Not specifically denied: Held: In their written statement before the Trial Court, the appellants did not specifically deny the plaintiffs' ownership of the suit property – Instead, they primarily relied on the plea of adverse possession – Under VIII Rule 5 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, allegations of fact not denied specifically are deemed to be admitted – By asserting adverse possession, the appellants have impliedly admitted the plaintiffs' title. [Para 8] Relevance of Revenue Records as evidence in title dispute: Held: The jamabandi for the year 1969-70 records the name of Shri Amin Lal as owner to the extent of half share – Revenue records are public documents maintained by government officials in the regular * Author 1258 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports course of duties and carry a presumption of correctness under Section 35 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 – While it is true that revenue entries do not by themselves confer title, they are admissible as evidence of possession and can support a claim of ownership when corroborated by other evidence – Further, Registered sale deeds and mutation records produced by the Respondents establish a chain of title and cannot be ignored – The plaintiffs have established their ownership of the suit property. [Paras 8 and 15] Burden of Proof to establish title – Shifting of: Held: The appellants failed to deny the plaintiffs' title specifically and instead relied on adverse possession, the burden has shifted to the appellants to prove their adverse possession – In the present case, the plaintiffs have sought possession based on their title, which they have established through documentary evidence – The First Appellate Court erroneously placed the burden of proving ownership on the plaintiffs, despite the defendants' admission of their title by pleading adverse possession – The court disregarded the jamabandi entries and other revenue records without valid justification.