Ordinarily, therefore, validity of an of forfeiture must be judged considering the circumstances that were prevailing on the date it was made and not based on supervening events. 22. Does sub-rule (5) of rule 9, which is part of a delegated legislation, i.e., the Rules, have the effect of diluting section 73 and section 74 of the Contract Act? We have considered it necessary to advert to this question as it is one of general importance and are of the considered opinion that the answer must be in the negative. While the Contract Act embodies the general law of contract, the SARFAESI Act is a special enactment, inter alia, for enforcement of security interest without intervention of court. Rule 9(5) providing for forfeiture is part of the Rules, which have validly been framed in exercise of statutory power conferred by section 38 of the SARFAESI Act. Law is well settled that rules, when validly framed, become part of the statute. Apart from the presumption as to constitutionality of a statute, the contesting respondent did not mount any challenge to sub-rule (5) of rule 9 of the Rules. The applicability and enforcement of sub-rule (5) of rule 9 on its terms, therefore, has to be secured in appropriate cases.” (Emphasis supplied) b) That if Rule 9(5) is interpreted in light of Section(s) 73 and 74 of the 1872 Act, then the very auction process could be set at naught by a mischievous or devious borrower by ‘gaming’ the auction through sham bids. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 57 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu “18. Having regard to the terms of rule 9, the notice for auction constitutes the ‘invitation to offer’; the bids submitted by the bidders constitute the ‘offer’ and upon confirmation of sale in favour of the highest bidder under sub-rule (2) of rule 9, the contract comes into existence. Once the contract comes into existence, the bidder is bound to honour the terms of the statute under which the auction is conducted and suffer consequences for breach, if any, as stipulated. Rule 9(5) legislatively lays down a penal consequence. ‘Forfeiture’ referred to in sub-rule (5) of rule 9, in the setting of the SARFAESI Act and the Rules, has to be construed as denoting a penalty that the defaulting bidder must suffer should he fail to make payment of the entire sale price within the period allowed to him by the authorized officer of a secured creditor. 19. Though it is true that the power conferred by sub- rule (5) of rule 9 of the Rules ought not to be exercised indiscriminately without having due regard to all relevant facts and circumstances, yet, the said sub-rule ought also not be read in a manner so as to render its existence only on paper. Drawing from our experience on the Bench, it can safely be observed that in many a case the borrowers themselves, seeking to frustrate auction sales, use their own henchmen as intending purchasers to participate in the auction but thereafter they do not choose to carry forward the transactions citing issues which are hardly tenable.