for the Appellants. Vikramjit Banerjee, A.S.G., Dr. A.M. Singhvi, Prag Tripathi, C.S. Vaidhyanathan, Sr. Advs., Atul Shanker Mathur, Mahesh Agarwal, Rishi Agrawala, Vaibhav Mishra, Dr. Rajeshwar Singh, Avishkar Singhvi, Ms. Priya Singh, Prabal Mehrotra, Shubhankar, Ankur Saigal, Karan Verma, Apoorv Agarwal, E. C. Agrawala, Atul Shankar Mathur, Buddy Rangnathan, Umang Katariya, Ms. Mishika Bajpai, Ms. Apoorva Agrawal, Sidharth Seem, M/s. Khaitan & Co., Jayant Mohan, Zoheb Hossain, P.V. Yogeshwaran, Siddhartha Sinha, Ms. Megha Saxena, Aditya Kashyap, Ms. Vanshja Shukla, Nring C. Zeliang, Gurmeet Singh Makker, Saurabh Mishra, Ms. Prerna Singh, Guntur Prabhakar, Ravi Kishore, Guntur Pramod Kumar, Umesh Kumar Khaitan, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court B. R. Gavai, J. CIVIL APPEAL NO. 6503 OF 2022 AND CIVIL APPEAL NO. 6502 OF 2022 1. These appeals challenge the and dated 20th September 2021, passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan, Bench at Jaipur, in D.B. Civil Writ Petition No. 14815 of 2020, thereby allowing the said writ petition filed by MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited (hereinafter referred to as “MB Power”), respondent No.1 herein. By the impugned and , the 916 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports High Court held that the respondent Nos. 1 to 5 therein (appellants herein and the State of Rajasthan) are bound to purchase a total of 906 MW electricity from the successful bidders. It, therefore, directed the writ petitioner- MB Power (respondent No.1 herein) and respondent No.7 - PTC India Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “PTC India”) in the said writ petition (respondent No.2 in the present appeals) to supply 200 MW electricity to the respondents therein (appellants herein) within the limit of 906 MW. It also directed the writ petitioner-MB Power and PTC India, respondent No.7 in the said writ petition, to file an appropriate application before the respondent Nos. 1 to 5 in the said writ petition, within two weeks from the date of the , complying with the necessary requisite conditions, including bank guarantee etc., as required in terms of the Request for Proposal (hereinafter referred to as “the RFP”). It further directed the respondent Nos. 1 to 5 in the said writ petition, for issuance of Letter of Intent (“LoI” for short) in respect of bid filed through PTC India for supplying 200 MW power from the power generating station of the writ petitioner i.e. MB Power at levelized tariff of Rs.5.517/Kwh, being in terms of their bid qualified by the Bid Evaluation Committee (“BEC” for short) and ranked L-7. It further directed the respondents No.1 to 5 in the said writ petition, to immediately within two weeks thereafter, execute the Power Purchase Agreement (“PPA” for short) with PTC India for procuring 200 MW power from the power generating station of MB Power, and then to start procuring power in accordance with law. As an interim measure, it directed that the tariff to be actually paid by the procurer-respondents before it, shall be the interim tariff i.e. Rs.2.88 per unit, as specified by this Court in its interim dated 28th September 2020, passed in I.A.