61 Para 86. Synthetics (supra) 62 [1959] SCR 379 63 [1998] Supp. 1 SCR 560 : (1998) 7 SCC 26 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1979 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Lastly, he urged that since Section 18G of the IDRA does not specify that it extends to ‘production’, even the issuance of a notified would not result in the occupation of the field by the Union with respect to production. 33. Mr Jaideep Gupta, learned senior counsel, supplemented the case of the appellants. He submitted that if this Court were not inclined to hold that all alcohol falls under Entry 8 of List II then, in the alternative, the of this Court in Synthetics (7J) (supra) must be overruled on the ground that the three-fold classification of Tika Ramji (supra) has not been followed. This Court in Tika Ramji (supra) devised a threefold classification as pre-production, production and post-production. It held that only the second category i.e. production would be covered by the word ‘industry’. He submitted that the State therefore has the power to regulate the manufacture of ENA which would fall under the pre-production category. The State would also have the power to regulate the distribution of denatured alcohol. Buttressing this point, Mr Jaideep Gupta argued that it becomes imperative for the State to regulate the distribution of denatured alcohol because it may be renatured and distributed as potable alcohol which will lead to tragedies. He argued that it becomes imperative for the State to regulate such instances under Entry 8 of List II as well as Entry 6 of List II which deals with public health. 34. Mr V Giri, learned senior counsel, differed from other counsel for the appellants and submitted that denatured alcohol would be excluded from the ambit of the term ‘intoxicating liquors’ and would therefore fall under Entry 24 of List II. However, he supported the arguments of the other counsel on a notified under Section 18G of the IDRA being a prerequisite for Parliament to occupy the field under Entry 33 of List III. 35. Mr Balbir Singh, learned senior counsel, and Mr Shadan Farasat and Dr. Vivek Sharma, learned counsel, have supported the above arguments on behalf of the appellants. ii. Respondent’s submissions 36. Mr R Venkataramani, learned Attorney General for India appearing for the Union of India submitted that: 1980 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a. The production, manufacture, trade and commerce, supply and distribution constitute a chain of economic activity and may not be looked at separately. Therefore, the process of production necessarily includes the series of actions of trade, commerce, supply and distribution. This implies that there is a symbiotic relationship between Entry 52 of List I and Entry of 33 List III and they may not be looked at separately. Entry 52 of List I and Entry 33 of List III are a family of entries which are interconnected. Entry 52 of List I can also include and touch upon all matters relating to an industry that is brought under the control of the Union.