Another equally relevant aspect is that minorities may wish to impart secular education in a manner that is conducive to the practice of their religion or harmonious with it, even if religious instruction does not form part of the curriculum. In this way, the right of linguistic and religious minorities to equality is protected. 56. The nine-Judge Bench in St. Xavier’s (supra) held that Article 30(1) is in pursuance of the anti-discrimination and substantive equality facets of the equality doctrine.40 In TMA Pai (supra), Chief Justice Kirpal writing for the majority of the eleven-Judge Bench observed that a law that discriminates based on whether the institution is established by a minority or a majority is unconstitutional for violation of Article 30. The Chief Justice observed that, however, the provision 40 St. Xavier’s (supra) Chief Justice Ray for himself and Justice Palekar [9]; Justice HR Khanna [77]; Justice Mathew for himself and Justice YV Chandrachud [131-133] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1711 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. should not lead to reverse discrimination.41 This observation on a cursory view seems to indicate that the Court has taken a volte- face by shifting from a special rights/substantive equality approach of the provision to an anti-discrimination/formal equality reading of the provision. However, a closer examination reveals that the observations of the majority in TMA Pai (supra) were in line with the precedents that viewed the provision as a guarantee of a ‘special right’. This is evident from the interpretation of the interrelationship between Article 29(2) and Article 30. One of the issues in that case was whether Article 29(2) which provides that no person shall be denied admission in State aided educational institution only on the grounds of religion, race, caste, language or any of them is applicable to minority education institutions. The opinion of the majority held that the denial of admission to non-minorities in minority institutions to a “reasonable extent” is not violative of Article 29(2) since it “preserves the minority character of the institution”.42 Thus, Article 30, beyond preventing the State from discriminating against religious and linguistic minorities who wish to establish educational institutions also guarantees a ‘special protection’. b. The ‘special protection’ guaranteed by Article 30(1) 57. This purpose of Article 30 was further expanded in PA Inamdar v. State of Maharashtra,43 where a seven-Judge Bench observed that the provision is better understood as a ‘protection’ and/ or a ‘privilege’ 41 “138. As we look at it, Article 30(1) is a sort of guarantee or assurance to the linguistic and religious minority institutions of their right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. Secularism and equality being two of the basic features of the Constitution, Article 30(1) ensures protection to the linguistic and religious minorities, thereby preserving the secularism of the country. Furthermore, the principles of equality must necessarily apply to the enjoyment of such rights. No law can be framed that will discriminate against such minorities with regard to the establishment and administration of educational institutions vis-à-vis other educational institutions.