5 on the ground that the girl child was still quite young and would require the care and attention of a female for few more months. The custody of the minor daughter, as a result, continued to be with respondent No. 5. 3.5 Respondent No. 5, thereafter, started refusing to let the appellant meet the minor daughter on one pretext or the other. She also took the minor daughter to her maternal home at Belda, West Bengal, where custody of the minor daughter was handed over to respondent No. 6. 3.6 The appellant, in the meanwhile, married again in to provide his children with the care and attention of a female. He again approached respondent No. 5 to get back the custody of his minor daughter, but the same was refused again. 3.7 Aggrieved by the sequence of events, the appellant on 7th July 2023, filed a case under Section 10 of the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890, being Case No. GP/71/2023 seeking custody of his minor daughter. The appellant also filed two complaints, one in Delhi and the other one in Belda, West Bengal, but no action was taken on them. 3.8 The appellant, thereafter, on 30th January 2024, filed a Writ Petition before the High Court of Delhi being W.P. (Crl.) No. 416 of 2024 seeking custody of his minor daughter from respondents Nos. 5 and 6. 3.9 Pursuant to the of the High Court dated 7th February 2024, the appellant withdrew his case under the Guardians and Wards Act. The Division Bench of the High Court, thereafter, interacted with the parties and referred the matter to mediation to find out a workable solution. Taking into consideration the report of the mediator, the Division Bench arrived at an interim arrangement for visitation rights. However, vide final and , the High Court disposed of the writ petition by granting liberty to the parties to approach the family court of competent jurisdiction. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 455 Gautam Kumar Das v. NCT of Delhi and Others 3.10 Aggrieved thereby, the appellant approached this Court. Vide dated 16th April 2024, this Court issued notice and directed that the minor daughter shall remain in Delhi. Vide dated 17th May 2024, this Court, on a prima facie consideration of the facts, was of the view that the appellant has valid grounds to claim the custody of his minor daughter. However, before arriving at a final conclusion, this Court thought it fit to give proper opportunity to the appellant to win over the love and affection of his minor daughter and accordingly gave visitation rights to the appellant, his second wife and his son. The interim arrangement arrived at by this Court has continued till today. 4. We have heard Shri Saurav Agrawal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant and Shri Hirein Sharma, learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent Nos. 5 and 6. 5. Shri Agrawal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant submitted that the High Court has grossly erred in dismissing the petition.