(viii) that there shall be no upper age limit in the case of widows and divorced women.” 20. Fixing of minimum and maximum age requirement is a policy decision. In this case, the said decision is engrafted in Rule 13. A careful perusal of the Rule reveals that the minimum age required was 23 years and the maximum outer limit was 35 years. In the proviso there are several categories to which relaxation has been granted. Under clause (i) of the proviso, a relaxation of 5 years is granted to male candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and the Other Backward classes. Under clause (ii) of the proviso, the upper age limit is relaxed by 5 years in case of women candidates belonging to General Category and under clause (iii) it is relaxed by 10 years in the case of women candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and the Other Backward classes. Under Clause (iv), the age relaxation is of 50 years in the case of Ex-service Personnel and the reservists, namely the Defence Service Personnel who were transferred to the reserve. 21. Thereafter, we have clause (v) which states that the person serving under the educational project in the State, namely, Rajiv Gandhi Pathshala/Shiksha Karmi Board/Lok Jumbish Pariyojana/Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan/District Primary Education Programme shall be deemed to be within age limit, had they been within the age limit when they were initially engaged even though they may have crossed the age limit at the time of direct recruitment. Thereafter, we have clause (vi) which states that the upper age limit mentioned above shall be relaxed by a period equal to the service rendered in the NCC in the case of Cadet instructors and if the resultant age does not exceed the prescribed maximum age limit by more than three 210 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports years, they shall be deemed to be within the prescribed age limit. In clause (vii) the Released Emergency Commissioned Officers and Short Service Commissioned Officers after release from the Army shall be deemed to be within the age limit even though they have crossed the age limit when they appear before the Committee had they been eligible as such at the time of their joining the Commission in the Army. So finally in clause (viii) it is provided that there shall be no upper age limit in the case of widows and divorced women. 22. The challenge of the appellants is only to sub clause (v). We find that the provisions generally including sub clause (v) are not arbitrary or discriminatory. Insofar as the clause (v) is concerned, as has been mentioned hereinabove, the historical background leading to the enactment of the Rules itself provides a justification for granting relaxation to the persons serving under the educational project, if they fulfil the condition that they were within the age limit when they were initially engaged. 23. As the counter affidavit of the State indicates that the projects were designed to deal with absentee teachers in the far flung areas which was causing a serious jeopardy to the education of the rural children.