The reasoning, which is in two paragraphs is extracted herein below for ready reference: “In the present case, the chain of circumstances is interwoven which has been corroborative through the testimony of PW-11 Rajesh and PW-12 Jogi Ram who have last seen accused Sumit Gupta and accused Pradeep Kumar with Shamsher Singh deceased. Extra Judicial confession has been made before Ex. Sarpanch Balbir Singh. Motive is also proved through cheques which have been issued by accused Sumit Gupta in the name of Shamsher Singh (deceased) from which accused Sumit Gupta has taken a loan of Rs. 29,000/- and failed to return back that money in time. There is recovery of Mobile Phone of accused Sumit Gupta and Shamsher Singh vide recovery memo Ex. PV. In FSL report Ex. PRR/1 blood group of deceased Shamsher Singh is cited to be ‘O’ group. In the ‘danda’ recovered from accused vide recovery memo Ex. PQQ, blood group ‘O’ tallies. Similarly, on the pant worn by the accused Pardeep Kumar recovered later, blood ‘O’ group has been found on the stains of pant vide recovery memo Ex. PJ. Hence, the prosecution case is also proved through scientific investigation also. Hence, these are chain of evidence so far complete, so as not to leave any reasonable ground for conclusion consistent with the guilt [2024] 1 S.C.R. 311 Pradeep Kumar v. State of Haryana of the accused. The guilt of accused Sumit Gupta and accused Pardeep Kumar is proved to the fact that in all human probability act of murder has been committed by accused Sumit Gupta and Pardeep Kumar. Hence, it is proved to the hilt that on 10.04.2004, at about 10 PM in the area of Dhand Road Deokheri turning accused Sumit Gupta and Pardeep Kumar in furtherance of their common intention caused death of deceased Shamsher Singh intentionally and committed offence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC.” 11. In appeal by the Appellant herein and accused No.2, Sumit Gupta, the High Court also relied on the evidence of PW-11 and 12. In fact, the High Court seemed to have accepted the submission of the defence that the evidence of Ex. Sarpanch, PW-10 is unreliable. However, without discussing the evidence of PW-10, the High Court observed that the evidence of PW-11 and PW-12 are sufficient to confirm the conviction and sentence imposed by the Trial Court. 12. We heard Mr. Pranab Kumar Mullick, learned counsel for the appellant who took us through his meticulously prepared written submissions and statements of relevant witness and the reasoning of the High Court. 13. As the case of the prosecution, as accepted by the Trial Court and High Court, is based on circumstantial evidence said to have been established by PW-10, 11 and 12, we will examine them in detail. 14. PW-10 is an Ex. Sarpanch of the village Geong. His testimony is that on 17.04.2004, while he was in his house, the Appellant (A-1), Sumit (A-2), Anil and Jaswinder came to him and confessed about committing the murder of the deceased.