Any law or rule or regulation that would put the educational institutions run by the minorities at a disadvantage when compared to the institutions run by the others will have to be struck down. At the same time, there also cannot be any reverse discrimination. It was observed in St. Xavier’s College case [(1974) 1 SCC 717 : (1975) 1 SCR 173] at SCR p. 192 that : (SCC p. 743, para 9) “The whole object of conferring the right on minorities under Article 30 is to ensure that there will be equality between the majority and the minority. If the minorities do not have such special protection they will be denied equality.” In other words, the essence of Article 30(1) is to ensure equal treatment between the majority and the minority institutions. No one type or category of institution should be disfavoured or, for that matter, receive more favourable treatment than another. Laws of the land, including rules and regulations, must apply equally to the majority institutions as well as to the minority institutions. The minority institutions must be allowed to do what the non-minority institutions are permitted to do.” 42 TMA Pai (supra) [133] 43 (2005) 6 SCC 537 1712 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports of the minority rather than an abstract right.44 What is the special guarantee that Article 30 provides educational institutions established by religious and linguistic minorities which is not otherwise available to non-minorities? 58. Until the of the eleven-Judge Bench in TMA Pai (supra), the right to establish and administer educational institutions was interpreted as a right that was exclusively available to religious and linguistic minorities by virtue of Article 30. In TMA Pai (supra), the right of every citizen to establish and administer educational institutions was traced to Article 19(1)(g),45 which guarantees the freedom to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. The eleven-Judge Bench also traced the right of ‘every’ religious denomination (of both the majority and the minority) to establish and administer educational institutions to Article 26(a) which guarantees the right to establish and maintain institutions for religious and ‘charitable’ purposes. Charitable purposes was interpreted to include education.46 59. The rights guaranteed by Articles 19(1)(g) and 26(a) can be reasonably restricted on the grounds in Articles 19(6) and 26 respectively. An educational institution established and administered by any citizen can be regulated on the grounds stipulated in Article 19(6) which includes the ground of professional or technical qualifications necessary for practising any profession or carrying on any occupation, trade, business.47 An educational institution established by a religious 44 PA Inamdar (supra) [100]; Also see St. Stephen’s (supra) [28,30(1), 59] 45 TMA Pai (supra) [Chief Justice Kirpal 19-20]; Chief Justice Kirpal authoring the majority opinion observed that Article 19(1)(g) covers activities of citizens in respect of which income or profit is generated. The learned Judge observed that “the establishment and running of an educational institution where a large number of persons are employed as teachers or administrative staff, and an activity is carried on that results in the imparting of knowledge to the students, must necessarily be regarded as an occupation.” [para 25] 46 TMA Pai (supra) [Chief Justice Kirpal 26]; “26.The right to establish and maintain educational institutions may also be sourced to Article 26(a), which grants, in positive terms, the right to every religious denomination or any section thereof to establish and maintain institutions for religious and charitable purposes, subject to public , morality and health.