1700 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. To say the least, we are dejected with the approach taken up by the High Court in allowing the revision petitions. It seems that while conclusively asserting that the occurrence took place in the exercise of right of self-defence, the High Court has glaringly lost sight of the fact that it was deciding petitions under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. to set aside the committal and grant discharge in respective matters, and not carrying a full-fledged trial so as to conclusively establish the cause of the incident itself. 10. The scope of powers of a High Court when dealing with such matters effectively seeking quashing under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. is well-settled and the underlying principle of law that goes into consideration is precisely to assess whether at a prima facie view of the allegations, a cognizable offence is made out or not. Going by the farthest stretch or even the most flexible interpretation of the principles involved in deciding a quashing petition, we fail to see how it can be implied that an offence warranting trial is not made out in the given set of facts and circumstances. How can the plea of self-defence be accepted at face-value by the High Court without having to meticulously prove it during the trial is beyond any logical comprehension that can be drawn by this Court. It cannot be emphasised enough that a plea of self-defence cannot be taken lightly, especially in a grave incident of custodial death, that too in such compelling circumstances. The grounds of defence that are adopted by the accused persons are a matter of trial which ought to be explained and proven in due course of proceedings while following the strict rules of evidence and criminal procedure. The High Court, at the stage of deciding petitions under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. seeking quashing was expected to exercise restraint and not delve into the questions that are to be decided during a criminal trial. 11. We are completely cognizant of the seriousness of the matter, the allegations levied and how even a single incidence of custodial murder is enough to cast an ugly red blotch on the tapestry of human rights and civil liberties that this judicial institution seeks to preserve. It is in light of such conscience that we cannot let the instant matter involving right to life and a fair trial be treated leniently and are thus, appalled by the High Court’s decision in letting the accused-respondents go scot-free. A failure to accord a fair trial in [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1701 Basamsetti Rama Devi v. The State of A.P. & Ors. the present case shall irreparably shake the public conscience and sense of justice that form the bedrock of a civilized democracy like ours. The spine-chilling incidents took place more than two decades ago and it is high time already that the dawn of justice sheds some light and a sincere attempt is made to unshroud the reality behind such unfortunate events.