409 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others accepts notice on behalf of the respondent no.5- Patanjali Ayurved Limited and its Managing Director and seeks time to file a reply. 10. Reply be filed within two weeks with a copy to learned counsel for the petitioners and other respondents. xxx xxx xxx 14. Till further s, the respondent no.5-Patanjali Ayurved Limited is restrained from advertising or branding of products manufactured and marketed by it which are meant to cure the diseases/diss/ conditions specified in the 1954 Act and 1955 Rules. Respondent no.5 and its officers are also cautioned to refrain from making any statements against any system of medicine in the media (both electronic and print) in any form, as undertaken on 21st November, 2023.” (emphasis added) D. PROVISIONS OF DMR ACT AND DMR RULES 6. For purposes of ready reference, the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 of the DMR Act, 1954 are extracted below : “3. Prohibition of advertisement of certain drugs for treatment of certain diseases and diss.—Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person shall take any part in the publication of any advertisement referring to any drug in terms which suggest or are calculated to lead to the use of that drug for— (a) the procurement of miscarriage in women or prevention of conception in women; or (b) the maintenance or improvement of the capacity of human beings for sexual pleasure; or (c) the correction of menstrual dis in women; or (d) the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of any disease, dis or condition specified in the Schedule, or any other disease, dis or condition (by whatsoever name called) which may be specified in the rules made under this Act: 410 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Provided that no such rule shall be made except— (i) in respect of any disease, dis or condition which requires timely treatment in consultation with a registered medical practitioner or for which there are normally no accepted remedies; and (ii) after consultation with the Drugs Technical Advisory Board constituted under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 (23 of 1940), and if the Central Government considers necessary, with such other persons having special knowledge or practical experience in respect of Ayurvedic or Unani systems of medicines as that Government deems fit.] 4. Prohibition of misleading advertisements relating to drugs.—Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person shall take any part in the publication of any advertisement relating to a drug if the advertisement contains any matters which— (a) directly or indirectly gives a false impression regarding the true character of the drug; or (b) makes a false claim for the drug; or (c) is otherwise false or misleading in any material particular. THE SCHEDULE [See Sections 3(d) and 14] S. No. Name of the disease, dis or condition ***** 9. Diabetes. ****** 26.