The learned Single Judge further observed that the appellant has made significant contributions to politics and social work. The learned Single Judge further observed that while deciding her bail application, the Court may appreciate her accomplishment, however, it cannot lose sight of the serious allegations levelled by the prosecution and the evidence collected during the course of the investigation and presented before the Court. 21. The learned Single Judge thereafter proceeds to observe that the present appellant cannot be equated to a “vulnerable woman”. 22. We find that the learned Single Judge erroneously observed that the proviso to Section 45(1) of the PMLA is applicable only to a “vulnerable woman”. 23. We further find that the learned Single Judge totally misapplied the ratio laid down by this Court in the case of Saumya Chaurasia v. Directorate of Enforcement.2 24. A perusal of the of this Court in the case of Saumya Chaurasia (supra) would show that this Court has observed that the Courts need to be more sensitive and sympathetic towards the category of persons included in the first proviso to Section 45 of the PMLA and similar provisions in the other Acts. The Court observes that the persons of tender age and women who are likely to be more vulnerable may sometimes be misused by unscrupulous elements and made scapegoats for committing such crime. 25. No doubt that this Court observes that nowadays the educated and well-placed women in the society engage themselves in commercial 2 [2023] 15 SCR 848 : (2024) 6 SCC 401 : 2023 INSC 1073 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 725 Kalvakuntla Kavitha v. Directorate of Enforcement ventures and enterprises and advertently or inadvertently engage themselves in the illegal activities. The Court therefore puts a caution that the Courts, while deciding such matters, should exercise the discretion judiciously using their prudence. 26. This Court in the case of Saumya Chaurasia (supra), while paraphrasing proviso to Section 45(1) of the PMLA stated in paragraph 23 as follows: “23. ….. No doubt the courts need to be more sensitive and sympathetic towards the category of persons included in the first proviso to Section 45 and similar provisions in the other Acts, as the persons of tender age and women who are likely to be more vulnerable, may sometimes be misused by the unscrupulous elements …….” 27. This Court, in the carefully couched paragraph extracted above used the phrase “persons of tender age and woman who are likely to be more vulnerable, may sometimes be misused by the unscrupulous elements”. This is vastly different from saying that the proviso to Section 45(1) of the PMLA applies only to “vulnerable woman”. Further, this Court in the case of Saumya Chaurasia (supra) does not say that merely because a woman is highly educated or sophisticated or a Member of Parliament or a Member of Legislative Assembly, she is not entitled to the benefit of the proviso to Section 45(1) of the PMLA. 28. We, therefore, find that the learned Single Judge of the High Court has totally misdirected herself while denying the benefit of the proviso to Section 45(1) of the PMLA.