The learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the respondent – Union of India, submitted that in view of the insertion of Section 8B in the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (for short, ‘the MMDR Act’), the amendment to the first EC notification was required to be made. Our attention was invited to Section 8B, incorporated on 13th March 2020 and amended Section 8B, effective from 28th March 2021. She submits that the provisions of the first EC notification must conform with the amended provisions of the MMDR Act, and therefore, the amendments were necessitated. She also pointed out that in terms of the impugned , the matter was placed before the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC), non-coal mining and EAC, MoEF&CC and others in a meeting. Thereafter, the issue was deliberated in the meeting convened on 30th June 2022 under the chairmanship of the Joint Secretary of the concerned department. She invited our attention to the minutes of the said meeting held on 30th June 2022. She submitted that the ultimate endeavour is to uphold the principles of sustainable development. Relying upon the amended impugned notification, she submitted that now the exemption granted by items 6 and 7 cannot be said to be arbitrary, and it will be subject to compliance with the SOP issued on this behalf from time to time. Therefore, safeguards have been introduced, and the exemption is not blanket. She also pointed out that the Office Memorandum dated 21st August 2023 takes care of the safeguards. It was also submitted that the grant of exemption from the first EC notification is a matter of policy for the Central Government and no interference be called for with policy matters. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 15. We have carefully considered the submissions. The EP Act was brought into force on 19th November 1986. The statement of objects and reasons of the EP Act specifically refers to the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1259 Noble M. Paikada v. Union of India substantive decline in environmental quality due to increasing pollution, loss of vegetal cover, etc. It also notes the growing risk of environmental accidents and threats to life support systems. It refers to the decisions taken at the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment held in Stockholm in June 1972. In the said Conference, the world communities resolved to protect and enhance the environmental quality. Clause (3) of the statement of objects and reasons reads thus: “(3) In view of what has been stated above, there is urgent need for the enactment of a general legislation on environmental protection which inter alia, should enable co-ordination of activities of the various regulatory agencies, creation of an authority or authorities with advocate powers for environmental protection, regulation of discharge of environmental pollutants and handling of hazardous substances, speedy response in the event of accidents threatening environment and deterrent punishment to those who endanger human environment, safety and health.” (emphasis added) Even from the preamble of the EP Act, it is apparent that the object is to provide protection to the environment and to improve the environment.