Ltd. Hyderabad v. Collector of Central Excise, Hyderabad, 1989 (1) SCC 172; Quality Steel Tubes (P) Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise, U.P. (1995) 2 SCC 372 1995 and Mittal Engineering Works (P) Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise, Meerut (1997) 1 SCC 203; Triveni Engineering & Indus Ltd. v Commissioner of Central Excise (2000) 7 SCC 29 and other decisions rendered by the Delhi High Court, and applied the permanency test to come to the definitive finding that the entire tower and shelter are fabricated in the factories of the respective manufacturers and thereafter, are supplied in CKD condition to the mobile service providers. It was held that these are merely fastened to the civil foundation to make these wobble free and stable. It was also held that tower and PFB can be unbolted and reassembled without any damage and relocated to a new site. These are thus not permanently annexed to the earth for the beneficial enjoyment of the land of the owner as observed in para 37 of the decision of the Delhi High Court which is reproduced below: “37. On an application of the above tests to the cases at hand, this Court sees no difficulty in holding that the manufacture of the plants in question do not constitute annexation and hence cannot be termed as immovable property for the following reasons: (i) The plants in question are not per se immovable property. (ii) Such plants cannot be said to be “attached to the earth” within the meaning of that expression as defined in Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act. (iii) The fixing of the plants to a foundation is meant only to give stability to the plant and keep its operation vibration free. 1554 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iv) The setting up of the plant itself is not intended to be permanent at a given place. The plant can be moved and is indeed moved after the road construction or repair project for which it is set up is completed.” It was thus held that these are not immovable properties as held by the Tribunal. 10.9.2 Having held that these are not immovable but moveable, the Delhi High Court went on to examine the second issue as to whether the Assessee is entitled to claim CENVAT Credit on the tower and PFB either as “capital goods” or as “inputs” in terms of Rule 2(a)(A)(i) or Rule 2(k) of the CENVAT Rules, and whether these would qualify as accessories within the meaning of Rule 2(a)(A)(iii). 10.9.3 After analysing the provisions of Rule 2(a)(A) of the CENVAT Rules, the Delhi High Court held that for goods to be termed as “capital goods”, the following conditions must be fulfilled: (i) they must fall, inter alia, under Chapter 85 of the first Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act (CET) or must be components, parts or spares of such goods falling under Chapter 85 of the first Schedule to the CET; and (ii) must be used for providing output service.