That none of the actions alleged against the respondent therein by the appellant therein could be held to be one in which he acted in his capacity as the Executive Magistrate. This is because the respondent therein could not have barged into the house of a lady, that too at odd hours of 10.00 pm accompanied by a posse of police officers under the guise of ascertaining the truthfulness or otherwise of a complaint and for that purpose engage the services of two cameraman also with video cameras. It was observed that having regard to the aforesaid allegations against the respondent therein, the invocation of Section 197 of the CrPC was wholly uncalled for and consequently the impugned s of the learned Additional Sessions Judge as well as the High Court was set aside and the appeal filed by the appellant complainant was allowed. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1623 Gurmeet Kaur v. Devender Gupta & Another T.S. Thakur, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) in his concurring discussed the term “official” in its various connotations. For the purpose of understanding the expression “acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duties” in Section 197 of the CrPC which provides for obtaining a sanction of a public servant before he could be proceeded against for offences alleged to have been committed by him. It was observed that the test of direct and reasonable connection between the official duty of the accused and the acts allegedly committed by them is, therefore, the true test to be applied while deciding whether the protection of Section 197 of the CrPC is available to a public servant accused of the commission of an offence. It was further observed that public functionaries cannot under the cloak of purported discharge of official duties resort to harassment and humiliation of the citizens on the pretext of a complaint having been received by them, especially when the same does not disclose the commission of any offence triable by the Executive Magistrate or cognizable by the police. Therefore, the allegations made against the respondent therein in the said case were held to be outside the scope of discharge of official duties and hence, the plea that Section 197 of the CrPC had to be applied, was rejected. It is necessary to appreciate the backdrop of the facts in the aforesaid case in which the complaints were made by the appellant therein against the respondent therein which we have epitomized above. It appears that the SDM in the aforesaid case was inquisitive about the adulterous relationship between the appellant therein and another person and a complaint having been received in that regard, had entered the house of the appellant (a woman) after sunset with a posse of police force, carrying video cameras for conducting an unwarranted search of the house, humiliating and invading the privacy of the appellant therein, insulting and humiliating another person by asking him to undress and dragging both of them to the police station for medical examination against their wishes, especially when male doctors were asked to examine the appellant therein (a woman) without any lawful justification for doing so.