The reason is simple. The Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process does not preclude application of contractual set-off. During the moratorium period with initiation of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process, recovery, legal proceedings etc. cannot be initiated, enforced or remain in abeyance. Besides the moratorium effect, the terms of the contract remain binding and are not altered or modified. 31. The foundation of contractual set-off is based on the same ground as in the case of equitable set-off, which is impeachment of title, albeit contractual set-off is a result of mutual agreement that permits set- off and adjustment. Therefore, if a debtor’s title to sue is impeached before the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process is set into motion, so should the title of the Resolution Professional, who in terms of Section 25 of the IBC has the duty to preserve and protect assets of the corporate debtor, including continuing the business operations of the corporate debtor. The Resolution Professional takes the debtor’s property subject to all clogs and fetters affecting it in the hands of the debtor. 45 Section 238. Provisions of this Code to override other laws.—The provisions of this Code shall have effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or any instrument having effect by virtue of any such law. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 161 BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED AND ANOTHER v. VIJAYKUMAR V. IYER AND OTHERS 32. The second exception will be in the case of ‘equitable set-off’ when the claim and counter claim in the form of set-off are linked and connected on account of one or more transactions that can be treated as one. The set-off should be genuine and clearly established on facts and in law, so as to make it inequitable and unfair that the debtor be asked to pay money, without adjustment sought that is fully justified and legal. The amount to be adjusted should be a quantifiable and unquestionable monetary claim, as the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process is a time-bound summary procedure. It is not a civil suit where disputed questions of law and facts are adjudicated after recording evidence. Set-off of this nature does not require legal proceedings. Further, set-off of money is to be given against money alone. It will not apply to assets. Lastly, being an equitable right, it can be denied when grant of relief will defeat equity and justice. 33. We would in fact borrow the term ‘transactional set-off’46 instead of equitable set-off, when we describe the second exception. The reason is that the second exception refers to an ascertained amount, which is a requirement for legal set-off under VIII Rule 6 of CPC and at the same time relies on equitable right when the statute is silent and there is no reason to deny set-off under the common law. It is an equitable right because the transactions are close and connected, harbingering the claim and the counterclaim. It would be manifestly unjust to bifurcate the connected transactions to accept and enforce the claim of one party without adjusting the amount due to the second party.