Thus, the award was silent and unreasoned on this issue; and 24.3. Underlining the significance of the CMRS sanction under the Act of 2002, the findings of the tribunal on this issue were incorrect because (i) the award overlooked the legal effect of the CMRS certificate which was binding on the tribunal; and (ii) the award erroneously treated the CMRS certificate as irrelevant to the issue of the validity of the termination by wrongly separating the issue of defects and material adverse effects from the issue of the certificate. D. of this Court in appeal 25. This Court set aside the decision of the Division Bench and restored the arbitral award on the following grounds: 25.1. There was no ambiguity in the date of termination and even if a different view from that of the tribunal were possible, construction of the provisions of the contract was within the exclusive domain of the tribunal; 25.2. The award was not perverse. The finding of the tribunal that the defects were not cured was a finding of fact, not warranting interference; 25.3. DMRC had not contended before the Tribunal that the certificate was binding and conclusive of the fact that the defects were cured or that effective steps had been taken; and 25.4. The Division Bench of the High Court was in error in holding that the issue of the CMRS certificate was wrongly separated from the issue of defects. It held that dealing with the certificate separately from the validity of termination did not render the tribunal’s findings on the latter erroneous. The Tribunal comprised of engineers and the award could not [2024] 4 S.C.R. 485 Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. v. Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt. Ltd. be scrutinised in the same manner as an award drawn by a legally trained mind. 26. The review petition against the above of this Court was dismissed on 23 November 2021. E. Issues in the Curative Petition 27. The issues that arise for our consideration are (i) whether the curative petition is maintainable; and (ii) whether this Court was justified in restoring the arbitral award which had been set aside by the Division Bench of the High court on the ground that it suffered from patently illegality. F. Submissions 28. We have heard Mr R Venkataramani, Attorney General for India and Mr K K Venugopal, Mr Parag Tripathi, and Mr Maninder Singh senior counsel on behalf of the petitioners. They made the following submissions: 28.1. Considering the definition of ‘material adverse effect’ under the concession agreement, the defects had no material adverse effect on DAMEPL’s performance of obligations under the agreement, as is apparent from the running of the metro line. The purpose of the agreement was fully subserved, as evinced by the continuous running of the line; 28.2. The purpose of the cure notice was to demand cure compliance from DMRC. As long as ‘effective steps’ were taken by DMRC, culminating in cure compliance under the statutory process under the Metro Railways (Operation and Maintenance) Act, 200219, the termination notice was invalid; 28.3.