Similar is the position from October, 2015 to September, 2016 and October, 2016 to September, 2017. In those cases, there 996 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was a default of payment of rent for the months of October 2015 and November 2016. 20. If we peruse the payment of rent from October 2014 to September 2015, deposited on 02.02.2015, again there was a default for October 2014 to January 2015. Therefore, from the averments of the affidavit of the tenant, defaults in deposit of rent are clearly luculent, which cannot be ignored. 21. By the documents Annexures R2 and R4 also, default of continuous payment of rent during pendency either before the Trial Court or before the High Court or before this Court has not been rectified. During hearing, nothing has been brought on record by the respondent – tenant to substantiate that in compliance to the provisions of Section 20(4) and Section 30(1) of the UP Rent Act, regular rent from the date of receipt of notice of the suit has been deposited. Reference of some documents have been made by learned Trial Court, by which it is not clear that the rent deposited by the tenant was within the period of one month from the date of receipt of notice and the rent was paid regularly thereafter. In addition, it is not clear that in case of default, 9% interest has been paid. Simultaneously, deposit in one-go after the of this Court would not absolve the tenant from consequence of non-payment or delayed payment of rent. 22. As per the discussion made hereinabove, we are constrained to hold that the tenant has not paid rent regularly during the pendency of the suit, revision and appeal, and was in default in payment of rent, tax and interest due. In a suit seeking eviction on the ground of arrears of rent, if the rent is not paid during the pendency, it can be a ground for directing eviction for non-payment of the rent. Therefore, the findings of the Trial Court, dismissing the suit seeking eviction, affirmed by the High Court without any appraisal of the material, do not appear to be justified. 23. Learned counsel for the appellant – landlord has placed reliance on a Constitution Bench decision in case of “Gian Devi Anand Vs. Jeevan Kumar and Ors.” (1985) 2 SCC 683, whereby in a Rent Control and eviction matter, this Court has specified the nature of the statutory tenancy and its concept. It was thereby held that the distinction between the contractual tenancy and the statutory tenancy is obliterated by Rent Control Legislation because the contractual tenancy would be converted into statutory tenancy. There cannot be [2024] 9 S.C.R. 997 Prakash Bhalotia (D) Thr His LRs v. Indra Chandra Goyal (D) Thru. LRs any doubt in this regard, particularly in the facts of the case whereby the tenancy of the appellant, though contractual for a limited period, but continued by virtue of applicability of the provisions of UP Rent Act as accepted by the parties.