For ease of reference, the relevant provisions of the 1916 Act are also extracted above. Therefore, even as per the provisions of clause (2) of Article 285 even if the subject property is assumed to be Union property under clause (2) of Article 285, the appellant-Corporation is entitled to levy the property tax and the municipal tax on the said property even though, it vests with the Custodian under the provisions of the Act. That is why under Section 8 of the Act, Custodian is duty bound to pay the taxes, duties, cesses and rates to the municipal authority. We wish to also make another observation. Since the year 1968, there have been lakhs of Indians who have settled overseas without giving up their Indian citizenship. They have acquired several movable and immovable properties in India. If, in an unforeseen eventuality, any of the countries in which such Indians are settled, is declared to be an enemy country then all such Indians who are settled abroad would possibly become enemy subjects, enemy firms and enemy companies within the definition of the Act. In such an event, the Custodian will have to take possession of such properties. Vesting of 928 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports such enemy properties in the Custodian is thus only for the purpose of administration and management of such properties. In view of our discussion made above, there would be no transfer of ownership and such properties vest in the Custodian for their protection and management only. By such vesting, the Union cannot usurp ownership of such properties. In the same vein, when many persons who are resident in India left their properties and settled in enemy countries, the Custodian has taken possession of such properties which is only for the purpose of protection and maintenance and to be handed over as and when a conducive environment between the countries arises. We also observe that it was never the intention under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 and 1971 or under the provisions of the Act that enemy subjects would lose all their right, title and interest in the properties once the said properties vest in the Custodian and thereby become Union properties. In this regard, we also would like to emphasise that the expression “vest in the Union” is clearly mentioned in Article 296 of the Constitution. The said provision deals with properties which for want of a rightful owner or as bona vacantia would vest in a State if the property is in a State or vest in the Union in any other case. The Constitution has therefore clearly differentiated between vesting of properties in the Union or a State which is totally distinct from vesting of enemy properties in the Custodian for Enemy Property. It is reiterated that the Custodian who is appointed under the provisions of the Act by the Central Government discharges his duties and carries out his functions under the provisions of the Act in terms of the directions of the Central Government.