So long no mismatch is detected even after such an exercise, as directed in N. Chandrababu Naidu (supra), it would defy the sense of logic and reason of a prudent man to issue a Mandamus to the ECI to arrange for tallying 100% VVPAT slips on the specious ground of the petitioners’ apprehension that the EVMs could be manipulated. 12. The petitioning association has relied on the Report titled ‘An inquiry into India’s Election System: Is the Indian EVM and VVPAT system fit for democratic elections?’ submitted by the Citizens’ Commission on Elections8, to emphasize the vulnerabilities of the current electronic voting system. The CCE Report, on a bare reading, appears to be the culmination of inputs given by domain experts. For whatever such report is worth and though counsel claimed that the efficacy of the voting system through EVMs has been doubted, the CCE Report itself concludes, inter alia, that no hacking of any EVM has been detected; what it observes is that there is no guarantee that the EVMs cannot be hacked. This, in essence captures the underlying weakness in the petitioning association’s entire case, inasmuch as the only grounds for the reliefs sought lie in the realm of apprehension and suspicion. In arguendo, even if the CCE Report is taken on face value and it is believed that the EVM-VVPAT system can be hacked, can it be said that there is absence of a redressal mechanism for the same? Should there be hacking, resulting in violation of a right of an elector in any manner, and if there be proof adequate enough to upturn an election result, the law already has in place a remedy, i.e., an election petition under section 80 of the RoP Act. Such an election petition can be filed not just by an aggrieved candidate, but also by a voter, within 45 (forty-five) days from the date of declaration of the result of election. Since there is already a remedy in law to allay the fears that have been expressed by the petitioners, if and when a discrepancy in the results arises, the 8 CCE Report [2024] 5 S.C.R. 455 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another Courts are not powerless to uphold the sanctity of the democratic process by appropriate intervention. 13. The petitioning association has also attempted to highlight a public trust deficit with respect to the current voting system by relying on a survey conducted by the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies – Lokniti, which concluded that a majority of the Indian population did not trust the EVMs. It is a private report and I find little reason to trust such a report. Over the years, more and more voters have participated in the election process. Had the voters any doubt regarding the efficacy of the EVMs, I wonder whether the voting percentage would have seen such increase. EVMs have stood the test of time and the increased voting percentage is sufficient reason for us to hold that the voters have reposed faith in the current system and that the report to the contrary, which has been relied on, merits outright rejection.