f. The securing of ownership and control must be of any identifiable class of “material resources” and not in general terms as a wholesale acquisition of all private property without any defined principle; g. Article 39(b) leaves it entirely to the wisdom of the legislature to decide what should constitute ‘material resources’ at a given point in time, keeping in mind the dynamics of national and international economic configurations. It allows the legislature to enact a law for the distribution of particular material resources, irrespective of its pattern of ownership; h. The debates in the Constituent Assembly indicate that the framers of the Constitution deliberately framed Article 39(b) in the broadest possible terms. The idea was to leave enough room for future governments to determine the best way of achieving ‘economic democracy’; i. The deletion of the right to property as a fundamental right, under the erstwhile Article 31 and Article 19(1)(f), points towards the inclusion of private property within the ambit of ‘material resources of the community’ under Article 39(b); j. Provisions akin to Article 39(b) are present in various constitutions across the world and have not posed any problems. Even in the absence of Article 39(b), the formation of any nation State, includes within itself, the power to acquire an identifiable class of property or “material resource” from an identifiable “community” for the larger public or “common good”; and k. The preservation of ‘material resources’, such as buildings constitutes the ‘common good’.The principle of ‘inter- generational equity’ propounded by this Court in the context of natural resources, provides that resources need to be used judicially to ensure that future generations are also able to enjoy the fruits of the resources. 81. Mr Rakesh Dwivedi, senior counsel appearing for the State of West Bengal advanced the view that this Court should refrain from laying down a water-tight interpretation of the resources and forms of distribution that fall within the ambit of Article 39(b). Such an exercise, Mr Dwivedi urged, is context-specific and must be left for 102 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports experimentation by the Parliament, in view of changing economic priorities. In the context of this formulation, he broadly made the following submissions: a. The phrase ‘material resources” includes privately owned resources within its ambit. Only resources that are earmarked for personal use and do not act as a source of income or wealth are excluded from the phrase; b. The proposal to amend the existing provision to include specific resources was rejected by the Constituent Assembly. Dr Ambedkar stated that it was a deliberate choice to keep the phraseology extensive to account for future economic priorities. Thus, Article 39(b) must be construed liberally. ; c. The provision uses the term “community” instead of “State/ Government”. The phrase includes all citizens or sections of citizens or a community of individuals and thus, encompasses privately owned resources; d. Various forms of private property inherently have a bearing on ecology and the well-being of the community,for instance, privately owned forests, large ponds, fragile areas and wetlands.