From 2004-2010, the NCMEI Act defined the word “minority educational institution” as under- “(g) “Minority Educational Institution” means a college or institution (other than a University) established or maintained by a person of group of persons from amongst the minorities;” 262. Subsequently in 2010, the said definition was amended on two counts : one, the phrase other than a University was deleted and two, the words established and administered was put in the clause [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2033 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. taking cue from Article 30. The statement of the Hon’ble Minister while moving the said amendment is illustrative in this regard. The relevant portion is quoted as under : “24.02.2009 THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT (SHRI M.A.A. FATMI):… In Section 2 of the Bill, two amendments are proposed in clause (g). First is to do away with the exclusion of Universities in the definition of “Minority Educational Institutions”. The second proposal is to substitute the words “or maintained by” with the words “and administered by”. The existing exclusion of a University from the definition of a minority educational institution runs counter to the law laid down by the Supreme Court of India vide Azeez Basha V. Union of India (A.I.R. 1968) substitution of words “or maintained by” with the words “and administered by” Several complaints were received to the effect that non-minorities were advertising the institutes as established by the minorities. Through this amendment this defect is sought to be removed by providing that the institutions should be both established and administered by a person or group of persons belonging to the same minorities. This will also conform to the language used in Article 30 of the Constitution.” 263. Therefore, the amendment in the NCMEI Act provides that Universities can be considered under the provisions of the NCMEI Act and further, there exists a twin requirement of “establishment” and “administration” for claiming minority status in line with Azeez Basha [supra]. 264. According to the parties challenging the judgement of the High Court, since the provisions of the NCMEI Act as amended in 2010 clearly recognize that a University can be a minority institution in terms of Article 30 and post Yashpal [supra], since a university can only be established by a statute, the purported finding in Azeez Basha [supra] that a university established and incorporated by a statute cannot be held to be “established” by a minority community for the purposes of Article 30, is erroneous. 2034 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 265. As stated above, the said assertion is also a product of the erroneous understanding of the in Azeez Basha [supra]. It is reiterated that the judgement in Azeez Basha [supra] does not lay down a proposition that established and incorporated by a statute cannot be held to be “established” by a minority community for the purposes of Article 30. The judgement in Azeez Basha [supra] ought to be understood in its historical context and does not lay down a proposition that if a University is established by way of a legislative enactment, it cannot be a minority institution.