The applicability of the 2001 Rules to appointments by the universities, which is governed by the University Act, is the controversy that has led to the present litigation. 9. The Bangalore University is governed by the Karnataka Universities Act, 2000. Sec. 536 of this law recognises a ‘Board of Appointment’ to be the appointing authority for teachers and other employees of the university. Sec. 547 provides that notwhithstanding anything in 3 Hereinafter referred to as the Civil Services Act, 1978. 4 Hereinafter referred to as the Reservation Act, 1990 5 Hereinafter referred to as the Universities Act, 2000. 6 “Sec. 53. Appointment of Teachers, Librarians.- (1) There shall be a Board of Appointment for selection of persons for appointment as teachers and librarians in the University […]” 7 “Sec. 54. Appointment in accordance with the promotion schemes.- (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 53 but subject to the rules and s of the State Government issued from time to time for reservation of appointment and posts for the persons belonging to Scheduled Castes and 476 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Sec. 53, but subject to the rules and s of the State Government, appointments to the posts of professors, readers, principals and asst. professors shall be made by the syndicate as per the scheme evolved by the UGC. Furthermore, under Sec. 78, the Universities Act is given an overriding effect to it over other statutes. 10. Apart from the Universities Act, there is an overarching law, namely, the Karnataka SCs, STs and OBCs (Reservation of Appointment etc.) Act, 1990. It is intended to provide reservations in favour of SCs, STs and other OBCs in the state civil services and ‘establishments’. The definitions of ‘establishment’ and ‘appointing authority’ under the Reservation Act, 1990 are relevant. Sec. 2(2) and 2(3)(vi) defines ‘appointing authority’ and ‘establishments in public sector’ as follows: “Section 2. Definitions: In the Act, unless the context otherwise requires […] (2) “appointing authority” in relation to a service or posts, means the authority empowered to make appointment to such service or post; (3) “establishments in public sector” means,- […] (vi) a University established or deemed to have been established by or under any law of the State Legislature […]”. 10.1 The most relevant provision in the Reservation Act, 1990 is Sec. 4 and it is extracted hereinafter for ready reference:- “ Sec. 4. Reservation of appointments or posts etc:- (1) After the appointed day, while making appointments to any office in a civil service of the State of Karnataka or to a civil post under the State of Karnataka, appointments or posts shall be reserved for the member of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other Backward Classes to such extent and in such manner as may be specified from time Scheduled Tribes under Article 16(4) and 16(4A) of the Constitution, the appointment to the post of Professors and Readers, Principals and Assistant Professors in the constituent Engineering Colleges and to the post of Principal Grade-I, Principal Grade-II, Lecturer (Selection Grade), Lecturer (Senior Scale) in the constituent Engineering Colleges shall be made by the Syndicate in accordance with the scheme governing promotions as prescribed by the Statutes adopting the schemes evolved by the University Grants Commission or All India Council for Technical Education.