5,000/- for the offence committed under Section 376(2)(g) IPC, 1-year rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs. 1,000/- for the offence committed under Section 506(1) IPC and 1-year imprisonment for the offence committed under Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act, in default of payment of fine they were to undergo 3-months simple imprisonment. The sentence was to run concurrently and the period already undergone was to be set-off. Since the Accused No. 5 had died during the trial, the case against him stood abated. 2.6 Being aggrieved thereby, the accused persons preferred appeal against the final and of the trial court. There were two appeals before the High Court. Accused No. 1 filed Criminal Appeal No. 449 of 2012 and the Accused Nos. 2 to 4 filed Criminal Appeal No. 840 of 2012. Vide impugned , 658 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the High Court dismissed both the criminal appeals and upheld the findings of the trial court. 2.7 Aggrieved as a result, the present appeal has been filed only on behalf of Accused No. 2. 3. We have heard Shri Rahul Shyam Bhandari, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant and Shri V. Krishnamurthy, learned Senior Additional Advocate General appearing on behalf of the State of Tamil Nadu. 4. Shri Rahul Shyam Bhandari, learned counsel appearing for the appellant, submits that the High Court has grossly erred in dismissing the appeal filed by the appellant herein. It is submitted that the victim (PW-1) as well as her mother-Jaya (PW-2) and her aunt-Jamuna (PW- 3) have not supported the prosecution case in their cross examination. Learned counsel for the appellant further submits that the medical evidence also does not support the evidence of the prosecution. Learned counsel for the appellant, relying on the of this Court in the case of Rai Sandeep alias Deepu v. State (NCT of Delhi)5, submits that when the evidence of the prosecutrix and the medical evidence does not support the prosecution case, the conviction could not be sustainable. 5. In the present case, the prosecutrix as well as her mother-Jaya (PW- 2) and her aunt-Jamuna (PW-3) have fully supported the prosecution case. The examination-in-chief of the prosecutrix would reveal that she has stated that when she was returning to her house, the Accused No.1, who is the owner of the company in which she works, came and asked her to come with him for giving details of some official work. Accused No.1 took the victim, where four accused persons were standing and then Accused No.1 asked the prosecutrix to remove her clothes and when she refused, her clothes were removed by the other accused and thereafter they ravished her. The evidence would also show that though she informed that she was at pains, they committed forcible sexual intercourse with her one by one on various occasions. She has stated that, when the accused persons left at around 3 o’clock in the morning, she went home and narrated the version to her mother and relatives.