61. Let us now examine the specific challenge questioning the constitutionality of Rule 8(3) of Gujarat Rules,2005 which deals with both District Judges and Civil Judges. The Rule 8(3) reads as under: “The minimum qualifying marks in the Viva-voce conducted for recruitment to the cadre of District Judge and Civil Judge, shall be forty percent {40%) of marks.” 62. To strike down Rule 8(3) of Gujarat Rules,2005 under Article 14, the argument of the petitioners is that a classification is sought to be created between meritorious and non-meritorious candidates since meritorious candidates who have worked hard to score good marks in the written test may not succeed since the interviewing committee can award below par marks to a candidate, based on their subjective evaluation. The second argument is on the issue of the absence of a level playing field for those from a marginalized background suggesting that such candidates will be at a disadvantage. In response the learned counsel for the High Court of Gujarat submits that the objective is to select the best possible candidates and the High Court Judges who are conducting the interviews can certainly test the real potential of a candidate, irrespective of their background. 63. A relevant question here is whether those who had high marks in the written test can by itself be considered in the “meritorious” category? This is a debatable issue since the high scores for the written test by itself do not determine the merit and suitability of an aspirant. The performance would also depend on the social, economic, and cultural capital of the candidate. Access to resources such as coaching institutes, quality school education, financial stability, time and flexibility, networking opportunities, mentorship, and access to relevant study materials, are vital factors which also manifestly contribute to the performance in the written test. In the context, the 574 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports observations of this Court in a case relating to reservation in promotion in B.K. Pavitra v Union of India31 is illuminating where the aspects of “merit” and “efficiency” was discussed in the following passage:- “134. It is well settled that existing inequalities in society can lead to a seemingly ―neutral system discriminating in favour of privileged candidates. As Marc Galanter notes, three broad kinds of resources are necessary to produce the results in competitive exams that qualify as indicators of ―merit. These are: ―… (a) economic resources (for prior education, training, materials, freedom from work, etc. ); (b) social and cultural resources (networks of contacts, confidence, guidance and advice, information, etc. ); and (c) intrinsic ability and hard work…‖ [Galanter M., Competing Equalities : Law and the Backward Classes in India, (Oxford University Press, New Delhi 1984), cited by Deshpande S., Inclusion versus excellence : Caste and the framing of fair access in Indian higher education, 40 : 1 South African Review of Sociology 127-147.] 135. The first two criteria are evidently not the products of a candidate’s own efforts but rather the structural conditions into which they are borne.” 64.