[…]” 10.4 It is clear from the SOR that the Cabinet Sub-Committee realised that the 2001 Rules were not made applicable to Universities as they do not come with the purview of the 2001 Rules. It is for this reason that the Reservation Act, 1990 is amended and the following sub-Section (1A) was introduced. The newly included sub-section (1A) to Sec. 4 of the Act is as follows: “Sec. 4: Reservation of appointments or posts etc:- 1. […] (1A). Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, the appointing authority shall identify unfilled vacancies reserved for the persons belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in any service or post in an establishment in public sector as existing on the date of commencement of [2024] 6 S.C.R. 479 Chaitra Nagammanavar v. State of Karnataka & Ors. the Second Amendment Act, 2004 and take action to fill them as a one time measure within a specified time. The manner in which the number of vacancies is to be computed, the procedure for filling such vacancies and the time within which action is to be taken shall be as specified by notification by the State Government. Provided that the provisions of sub-section shall not apply to any unfilled vacancy in Karnataka State Civil Services or Post in respect of which provisions have been already made […]” (emphasis supplied) 11. The above-referred amendment to Sec. 4 of the Reservation Act, 1990 had the effect of bringing universities established by the state, within the mandate of sub-section (1A) of the Reservation Act, 1990. A combined reading of Sec. 2(2), 2(3)(vi) and sub-sections (1) and (1A) of Sec. 4 of the Reservation Act, 1990 with Sec. 53 and 54 of the Universities Act, 2000 would establish that the Board of Appointment of the university is tasked with identifying the unfilled vacancies reserved for SCs and STs existing as on the amendment dated 2004 and to fill them up as a one-time measure within a specified time. Till here there is no difficulty. In fact, this is in the natural flow of the two statutes. 12. The difficulty, however, arises out of the latter part of sub-Section (1A) which provides that the manner, procedure and the time for identifying, filling and completing the same ‘shall be as specified by the State Government by way of a notification’. There is nothing on record to show that the State Government issued any notification in furtherance of Sec. 4(1A) specifying the manner, procedure and time for identifying, filling and completing the same. Sub-Section (1A) delegates the power of specifying the method and manner of selection to the Government. 13. Mr. Shailesh Madiyal, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant argues that the advertisement of the university, declaring that the ‘Mode of Selection’ shall be under the 2001 Rules, is a mistake. He calls it a mistake because the university shall be governed by the 480 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Universities Act and the Statutes made thereunder and not the 2001 Rules, particularly when these Rules are made under the Karnataka State Civil Services Act, 1978.8 The university is an autonomous institution and can never be bound, much less governed, by rules intended to regulate State Civil Services, is his argument.