v. State of Bihar reported in (1972) 3 SCC 89 the appellants were alleged to have entered into a criminal conspiracy for committing the offences of criminal breach of trust and cheating in respect of a large amount of government money earmarked for a development project. The Court opined that sanction under Section 197 CrPC would not be necessary since it is no part of the duty of a public servant while discharging his official duties, to enter into a criminal conspiracy or to indulge in criminal misconduct and observed as thus: “66. The next point was with regard to consent or sanction. There is no doubt that in respect of B.P. Sinha consent was properly given by the Deputy Commissioner. So consent was also given in respect of N.K. Banerjee and Harihar Prasad by the Chief Secretary. This is not a case of sanction or consent under Section 196-A of the Code 806 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports of Criminal Procedure. On the question of the applicability of Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the principle laid down in two cases, namely, Shreekantiah Ramayya Munipalli v. State of Bombay [AIR 1955 SC 287] and Amrik Singh v. State of Pepsu [AIR 1955 SC 309] was as follows: “It is not every offence committed by a public servant that requires sanction for prosecution under Section 197(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code; nor even every act done by him while he is actually engaged in the performance of his official duties; but if the act complained of is directly concerned with his official duties so that, if questioned, it could be claimed to have been done by virtue of the office, then sanction would be necessary.” The real question therefore is whether the acts complained of in the present case were directly concerned with the official duties of the three public servants. As far as the offence of criminal conspiracy punishable under Section 120-B, read with Section 409 of the Penal Code, 1860 is concerned and also Section 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, are concerned they cannot be said to be of the nature mentioned in Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. To put it shortly, it is no part of the duty of a public servant, while discharging his official duties, to enter into a criminal conspiracy or to indulge in criminal misconduct. Want of sanction under Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is, therefore, no bar.” (emphasis supplied) 53. In B. Saha and Others v. M.S. Kochar reported in (1979) 4 SCC 177, the appellants were charged for the offences under Sections 409 and 120-B IPC. The Court opined that while it is not an invariable proposition of law that the act of criminal misappropriation or conversion cannot be inseparably intertwined with the performance of the official duty, yet in the facts of the present case, the alleged act of criminal misappropriation could not reasonably be said to be imbued with the color of office or having a direct connection with [2024] 12 S.C.R.