Technically, Bellary Thermal Plant of 500 MW capacity is designed to use pulverized coal for firing and coal of reasonable quality. As such the condition that middlings, tailings & rejects should be used for power generation by KPCL is neither feasible nor appropriate. On the other hand, since disposal of rejects is an environmental issue, KPCL has insisted that the same should be subject to compliance of environmental norms. When KPCL was not in a position to use the reject for power generation, the onus is on the mining operator to dispose of the same as permitted under law. Given the facts as stated above, there cannot be any act of negligence on part of the nominees of KPCL in this regard as well. 17. The CAG report is without factual basis for the following reasons: i) The quantum of rejects is assumed as 10% of the coal based on MoU whereas as per actuals it was 4.39% as evident from the Coal Controller’s certificate, Statements of inward and outward movements of Coal as submitted by GCWL. ii) Without even knowing the calorific value of the rejects, it has been assumed to be G Grade coal. Even going by the statement of Shri Padmesh Gupta of GCWL, the rejects were of such a low calorific value that it could not be sold without blending. Hence, it could not [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1229 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation have been of G grade. Hence, the basis of the calculation is wrong. xxxxx 20. The assumption of the CBI that the exact quantity of rejects that have been sold off cannot be ascertained is a self-serving statement inasmuch as for the purpose of blending of coal, Gupta has to purchase the raw coal / washed coal and pay royalty / sales tax on the same whereas there is no sales tax / royalty paid on the rejects. With this number, it is easily possible to arrive at the exact quantity of reject coal. As the quantity of reject coal generated / available at Majri Washery as per the Stock statement far exceeds the reject coal quantity claimed to be generated by the washing of KECML’s coal, in to divert other rejects as KECML’s rejects, the absurdly high amount has been claimed. Hence, there is absolutely no evidence to show that any reject has been sold and if so, what is the quantity of rejects sold. In such a situation, there is no basis for assuming that KPCL has suffered any unlawful loss or that GCWL has gained unlawfully during this process. 21. CBI has produced a Debit Note No.KECML/DN/08- 09/09 dated 31.03.2009 for Rs.4,30,38,500/- which was recovered at GCWL (and not at KECML) and there is a statement from GCWL that this Debit Note was not honoured. An examination of the Debit Note, Annual Accounts of KECML for 2008-09 and other documents produced along with the Report would indicate that this Debit Note is a fabricated document for the following reasons: a.