MP-19-HA-1197 in the case. The witness also admitted that no steps to cancel the investigation of the police has been taken and no enquiry has been done into the veracity of the claim. i. The MACT, on appreciation of the overall conspectus, particularly impressed by the fact that the insurance company did not lodge any complaint of collusion and about the involvement of the truck in an illegal manner concluded that it was truck bearing [2024] 12 S.C.R. 663 Geeta Dubey & Ors. v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd. & Ors. registration no. MP-19-HA-1197 which hit the car bearing no. MP-19-CB-5879 from behind. 22. Thirdly, the claimants having discharged the initial onus, if the insurance company had a case that there was collusion between the driver/owner of the truck and the claimants, it ought to discharge that burden. It is candidly admitted by the witness Raj Kumar Kachhwah that they had taken no steps in this regard. 23. As held in Sajeena Ikhbal (supra) and Bimla Devi (supra), we are convinced that on the principle of preponderance of probability, the claimants have established the involvement of vehicle bearing registration no. MP-19-HA-1197. The insurance company having set up a specific plea of collusion has not established the same. As was held in Bimla Devi (supra), here too, we feel that there was no reason for the police to falsely implicate the vehicle concerned in the matter and launch prosecution against the driver. If the insurance company had suspected collusion, they would have taken steps to file appropriate complaints including moving the higher police authorities or the court to an investigation into the alleged wrongful involvement of the vehicle. There is no case for the insurance company that the police officer also colluded. The investigation by the police has resulted in charge-sheet being filed. 24. For all these reasons, we restore the findings of the MACT that death of the claimant no.1’s husband was caused by the driving of the truck bearing registration no. MP-19-HA-1197 by respondent no. 2-Ajay Kumar in a rash and negligent manner at about 08:15 PM on 18.06.2018, in a place one kilometer ahead of Sonwari Toll Plaza at Maihar. 25. The only other point raised in the memo of appeal before the High Court by the insurance company is that the deceased was about 58 years of age and that the multiplier of 9 ought to have been applied instead of 11. The High Court had no occasion to discuss the same as it allowed the insurance company’s appeal on the aspect of the vehicle not being involved in the accident. Before us also, no arguments were advanced on the issue of the wrong application of the multiplier. The MACT has relied on the age, as mentioned in the postmortem report, as 55 years and has applied the appropriate multiplier. The insurance company claims that the school certificate and the Aadhar Card reveal the date of birth of the deceased as 01.08.1960. 664 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 26.