Digital Supreme Court Reports against each other. However, as there was an overlap between the two references concerning the enforceability of the consent terms, the parties agreed to proceed with Sheil’s reference after Marico’s reference was decided. He further submitted that after preliminary directions were issued on 8th November 2011 regarding the filing of pleadings, no further directions were issued by the sole Arbitrator in the reference of Sheil. He submitted that the decision of the Calcutta High Court in the case of NRP Projects Pvt. Ltd.1 is confined to the facts of the case before it. He submitted that Marico’s reference took six years, and that is the reason for postponing Sheil’s reference. The learned senior counsel would, therefore, submit that the interference made by the High Court in the arbitral proceedings under Section 14 of the Arbitration Act was certainly justified. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 8. Chapter V of the Arbitration Act contains provisions regarding the conduct of arbitral proceedings. If parties do not agree on the timelines for filing statements of claim and defence, under sub- section (1) of Section 23, the Arbitral Tribunal has the power to determine the timelines for filing pleadings. Sub-section (4) of Section 23, incorporated with effect from 23rd October 2015, provides that the filing of pleadings (statements of claim and defence) shall be completed within six months from the date the learned Arbitrator or all the learned Arbitrators, as the case may be, receive notice of their appointment in writing. 9. After the pleadings are complete, the next stage is of hearing. Sub- section (2) of Section 24 provides that parties shall be given sufficient advance notice of any hearing or meeting of the Arbitral Tribunal for inspections of documents, goods or other property. 10. The issue of the parties’ default is dealt with in Section 25 of the Arbitration Act. Section 25 reads thus: “25. Default of a party.—Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, where, without showing sufficient cause,— (a) the claimant fails to communicate his statement of claim in accordance with sub-section (1) of section 23, the arbitral tribunal shall terminate the proceedings; [2024] 6 S.C.R. 769 Dani Wooltex Corporation & Ors. v. Sheil Properties Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. (b) the respondent fails to communicate his statement of defence in accordance with sub-section (1) of section 23, the arbitral tribunal shall continue the proceedings without treating that failure in itself as an admission of the allegations by the claimant and shall have the discretion to treat the right of the respondent to file such statement of defence as having been forfeited. (c) a party fails to appear at an oral hearing or to produce documentary evidence, the arbitral tribunal may continue the proceedings and make the arbitral award on the evidence before it.” (emphasis added) Clause (a) of Section 25 of the Arbitration Act provides that on the failure of the claimants to communicate the statement of claim in accordance with sub-section (1) of Section 23, the Arbitral Tribunal shall terminate the proceedings.